No. 178.	[1st SESSION. TRADE AND INTERCOURSE. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, ON THE 14TH OF JANUARY, 1822. SIR:	OFFICE'OF INDIAN TRADE, December 27,1821. I have had the honor of receiving your communication of the 24th instant, in which you convey the request of the Committee on Indian Affairs to be informed, first, of the number of trading posts now in operation amongst the Indian tribes, and where located; second, of the amount of the several appropriations for carrying on trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes; third, the present value, according to the last returns from each trading post, of the property on hand, estimated at the original cost prices of the articles: to which I am requested to add my opinion of the advantages of the United States’ commercial intercourse with the Indians over such other kinds as could be organized to take the place of it; and such amendments in the present system of the two kinds of intercourse which now obtain, (viz: that carried on by the Government, and that conducted under the license system by indi viduals,) as I may suppose best adapted to preserve the Indians from the speculations of the unprincipled, and secure justice to them; and such other views as 1 may think proper to add illustrative of the present state of our Indian relations, and the best methods to preserve the peace with them, tribe with tribe, and between the Indians and our civilized border population. The abstract which I have the honor to enclose, herewith, contains the information requested under the three enumerated heads of the call; which shows a gain of $59,001 99. There are four kinds of commerce which could be established among and with our Indians; from a review of which some tolerable conception may be formed of the advantages of the United States’ intercourse over the rest. These are: first, to leave the Indians to their own resources; second, to abandon them to the necessity of carrying on their traffic with individuals; third, to subject them to the regulations of a chartered or privileged company; or, fourth, for the Government to assume the intercourse with them direct. Before the quiet of the aboriginal solitude was disturbed, and the habits with which nature had invested its natives were torn off by the hands of a more enlightened, but, perhaps, less humane race of men, there were no demands to satisfy other titan the forests furnished; and no necessity existed, therefore, for commerce, save only that which was implied in the exchanges of bows and arrows, and stone axes; and these, again, for skins or meat, which might have been taken in extra quantities by some more fortunate hunter. But the advance of civilization upon this simple state has changed these easily adjusted relations; and its blessings, however highly to be appreciated, have, in reference to our Indians, been less numerous than its curses. New wants have been originated by it, but the corresponding supplies have not been furnished. Disease, physical and moral, has been communicated, without being accompanied by the appropriate remedies. New relations have been created, in which the civilized man has been more than a match for his less enlightened brother. The consequences to the Indians are notorious; and these involve bereavement, and suffering, and death! Considerations arising very naturally out of this view may not he considered as forming part of the request of the committee. I shall waive them, therefore, with the single remark, that, however consistent the extinction of the aboriginal race may be with the designs of Providence, in peopling this new world with a more enlightened and polished society, it is not so clear that some additional efforts were not required of the first settlers, and the generations which have succeeded them, to meliorate the condition and recover from barbarism those whose domain they invaded, and in the occupancy of which we. have so completely succeeded. Reduced as are our Indians to a state of such absolute dependence, keenly assailed .by wants, artificial as well as real, and between which they find it no less difficult to decide than do their white brothers, it would be to perish them en masse to decree their exclusion from the commerce which has grown out of their new relations with the civilized world. Their wants must, therefore, be met; and for nothing do they clamor more than for commercial privileges; hence, so many stipulations with the Government for trading-houses, and the means to sharpen and keep in order their spears, and traps, and rifles, and, of late, among several tribes, their ploughs and axes; and these facilities are held by most of the tribes with which we have intercourse at all in the highest possible estimation. It should seem that to a people thus circumstanced, the Government, which is their only protector, and which holds their destiny in its hands, would be solicitous to provide the most ample system for their improvement and preservation; a system embracing, not only a bare supply of the ordinary demands of nature, but the more ennobling gifts of intellectual and moral improvement. It is gratifying to believe that such is the feeling of the natural guardians of this unfortunate people; and additionally so, when to this good will in the Government is perceived to be superadded the sympathies and exertions of so many thousands of our citizens. It is not doubted that individual enterprise is competent to supply all the demands which the wants of our Indians could levy upon it; nor that capital could be commanded even more than adequate to the supply of all these wants. But it is not so certain that such an intercourse would be characterized by the traits with which justice and humanity, or policy, would feel it incumbent on them to stipulate for; or, that laws could he enacted adequate in their provisions to secure them. It is one thing to enact laws, and another to enforce their violated provisions. It is not questioned but laws could be framed containing all the requisite severity, and embracing every variety of threatening for a breach, even in the wilderness, of their authority; but it is not so much to what the law threatens that offenders look, as to the probable chances which promise their safety from its punishment. In regions wide and wild, like those inhabited by our Indians, laws are of little more importance in regulating the conduct of the avaricious, who go there for the purposes of trade, than would be the testimony of the Indian for the security of whose person and property they might be enacted. If in civilized society, where the means of detection are so numerous, and where the laws apply so universally to the security of rights, so many escape with impunity, and so many, again, elude the punishment which the laws denounce, what can we expect from the efficacy of a law which is to operate in the wilderness, and where those whose practices it was made to punish are the only legal witnesses? Commercial intercourse ceases to reciprocate its advantages whenever either party shall yield to the other in intelligence or power. The keen and adventurous trader, skilled in the arts of deception and speculation, and who is bent on making gains, will be found oftentimes an overmatch for his less keen, and less intelligent, though civilized brother; but how entirely at the mercy of such must be au ignorant and powerless community of dependant savages! Such is the theory of an intercourse between civilized and savage communities, or between our traders and our Indians; and the theory might be considered sufficiently demonstrative, were experience and facts not at hand ou which to rest it. The system of a private intercourse has been tried; its provisions, though apparently so well contrived to screen the Indians from the fire of avarice, and protect them from its fangs, proved useless, and it was abandoned. I refer to the regulations of 1786. By these, the country was divided into two districts, northern and southern. To the northern district was attached a superintendent and two assistants; to the southern, a superintendent. The whole of the Indian relations were, referred to these two divisions; and the following rules governed them: TVb person, citizen or other, was permitted to reside among, or trade with, any Indian, or Indian nation, within the territories of the United States, without a license for that purpose first obtained from one of the aforesaid superintendents; but no license was granted to any person who did not first present, from the Supreme Executive of a State, a certificate, under the seal of the State, testifying to his good character, and to his qualifications and fitness for the employment of Indian trade. For each license thus granted, and which was limited to a year, the person receiving it paid $50 for the use of the United States, accompanying with this license money a bond in the penalty of $3,000, which provided for a strict adherence to, and observance of, such rules and regulations as the Congress might from time to time impose. But, guarded as was this system, and well adapted as it certainly promised to be to the objects contemplated by it, the cunning of the traders was an overmatch for its provisions; and the Indians, thus given into the hands of “ the unprincipled,” (for it would be an affectation of respect for the calling to doubt that three-fourths, at least, are of this class,) were subjected to all the sufferings which avarice could inflict; and their peace and welfare involved in the scheme, involved, in their turn, the shedding of much blood, and the waste of many lives. I am aware that, in those times, the afflicting apprehensions which arose on the part of the Indians, on witnessing the rapid and pressing march upon their settlements, carried with it a portion of this spirit of revenge; and, unyielding as yet, cherishing lordly notions of their prowess, and convinced of their right to the soil which was made thus to crumble from beneath their feet, they often resolved to abandon it only with their lives. But, however many of the conflicts of those times owed their origin to feelings of this sort, yet it has long ceased to be doubted that to the shameful practices of fraud, and the bereavement inflicted on them under it, are to be attributed the larger portion of the strifes of those days, and the blood and murder which resulted from them. On the abandonment of the system of 1786, an intercourse was opened, (partial at first, as it yet is, and, by consequence, proportionally inoperative,) out of which grew the present Government system of trade and intercourse, and which I shall explain presently. The system of a private intercourse under a license system has, therefore, been tried, and it has been abandoned. An intercourse under the directions of a chartered company would, in the light in which I’have been considering this subject, result in the same consequences. Gain would be the object, and the sole object, on the part of the stockholders and all concerned, under a company regulation, as it is under the plan of individual enterprise. The same difficulty would exist in enforcing upon the avarice of the company, as upon the avarice of individuals, those observances which involve humanity and justice in their application to the Indians. The terms would be all on one side, and the cunning and the power also; and as to the equipoise which law might be instructed to furnish, it could not be realized. But then, connected with this view of the subject, is another, which applies to our civilized population; and it is one which has not the same extent of application to the individual prosecution of Indian trade. It is the certainty that our fur market would be raised to the prices of the China market, freight, &c. deducted; or to any other market where the most could be commanded for the article. What though the company should consist of its thousands, yet its management would be turned over to a single head, or, at must, to a board of directors. The furs, being collected, would be so disposed of as to insure the highest price of a foreign demand. Our manufacturers, or rather consumers, would come in, by consequence, for the tax which this state of things implies; and should the prices of the China market be an advance of 100 per cent, upon the prices of our own market, the price of our hats, and other articles of which fur is an ingredient, would be doubled upon us, and the gains would go from the pockets of our citizens into the coffers of the fur company. In this view, a company treating the Indians, by their agents, no better than they are treated by the agents of individual capitalists, would superadd, in its application to our civilized community, the consequence to which I have referred. Individuals are less able to collect the furs in sufficient quantities to ship them, and, generally, they are not so well informed as a company would be in all the relations of a foreign commerce; hence, a large portion of them are disposed of at home. But a company is preferable in other respects. It would be more tangible; and, hardly possible as it would be to detect their wilderness agents in their violations of law, yet, if detected, their property could be come at, and some better chance for the operation of law might exist. The private adventurer goes with his pack on his own back, or his horses; and should he be detected violating the law, and convicted, his all (at least all that could be come at) would not remunerate the witness for his expense and trouble in conveying him for trial to the settlements. But shocking as is the practice of injustice and inhumanity, and additionally revolting as it must always be in proportion as its victims are impoverished, and helpless, and uninformed, it comes home to the feelings with a shock less afflictive than does the sight of that intellectual and moral degradation to which such a traffic necessarily dooms this unfortunate race of men. The advantages of commerce are admitted to be vast. From the interchanges of a neighborly intercourse to the intercourse between nations, the social compact derives its advantages, and strength, and beauty. Expanding in its nature, it throws open the world of mind as well as matter, and the view kindles into all that is agreeable and lovely. But whoever witnessed any of these results from an intercourse between men, professedly traders, with a savage community; and to whose very prosperity, as traders, a deathblow would be struck by the improvement of this community in the arts and conveniences of cultivated life? So far from this, it is essentially degrading in its character, and disastrous in its consequences; for it is the principal business of such traders to oppose every thing like improvement. Such is the likeness which is stamped deep upon our Indians, and which may be traced out in all the poverty and misery which invests so large a portion of iheir population. History details the causes; and 'these are to be found in the superior intelligence and keen avarice of the one party, and their disregard to political and moral order, and the unenlightened and dependant condition of the other. It was natural, and entirely in conformity with the principles which actuate the Government of this country, and which give to it so much lustre in the eyes of the world, for it to devise, in its general plan of liberty, and rights, and justice, and humanity, some scheme which should act as a shield to screen an unfortunate and noble race of men, who were solely dependant upon it for aid, from an avarice so intense, and, if possible, to redeem a remnant of their race from the destiny which has swallowed up their progenitors. It is to be lamented, however, that this plan should have been so contracted. It ought to have been ample, and commensurate with the wants of our aboriginal population over the whole extent of their domain. But what is this plan? It embraces: First. A disinterested commercial intercourse. Merchandise, and whatever else is ascertained to make up the wants of the Indians, is bought, (so far as the capital will extend,) and transported to their settlements, with no view to gain; the law limiting the profits to the advances which may be necessary to secure the capital from diminution. Second. There being no object to realize but the advantage of the Indians, they are not only not encouraged to neglect the soil and other important matters connected with their civilization, but every inducement is held out to them, and every instruction given, to facilitate this great object, to the extent of the means which are furnished. Third. The agents intrusted with the execution of this benevolent scheme are separated, by law, by their bond and oath of office, from all interest in the affairs committed to their trust. They bond to the United States, with adequate security, in the sunt of $10,000, for the faithful discharge of their trust, in properly accounting for all the items connected with their factorship, and confirm these legal obligations by the solemnity of an oath. Thus the Indians are guarded, so far as guards can be constituted by legislation, from imposition; and the means of detection, should frauds be attempted, are provided by the regulations which demand quarter-annual returns, in detail, by duplicate; one copy of which to be transmitted to the Treasury Department, the other to the superintendent of Indian trade. Such, in brief, are the outlines of the United States’ commercial intercourse with the Indian tribes. Its advantages “ over such other kinds of intercourse as could be organized to take the place of it” may be thus summarily stated: First. In the disinterestedness which characterizes it, and the superior advantages which it holds out in the way of trade to the impoverished race for whose benefit it has been established, over any other system originating in plans of gain. Second. In the harmony which is the natural consequence of such a system. Third. In the tranquillity and peace which are the fruits of this harmony. Fourth. In the consequently easy access, under its benevolent operations, to the confidence and friendship of the Indians; and in the state of preparation which it secures for the introduction of those intellectual and moral lessons which, in the presence of any other system of commercial intercourse, it were useless to attempt to enforce upon them. And is it thought a thing incredible to impress an Indian with designs of kindness, and get from him in return a corresponding attachment and fidelity? It cannot be admitted as a just view of the Indian character and manners to pronounce upon his treachery and cruelty as the characteristics of his moral constitution. These wily acts are rather the results of his best conceptions of defence, and of preserving himself from the treachery which is practised upon him; and the displays of his vengeance are but the ebullitions of a provoked temper. We see the Indian goaded into desperation by injustice and fraud, and we infer that he can never become the master of his passions, or a subject over whom the milder virtues can have any control. As well might it be thought by him who never saw the ocean, except when lashed by the storm into billows and foam, that it was incapable of rest. But I have omitted to remark that the advantages which the United States’ intercourse has been stated to possess over other kinds cannot be qualified by the objection which is so. frequently made against it. This objection is, that the Government is depriving its citizens of advantages which they could derive from the fur trade, by the part which it takes in its prosecution. But, admitting this to be reason good enough to authorize a surrender of the Indians into the hands of the trading parts of our community, yet it can have no application to the trade in question, unless, indeed, it could be shown that the Government, by receiving the furs and peltries from the Indians, deprived its citizens from participating in the buying and selling of those articles. But this does not happen to be the case. A comparatively small portion, it is true, of the furs and peltries which are taken and disposed of by our Indians, are thrown into our markets by the Government sales; but all that come into the Government possession are thus disposed of; and were the means adequate to embrace the entire trade, and should a law of exclusion be enacted to keep out every trader save those in the employ of the Government, the same disposition would be made of them. They would then, as now, be thrown into our markets for the use of the manufacturer and merchant. The controversy is one, therefore, which resolves itself into a single point, and that embraces a struggle on the part of those who clamor for the abolition of the Government system to hold personal intercourse with the Indians. And wherefore? For the reason, doubtless, that the Indians being incompetent to measure skill and cunning with them, they can command, of course, these articles for trifles. But can this be considered a sufficient reason for the abolition of a system which, whilst it receives with one hand, on fair terms, whatever articles the Indians may have collected for barter, gives them out with the other to those who are interested as dealers? Or does it not rather bring the subject to fits fairest illustration, and require it to be determined whether it is more consistent with the principles which distinguish our Government to place the Indians in a relation so unequal, and in which they must be necessarily subject to such imposition and suffering, or to occupy an intermediate place itself between them and the traders, and thus save them from those consequences? If, in the wisdom of Congress, it be thought best to continue the two kinds of intercourse which now obtain, (viz: that carried on by the Government, and that conducted by individuals under the license system,) the regulations which Ï respectfully submit are the following: First. To deny the privilege to trade with the Indians to all persons whomsoever, except from points located and built upon for the purpose, to be previously approved by the President of the United States; and then only on a license to be issued by the President of the United States, to be renewed annually, for which $200 shall be paid. A bond should be required in the penal sum of $10,000, obliging,!he trader to conform, in all respects, to the laws and regulations which may be from time to time adopted for the regulation of Indian trade. Second. The license money to constitute a fund, to be employed, under the direction of the President of the United States, in the civilization and improvement of the Indians. Third. An obligation should be enforced on all persons thus licensed to make quarter-annual returns, on oath, to the officer in charge of the Indian relations, of the amount and kinds of articles sold, at what prices, and of the kinds received, and the profits realized. Spirituous liquors should be excluded under the severest penalties. These regulations for the government of the license system would doubtless lessen some of the evils which prevail.under it in its present state. A reimbursement to the trade fund of the $63,369 61, embraced in the three items on the abstract, under its first division, marked A, B, and C, which may be very fairly said to be due to it by the Government, would enable this office to multiply its establishments, and thus extend the advantages which its policy implies to several tribes who could be now benefited by this extension. It is essential to the advantageous operations of the United States’ intercourse that the period of its extension be made to embrace more than a year at a time; as out of this arrangement, which has obtained for the last three or four years, considerable relaxation has resulted, on account of the doubts which it implied as to the continuance of the system; and which, being circulated through the Indian country, has led many of the tribes to seek for the only resort which they supposed to be left, aud make their exchanges in the best way they could with the private traders. Many instructions, also, which it was found necessary from time tn time to give, some of them implying an expenditure of money in repairs, Ac., have been from time to time suspended, lest the system should cease by its limitation, and the progress of the orders arrested, and the cost be therefore lost, before the instructions could be complied with. The great distance of some of the points with which the intercourse is carried on by this office, united with other causes, often consumes a considerable part of the year before an exchange of correspondence can be realized. The restoring the capital which may be considered as properly due to the fund by the Government, amounting to the sum stated, and fixing the period for the continuance of the system to embrace not less than three years, (five would be better,) would include what appears to me all the necessary helps. But should the Congress determine that the Government shall occupy the place between the Indians and the traders, “ more effectually to guard the former from the speculations of the unprincipled, and insure justice to them,” then a capital will be required to take the place of that which would be withdrawn under such a regulation. A capital of half a million of dollars, under this arrangement, would not be more than could be employed beneficially to the Indians, and advantageously to the manufacturers and merchants of the country. Out of a trade thus enlàrged, reasonable advances might be added to the present limits, which, if so directed, would constitute a fund for the improvement of those out of whose toils it had been extracted. And to what could profits thus realized, I respectfully ask, be more legitimately or humanely applied? Is it objected against this suggestion that the capital is too large an allotment of the public money for such an object? This may lose some of its weight, perhaps, when it is recollected that all the charges which can be brought together as expenditures on Indian account, including the present capital employed in the trade with them, bring the cost of the territory which has been acquired of them since the formation of our Government to about two cents an acre; and it may not be considered an irrelevant estimate, in this view of the subject, nor too large a one, to put down half a million of dollars as the cost of the preparations which the United States may have to make to enforce submission to laws, which, in the present state of Indian improvement, it is impossible for them to comprehend before this unfortunate race shall have become«extinct. Nor is the waste of life, which must continue to be deplored whilst the Indian is left to adhere to his present habits, unworthy of an estimate in this account. The trade carried on by the Government, by what is called “The American Fur Company,” and by individuals, makes up our commercial relations with the Indians; except, indeed, that the lines are occasionally crossed by the American Indians on the one side, and the Canadian traders on the other, very much to the injury of our relations, political as well as commercial, with the tribes included in this kind of intercourse. Our political relations are intrusted to agents, whose duty it is made to reside in the Indian settlements, and discharge the treaty stipulations on the part of the Government, by delivering over to the tribes to whom they are due their respective annuities; and these agents are also the organs of communication between the authorities of the United States and the Indians. They are not connected, in any manner, with the factory system; nor has the superintendent of Indian trade any intercourse with them, except so far as he may be directed by the War Department, under the provisions of the act of 1811, to forward the supplies stipulated for by treaty, or presents, whenever these are to be made. To the commercial and political may be added our inoral relations. These are supported by an annual appropriation by the Congress of $10,000, which is applied, under the direction of the President of the United States, for the intellectual and moral improvement of the Indians, so far as this sum can be made to embrace it. Its application has been intrusted to benevolent associations of citizens, who superadd, I should judge, three times this amount, annually, from their own voluntary contributions; all which, however, falls short of the demand which exists for a participation in this noble bounty. But notwithstanding the frame-work of all this contrivance, of commerce, and politics, and morals, which it should seem contained within it every accommodation for the comfort and improvement of those over whom it has been placed, yet there are evils existing in some of these which require to be remedied, and new regulations to be made, before the most efficient of them can work out their appropriate results. First, as I have endeavored to illustrate, our commercial relations as they now exist have their blessings overbalanced by their curses. For the want of a controlling power over the licentious, they riot in every sort of enormity which human depravity can contrive, and the Indians are the perpetual victims of their speculations and frauds. Poverty and wretchedness follow in their train; and war and bloodshed crown the whole. I have had the honor to suggest what, in my opinion, constitutes the remedy: it is to be found only in some such regulations as I have suggested for the government of the private traders; or, in their entire exclusion from any participation in the traffic, so far as this relates to a personal intercourse with the Indians; and, if this be adopted, in the addition of the adequate capital to enable the Government to supply the wants of its entire Indian population. Or, if the twofold system of public and private intercourse be continued, it is considered essential that some other regulations than those which now obtain be adopted for the government of the private intercourse; that the term of the United States’ intercourse be continued beyond twelve months; and important that the fund be reimbursed in the sum of $63,369 61. The political agencies have great power over the councils and acts of the Indians, especially in all matters that have relation to their accountability tu the power of the United States. Most of the tribes with whom we have any direct intercourse are now sensible of the disparity of their force; and, in proportion to their estimation of their comparative weakness, do they submit to the restraints which it may be thought proper to impose. But these agencies are not respected in their interference with the policy of the Indians, for settling matters of difference among themselves. Hence, however strongly they may appeal to them in illustrating the impolicy of their wars with one another, and express the solicitude of their father the President of the United States that they would settle their disputes by appeals to less bloody means, they will, nevertheless, in the general, have their own way, and settle their matters of difference by an appeal to arms. It is respectfully recommended that, to save these unfortunate people from the calamity of such appeals, the President of the United States be authorized to employ the military to enforce an observance of his fatherly counsels. Our Indians stand pretty much in the relation to the Government as do our children to us. They are equally dependant; and need, not unfrequently, the exercise of parental authority to detach them front those ways which might involve both their peace and their lives. It would not be considered just for our children to be let alone to settle their quarrels in their own way; but rather that superior power be interposed for the adjustment of their differences for them. This authority'given by the Congress, it is presumed that little more than an array of power would be necessary; so that no blood would be shed upon the one hand, whilst much of it would be spared on the other. Those agents, honorable as they are presumed to be, and highly as some of them who are known to me deserve to be respected, yet their calling should be confined, under severe penalties, and by the strongest mural restraints, to its legitimate object. They should not be permitted to trade, directly or indirectly, nor transact business of any description except on the public account. And it should be made their duty to counsel the Indians to receive for their annuities those articles which are most needful, and on no account to countenance them in stipulating for a payment of them in specie. Nothing impoverishes the Indians so much as cash annuities. The specie is seldom seen by them after its first appearance on their annuity grounds; and, on awaking from their intoxication, in which it is taken care by the interested to steep them, they wreak an indiscriminate vengeance on such as may chance to fall in their way. The strifes occasioned by the confusion in which their commercial relations are involved being allayed by a system which shall be free from them, their wars among themselves restrained, and the full exercise of disinterested agencies established, it were no difficult matter to realize the hopes of the most sanguine in whatever relates to their improvement and civilization. This remark is intended to apply to the young; and not, to any considerable extent, to the adult Indians. The experiment has been made. It is no longer a matter of speculation and theory. And it may not be considered as unworthy of remark, that the tribe, viz: the Cherokees, among whom such extraordinary advances in civilization and Christianity have been made, are freer than any others from the vexatious and demoralizing intercourse of trade. There seems to be a mutual dependence in those relations which I have referred to fur the production of what seems tu be, at last, so almost universally desired, viz: the security, and preservation, and improvement of the Indians. Trade, properly regulated, and a well-adjusted political intercourse, are essential; and, without these, all attempts to save the generations to come of our Indian population, it is humbly conceived, will prow useless. But, these properly, and, in reference to their extent, adequately adjusted, the present plan, as recognised by the President of the United States, for the introduction of letters, and the arts, and morals, will, if the latter also be made co-extensive with the numbers to be benefited by it, tend more effectually to “ preserve peace with the Indians, tribe with tribe, and between them and our civilized border population,” than any other means, it is not unreasonable to believe, which it is in the power of the Government to apply. Nor will such a policy, properly regulated, stop, after it shall have accomplished the peace of the Indians, tribe with tribe, and secured our border population from the consequences of bloody and frequent irruptions into their settlements; but, under its influence, the best hopes of humanity may reasonably be expected to be realized, by the introduction of the rising generation of the children of our Indians into the-blessings of the civilized state. All which is respectfully submitted.	THO. L. McKENNEY, Sup't Indian Trade. The Hon. HENRY JOHNSON, Chairman Committee on Indian Affairs. No. 1.	'Statement of the number of United. States trading posts now in operation amongst the Indians, with their loca- tions, viz. No. 1. Prairie du Chien, on the Upper Mississippi, at the mouth of Ouisconsin river. No. 2. Fort Edwards, on the Upper Mississippi, at the mouth of Des Moines river. No. 3. Osage, at Fort Clark, on the Missouri, near the mouth of Osage river. No. 4. Branch of Osage, on the Marie Decine river, near the Grand Bar. No. 5. Green Bay, on the Green Bay of Lake Michigan.* No. 6. Chicago, south end of Lake Michigan.* No. 7. Arkansas, at the Spadrie bayou of Arkansas river. No. 8. Red river, Sulphur fork of Red river, Louisiana. No. 9. Choctaw, on the Tombigbee river, near old Fort Confederation, Alabama. No. I. Statement showing the amount of the several appropriations for carrying on trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, viz. Act of Congress of April 18, 1796, $150,000. Renewed by act of April 30, 1802; and renewed by act of April 21, 1806, when the fund was increased to -	-	-	- $260,000 00 Act of Congress, March 3, 1809, appropriated, -----	40,000 00 300,000 00 (A) Deduct this sum, not drawn from the treasury, absorbed in the surplus fund, $10,000 00 (B) Deduct this sum for property in part destroyed, during the late war, by the enemy, at Mackinac, Chicago, Detroit, Sandusky, and Des Moioes; and in part disposed of by the United States commanders in presents, <fcc. to the Indians, -	43,369 61 (C) Deduct this sum for Indian debts due from the Creek Indians, assumed by the United States, as per treaty of Fort Wilkinson,	-	-	10,000 00 .		 63,369 61 Balance of capital, -	-	_	_ $236,630 39 No. 3. Statement showing the value, according to the last returns, which are made up to the 30th September last, of the property, Spc. then on hand, at the original cost prices of the articles. Amount of merchandise in the stores of the superintendent of Indian trade, -----	$30,489 88 Amount of furs and peltries in store, and on their way to the super intendent’s office,	-	_	.	-	12,500	00 Amount of cash on hand,	-	-	-	-	5,483	00 Amount of bills receivable,	-	-	-	-	8,744	94 Amount of balances on the superintendent’s books, -	-	6,455 11 $63,672 93 Amount of merchandise in the bands of transport agent at St. Louis, -	- 10,100 00 Amount of property on hand at the several factories, as per their inventories: $59,001 98 The above statement shows a gain of less by $13,223 07 than what was reported for the year 1818. This arises from the following causes: First, The disposition which it has been judged proper to make, at reduced rates, of the merchandise purchased during the last war; and which, though the best that could then be had, was not suited to the wants or tastes of the Indians, and especially in times when other kinds can be obtained. Second, By the estimate at cost of the deer skins on hand at that time, of $51,812 46, many of which perished in New Orleans by the worms; and the state of the market was such as not to make up the deficiency by profits in the sale of the remainder. Third, By loss in the Mississippi and in Mobile bay, by the sinking of boats, of two supplies of merchandise, amountingto $3,700; to which may be added, Fourth, The relaxation of business referred to in the accompanying report, arising out of the uncertainty of the continuance of the system. It may be proper to add, however, that, by including the profits realized on sales made subsequent to the 30th September last, (the period at which this statement is made up,) the gain, according to the report of 1818, would stand now at about what it did then. Fluctuations in such an intercourse, dealing, as it is essential to do, in perishable articles, which cannot be kept for better markets, is one of the characteristics of the trade. It is one year more, and another less; depehding always upon the markets for the articles taken in barter with the Indians. •Ordered to be discontinued and removed under one to the river St. Peter’s. '	34 E 17th CONGRESS.]	
