No. 89. " '' ' . 1st Session. ESTIMATES COMMUNICATED to the house of representatives, may 5, 1800. Mr. Harper, from the Committee of Ways and Means, to whom were referred the estimates for the public service of the present year, having observed certain items in those estimates, under the head of “The Indian Department,” which seemed to demand particular examination, reserved them for the subject of a separate report; which they now beg leave to present for the consideration of the House: ' > The items alluded to, occur in the following order: . 1. “ For defraying the cost of transportation, and other contingent charges, which may arise from the payment of die annuities to Indian tribes.5’ For this object, the sum of 10,000 dollars is estimated. As the whole amount of the annuities themselves, as settled by treaty, is only 15,000 dollars, the committee were at a loss to conceive, how the transportation anil delivery of them could cost so great a sum as 10,000 dollars. They thought it proper, therefore, to make some inquiry on this head, at the Department of War, which was done by a letter to the Secretary, of the 7th ultimo, whereof a copy (No. 1.) is subjoined to this report. The Secretary, in answer, enclosed to them a letter from the accountant of that department to him, the following extract from which, contains all the information that has been received by the committee: . “As relates to the expense of transporting goods to pay Indian annuities, no settlements have ever been made at this office under that liead. The expense has been generally paid by the quartermaster general, or his agent; and, in some cases, by the agents of the War Department; and these accounts, previous to die 16th July, 1798, (the  late of the act making alterations in the Treasury and War Departments) have been settled at the treasury; and since that period, the quartermaster’s accounts are not in a situation to afford the necessary information.” It appearing from hence, thatj the expenses in question have been defrayed by the quartermaster general, and are included in his accounts, it is presumed that they have been paid out of the general appropriation for that department, which, probably, is sufficient for that purpose. The committee are therefore of opinion, that no separate appropriation is necessary. -If there should, hereafter, be found a deficiency arising from this cause, it will be easy to make it up, when a further inquiry shall have given the House more complete information on the subject than is at present attainable. In the mean time, as the appropriations for the quartermaster’s department have been liberal, there is. in the opinion of the committee, no danger of injury to the public service, from withholding the supply at this time. . 2. “ For contingent expenses, for presents to Indians on their visits to the seat of government, expenses attending their journeys, and during their stay at the seat of government. ” The estimated supply for this object is $13,000. This item appearing to the committee to be liable to some doubt, they included it in the above mentioned letter to the Secretary of War, and requested a particular account of the former expenses under that head. They received in answer, a statement from the accountant, transmitted through the Secretary, which, though not detailed as they had requested and did expect, is sufficient to prove that their doubts were well founded; since it appears, by that statement, that the expenses incurred for the purpose in question, during two years, 1798 and 1799, amounted to no more than 15,178 dollars and eight cents. They perceive no reason for supposing that greater expenses will be necessary in this year than in the two former, and are therefore of opinion, that an appropriation of 7,000 dollars will be sufficient. _ > , 3. “For rations to Indians at the different military posts, anil within their respective nations.” The sum of 22,500 dollars is estimated under this head. The committee observing that this item had increased very much within a few years, and might still further increase to a very inconvenient extent, included it also in their letter to the Secretary of War, whom they requested to furnish them with particular information respecting it. The information wherewith they have thus been furnished, is contained in a letter from the Secretary of War, which, together with extracts of letters from him to sundry persons, on the subject, is hereto annexed. (No. 2.) This information, extending only to the necessity of issuing rations to Indians, and to the manner in which it is done, but not to the amount of expense thereby incurred, is less satisfactory than could have been wished. Perhaps, however, it could not be rendered more so, from the maimer in which the business is conducted; for it appears that the rations to Indians are, and must be, issued from the usual supply of army provisions, which are furnished by contract at the different posts, and it does not appear that a separate account is kept of those rations. This the committee conceive might and ought to be done, since it will, otherwise, never be possible to know how much money is expended in this manner. In the mean time, as the issues to Indians are made from the army provisions, which are included in the general estimate for the subsistence of the army; and as that estimate is generally binned upon a larger number of troops than are actually in service, so as to be.more than sufficient for the usual supply of the troops, the committee can see no good reason for making a separate appropriation for Indian rations, which, they suppose, may always be supplied out of the surplus of subsistence money arising from the deficiencies which always exist, in a greater or less degree, in the number of the troops in actual service. ‘ / ’ But they are of opinion, that a direct authority ought to be given by law, foe issuingthose rations, and that a separate account of tnem ought to be required. 1. “ Two thousand dollars for present® to the Choctaw nation of Indians, and their chiefs.” This expense is not authorized by law, nor stipulated by any treaty; but the Secretary of AVar thinks it necessary, for reasons which are touched on in the estimates themselves, and more fully detailed in some correspondences with the Indian agent in that quarter, which have been submitted to the committee. They are of opinion that the measure ought to be adopted, and beg leave to recommend it to the House. This provision, with such others on the foregoing subjects as they think it proper to adopt, arc contained in the bill herewith presented to the House. In recommending it to the House to limit or vary the appropriations in question, the committee do not wish to he understood ns implying an opinion, that more money has actually been expended under those heads than was necessary, or that any neglect or improper conduct has taken place in the management of the business, but merely that it will be better to accommodate the appropriations, both in manner and extent, to the actual expenditure. No- 1. Committee Boom, April ~th* 1800. 1 am directed, sir, by the Committee of Ways and Means, to request that you will be so good as to furnish me. as soon as convenient, for their use, with, First: An account, as particular as can now be rendered, of the expenditure, in each separate year, of moneys heretofore granted by Congress, for the expense of transporting goods to pay Indian annuities; and for contingent expenses for presents to Indians on their visits to the seat of government, and expenses attending their journeys, during their stay, and on their return home; and for rations to Indians at the different military posts within their respective nations. And secondly: Information of the manner in which those expenditures, and each of them, are made, regulated, and controlled: And of the manner in which the accounts for the said expenditures, and each of them, are kept, rendered, checked, and settled. With great respect, I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient very humble servant. The honorable the Secretary of TCiir. No. A War Department, Jipril 16, 1800. cmr: I have the honor to enclose, in pursuance of the request contained in your letter, dated the seventh instant, a letter from the accountant of the War Department, of April 0th. and another from the same, of April 14th, with his statement of moneys expended in the Indian department, for presents to Indians on their visits to the seat of Government? expenses attending their journey*, and during their stay at the seat of Government, during the years 1798 and 1*99. It may be proper to observe, generally, relative to expenditures in the Indian department, that it lias been an object with the Secretary, to render less frequent the visits of Indians to the seat of Government,and to extend the influence of the United States within their nations, by the instrumentality of resident agents, and internal arrangements and measures, calculated to produce these buds. This system, which begins to operate sensibly and satisfactorily, while it aims at bettering their moral and physical condition, has a direct tendency to bring them into a narrower compass, and place them more perfectly under the management and control of the United States. The agents employed in this work (die Governors of the Northwestern and Mississippi territories excepted) are obliged to reside constantly within the Indian nations. They have fixed allowances, and receive their instructions from tlie Secretary of War. 'fhe agents, annually, or oftener. return estimates of the articles wanted in their superintendence: which, if approved of, are either purchased at the seat of Government, or elsewhere, and transmitted for distribution. When Indians arrive at the seat of Government, a confidential person is appointed to procure lodgings for them: to superintend and inspect their conduct? to accompany them to places of entertainment? to procure lor them the presents in clothing, &c. which may be ordered? and to pay all accounts arising under his superintendence. Money is advanced to him. by warrant, for these purposes, and he settles his accounts in the usual way. by producing vouchers and receipts tor the expenditures. Indians, also, occasionally, receive actual money. This is paid to them by a warrant, drawn in their favor, expressive of its object, except in cases, and for particular services, which require a different course. The enclosed extracts of letters to Governor !*t. Clair, Major General Hamilton, and Winthrop Sargeant, Esq. Governor of the Mississippi territorry, will show the existing restrictions upon the issue of rations to Indians. The Secretary would presume that the issues, lor the present, ought not to be estimated higher than for the preceding year. There is an item of two thousand dollars, for the Choctaws, under the head Indian Department," in the estimate of appropriations. to which I request your attention. The reasons inducing to this item are explained in the estimate. The enclosed original letters, dated June I ith, August 10th, September I8th. 1799. and January 16th. 1800, from John McKee, will further elucidate the grounds of the requisition, as well as some other subjects, which are slightly noticed, relative to the Indians. They are submitted, confidentially, to the committee, and, it is requested, may be returned. I have the honor to be. with great respect, sir, your obedient servant, JAMES M‘HENRY. Robert G. Harper. Esq. Chairman of the Committee of ICays and Meant. Extract of a letter from the Scrretury of I Cur to Governor St. Clair, dated M ar Department, Hpril 90, 1799. . Enclosed is copy of a letter to Major General Hamilton, directing him to cause you to be respected by the military, in character of Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and to enable you to give orders upon the posts for provisions to such Indians as you may think it advisable they should be issued. I leave open a letter to the Turtle, enclosing the invoices of the stipendiary goods, for the Miami, Shawanese, Pattawatamies, Eel river, Wca, Piankeshaw, Kickapoo, and Kashaskia Indians. You will have it forwarded to the Little Turtle, and fix. with him. the time for the distribution of the goods, and, I hope, will find it convenient to attend at their delivery.. The goods for the M yandots, Chippewas, Ottawas, and Delawares, will be forwarded to Detroit, to be distributed to the said Indians, conformably to such directions as you may think proper to give. It is to be understood, that certificates of the delivery of the stipends, are to be transmitted to this office, signed by the person appointed to attend to the delivery, and by one or more officers of the garrison at which the delivery is made, or by yourself, whenever you shall be present. Should it at any time be proper to give an order to any of the Indians who may be on a visit to you, to draw provisions at any garrison, upon their route home, it will be necessary to specify in the order the number of rations, or kind and quantity of provisions required, and to observe the same rule in all other cases. I need not remark to you, that the circumstances inducing to such requisitions, ought always to be of a nature fully to justify such an application of the army provisions."Extract from the. same, to Major General Hamilton, dated W ar Department, dipril 30. 1799. ” The Governor of the North Western territory', Arthur St. Clair. Esq. being, ex officio, superintendent of Indian affairs, within the said territory, he is to be respected as such, by all military officers within the sphere of [his jurisdiction? you will be pleased, therefore, to direct the said military officers to respect him as such, and to cause to be issued, at their respective posts, such provisions, to the Indians, as he may think it advisable should be issued to them, from time to time, and, to be executed, his instructions relative to tin* safe keeping and delivery of the annual stipends promised to the Indians by the treaty of Greenville."Extract from the same to the same, dated War Department, May 21, 1799. “ It has been too much a practice with the commandants of garrisons on the frontiers, to hold talks with Indian tribes, and play parts which' belong exclusively to the civil officers employed to superintend the Indian affairs. This lias, consequently, attracted to the garrisons numbers of Indians, and occasioned great and unnecessary ex-82 penditures of the public provisions. You will be pleased to issue such instructions on the subject, as will prevent, as much as possible, the continuance of such practices, and oblige the military officers to refer the Indians, in all matters relating to their national affairs, or grievances, to the Governor of the Northwestern territory, and Governor of the Mississippi territory, or the temporary Indian agent, nearest to their post, as the case may require. It will also be proper, that you instruct the commandants of posts in the Mississippi territory, to furnish, on the order of Governor Sargeant, when the same can be spared, suen rations for the Indians who may visit the said posts, as he may from time to time direct.” Extract from the same to Jf’inthrop Sargeant. Esq. Governor of the Mississippi Territory, dated War Department, 20th May, 1799. . “ As it will happen, however, that the Indians, especially those nearest the settlement, will, from time to time, visit you to require advice relative to their affairs and grievances, it is proper that the expense you may incur, by furnishing them with provisions, and the pay of an interpreter, during such visits, should be re imbursed ; and should it be indispensable to make some trilling presents to any of them, on particular and urgent occasions, that the amount of such presents be also re-imbursed: you. will, therefore, keep a regular account of all such expenditures, and transmit, annually, to the accountant of the Department of War, all bills, receipts, and vouchers, necessary to substantiate the same. . Should it, at any time, be proper to give an order to any of the Indians who may be on a visit to you, to draw a few days provisions at any garrison upon the route home, it will be necessary to specify in the order, the number of rations, or kind and quantity of provisions required. I need not remark, that the circumstances inducing to such requisitions, ought always to be of a nature fully to justify such an application of army provisions, and that the order should always express, ‘provided the commandant can spare them, without risk to his garrison.’ I shall write to Major General Hamilton, to instruct the commandants on the Mississippi accordingly.” 6th Congress.] 
