No. 40. [1st Session. NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 4, 1793. War Department, December 4th, 1793. SiR: In obedience to the direction of the President of the United States, I have the. honor to submit to the Senate the instructions to the commissioners appointed to treat with the hostile Indians, north of the Ohio, and their report, in the form of a journal of their proceedings. And, also, a statement of the troops in the legion of the United States, and certain intelligence from Major General Wayne. I have the honor to be, with great respect, sir, your most obedient servant, IT. KNOX, Secretary of War. The Vice President of the United States. Instructions to Benjamin Lincoln, of Massachusetts, Beverley Randolph, of Virginia, and Timothy Pickering, of Pennsylvania, Commissioners appointed for treating with the Indians Northwest of the Ohio. Gentlemen: You. having been appointed Commissioners to negotiate with the hostile Indians, northwest of the Ohio, are to regard the following instructions as the general principles of your conduct, and as delivered by the President of the United States. You must be well aware of the extreme dislike of die great majority of the citizens of the United States to an Indian war, in almost any event : and with how much satisfaction they would embrace a peace upon terms of justice and humanity. To you, therefore, this negotiation is entrusted, with the hope that you will, by your intelligence and perseverance, be able to close a scene of hostilities, which, on the part of the United States, have been dictated by the protection due their frontier citizens. In order that you may possess all the knowledge in the power of the Executive to give, you have herewith furnished the several papers upon this subject, enumerated in the schedule annexed, which contains information, from the peace between Great Britain and France, in the year 1763, until the present time. With respeit to the treaties made between the United States and the several hostile tribes, since the peace with Great Britain, in 1783, it is to be observed, that the treaty of fort Harmar, made in January, 1789, is regarded as having been formed on solid grounds—the principle being that of a fair purchase and sale. The Government considers the Six Nations, who claimed the lands by virtue of former conquests, lying between the Ohio and Lake Erie, which were ceded and confirmed to the United States by the said treaty, with the said Six Nations, together with the Wyandots and Delawares, and Ottawas, and other Western Indians, who were the actual occupants of the lands, as the proper owners thereof; that they had a right to convey the said lands to the United States; and that they did accordingly make the said conveyance, with their free, consent and full understanding. Parties, however, who were not at the treaty of fort Harmar, may have been either at the treaty of fort McIntosh or the Miami. Puchonchehelas, a chief of tne Delawares, was at the latter. But, if it shall appear, upon a further investigation of the subject, at [the place of conference, that there were other tribes interested in the lands then ceded to the United States, than those who subscribed the said treaty, or 1793.] THE NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. 341 that the consideration given was inadequate, it may be proper, in either or both cases, that a liberal compensation be made to the just claimants. It will, therefore, be one of the first objects of the proposed treaty, to ascertain from the Indians, what tribes are the allowed proprietors of the country lying to the northward of the" Ohio, and to the southward of the lakes. Yrou will perceive by Hutchin’s map. herewith delivered, the boundaries confirmed by the said treaty of fort Harmar to tne United States: and. also, the tracts which have been granted by the United States to the late army, and to particular companies of men. You will endeavor, to the utmost of your power, to induce the tribes claiming a right to the said lands, to confirm the boundary established by the said treaty of Fort Harmar, with the Six Nations, and Wyandots. Delawares, &c.: for which purpose you will, among other considerations, offer— 1st. The guarantee of the United States of the right of soil, to all the remaining Indian lands in that quarter, against the citizens or inhabitants of the United States. 2dly. That the United States will relinquish the places mentioned in the said treaty as trading posts, to the northward of the general boundary ; excepting, however, the grounds upon which the forts are erected, now occupied by the British troops: and which, by the treaty of peace of 1783. were ceded to the United States, together with the portions of land in the vicinity of said forts, in possession of the white inhabitants; and which have been purchased of the Indians. 3dly. The United States will relinquish any of the military posts, which shall appear to be established, without the boundaries of the treaty of fort Harmar, or'tlie boundaries which you may agree upon. 4thly. That the United States will pay to the several tribes, in the proportions which shall be agreed upon, the sum of fifty thousand dollars, in goods, according to a tariff of articles, to be settled at the treaty. The tariff shall include the'prime cost of the goods in Philadelphia or New York, together with the charge of the transportation to the place which shall be fixed for the delivery, and no more. othly. That, in addition to the above sum. to be paid immediately, the United States will also pay.annually,the sunt of ten thousand dollars, in goods, to such tribes, and to be delivered at such places, as shall be agreed upon. You will observe that the space between ihe tracts of land granted to the particular companies, and the Indian boundary, established by the treaty of fort Harmar, wall render it extremely difficult, if not impracticable, to relinquish any lands in the said space, without establishing a cause of perpetual discussions and hostilities between the whites and Indians. But, if the relinquishment of any lands, in the said space, should be an ultimatum with the said Indians, and a line could be agreed upon which would be free from dispute, you may, in order to effect a peace, make such relinquishment. .... . . . . In case you should be under the necessity of making this relinquishment, it will be left to your discretion whether or not to make the same compensations as arc stated for the confirmation of the general boundary established by the treaty of fort Harmar. But, you are to understand explicitly, that the United States cannot relinquish any of the tracts of land which they have already granted, as marked upon the said map. In respect to all that has been said, with regard to relinquishment, you will please to understand, that no particular difficulty is intended to be thrown in the way of the relinquishment of any lands westward of the Great Miami, and northward of the Ohio, from the intersection thereof by the Great Miami, except the tract of one hundred and fifty thousand acres, granted to General Clarke. You will observe, that, as none of the Wabash tribes attended the treaty of fort Harmar, the Western boundary, then established is imperfectly described. In the treaty made by General Putnam, with the said Wabash tribes, on the fourth of October last, the boundaries are not defined. He says, that he understood the Eastern boundary, claimed by the said Wabash Indians, would be described by a line drawn front the Miami village to a creek, a few miles above the falls of the Ohio. But. it is a point of considerable importance, in case of a successful treaty, that a well defined boundary should be established with all the tribes, so that, in future.no misunderstanding should happen on that account. It will be an object worth} of your attention, to endeavor, as far as shall be consistent with the main design of peace, to form separate contracts, "or treaties, relatively to boundaries, with the several tribes to whom the lands actually belong, avoiding, as much as possible, to confirm the idea of an union, or general confederacy ol all the tribes, or of any patronage of the whole over the lands of any particular tribes, or subdivisions of tribes. But. as the said Indians are much attached to the idea of a general confederacy, your proceedings, in these particulars, will require peculiar caution and management. You will, in all your negotiations, carefully guard the general rights of pre-emption of the United States to the Indian country, against all other nations and individuals, as established by the treaty of 1783, with Great Britain. But, in describing these rights to the Indians, you will impress them with the idea that we concede to them, fully, the right and possession of the soil, as long as they desire to occupy the same; but. when they choose to sell any portion of the country, it must be sold only to the United States, who will protect the Indians against all imposition. In case of a successful treaty, the delivery of all prisoners taken from the United States must be strenuously insisted upon. But it will be left to your judgment, whether a particular compensation shall be stipulated, or not. to the individual owners of such prisoners, as it is well known that they are not considered as the common property of the Indian communities. While at the treaty*, you must endeavor to ascertain, as accurately as may be, the names and numbers of the respective Indian tribes within the limits of the United States, north of the Ohio; and, also, the names of the influential chiefs; their divisions of lands; and all other matters relatively to trade and intercourse with them. And as it is highly probable there will be a great number of distant Indians from the Northward. Westward, and Southward, you will endeavor to learn the tribes to which they belong, and, whether their being present, is the effect of curiosity, or invitation. It will depend upon your judgment, whether, after the treaty shall be about concluding, to inform the Indians of the measures taken by the United States for furnishing provisions during the treaty, and of the causes which prevented. It may. also, be proper to observe, that the same causes prevented any great quantities of goods being brought to the treaty ground. You have, herewith, delivered to you, the belt sent by the hostile Indians, with the message acceding to the treaty: this you will shew them, as the evidence that their message was received. You have also delivered, the belt of the Five Nations, received upon the same occasion. You will endeavor to obtain permission that agents of the United States may reside among the Indian tribes, as their protectors and friends; and. also, that traders may be established artftng them. The United States will, hereafter, enter into arrangements with the Indians, to supply them witlrgoods, in the manner most beneficial to them, and which shall tend to prevent all imposition. In case of atfeaty\ an article to be inserted, that murderers, on either side, shall be given up, or punished with death, according to the usage of the respective contracting parties. In case of robberies, or horse stealing, the robbers, or thieves, to be punished with fine, the amount of which to be fixed. If incurred by the Indians, w ho should fail in payment, the same to be deducted from the annual payment of the tribe to whom the culprit should belong. The society of Friends have, with the approbation of the President of the United States, decided to send some of their respectable members, in order to contribute their influence to induce the hostile Indians to a peace. They are not, however, to confer with the Indians upon any subject of importance, until they shall have previously communicated the same, and received your approbation. The Reverend John Heckewehler, a Moravian teacher, who resided many years among the Moravian Indians, of the Delawares, will accompany you, in older, also, to use his influence towards a peace. He well understands the Delaware tongue, and, although he is unwilling to act as a common interpreter, yet you may rely upon his ability to correct others, and prevent imposition. His knowledge of Indian customs and manners may be of great use in your negotiations. 44 * You have delivered to you, one hundred sets of silver ornaments, which you will present to such influential chiefs as you shall judge proper. It will be necessary that you should endeavor, if consistently with the public interests, to close the treaty on or before the first of August. But, whatever shall be the result of the treaty, you will inform Major General Wayne thereof, on the Ohio, as expeditiously as possible; and, in order that there may be no defect in the transmission of such information, you will send many copies, by different routes, and spare no pains or expense to render the communication perfect. General Wavne has been instructed to issue a proclamation, informing the people of the frontiers of the proposed treaty, and prohibiting all offensive movements of the whites to the northward of the Ohio, until they shall receive further information on the subject. The good understanding which subsists between the United States and the Five Nations of Indians, and the steps they have taken for the purpose of terminating hostilities with the Western Indians, manifested by their journey to the council of Au Glaize the last year, induce the reliance that they will still continue their endeavors to bring about a peace. Many of them will be at the proposed treaty, and you will probably be able to make considerable use of them, to instil into the minds of the hostile Indians favorable dispositions towards the United States. You will exclude all citizens of the United States from attending the treaty, excepting such as are herein mentioned, and such others as shall actually be in your employ. It is, however, probable that the British agents, Messrs. Butler and McKee, will be present by the desire of the Indians. To this, you will not object, although you cannot formally admit of them, or any other British agents, as mediators or umpires. It is understood also from General Hull, that several gentlemen of Governor Simcoe's family are desirous of being present at the treaty, perhaps from motives of curiosity. If this should be the case, you will cordially accede to the idea, upon the ground that, the intentions of the United States being upright, they cannot have the least objection to the presence of any gentleman of the British Government as evidences thereof. You will forbid all persons from attempting any negotiations with the Indians relatively to the purchase of lands, upon any pretence whatever. The general form of such a treaty as the Government are desirous of having observed in future, is herewith delivered, to which you will adhere, as far as the same may be suitable to the state of things. In addition to Jasper Parrish, who is the established interpreter for the United States with the said Five Nations. I have written to James Dean also to accompany you as the principal interpreter of the said Five Nations. _ His influence among the said Indians, and his knowdedge of Indian manners and customs, may be serviceable. It is also expected that Mr. William Wilson and Mr. James Rankin will accompany you, as interpreters of the Shawanese and Delaware tongues. These men have been represented as persons having an extensive knowledge of the characters of the Western Indians, and as men of probity, upon whom reliance maybe placed. The sum of twenty thousand dollars in specie will be delivered to you for the particular purpose of gratuities, to such influential persons or chiefs as may in your judgment be necessary ; and, also, the further sum of-dollars, in order to defray the expenses of yourselves, stores, and attendants. If you should effect a peace, it might be proper to invite a number of influential chiefs to repair to this place, in order to visit the President of the United States; and, also, for the purpose of choosing such goods as would be most suitable to their wants. Your route will be hence, by the way of New York, Albany, fort Stanwix, Wood Creek, Oswego, and Niagara; thence, Governor Simcoe will furnish you with a vessel for the purpose of conveying you to the place of treaty. I have written to General Schuyler to provide boats, for your stores and yourselves, at Schenectady; these boats will be carried by land from the Mohawk river to Wood creek. If you should prefer taking the route from Albany to Niagara by land, you will please to pursue the same. Given by the special direction of the President of the United States, at the War Office of the United States, in the city of Philadelphia, this twenty-sixth day of April, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three. H. KNOX, Secretary for the Department of War, and having’ the direction of Indian Affairs. The Journal of the Commissioners of the United States, appointed to hold a treaty at Sandusky, for the purpose of making peace with the Western Indians. Two commissions were made out, appointing Benjamin Lincoln, of Massachusetts, Beverley Randolph, of Virginia, and Timothy Pickering, of Pennsylvania, commissioners for the purpose of negotiating a peace with the nations of Indians Northwest of the Ohio, oil principles of mutual justice and convenience. By one commision, there were given to those commisioners, “ or a majority of them, full pow er and authority to confer on, treat of, renew, conclude, and sign, with such persons as by the said nations shall appear to them to be fully authorized thereto, a treaty or treaties of peace ana amity, between the United States and the said Indian nations.” By the other commission, the same power was given to those commissioners, “or to any of them, in case of the death, sickness, or non-attendance of the other two.” The commisions bear date the second day of March, 1793. The commissioners were accompanied with instructions, of which some parts were confidential. Tuesday, April 50th, 1793. Beverley Randolph and Timothy Pickering set out from Philadelphia’to go to Niagara, by the way of Sunbury, Northumberland, and Muncey, Lycoming, in Pennsylvania, the Painted Post, Bath,and Williamsburg, on Genesee river, in the State of New York. . Benjamin Lincoln had set off from Philadelphia on Saturday, the 27th of April, to go by the way of New York, Albany, the Mohawk river, and Oswego, taking under his care the stores and baggage. Beverley Randolph and Timothy Pickering arrived at Williamsburg the 11th of May, and on Monday, the 13th, at Canawagus, on Genesee, met with the Farmer’s Brother, Red Jacket, and some other chiefs of the Seneca nation, with whom they had some conversation. The commissioners informed them of the time they expected to proceed from Niagara to Sandusky, and when the treaty was to be opened. They encouraged them to attend the treaty, and mentioned the reliance of the United States on their aid in bringing about a peace. The chiefs said, that, when some ot their men were’ hunting about Canandaigua, the answer of the President to the speech of the Western Indians arrived, relative to the holding of the treaty. That this answer was deficient, because the British were not invited to attend the treaty; and that it was necessary they should attend, because they originally called the Indians to war against the United States. That, nevertheless, Governor Simcoe had ordered Colonel Butler to attend the treaty. That all the provisions were ready, and that the British seemed now, more than ever, desirous to have peace take place between the United States and the Western Indians, and to give all the assistance in their power in promoting it. "With respect to the President’s answer to the Western Indians, the commissioners observed, that he had given such an answer as his wisdom directed, and, therefore, that they could say nothing about it. 1793. ] THE NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. 343 The commissioners received from the chiefs a written speech, and four strings of white wampum, sent by the Western Indians to the President. In this, they insisted on Sandusky as the place of treaty. This speecli and strings, the commissioners enclosed in a letter to General Knox, and sent it by a man going to Williamsburg, to be put in the post office there. The chiefs handed to the commissioners some papers, which they desired to have explained to them; this was done. They were the speeches between General Wayne and the Cornplanter, last March, at Pittsburg. The commissioners entertained the chiefs and their followers with victuals and drink, and, at their request, furnished some provisions for their journey to Canandaigua, whither they were going for the clothing procured by General Chapin, for those who went last year to the council of the Western Indians. Friday. May 17fh, 1793. This day Beverley Randolph and Timothy Pickering arrived at Queenstown, seven miles up Niagara river, above Niagara fort, and the landing place for goods to be transported above the falls; herethey met Thomas Morris, of Canandaigua, to whom had been committed, in order to be delivered to the commissioners, the extract of a letter from Colonel McKee, of which the following is a copy: Extract of a letter from Colonel McKee to Major of Brigade Littlehales, dated Detroit, April 11 th, 1793, ** I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated 23d March. The speech of the United States to the Western Indians, was forwarded yesterday to the Glar/.e, by some chiefs of the Shawanese, who came here soon after its arrival, to hasten the meeting; and I beg to acquaint you, for the information of his Excellency, that, at present, it appears generally understood by all the chiefs whom I have seen, that the proposed interview with the commissioners will certainly take place at Sandusky; but the time fixed by the United States (viz: the first of June! appears too early for the Indians to be able to collect themselves; as, in all probability, the major part of them will not return from their wintering grounds before the latter end of May, exclusively of the Southern chiefs, expected with the messengers who were sent last fall; and also those who are to attend from Michiliinackinac and the Mississippi, in order to accomplish a full and permanent settlement of all the existing diti'erences between the confederated Indians and the United States. “And I should apprehend, from their accustoinafy slowness'in all their deliberations, that it may be the latter end of June before they are able to adjust all their business at their private councils at the Miami Rapids, preparatory to their meeting the commissioners. “ His Excellency will therefore be enabled to state to the commissioners, should they arrive at the early period proposed, the causes of the delay ; and should he think proper to recommend to them to stay at’Niagara until the chiefs are nearly ready, I shall not neglect to give him early information thereof, that they may have sufficient time to be at the appointed place as soon as the Indians, who are to meet them. “ Their being at Sandusky so long before the meeting, may be extremely inconvenient to them, and cannot answer any good purpose.” A true copy. E. B. LITTLEHALES. Mr. Morris being just then setting off for Canandaigua, the commissioners wrote a short letter to the Secretary of War, mentioning their arrival at Quecustown, and enclosed therein the foregoing extract of Colonel McKee’s letter, which they delivered to Mr. Moms, desiring him to forward the same to Philadelphia the first opportunity. The commissioners then sent off a note (by Jasper Parrish, the interpreter, who had just before arrived) to Governor Simcoe, to advertise him of their arrival, and that they would wait upon him in the afternoon. To this note the following answer was received: Navy Hall. Lieutenant Governor Simcoe presents his compliments to Mr. Randolph and Mr. Pickering, and he desires the pleasure of seeing them at Navy Hall as soon as shall be convenient. The Lieutenant Governor had expected the pleasure of their companies to dinner, but must insist upon their taking beds at his house, and of partaking of such accommodations with nim, as this settlement can afford. May 17 th. There being no public house at New Ark, (which is the name of the village where the Lieutenant Governor resides, near a mile from Niagara fort, on the opposite side of the river Niagara) and the Lieutenant Governor's invitation being so peremptory, the commissioners complied therewith, and took lodgings at Navy Hall, which is the name he has given the house in which he dwells, having been formerly occupied by the naval department. Tuesday, May-list. 1793. The commissioners wrote the following letter to General Knox, Secretary of War: Navy Hall, opposite Niagara. May 21s/, 1793. Sir: At the moment of our arrival at the landing, (Queenstow n) seven miles above this placej on the 17th, we sent you, by Mr. Thomas Morris, an extract of a letter from Colonel M’Kee, of Detroit, of which we now enclose a duplicate, it being important that you should be apprised of the probable delay for at least one month, in commencing the treaty, and, because of the importance of the information, we repeat it. On the 17th, we waited on Governor Simcoe, and expressed our desire that a vessel might be sent to Oswego for General Lincoln and the stores. He assented with the utmost readiness to have it done as soon as a vessel capable of entering the port of Oswego should arrive, and he daily expected one from Kingston, (fort Frontenac) but she is not arrived. The only vessel here was a large topsail schooner, bound to Kingston, and waiting for a wind. It seems probable, therelore, that General Lincoln will be obliged to proceed hither with his batteaux. There is no tolerable tavern in this part of the country. We are at the Governor's; lie had provided for us, and insisted upon our taking beds at his house, and of partaking of such accommodations with him as this settlement could afford. In a former letter. we mentioned the information of the Seneca chiefs; that Captain Brandt had set off with a number of Mohawks for the Westward. His departure must have been about the 5th of this month, and doubtless his principal object was to attend the preparatory council of the Indians, to be held at the rapids of the Miami, as mentioned by Colonel M'Kee. We know not when a conveyance for this letter will present; we shall embrace the first. We are, &c. B. RANDOLPH, i- T. PICKERING. On the same day, May 21st, the commissioners sent the following message, in writing, by Henry, to his Father, the Cornplanter, New' Arrow, and other Seneca chiefs in their settlement: Brothers: By your conference with General Wayne, about, sixty days ago, we find it was proposed that you should be at Niagara about this time, to meet the commissioners of the United States, and go with tliem to the treaty to be held at Sandusky. We take this method to inform you of our arrival here, and that General Lincoln, the other commis- sioner, who went by the way of the Mohawk liver and Oswego, is expected in a few days to join us. We have time to give you this information, and to repeat the invitation to you to accompany us to the treaty, because it will not begin at Sandusky so soon as we expected. "The Great Chief of the United States has proposed the 1st of June (ten days hence) for the opening of the treaty; but Colonel M'Kee writes, that the Western Indians will not be able to assemble.so soon; probably not till the last of June. We, therefore, give you our opinion, that, if you arrive at Buffalo creek in twenty-five days after this day on which we write to you, it will not be too late. By that time, we hope to hear of your arrival, for we have great dependance on your assistance at the proposed treaty. We remain your friends and brothers, B. RANDOLPH, T. PICKERING, Commissioners of the United States. Written at Niagara, the 21 st June, 1793. N. B. Henry went as far as Cataragus creek, where, learning that his father had left home and gone for Genesee, he delivered the message to runners to carry it to New Arrow. Saturday, May 25th, 1793. This day, General Lincoln and company arrived in batteaux from Oswego. Mr. James Dean, interpreter, arrived the same day by land from Oneida. Sunday, May 26th, 1793. The commissioners receiving no intelligence concerning Mr. Wilson, and another interpreter for the Delaware and Shawanese languages, and wanting also a quantity of white wampum, General Lincoln not having found any at New York or Albany, wrote the following letters to Pittsburg: Niagara, 26th 3fay, 1793. , Sir: The Secretary of War informed us that he had written to Mr. William Wilson and Mr. James Rankin, of Pittsburg, requesting them to accompany the commissioners for holding a treaty with the Western Indians, to Sandusky, as interpreters of the Delaware and Shawanese languages, and that Mr. Wilson, in particular, had consented to go. _ As he had not arrived in Philadelphia when we left it, we hoped he would come directly from Pittsburg to Niagara. It is of the highest importance, that we have our own interpreters for those languages at the ensuing treaty. We, therefore, entreat you to apply immediately to Mr. Wilson, and urge his coining on, if he should not have set out; it seemed that Mi-. Rankin declined going, because he was not sufficiently acquainted with the Shawanese tongue to undertake the interpretation of it. If this be the case, his presence may be dispensed with. But then, we must request you to apply for another, and, if it be possible, engage some one competently skilled-in the Shawanese language to attend us. We have placed such a reliance on Mr. Wilson’s assistance, that his non-attendance may prove extremely injurious to the interests of the United States. We trust, therefore, that nothing will prevent his coming. If, however, any unavoidable accident should prevent it, pray inquire for, and engage, another in his stead. The pay will be made satisfactory. There is now no time to be lost, and it is owing to an unexpected delay of the Western Indians, in assembling, that we are enabled to make this application. We have sent Jasper Parrish, who is interpreter to the languages of the Six Nations, with this letter. We pray you to hasten your measures to obtain interpreters, that he may return with them immediately. We shall doubtless embark for Sandusky by the time he can possibly return. We have been disappointed in our applications at New York and Albany for white wampum. Eighty thousand is the quantity we should choose to take with us. If it can be obtained at Pittsburg, pray procure it, or as much as you can, if short of eighty thousand. The enclosed contingent draft on the Secretary of War will enable you to pay it. We have now only to request, that you will reflect on the importance of our present application; and we assure ourselves, jmu will cheerfully comply with our wishes. We are, &c. B. LINCOLN, B. RANDOLPH, T. PICKERING, Commissioners of the United States. To Major Craig, Pittsburg. [enclosed in the preceding.] Sir: Niagara, May 26, 1793. Not haring obtained any white wampum, either at New York or Albany, we have desired Major Craig to procure any quantity, not exceeding 80,000, at Pittsburg; should he procure it, he will transmit you the account thereof, which we request you to pay, at five days’ sight hereof. B. LINCOLN, B. RANDOLPH, > Commissioners. T. PICKERING, 5 To General Knox, Secretary of War. Sir: Niagara, May 26, 1793. We have written to Major Craig, who is in the service of the United States, requesting him to engage interpreters for the Delaware and Shawanese languages, to go with us to Sandusky. These interpreters were expected in Philadelphia before we left it, but they had not arrived, and we have no intelligence concerning them, though we hope they are on their way from Pittsburg to this place. Your knowledge of Indian affairs in the Western world, will enable you to point out the most suitable persons for interpreters; and we request your aid in engaging them, should those written for by General Knox fail of attending. * The bearer of this letter is Jasper Parrish, interpreter for the Six Nations, who has our directions to bring with him a quantity of white wampum, if to be obtained at Pittsburg. In this article, also, your assistance may be useful. . The importance and urgency of the business, will induce you to excuse our giving you this trouble. We are, &c. B. L.~> B. R. > Commissioners. T. P.5 To General John Gibson, Pittsburg. Niagara, May 26, 1793. Sir; You will proceed with the letters herewith committed to you, to Pittsburg. At the Cornplanter’s settlement, get one or two trusty Indians to accompany you as guides. The great objects of your journey are to procure interpreters tor the Delaware and Shawanese languages, and to obtain a parcel of white wampum. Major Craig will, we doubt not, pay immediate attention to these matters, and give you all possible despatch; should he be absent, apply to General John Gibson, to whom also we have written, and whose aid, we persuade ourselves, will readily be afforded. We wish to obtain 80,000 of white wampum; we have already enough of the black. We desire you to make all possible despatch, as we shall endeavor to embark for Sandusky by the 20th of June. We are, sir, yours, &c. B. Ii. B. R. £■ Commissioners. T. P.5 To Mr. Jasper Parrish. Letter to the. Secretary of War. Niagara, May 27, 1793. Sir: General Lincoln arrived here on the 25th, with the stores in batteaux. No interpreters have arrived for the Delaware and Shawanese tongues; nor could General Lincoln obtain any white wampum, either at New York or Albany. General Schuyler supplied him with about 30,000 of black wampum. Our letter of the 16th instant, we hope you will receive; that will account for the long delay we must make at this place. A duplicate of the extract from Col. McRce's letter is enclosed, together with ours of the 21st instant. This unavoidable delay gives us time to send to Pittsburg, to inquire after and engage interpreters, should those sent for, by you, fail of attending, and to procure white wampum. Jasper Parrish goes on this business, and will set out this forenoon. We expect he will return with ease by the 20th June, before which time, there is no probability of our sailing for Sandusky. Should we get no white wampum at Pittsburg, we shall endeavor to borrow of the British agents, here or at Detroit. As this is a very possible contingency, we wish to have it in our power to return what we borrow. If, therefore, you should have occasion to send a messenger to this place, and white wampum can be procured by you, it may be forwarded, addressed in our absence to the care of Major Littiehales, Secretary to Governor Simcoe, Niagara. Should there be no object of importance requiring your sending a special messenger, the wampum maybe sent by the post to Reading, whence it will be brought on to Genesee by Mr. Williamson’s riders; the package may be addressed to Mr. Williamson, at 'Williamsburg, on Genesee, he having engaged to forward by the earliest conveyance, any packages or letters addressed to ns. The quantity of white wampum wanted, is 80,000. Jasper Parrish says he went to some house in Philadelphia with T. Francis, where he saw a large quantity—two millions. If Major Craig should obtain the wampum at Pittsburg, we have desired him to send the account to you for payment. Mr. James Dean arrived here on the 25(h. The extreme jealousy of the Indians will naturally prompt them to magnify every thing wearing a hostile appearance. The movement of General Wayne to fort Washington, will probably give no umbrage; and in his speech to the Cornplanter, he assured him, he should make no advances beyond the posts already established. But if he reinforces the present posts, advanced of fort Washington, we are apprehensive it may produce mischief, if nothing worse, at least by exciting a suspicion, that it is in order to strike their towns while they are in treaty; it will still longer retard their assembling. The jealousy of the Indians is so great. Governor Simcoe says they will, during the treaty, keep scouting parties about our advanced posts; and that, if any troops should be sent forward, especially to fort Jefferson, the Indians will certainly strike them. We recollect, that your instructions to General Wayne, contained many cautions to prevent any steps which might move the jealousy or resentment of the Indians; but not. remembering the precise terms, we have thought it expedient to drop this hint. We have the honor to be, yours, Ac. 15. L. 1 B. R. > Commissioners. T. P.5 P. S. On inquiring, we find Colonel Butler has no white wampum, but has sent to New York for a supply. Letter to Major Craig, Pittsburg. Niagara, May 27, 1793. .Sir: Since writing the enclosed (of yesterday) we have found it necessary to send Mr. Parrish express to Philadelphia. w here we know he can get some wampum, so that, if you can procure and send us 40 or 50,000 of white wampum, it will suffice. With regard to the interpreters for the Delaware and Shawanese languages, we repeat our request, that they may be engaged and forwarded immediately. We expect Mr. Parrish will return from Philadelphia in twenty days, at farthest by the 20th June. He is to send some Indian runners with our letters to you. We pray you to give them all needful despatch, and the provisions necessary on their return. We are, Ac. B. L. B. R. T. P. Letter to General Knox, Secretary of (f ar. Niagara, 2.7th May, 1793. Sir: The letter addressed to you, which is enclosed, was, as you will see, intended to go by the way of Pittsburg; but on searching General Lincoln’s trunk, the belt of the hostile Indians, acceding to the treaty, and that sent by the Five Nations, on the same occasion, which, in our instructions, you say are herewith delivered to us, are not found; they must still be at your office. Neither have we the white new belts, which were intended for our use. These, with what white wampum is on hand, in strings, Mr. Parrish can bring to us, with as much more as will make up eighty thousand or one hundred thousand: for, if there should be a surplus, we cannot make a more acceptable present to the Indians than wainpum. For this reason, and also for the purpose of ensuring a full supply, we have continued our request to Major Craig, to send us forty or fifty thousand. The letters to Major Craig will be sent by some Indian runners, whom Parrish will despatch from Buffalo creek to the Cornplanter’s settlement, where they may be delivered to the runners, who are well acquainted with the route. Mr. Parrish, the bearer of this, says he can reach Philadelphia in eight or ten days, and will return in as many more; we pray you give him all needful despatch. The Doctor’s medicine chest was left at Philadelphia. It seems, that on his way he has bought a pound of bark, and a few other articles, of small account. Perhaps, as the treaty may now be postponed to a later season than was expected, it may be expedient for Mr. Parrish to bring a pound ot bark, and such other articles as the physicians you consulted shall recommend, and Parrish can conveniently bring. We are, sir, yours, &c. B. L. B. R. T. P. The commissioners having discharged twenty of their batteau-men, they gave the following order for the residue ot their pay: Niagara, 27th May, 1793. Sir: As a less sum was put into the hands of the commissioners than you expected: and, as, by a delay, which will probably take place respecting the assembling of the Indians, our expenses will be augmented, we have thought it best to draw on.'you for the sum of four hundred and sixty-one dollars and seventy-five cents; which draft, we doubt not, you will honor at sight, and cause payment to be made, so as best to accommodate the drawee. We are. sir, yours, &c. BENJAMIN LINCOLN, In behalf of himself and the other Commissioners. To General Knox. N. B. This draft was in favor of Cornelius A. Van Slyck, of Schenectady, and delivered to his agent, Joseph Menderse. \ Letter to Colonel McKee, Deputy Superintendent of Indian Affairs. Sir: Navy Hall, 30tA May, 1793. We, having been appointed commissioners of the United States, to hold a treaty with the Indians at Sandusky, and the time proposed tor holding the treaty being the 1st of June, met at this place on the 25th instant, and should have proceeded to Sandusky, but for your letter to Major Littlehales, of the 11th of April, in which you express your opinion that the Indians would not be assembled until the last of June, and desire that the commissioners may be apprised of it. We felt ourselves obliged by this attention to our convenience, and, in consequence of this information, determined to remain here a few weeks; or until further advice from you should point out the proper time for our departure. We have now to request you will have the goodness to make known to the Indians, who propose to attend the treaty, that we are arrived at this place, and intend to be at Sandusky by the last of June, at farthest, unless, your future communications should require a different arrangement. We request, also, the favor of the earliest information on this head, to be transmitted to Major Littlehales or to us. A general and permanent peace being the great object of our mission, we hope to receive the countenance and support of all who can feel for the happiness of the human race. Your aid, in particular, in promoting this important work, may be of the highest utility, and will be most gratefully acknowledged by, Sir, yours, &c. B. L. B. R. T. P. June 1st, 1793. William Wilson, interpreter, arrived, bringing with him Sylvester Ash, as an assistant interpreter; he brought a letter from Major Craig, mentioning the terms on which they were engaged. June 3d, Mr. Wilson set off for fort Erie, to embark for Detroit, whence, if practicable, he was to proceed to the Miami Rapids, where he might gain useful information. Captain Hendricks, with four of his men, arrived about the same time with Mr. Wilson, and also proceeded to fort Erie, to embark for Detroit. Memorandum of instructions given to Captain Hendricks by Colonel Pickering. Niagara, 4th June, 1793. After discoursing with the hostile Indians about the treaty, and hearing their claims with respect to the boundary, which they propose should be the Ohio, it may be expedient for you to suggest some things for their consideration, as of yourself, in order to discover how far they may be persuaded to depart from their rigid demands. 1st. It is true, the commissioners, at some former treaties, set up extravagant claims, but perhaps the present commissioners may confine themselves to moderate limits, and relinquish all the rest of the lands. 2d. The treaties formerly made, were carried to the great council of the United States, who, seeing them signed by a number of Indian chiefs, might suppose that those chiefs represented their nations, and that the treaties were right. In consequence of which, the great council sold large tracts of land along the Ohio, to a number of people, who have since settled upon them; and being thus sold and settled, it may be very difficult, if not impossible, now to give them up. 1 understand that such sales have been made from the west line of Pennsylvania, (which begins at the mouth of Little Beaver creek) down the Ohio, as far as the Great Miami. 3d. Now, suppose the commissioners should relinquish the lands westward of the Great Miami, and pay a good sum of money, or a large quantity of goods, for the lands eastward of the Great Miami, would it not be well to agree to such terms, and make peace? 4th._ But suppose the commissioners should be willing to do still more, and give up part of the lands southward of the line settled by the treaties of fort McIntosh and fort Harmar, would it not be well to listen to their offers? 5th. Consider, further, what are the advantages you derive from the lands which the United States wish to retain. They are. furs, skins, and meat, which you would every year obtain by hunting. But, suppose the commissioners should offer to pay a large annual rent for those lands, in money, in goods, or provisions; would not such terms be better than war? But, probably, besides this rent,.you may hunt on these same lands as long as you can find any game. 6th. At all events, keep your minds open to the talk of the commissioners. Do not fix the terms of peace before you hear them. Tell them all your grievances, and listen to their answers. Perhaps former transactions with you nave not been fully understood, and thence all the evils of the war may have arisen. I think there is now a disposition in the United States to find out what is true, and to do what is right. T. P. 1793.] THE NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. 847 Note.—The commissioners had conversed on the subject of the above instructions, and concluded to commit them to writing for Captain Hendricks’ information; but it not having been done before his departure from Navy Hall. Colonel Pickering wrote them at Chippewa, where ne. overtook Hendricks on his way to fort Erie. Hendricks proposed to translate them into his own language, and then destroy the original paper. In a few days after General Lincoln’s arrival with the stores and baggage, (without which we could not provide for ourselves) we concluded to remove from Navy Hall, Queenstown, and there encamp, while we should be obliged to wait for the assembling of the Indian nations at Sandusky. But as soon as Governor Simcoe understood our intentions, he again insisted on our staying at his house, and in such terms, that we could not, without rudeness, avoid a compliance with his request. Navy Hall. June 6th, 1793. At a meeting of the commissioners this day, it being thought expedient to invite General Chapin, superintendent of the Six Nations, to attend them during the treaty with the hostile Indians at Sandusky, he being present, was accordingly invited, and assured of a reasonable compensation for his time and services. General Chapin accepted the invitation, and promised to attend. . Navy Hall, 7th June, 1793. The commissioners presented the following note to Governor Simcoe: The commissioners of the United States for making peace with the Western Indians beg leave to suggest to Governor Simcoe: That the very high importance of the negotiation committed to their management, makes them desirous of using eveir proper means that may contribute to its success. That they have observed with pleasure the disposition manifested by the Governor to afford every requisite assistance in the preparatory arrangements for holding the treaty with the hostile Indians. But, all the facilities thus afforded, and all the expenses incurred by the British Government on this occasion, will perhaps be fruitless, unless some mean-are used to counteract the effect of deep rooted prejudices, and unfounded reports, among the Indian tribes: for, the arts of a few bad men dwelling among them, or having a familiar intercourse with them, by cherishing those prejudices, or raising and spreading those reports, may be sufficient to defeat every attempt to accomplish a peace. As an instance of such unfounded reports, the commissioners have noticed the declaration of a Mohawk, from Grand river, that Governor Simcoe advised the Indians to make peace, but not to give up any of their lands. The commissioners further observe, that if any transactions at former treaties were exceptionable, the principles of the present treaty are calculated to remove the causes of complaint: for the views of Government are perfectly fair. And, although it is now impossible to retrace all the steps then taken, the United States are disposed to recede, as laras shall be indispensable, and the existing state of tilings will admit, and, for the lands retained, to make ample compensation. The views of the United States being thus fair and liberal, the commissioners wish to embrace every means of making them so appear to the Indians, against any contrary suggestions. Among these means, the commissioners consider the presence of some gentlemen of the army to be of consequence: for, although the Indians naturally look up to their superintendents as their patrons, yet, the presence of some officers of the army will probably induce them to negotiate with greater confidence on the terms of peace. Independently of these considerations, the commissioners, for their own sakes, request the pleasure of their company. The commissioners feeling the greatest solicitude to accomplish the object of their mission, will be happy to receive from the Governor every information relating to it, which his situation enables him to communicate. He must be aware that the sales and settlements of the lands over the Ohio, founded on the treaties of forts McIntosh and Harmar, render it impossible now to make that river the boundary. The expression of his opinion on this point in particular, will give them great satisfaction. Memorandum.—Besides the reasons expressly mentioned in the note, there w ere other inducements to present it. With respect to the invitation to some British officers to attend the treaties, the commissioners found they were desirous of attending, and thought a direct invitation more eligible than a mere assent to their wishes. Colonel Butler and General Chapin also deemed the invitation to be of some moment. It was the explicit opinion of the chiefs of the Senecas, that an open communication with the Governor, on the subject of the treaty, might have a salutary effect; and Major Littleliales, the Governor’s secretary, gave the commissioners to understand, that the Governor, if requested, would cheerfully give his opinion about it. They conceived, also, that the presence of some officers of the army would add to their security from insults and from danger. The same day, the following note was received from Governor Simcoe: Navy Hall, 7th June, 1793. Colonel Simcoe, commanding the King's forces in Upper Canada, lias the honor, in answer to the paper delivered to him this morning, by the commissioners of the United States for making peace with the Western Indians, to state to those gentlemen, that he is duly impressed with the serious importance of the negotiation committed to their charge, and shall be happy to contribute by every proper means that may tend to its success. He is much obliged to them for the polite manner in which they have expressed their sense of his readiness to afford them such facilities as may have been in his power, to assist in the preparatory arrangements for holding the treaty. He is perfectly aware that unfounded reports, and deep rooted prejudices, have arisen among the Indian tribes; but whether from the acts of a few bad men living among them, he cannot pretend to say; but, lie must observe, upon the instance given by the commissioners, of one of “ those unfounded reports, that a Mohawk from the Grand river should say, that Governor Simcoe advised the Indians to make peace, but not to give up their lands,” it is of that, nature that cannot be true: the Indians, as yet, not having applied for his advice on the subject, and it being a point, of all others, on which they are the least likely to consult the British officers commanding in Upper Canada. Colonel Simcoe considers himself perfectly justified in admitting, on the requisition of the commissioners, some officers to attend the treaty, and, therefore, in addition to the gentlemen appointed to control the delivery of the British provisions, &e. he w ill desire Captain Bunbury, of the fifth regiment, and Lieutenant Givens, who has some knowledge of one of the Indian languages, to accompany the commissioners. Colonel Simcoe can give the commissioners no further information than what is afforded by the speeches of the confederate nations, of which. General Hull has authentic copies. But. as it has been, ever since the conquest of Canada, the principle of the British government, to unite the American Indians, that, ail petty jealousies being extinguished, the real wishes of the several tribes may be fully expressed, and in consequence, all the treaties made with them, may have the most complete ratification and universal concurrence, so, he feels it proper to state to the commissioners, that a jealousy of a contrary conduct in the agents of the United States, appears to him to have been deeply impressed upon the minds of the confederacy. To the Commissioners, «$*c. Letter to General A'nor. Navy Hall, 20th June, 1793. Sik: We have been in daily expectation of Mr. Parrish’s arrival, but probably the continual rains, (for not a day passes without them) have delayed him. About the 6th instant, the six friends, Mr. Heekewelder, Dr. McCoskry,Captain Hendricks,and his four companions of the Stockbridge tribe, sailed from fort Erie for Detroit, to gain intelligence, and (the whites) there await our arrival. But the day before yesterday, mentioning to Governor Simcoe our intention of going to Detroit, to learn the true state of things prio'r to our landing at Sandusky, he objected to our proceeding up to the town of Detroit, though we might go to the mouth of Detroit river, adding, that there were settlers there, among whom we could find such accommodations as we should need; and that he would obtain letters for us, to them, from a gentlemen here, (Mr. Baby) who is a member of the Legislative council. As soon as Mr. Parrish returns, and a vessel shall arrive at fort Erie to receive us, we intend to embark for Detroit river. By all accounts, there will be a very great assembly of Indians, beyond what was expected before we left Philadelphia. Of the Six Nations, dwelling within the United States, the following numbers may attend the treaty: Oneidas from Oneida, - - 14 Onomlagoes from Onondago, - - 6 Cayugas from Cayuga, about - - 5 Senecas from Genesee, about - - 24 Do. from Buffalo creek, - - 47 Onodagoes do. about - - - 10 Cayugas do. about -   14 TuT To these, may probably be added a number of Cayugas of Buffalo creek, who accompany Fish Carrier^ who is the head of that nation. F'rom appearances, the conclusion of the treaty will be procrastinated beyond the time you expected,'unless it should be cut short by peremptory demands, on the part ot the Indians, of terms to which we cannot accede. . No further advice has been received from Colonel McKee, relative to the time when the Indians will be at Sandusky. He and Brandt attend their previous councils at the Rapids of the Miami. Colonel Butler was to have sailed about a week since, but, being taken sick, returned from fort Erie. Perhaps he may now go in the same vessel with us. We have the honor to be, &c. B. L. B. II. T. P. Sir: Letter to General Knox, (per Mr. Baynton.) Navy Hall, 26th June, 1793. Yesterday, Mr. Parrish arrived, with your letters of the 6th and 12th. We are happy that he has obtained a full supply of wampum. On the 1st June, Mr. Wilson and Mr. Ash, interpreters, arrived, with a letter from Major Craig, mentioning the terms on which they were engaged. The vessel, in which the friends, Mr. Heckewelder, &c. embarked, meeting with some delay at fort Erie, Mr. Wilson and Mr. Ash had time to proceed with them to Detroit. Mr. Wilson appears to be an intelligent man ; and from his acquaintance at the Westward, we hoped he might collect some-useful information. He intended to go to the Rapids of the Miami, but was disappointed. Ilis letter of the 17th, and Colonel McKee’s of the 14th instant, (of which copies are enclosed) will explain the causes thereof. Jasper Parrish left General Chapin near fort Erie, with Colonel Butler, who told him that Colonel McKee had written him on the 19th instant; that the Western Indians were waiting the arrival of the Six Nations, and desired that they might be hastened on. Colonel Butler had, accordingly, sent for those of the Six Nations, who had collected at Butfido creek, for the purpose of proceeding to the treaty. They have, probably, embarked with Colonel Butler yesterday or to-day. Another vessel lies at fort Erie, ready to receive us, and we shall proceed for that place to-day. Our stores are now on the way. At our request, General Chapin has come forward, to accompany us to the treaty. He was here some time ago, and, after much conversation with him, we were of opinion that his assistance would be very useful. We have engaged him some compensation, independent of his ordinary allowance as Superintendent of Indian Affairs. W e were glad to receive the various proclamations forbidding expeditions northward of the Ohio. With all the proofs we can obtain, we shall find it difficult enough to allay the jealousy of the Indians, who will doubtless be frequently alarmed with stories, as groundless as that mentioned in the letters of Colonel McKee and Mr. Wilson. Every escort with provisions will probably occasion such reports, and, should there be any apparent accumulation of troops at the posts, beyond their ordinary complement, it may at least greatly retard our negotiations. Permit us to ask, whether a truce should not be considered as existing during the treaty, and whether a liberal observance of the laws of a truce, on the part of the United States, be not expedient? Although, by the Indians, to whom such laws are unknown, they are not respected, we. shall, however, use our endeavors to impress them with the propriety and necessity of abstaining from all hostilities, while the event of the treaty is in suspense. We ardently hope, that the minds of the Southern Indians may be quieted and peace confirmed. Nothing would make us more happy, than to be able to relieve the President from any degree of the anxiety lie feels for “ the entire success of our mission.” Bat no facts have yet come to our knowledge, by which we can warrant an opinion on the event of it. The result shall be communicated to you as early as possible, with the copy mentioned in your postscript. Mr. Baynton has made a verbal communication of what he says was entrusted to him, by you. and which we shall not forget. We remain, sir, yours, &c. B. L. B. R. T. P. Letter to Major Craig, forwarded by Joseph Nicholson. Fort Erie, 28th June. 1793. Sir: _ - Mr. Nicholson arrived here on the 25th instant, with two Seneca Indians, who delivered us your letter of the 8th, with three packages of wampum. We are much obliged by your attention to our request. Fortunately, our messenger to Philadelphia returned the day before, with a full supply. We are glad that two of the Wabash Indians are persuaded to accompany the Senecas, in order to attend the treaty. The compensation to the runners was undoubtedly proper. We think a further compensation due for their faithful services; and accordingly, have now delivered to them, that is, to the two runners who have come here, eight and a third dollars, each, and to the one who remained at the Burnt towns, one guinea. To Mr. Nicholson, we nave given four guineas, to support him on his return, and the Indians to their homes; for which, he will account with you. Having previously engaged very competent interpreters for the languages of the Six Nations, it was not necessary to add to the number, by retaining Mr. Nicholson. Mr. Wilson and Mr. Ash arrived here on the 1st instant, and, in a few days, embarked for Detroit. We received a letter from him at that place, on the 17th. The Western Indians were then beginning >rP3.] THE NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. 34<J to council among themeiveSj at their general meeting at the Rapids of the Miami of the lake. We shall sail with the first fair wind for Detroit river, and go to Sandusky as soon as we find the Indians are ready to proceed from the Miami. We are, Sic. B. L. B. R. T. P. . June 29 th. The commissioners and their suite went to fort Erie to embark for Sandusky; but the winds being contrary. theyr returned three or four miles to their lodgings. June 30th. The wind still contrary , nevertheless the commissioners and their suite embarked on board the schooner Duntnore, Captain Henry Ford, commander. July 5th. Still detained by contrary winds at fort Erie. This day arrived in a vessel from the Miami, Colonel Butler, a British superintendent of Indian a Hairs, and Captain Brandt, with about fifty Indians, being a deputation front the Indian nations, assembled at the rapids of the Miami, to confer with the commissioners of the United States, in presence of the Governor of Upper Canada. . 'The deputation being met, gave notice to die commissioners that they desired to speak with them. The commissioners attending, a Shawanese chief, called Cat’s Eyes, addressed them thus: Brothers: We are sent by the nations of Indians assembled at the rapids of the Miami, to meet the commissioners of the United States. We are glad to see y ou here. It is the will of the chiefs of those nations, that our father, the Governor of this province, should be present, and hear what we have to say to you, and what you have to say to us. Brothers: Do not make yourselves uneasy that we did not meet you at the time you proposed at Sandusky. The reasons thereof will be mentioned at another time. [Four strings of black and white wampum.] To which the commissioners, after repeating the foregoing speech, replied: Brothers: The commissioners are glad to see you. Wc will confer with you in presence of your fat her, the Governor of this province, at any time and place which shall be convenient to him and you. [Returned the four strings.] The chiefs having consulted a few minutes by themselves, again asked the attendance of the commissioners, and proposed that the conference should be at the Governor’s, at Niagara, to which the commissioners agreed, informing the chiefs that they would be at the Governor’s to-morrow night. lx Council, at Xavy Hath July 7th, 1793. Present, commissioners of the United States, Colonel Simcoe, Governor of Upper Canada, and a considerable number of civil and military officers, deputation of Indians from the council assembled at the rapids of the Miami. Captain Brandt, with a belt and strings of wampum, rose and said: Brothers: We have met to-day our brothers the Bostonians and English. We are glad to have the meeting, and think it is by the appointment of the Great Spirit. Brothers of the United States: We told you the other day. at fort Erie, that, at another time, we would inform you why we had not assembled at the time and place appointed for holding the treaty with you. We now inform you that it is because there is so much of the appearance of war in that quarter. Brothers: We have given the reason for our not meeting you, and now we request an explanation of those warlike appearances. Brothers: The people you sec here are sent to represent the Indian nations, who own the lands north ol the Ohio, as their common property, and who are all of one mind—one heart. Brothers: We have come to speak to you for two reasons: one, because your warriors, being in our neighborhood, have prevented our meeting at the appointed place; the other, to know if you are properly authorized to.run and establish a new boundary line between the lands of the United States, and of the Indian nations. We arc still desirous of meeting you at the appointed place. Brothers; We wish you to deliberate well on this business. Wc have spoken our sentiments in sincerity, considering ourselves in the presence of the Great Spirit, from whom, in time of danger, we expect assistance. [ A white belt of 12 rows and 30 strings of wampum, in five bunches, nearly all white.] The commissioners Answered: Brothers; We have attended to what you hat e said. We will take it into our serious consideration,- and give you an answer to-morrow. We trill inform you when wc are ready. Captain Brandt replied: Brothers: We thank you for what you have said. You say you will answer our speech to-morrow.' We now cover up the council fire. The answer of the commisfsioncr.il of the United Slate-s to the speech delivered yesterday by Captain Brandt, in behalf of the H extern Indians. . ’ Niagara, 8th July, 1793. In Council. Present as yesterday. Brothers: By the appointment of the Great Spirit wc are again met together. Wc hope he will assist us on both sides to see and to do what is right. It gives us pleasure that this meeting is in the presence of our brothers, the English. Brothers: Yesterday, aecoiMing to your promise at fort Erie, you told us the reason why the nations whom you represent had delayed assembling at the time ;tnd place appointed lor meeting us. “ That it was because there was so much of the appearance of war in that quarter."Brothers: You requested an explanation of these warlike appearances. Brotheks: You told us that the people whom we saw here were sent to represent the Indian nations who own the lands on the northern side of the Ohio, as their common property, and who are all of one mind—one heart. Brothers: You said.you had two reasons for cooling, to speak to us here; one that our warriors, -being in your neighborhood, had prevented your meeting at the appointed place; the other, lo be informed whether we are properly authorized to run and establish a new boundary line between the lands of the United States anti of the Indian nations. You added, that you were still desirous of meeting us at the appointed place. Brothers: You desired that we would deliberate well on tins business. You declared that yon spoke your sentiments in sincerity, considering yourselves in the presence of God, from whom, in time of danger, you expect assistance. Brothers: We have now repeated your speech as we understood it from the interpretation. We hope we have not mistaken your meaning. .... Brothers: Now listen to our answer in behall of the United States. Brothers: You have mentioned two objects of your coming to meet us at this place. One to obtain an explanation of the warlike appearances on the part of the. United States on the northern side of the Ohio; the other, to learn whether we have authority to run and establish a new boundary line between your lands and ours. Brothers: On the first point, we cannot but express our extreme regret, that any reports ot warlike appearances, on the part of the United States, should have delayed our meeting at Sandusky. The.nature of the case irresistibly forbids all apprehensions of hostile incursions into the Indian country, north of the Ohio, during the treaty at Sandusky. Brothers: Wc were deputed by the Great Chief and the Great Council of the United States to treat with you of peace; and is it possible that the same Great Chief and his Great Council could order their warriors to make 45 fresh war, while we were sitting round the same fire with you, in order to make peace? Is it possible that our Great Chief .and his council could act so deceitfully towards us, their commissioners, as well as towards your Brothers, we think it is not possible. But we will quit argument and come to facts. Brothers: We assure you that our Great Chief, General Washington, has strictly forbidden all hostilities against you, until the event of the proposed treaty at Sandusky shall be known. Here is the proclamation of his head warrior. General Wayne, to that effect. But, Brothers, our GreatChief is so sincere in his professions for peace, and so desirous of preventing every thing which could obstruct the treaty, and prolong the war, that, besides giving the above orders to his head warrior, he has informed the Governors of the several States, adjoining the Ohio, of the treaty proposed to be held at Sandusky; and desired them to unite their power with his to prevent any hostile attempts against the Indians, north of the Ohio, until the result of the treaty is made known. Those Governors have accordingly issued their orders, strictly forbidding all such hostilities. The proclamations of the Governors of Virginia and Pennsylvania we have here in our hands. Brothers: If, after all these precautions of our Great Chief, any hostilities should be committed north of the Ohio, they must proceed from a few disorderly people, whom no considerations of justice or public good can restrain. But we hope and believe that none such will be found. Brothers: After these explanations, we hope you will possess your minds in peace, relying on the good faith of the United States that no injury is to be apprehended by you during the treaty. Brothers: We now come to the second point: whether we are properly authorized to run and establish a new boundary line between your lands and ours. Brothers: We answer explicitly that we have that authority. Where this line should run, will be the great subject of discussion at the treaty between you and us: and we sincerely hope and expect, that it may then be fixed to the satisfaction of both parties. Doubtless some concessions must be made on both sides. In all disputes and quarrels, both parties usually take some wrong steps; so that it is only by mutual concessions, that a true reconcilement can be effected. Brothers: We wish you to understand us clearly on this head: for we mean that all our proceedings should be marked with candor. We therefore repeat, and say explicitly, that some concessions trill be necessary on your part, as well as on ours, in order to establish a just and permanent peace. Brothers: After this great point of the boundary shall be fully considered, at the treaty, we shall know what concessions and stipulations it will be proper to make on the part of the United States; and we trust they will be such as the world will pronounce reasonable and just. Brothers: You have told us that you represent the nations of Indians who own the lands north of the Ohio, and whose chiefs are now assembled at the rapids of the Miami. Brothers: It would be a satisfaction to us to be informed of the names of those nations, and of the numbers of the chiefs of each so assembled. Brothers: We once more turn your eyes to your representation of the warlike appearances in your countiy: and, to give you complete satisfaction on this point, we now assure you, that, as soon as our councils at this place are ended, we will send a messenger on horseback to the Great Chief of the United States, to desire him to renew and strongly repeat his orders to his head warrior, not only to abstain from all hostilities against you, but to remain quietly at his posts, until the event of the treaty shall be known;—[A white belt of seven rows, and twenty-six strings of wampum, nearly all white, annexed.] The foregoing speech, having been interpreted by Mr. Dean in the Oneida tongue, was interpreted by Captain Brandt’s nephew, into the Shawanese language, and from that, by another interpreter, into the language of the Chippewa nation; after which, the Shawanese chief (called Cat’s Eyes) thus addressed the commissioners: Brothers, the Bostonians, attend: We have heard your words. Our Fathers, the English people, have also heard them. We thank God that you have been preserved in peace, and that we bring our pipes together. The people of all the different nations here salute you. They rejoice to hear your words. It gives us great satisfaction that our Fathers, the English, have heard them also. We shall, for the present, take up our pipes, and retire to our encampments, where we shall deliberately consider your speech, and return you an answer to-morrow. Niagara, 9tli July, 1793. In council, present as yesterday. Captain Brandt arose, with the belt and strings which were yesterday delivered by the commissioners, and. addressing himself to the English and Americans, said: Brothers: We are glad the Great Spirit has preserved us in peace, to meet together this day. Brothers of the United States:  Yesterday you made an answer to the message delivered you by us, from the great council at Miami, in the two particular's which we had stated to you. Brothers: You may depend on it, we fully understood your speech. We shall take with us your belt and strings, and repeat it to the chiefs at the great council at Miami.—[Laid down the strings and belt, and took up a white belt.] Brothers: We have something further to say, though not much. We are small, compared with our great chiefs at Miami. But. though small, we have something to say. Brothers: We think, from your speech, that there is a prospect of our coming together. We, who are the nations at the Westward, are of one mind; and,if we agree with you, as there is a prospeetthat we shall,it will be binding and lasting. Brothers: Our prospects are the fairer, because all our minds are one: you have not before spoken to us unitedly. Formerly, because you did not speak to us unitedly, what was done was not binding. Now, you have an opportunity of speaking to us together; and we-now take you by the hand, to lead you to the place appointed for the meeting.—[A white belt of seven rows.] Brothers: This is all we have to say. Afterwards, Captain Brandt, recollecting that he had not answered our request, respecting the nations and chiefs assembled at the Miami, rose and said: Brothers: One thing more we have to say: yesterday yqu expressed a wish to be informed of the names of the nations, and numbers of chiefs assembled at Miami. But, as they were daily coming in, we cannot give you exact information. You will see for yourselves in a few days. When we left it, the following nations were there, viz: Five Nations, Munsees, Pattawatamies, Wyandots, Miamies, . Mingoes, Shawanese, Ottawas, Cherokees, Delawares. Chippewas. Nantikokies. The principal men of all these nations were there. He,then presented the list on paper. . The Commissioners then replied: Brothers: Our ears have been open to your speech. It is agreeable to us. We are ready to accompany you to the place of treaty, where, under the direction of the Great Spirit, we hope for a speedy termination to the present war, on terms equally interesting and agreeable to all parties. N. B. At the Council held at Niagara, on the 7th July, before the arrival of the commissioners from Navy Hall, Captain Brandt, in the name of the deputies, thus addressed the Governor, Colonel Sincoe: 1793.3 TIIE NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. 351 It being agreed at the Rapids that \vc should come and meet the commissioners in our Father's presence, we return our thanks to the Great Spirit lor seeing your Excellency weil this day. Our intention and business is peaceable, and our inclination is to do what is right and just. We are all of one mind, and wished your Excellency to be present.—[A belt of wampum.] His Excellency, in reply, said: He was happy to see them well, and as the commissioners expressed their wishes* to meet the Indians in his presence, he should be glad to hear what they had to say.—[The belt returned.] At Niagara, 1(1/A July, 1795. The commissioners wrote the following letters to the President and Secretary of War, and sent them off by jasper Parrish, express. Letter to General Knox. Niagara, 10//i July, 1795. Sir: The enclosed extract from our journal will account for our being here. We think the coming of the deputation from the Western Indians, a fortunate event. It must have been their extreme jealousy of the United States that made them solicitous to speak with us in presence of the Governor; and our answer being satisfactory, we believe it will have a better effect, than the same sentiments delivered under any other circumstances. Our promise to send a special messenger to the President, to desire fresh orders might be sent to General Wayne, not only to abstain from hostilities, but to remain quietly at his posts, was thought a very necessary measure; and it will be alike necessary that those orders should be issued and strictly observed. In a fonner letter, we intimated our opinion and wishes on this point. We now think, and our duty obliges ns to declare it, that an exact observation of the laws of a truce is essential to the success of the treaty. The Indians have information, confirmed by repeated scouts, that General Wayne has cut and cleared a road, straight from fort Washington, into the Imliau country, in a direction that would have missed fort Jefferson; but; that, meeting with a large swamp, it was, of necessity, turned to that fort, and then continued six miles beyond it; that large quantities of provisions are accumulated at the forts, far exceeding the wants of the garrisons; and numerous herds of horses and cattle, assembled beyond fort Jefferson, guarded by considerable bodies of troops. With these preparations for war in their neighborhood, (for it is but three days' journey from thence to the Glaize) they say their minds cannot rest easy. The distance, here mentioned, is from Captain Brandt’s information, and is, no doubt, exact. W e suppose that twenty to five and twenty miles may be deemed a day's journey. The manner m which negotiations for peace are conducted by Indians, demands a particular consideration. On such occasions, not commissioners, or a few counsellors, but the body of the nations assemble. The negotiations will of course be delayed, or interrupted, if the movements of their enemies call the warriors from the council to watch or check them. The measures pursued by General Wayne appear to have produced (his unhappy effect, and probably strengthened jealousies, before almost insurmountable. We know that those measures are viewed by the British as unfair, and unwarrantable; and we cannot suppose that their opinion will be concealed from the Indians, if the latter have not previously entertained the same ideas. After this detail, it can hardly be necessary to express our opinions on the subject. It is obvious, that, to ensure a quiet, uninterrupted treaty, the cattle, horses, and troops, beyond what are proper for the posts themselves, should not be advanced from the Ohio: any that are now in advance, beyond fort Jefferson, should certainly be immediately withdrawn; and we doubt whether that would be satisfactory, if their numbers, in any degree, correspond with the reports among the Indians at their council. We are, sir, yours, &c. B. L B. R. T. P. Letter to the President of the United States. Niagara. 10Ih July, 1795. Sir: ‘General Knox will of course lay before you our communications of this date. We address you that we may literally comply with our promise to the deputies of the Western Indians, “that we would desire you to issue fresh orders to General Wayne, not only to abstain from hostilities, but to remain quietly at his posts, until the event of the treaty should be known.” Our sentiments on tins subject are fully expressed in our letter to the Secretary of War, to which we must beg leave to refer. Those sentiments your own solicitude for peace will sufficiently enforce. We are, sir. with great respect, yours, &e. B. L. II. R. T. P. Letter to General Knox. Niagara, 10th July, 1793. Sir: In our instructions we are directed to stipulate the compensation to the Indians in. goods, by a ianff, comprehending the prime cost and charges of transportation. We have no means of forming the tariff. We request you to send us, by Air. Parrish, the prices of all Indian goods, and the usual expense of transportation from Philadelphia to Pittsburg, and thence to such place in the Western territory, as shall be suitable, for the delivery of them to the Indians. We are, sir, &c. B. L. B. R. T. P. Having despatched these letters, the commissioners left Niagara,-and, the next day, (July 11th) arrived at fort Erie. _ , July 14 th. took The wind favoring, we set sail for the mouth of Detroit river, where we arrived the 2)st, in the morning, and k our quarters at Captain Matthew Elliot’s. He is an assistant to Colonel McKee. Letter to Colonel Alexander McKee. On Detroit River, 21s/ July, 1793. Sir: We embrace this opportunity to inform you of our arrival at this place, where we shall wait until we have intelligence that the nations of Indians at the rapids of the Miami are ready to move to Sandusky. We shall be greatly * The commissioners expressed no such thing; they merely consented to the measure, because it was the tuish of the Indians. [See the proceedings of July 5th.] Note.—This copy of the address to, and answer from, the Governor, was received from bis secretary, Major Littfeliales, at Niagara, lOtll July, 1793. 352 INDIAN AFFAIRS. [1795. obliged by your endeavors to expedite the counsels of tile Indians, that we may meet them without more delay. You will add to’ our obligations, by sending us the earliest notice when we may expect the Indian nations will arrive at Sandusky, that we may be there at the same'time. We wrote you on the 30th of May. but having received no answer, are apprehensive that our letter did not reach you. We are. sir, yours, &c. B. L. B. R. T. P. July 29th, 1793. Captain Elliot arrived with a deputation of upwards of twenty Indians, from the nations assembled at the foot of the Miami rapids. lie delivered us the following letter from Colonel McKee: Foot of the Rapids, 28th July, 1793. Gentlemen: I had the honor to receive your letter of the 21st instant. That which you mentioned to have wrote on the 30th of May, has not yet come to hand. As. soon as I am enabled to inform you at what time the Indians will meet at Sandusky. I will not fail to give you the earliest notice, and, as far as it depends on me, shall expedite it most cordially. I am, gentlemen, yours, &c. ALEXANDER McKEE. To Messrs. B. L. B. R. T. P. Commissioners of the United States. July HOth.—In Council at Captain Elliot’s, near the mouth of Detroit river. Present, The Commissioners of the United States. The Deputation of Indians, The British officers and inhabitants. The deputation addressed the coinmisissioners as follows: A Wyandot chief, called Sa-wagh-da-wunk, (whose name signifies Carry -one-about) being their speaker. Brothers, listen: We are glad to see you herein peace, and thank the Great Spirit that has preserved us to meet again. Brothers: Wc were sent to speak to you sometime ago, at Niagara. Some chiefs are are now here, who were then present. Brothers: We did not explain ourselves to each other, and we did not rightly understand each other. Brothers: We desired that we might rightly understand each other. We have thought it best, that what we had to say should be put into writing, and here (presenting a paper to the commissioners) is the meaning of our hearts. The above speech was interpreted by Simon Girty, a British interpreter. The commissioners received the papers, and told the deputation they would well consider the subject of it, and return an answer in writing: and give them notice when they were ready to deliver it. The contents of the paper were as follows: To the Commissioners of the United States: Brothers: The deputies we sent to you, did not fully explain our meaning. We have therefore sent others, to meet you once more, that you may fully understand the great question we have to ask of you, and to which we expect an explicit answer in writing. Brothers: You are sent here by the United States, in order to make peace with us, the confederate Indians. Brothers: You know very well that the boundary line, which was run between the white people and us, at the treaty of fort Stamvix. was the river Ohio. Brothers: If you seriously design to make a firm and lasting peace, you will immediately remove all your people from bur side of that river. Brothers: We therefore ask you, are you fully authorized by the United States to continue, and firmly fix on the Ohio river, as the boundary line, between your people and ours? Done in general council, at the foot of the Miami rapids. 27th July. 1793. in behalf of ourselves, and the whole confederacy, and agreed to in a full council. TUyandots— Bear. Delawares—T u rt I e. Shawuncse—Snake. Miamies. —- Mi>igoes—Snipe. At the close of the afternoon, the commissioners delivered the,following answer to the deputation: Patlawalam ies—Fish. Oltawas. Connoys—Turkey. Chippewas.   Munsees. Speech of the Commissioners of the United States to the Deputies of the Confederated Indian nations, assembled at the rapids of the Miami river: Brothers: You yesterday addressed us. mentioning a former deputation, who met us at Niagara. At that meeting you said we did not come to a right understanding; that your deputies did not fully explain your meaning to us, nor we ours to them: that you desired we might, rightly understand each other, and therefore thought it best that whatyou had to say should be put into writing. Then, handing us a- paper, you said, “here is the meaning of our hearts.”   Brothers: That paper is directed to the commissioners of the United-States, and speaks to them these words, viz: [here is-repeated their written address, as transcribed in the preceding pages.] Brothers, the deputies here present: We have now repeated the words contained in the paper which you delivered tous: and those words are interpreted to you. We presume the interpretation agrees with your idea of the contents ol the paper. It is expressed to be signed by the Wyandots, Delawares, Shawanese, Miamies, Mingoes, Pattawatamies, Ottaw as, Connoys, Chippewas, and Munsees. in behalf of themselves and the whole confederacy, and agreed to in full council. Brothers: We are a little surprised at the suggestion, that., in the conference at Niagara, we did not come to a right understanding, and that your deputies did not fully explain your meaning. Those deputies appeared to be men of good understanding, and when we saw them they were perfectly sober; in short, we never saw men in public, councilmore attentive, or behave with more propriety. We could not, therefore, suppose they could mistake your meaning or ours. Certainly we were sufficiently explicit, for, in plain terms, we declared, “That, in order to establish a just and permanent peace, some concessions wrould be necessary, on your part as well as on ours.” These words. Brothers, are a part of our speech to your deputies; and that speech, they assured us, they fully understood. What those concessions should be, on both sides, and where the boundary line should be fixed, were proper subjects of discussion, at the treaty, w hen wc should speak face to face. This, we are certain, would be the best way to remove all difficulties. But your nations have adopted another mode, which, by keeping us at a distance, prevents our knowing each odier, and keeps alive those jealousies, which are the greatest obstacles to a peace. We are, therefore, desirous of meeting your nations in full council, without moredelay. We have already wailed in this province sixty days beyond the time appointed for opening (he treaty. Brothers: We have now expressed our opinion of the proper mode of settling the differences between you and the United States; but, as your nations have desired answers to certain questions, previous to our meeting, and we are disposed to act with frankness and sincerity, we will give you an explicit answer to the great question you have now proposed to us. But, before we do this, we think it necessary to look back to some former transactions, and we desire you patiently to hear us. Brothers: We do know very well, that, at theltreaty of Fort Stanwix, twenty-five years ago, the river Ohio was agreed on, as the boundary line between you and the white people, of the British colonies; and we all know, that, about seven years after that boundary was fixed, a quarrel broke out between your Father the King of Great Britain, and the people of those colonies, which are now the United States. This quarrel was ended by the Treaty of Peace made with the King about ten years ago, by which the great lakes, and the waters which unite them, were, by him. declared to be the boundaries of the United States. Brothers: Peace having been thus made, between the King of Great Britain and the United States, it remained to make peace between them and the Indian nations, who had laken'part with the King: for this purpose, commissioners were appointed, who sent messages to all those Indian nations, inviting them to come and make peace. The first treaty was held about nine years ago, tit fort Stanwix, with the .Six Nations, which has stood firm and unviolated to this day. The next treaty was made about ninety days after, at fort M'lntosh, with the halt king of the Wyan-dots. Captain Pipe, and other chiefs, in behalf of the “Wyandot, Delaware, Ottawa, and Chippewa nations. Afterwards treaties were made with divers Indian nations, south of the Ohio river; and the next treaty was made with Kakiapilathy, here present, and other Shawanese chiefs, in behalf of the Shawanese nation, at the mouth of the Great Miami, which runs into the Ohio. Brothers: The commissioners \riio conducted these treaties in behalf of the United States, sent the papers containing them to the great council of the States, who, supposing them satisfactory to the nations treated with, proceeded to dispose of large tracts of land thereby ceded, and a great number of people removed from'other parts of the United States, and settled upon them; also many families of your ancient lathers, the French, came over the great water, and settled upon a part of the same lands. Brothers: After some time, it appeared that a number of people in your nations were dissatisfied with the treaties of fort M'lntosh, and Miami; therefore, the great council of the United States appointed Governor St. Clair their commissioner, with full powers, for the purpose of removing all causes of controversy, regulating trade, and settling boundaries, between the Indian nations m the Northern department, and the United States. lie accordingly sent messages, inviting all the nations concerned to meet him at a council fire, which he kindled at the. falls of Muskingum. While he was waiting for them, some mischief happened at that place, and the lire was put out; so lie kindled a council fire at fort Ilarmar, where near six hundred Indians of different nations attended. The Six Nations then renewed and confirmed the treaty of fort Stanwix, and the Wyandots and Delawares, renewed and confirmed the treaty of fort M’lntosh; some Ottawas, Chippewas, Pattawatamies, and Sacs, were also parties to the treaty of fort Harmar. Brothers: All these-treaties we have here with us. We have also the speeches of many chiefs who attended them, and who voluntarily declared their satisfaction with the terms of the treaties. Brothers: After making all these treaties, and after hearing the chiefs express freely their satisfaction with them, the United States 'expected to enjoy peace, and quietly to hold the lands ceded by them. Accordingly, large tracts have been sold and settled, as before mentioned. And now, brothers, we answer explicitly, that, lor the reasons here stated to you, it is impossible to make the river Ohio the boundary, between your people and the people of the United States. Brothers: You arc men of understanding, and if you consider the customs of white people, the great expenses which attend their settling in a new country, the nature of their improvements, in building houses, and barns, ami clearing and fencing their lands, how valuable the lands are thus rendered, and thence how dear they are to them you will see that it is now impracticable to remove our people from (henorthern sideofthe Ohio. Your brothers, the English, know the nature of white people, and they know that, under the circumstances which we have mentioned, the United States cannot make the Ohio the boundary between you and us. Brothers: You seem to consider all the lands in dispute, on your side of the Ohio, as claimed by the United States; but suffer us to remind you, that a large tract was sold by the Wyandot anil Delaware nations, to the State of Pennsylvania. This tract lies east of a line drawn from the mouth of Beaver Creek, at the Ohio, due north to lake Erie. This line is the western boundary of Pennsylvania, as claimed under the charter given by the King of England to your ancient friend, William Penn: of this sale, made by the Wyandot and Delaware nations, to (lie State of Pennsylvania, we have never heard any complaint. Brothers: We are, on this occasion, obliged to make a long speech. Wc again desire you to hear us patiently: the business is of the highest importance, and a great many words are necessary fully to explain it: for we desire you may perfectly understand us; and there is no danger of your forgetting what we say, because we will give you our speech in writing. Brothers: We have explicitly declared to you. that we cannot now make the Ohio river the boundary between ns. This agrees with our speech to your deputies at Niagara, “ that, in order to establish a just and permanent peace, some concessions would be necessary on your part as well as on “ours.” Brothers: The concessions which we think necessary on your part are. that you yield up, and finally relinquish to the United States, some of the lands on your side of the river Ohio. The United States wish to have confirmed all the lands ceded to them by the treaty of fort Harmar, and also a small tract of land at the rapids of the Ohio, claimed by General Clarke, for (he use of himself and his warriors: and, in consideration thereof, the United States would give such a large sum. in money or goods, as was never given at one time, for any quantify of Indian lands, since the white people first set their foot on this island. And because those lands did every year furnish you with skins and furs, with which you bought clothing and other necessaries, the United States will now furnish the like constant supplies; and therefore, besides the great sum to he delivered at once, they will, every year, deliver you a large quantity of such goods as are best suited to the wants of yourselves, your women, and children. Brothers: If all the lands, before mentioned, cannot be delivered up to the United States, then wc shall desire to treat and agree with you on a new boundary line: and for the quantity of land you relinquish to us within that new boundary line, we shall stipulate a generous compensation, not only for a large sum. to he paid at once, but for a yearly rent, for the benefit of yourselves and your children forever. Brothers: Here you see one concession, which we are willing to make on the part of the United States. Now listen to another, of a claim which probably lias more disturbed your minds than any other whatever. Brothers: The commissioners of the United States have formerly set up a claim to your whole country, southward of the great lakes, as the property of the United States, grounding this claim on the treaty of peace with your father, the. King of Great Britain, who declared, as we have before mentioned, the middle of those lakes and the waters which unite them, to be the boundaries of the United States. Brothers: We are determined that our whole conduct shall be marked with openness and sincerity. We. therefore, frankly tell you, that we think those commissioners put an erroneous construction on that part of our treaty with the King. As he had not purchased the country of you, of course he could not give it away; he only relinquished to the United States his claim to it. That claim was founded on a right acquired by treaty, with other white nations, to exclude them from purchasing, or settling, in any part of your country; and it is this right which the King granted to the'United States. Before that grant? the King alone had a right to purchase of the Indian nations, any of the lands between the great lakes, the Ohio, and the Mississippi, excepting the part within the charter boundary of Pennsylvania; and the King, by the treaty of peace, having granted tins right to the United States, they alone have now the right of purchasing; so that, now, neither the King, nor any of his peoole, have any right to interfere with the United States, in respect to any part of those lands. All your brothers, the English, know this to be true; and it agrees with the declaration of Lord Dorchester, to your deputies, two years ago, at Quebec. Brothers: We now concede this great point. We, by the express authority of the President of the United States, acknowledge the property, or right of soil, of the great country above described, to be in the Indiannations, so long as they desire to occupy the. same. We only claim particular tracts in it, as before mentioned, and the general right granted by the King, as above stated, and which is well known to the English and Americans, and called the right of pre-emption, or the right of purchasing of the Indian nations disposed to sell their lands, to the exclusion of all other white people whatever. Brothers: We have now opened our hearts to you. We are happy in having an opportunity of doing it; though we should have been more happy to have done it in the full council ol your nations. \Ve expectsoon to have this satisfaction, and that your next deputation will take us by the hand, and lead us to the treaty. When we meet, and converse with each other freely, we may easilyremove any difficulties which may come in the way of peace. At Captain Elliot’s, at the mouth of Detroit river, 31st July, 1793. B. L. } B. It. > Commissioners of the United States. T. P. S This speech was interpreted by Mr. Jones, in the Seneca tongue, which was well understood by the Wyandot chief, Sa-wagh-da-wunk, and divers others of the deputation, and by Simon Girty. The interpretation being finished,{the commissioners handed the speech, in writing, to the deputation, with a white belt, crossed with thirteen stripes of black wampum. The deputation said it was now too late to make any reply, but they would speak to us in the morning. In Council: Present as yesterday. August I st, 1793. The Wyandot chief, Sa-wagh-da-wunk, arose and spoke: Simon Girty interpreted. Brothers: We are all brothers you see here now. Brothers: It is now three years since you desired to speak with us; we heard you yesterday, and understand you well—perfectly well. We have a few words to say to you. Brothers: You. mentioned the treaties of fort Stanwix, Beaver creek, and other places; those treaties were not complete. There were but a few chiefs who treated with you. You have not bought our lands; they belong to us. You tried to draw oft’ some of us. Brothers: Many years ago, we all know, that the Ohio was made the boundary. It was settled by Sir William Johnston. This side is ours; we look upon it as our property. Brothers: You mentioned General Washington, lie. and you know you have your houses and people on our land; you say you cannot move them ofi’; and we cannot give up our land. Brothers: We are sorry we cannot come, to an agreement; the line has been fixed long ago. Brothers: We don’t say much; there has been much mischief on both sides. We came here upon peace, and thought you did the same. We shall talk to our head warriors. You may return whence you came, and tell Washington. The council here breaking up, Captain Elliot went to the. Shawanese chief, Kakiapalathy, and told him the last part of the speech was wrong. That chief came back, and said it was wrong. Girty said he had interpreted truly what the Wyandot chief spoke. An explanation took place, and Girty added as follows: Brothers: Instead of going home, we wish you to remain here for an answer from us. We have your speech in our breasts, and shall consult our head warriors. The commissioners then said, that they would wait to hear again from their council at the rapids; but desired their answer might be given without delay. Thursday, 8th August. This evening arrived two of Captain Hendrick’s men, with letters, requesting some necessaries may be sent him; and informing of the proceedings of the Indian council at the Miami, and the disposition of the Indian nations, relative to peace and war, alter our speech of the 31st ultimo had been interpreted to them. By the information of the letters, and messengers, it appeared, that all the Indians were for peace, except the Shawanese, Wyandots, Miamies, and Delawares; that these had at length yielded to the opinions of the other nations, and that peace would probably be made. Captain Hendricks also expressed his opinion, that we should receive an invitation from all the confederated nations, to meet them, at or near the mouth ol the Miami, this week. August 9th. Twelve Munsees and Chippewas arrived. They said they came to this side of the river on purpose to sea the commissioners from the United States. They confirmed, generally, the opinion of Hendricks’men. They said they were on their way home, except a Munsee, who lives at Sandusky, (for they had worn out their clothes, and were tired of the long continuance of the treaty; and they expected, that the greatest difficulties being got over, the' chiefs (some of all the nations remaining at the council) would now make peace.) Two of the eldest of them said, that when the warriors, who were going home, were about to leave the council, they enjoined it on their chiefs to make peace, that they might, without fear or interruption, return to their hunting. Captain Bunbury (one of the British officers who accompany the commissioners) says, that one of the twelve Indians who arrived to-day, is an Ottawa; (or Tawa, as the name is often spoken I and that he said the Shawanese, and others, are strong for war, and will not abide by a peace into which they shall be dragged by the other nations. Sunday, 11 th August. The King’s vessel, called the Chippewa, arrived from Detroit. She is bound to fort Erie. Twelve Senecas, including women and children, and must of them sick, from the Indian council at the rapids of the Miami, came in her. These Senecas arc well known to General Chapin, and Jones, the interpreter. One of them, an intelligent man, gave us the like, information about the proceedings at the council, upon our last speech, with that received from Hendricks’ men, and the Munsees, and Chippewas, only that the four nations who inclined to continue the war, remained obstinate when he departed from the council. That the Six Nation chiefs had twice addressed them, urging them to agree to a peace, were going to speak to them a third time, and, if they were still obstinate, would exceed their usual custom, and speak a fourth time; and, if without effect, they would then leave them, and go home. He says the Farmer’s Brother told him, and his company, that they might expect to be overtaken by messengers to the commissioners before they (the informant and his company) reached Detroit; but if none, arrived, before they got down to the commissioners’ quarters, that then they might conclude that no peace would be made. This Seneca said, that (except the four nations before mentioned) the Indians were for peace. He particularly mentioned the Six Nations, and the seven nations of Canada, as strongly recommending to the hostile Indians to make peace; and that, for this purpose, Captain Bandt, and the Farmer’s Brother spoke a great deal in the council. He added, that, of the four excepted nations, near one-half were disposed for peace, and that the Messasagoes, Chippewas, and Ottawas, are as strong for peace as the seven nations ol Canada. 1793.] T11E NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. 355 M oxday, 12th August. No deputation or official information from the Indian council having yet arrived, the commissioners judged it would be expedient to proceed, without more delay, to the Miami bay or river, that they might more easily and expeditiously send to, and receive an answer from them. They accordingly wrote the following letter to Capt. Ford, the commander of the vessel designed by Governor Sintcoe for their accommodation. M outh of Detroit River, 12//; August, 1793. Sir: We have been waiting here twelve days, fora reply to outlast answer to the Indian nations, assembled at the rapids of the Miami. We can think of no sufficient reason for this delay, and must, therefore, take measures to obtain that reply, or to ascertain whether we ought any longer to expect it. F'or this purpose we judge it proper to proceed ourselves to the Miami bay or river, that the necessary communication with the Indians may be easy and expeditious: for it is time that the business of our mission be brought to an issue. We, therefore, request you to be prepared to sail to-morrow morning- when we propose to embark. We are, sir, &c. B. I,. B. R. T. I5. Captain Hf.nrv Ford, commanding the Dunmore. ^ Captain Ford having read the letter, came and informed the commissioners, that he was instructed to attend the commissioners, but to receive his orders from Captain Bunbury, and desired us to speak to him. We spoke toCapt. Bunbury, told him that Governor Simeoe had assigned the Dunmore, Capt. Ford, to the use of the commissioners, and that, from what the Governor, and his Secretary, had repeatedly said, we had a right to conclude she was under our direction, to go when and where we thought proper, for the purposes of the treaty, except to Detroit. He said he had his orders from Governor Simeoe, and that by those orders lie could not consent that the commissioners, or any deputation from them, should go to the Miami bay or river, until Col. McKee should give notice that the Indians were ready to receive them. But, says he, if the commissioners choose to go to Sandusky, 1 will order the Dunmore to proceed thither. He read some broken passages in Simcoe’s letter to him. The commissioners asked if he would give an extract of the letter containing his orders. He answered, that Mr. Storer might take an extract. They retired together; Captain Bunbury read, and Mr. Storer wrote down from his mouth, the following words, as an extract of a letter from Colonel Simeoe to Captain Bunbury, dated at Navy Hall, 28th June. *93: “ The directing the king's vessel to carry them (the commissioners) thither: slie will anchor, therefore, as conveniently as possible to die northern shore of the river, on the banks of which they purpose to remain, until they hear from Colonel McKee. The Indians do not wish they should visit the opposite shore.” Detroit River, 12//; August. 1793. The above extract is, this dav, verbally given me bv Captain Bunbury, who, though desired, refuses to sign it. CHARLES STORER. Tuesday, 13th August. Being thus prevented from proceeding to the Miami bay, the commissioners concluded to send a message to the Indian nations at the rapids, and a letter to Colonel McKee. The message and letter here follow: To the Chiefs and Warriors of the Indian nations assembled at the foot of the rapids of the Miami river. Brothers: It is now fifteen days since we delivered our speech to your deputies at this place, in which we explicitly answered the written question, presented by them from you, and gave our reasons why we could not make the Ohio the boundary between you anti the United States. We also mentioned some of the heads of the engagements xve were willing to make in behalf of the United States. The particulars, together with other stipulations, for your benefit, we judged it proper to reserve, to be explained to you in full council, when we should meet face to face. Brothers: The next morning your deputies spoke to us: said they would lay our speech before you. and desired us to wait here for an answer, which we desired and expected might be speedily given. Brothers: We have waited fourteen days, and as yet no answer has arrived. Brothers: It is time to bring the business to a conclusion. The summer has almost passed away, and we do not yet know even whether we are to have a treaty. Brothers: You know that we came to treat with you of peace: we again tell you that we earnestly desire to make peace, and in the terms of peace we are disposed to do you ample justice. But if no treaty is to be held, if peace is not to be obtained, we desire immediately to know it, that we may go home. Done at Captain Elliot’s, at the mouth of Detroit river, the 14th day of August, 1793. .Signed by the commissioners. li. I,. B. R. T. P. Copy of a letter to Col. McKee. Mouth of Detroit River, 14//; August, 1793. Sir: To the speech we delivered here (o the deputation of the Indian nations assembled at the rapids of the Miami, we expected an early answer. We have waited fourteen days, and no ansiver lias arrived. We have, therefore, despatched runners, with a speech to the chiefs and warriors, manifesting our wishes to begin the treaty, without more delay, and desiring to know immediately their decision on I lie subject. A copy of our speech is enclosed. We presume it will be in your power to forward the business. Your aid therein will be gratefully acknowledged. The mode in M’hicli the negotiations have hitherto been conducted is new, and as improper as it is new. All the questions M'hicli have been stated, might have been proposed to our faces, and' have received prompt answers. We must soon close the negotiation, unless substantial reasons demand procrastination. In that case we may think ourselves justified in giving further proofs of our patience. We again request your assistance to expedite the business which is the object of our mission, and are, Sir, yours, &:e. B. L. B. II. T. P. The message, accompanied with seven strings of black and white wampum, much intermixed, and the letter to Colonel McKee, were committed to the tM-o runners, an Onondago and an Oneida, who set olV this evening, and expect to reach the rapids to-morrow night. N. B. The message and letter were, by mistake, dated the 14th. Instructions to the Runners. When you arrive at the Miami council fire, find Captain Brandt, the Fanner’s Brother, the Cornplanter, the Fish Carrier, and Great Sky, and tell them you have a speech to the Indian nations, there assembled, from the commissioners of the United States, and request them to call the chiefs together; when the chiefs are met, then deliver the written speech and strings of wampum. As soon as this is done, find Colonel McKee, and deliver the letter to him. INDIAN AFFAIRS. [1793. Find Captain Hendricks, the chief of the Mohicans, and tell him you have brought a written speech to the Indians, and that you have delivered, or are going to deliver it to the chiefs. We shall be glad to have you return to ns speedily, but speak to Captain Brandt, and the other chiefs of the Six Nations, and take their direction when to return. Let Colonel McKee know when you propose to come back, that you may bring an answer from him. Let Captain Hendricks know when you propose to return. On your way to the Miami, and back to us, tell nobody your business. Avgust 16tk, 1793, at the mouth of the Detroit river. In the afternoon of this day the commissioners received, by the hands of the two Wyandot runners, from the Indian council, at the rapids of the Miami, the following answer to their speech of the 31st July: To the Commissioners of the United States: Brothers: We have received your speech, dated the 31st of last month, and it has been interpreted to all the difl'erent nations; we have been long in sending you an answer, because of the great importance of the subject. But we now answer it fully, having given it all the consideration in our power. Brothers: You tell us that, after you had madepeace with the king, our father, about ten years ago, “it remained to make peace between the United States, and the Indian nations who had taken part with the king. For this purpose, commissioners were appointed, who sent messages to all those Indian nations, inviting them to come and make peace;” and, after reciting the periods, at which you say treaties were held, at. fort Stanwix, fort McIntosh, and Miami, all which treaties, according to your own acknowledgment, were for the sole purpose of making peace, you then say. “ Brothers, the commissioners who conducted these treaties, in behalf of the United States, sent the papers containing them to the general council ol the States, who, supposing them satisfactory to the nations treated with, proceeded to dispose of the lands thereby ceded.” Brothers: This is telling ns plainly, what we always understood to be the case, and it agrees with the declarations of those few who attended those treaties, viz,: That they went to meet your commissioners to make peace, but, through fear, were obliged to sign any paper that was laid before them; and it has since appeared that deeds of cession were signed by them, instead of treaties of peace. Brothers: You then say, “ after some time it appears that a number of people in your nations were dissatisfied with the treaties of fort McIntosh and Miami, therefore the council of the United States appointed Governor St. Clair their commissioner, with full powers, for the purpose of removing all causes of controversy, relating to trade, and settling boundaries, between the Indian nations in the Northern department, and the United States. He accordingly sent messages, inviting all the nations concerned to meet, him at a council fire he kindled at the falls of Muskingum. While he was waiting for them, some mischief happened at that place, and the fire was put out, so he kindled a council fire at fort Harmar, where, near six hundred Indians, of different nations, attended. The Six Nations then renewed and confirmed the treaty of fort Stanwix, and the Wyandots and Delawares renewed and confirmed the treaty of fort McIntosh; some Ottawas, Chippewas, Pattawatamies, and Sacs, were also parties to the treaty of fort Harmar.” Now, Brothers, these are your words, and it is necessary for us to make a short reply to them. Brothers: A general council of all the Indian confederacy was held, as you well know, in the fall of the year 1788, at this place: and that general council was invited by your commissioner. Governor St. Clair, to meet him for the purpose of holding a treaty, with regard to the lands mentioned by you to have been ceded by the treaties of fort Stanwix anil fort McIntosh. Brothers: We are in possession of the speeches and letters which passed on that occasion, between those deputed by the confederate Indians, and Governor St. Clair, the commissioner of the United States. These papers prove that your said commissioner, in the beginning of the year 1789, after having been informed by the general council, of the preceding fall, that no bargain or sale of any part of these Indian lands, would be considered as valid or binding, unless agreed to by a general council, nevertheless persisted in collecting together a few chiefs of two or three nations only; and with them held a treaty for the cession of an immense country, in- which they w ere no more interested, than as a branch of the general confederacy, and who were in no manner authorized to make any grant or cession whatever. Brothers: IIow then was it possible for you to expect to enjoy peace, and quietly to hold these lands, when your commissioner was informed, long before he held the treaty of fort Harmar, that the consent of a general council was absolutely necessary to convey any part of these hands to the United States? The part of these lands which the United States now wish us to relinquish, and which you say are settled, have been sold by the United States since that time. Brothers: You say, “the United States wish to have confirmed all the lands ceded to them by the treaty of fort Harmar, and also a small tract at the rapids of the Ohio, claimed by General Clarke, for the use of himself and his warriors. And in consideration thereof, the United Slates would give such a large sum of money or goods, as was never given, at any one time, for any quantity of Indian lands, since the white people first set their feet on this Island. And because these lands did every year furnish you with skins, and furs, with which you bought clothing, and other necessaries, the United States will now furnish the like constant supplies. And therefore,besides the great sum to be delivered at once, they will every year deliver you a large quantity of such goods as are best fitted to the wants of yourselves, your women, and children.” Brothers: Money, to us, is of no value, and to most of us unknown: and as no consideration whatever can induce us to sell the lands on which we get sustenance for our women and children, we hope we may be allowed to point out a mode by which your settlers may be easily removed, and peace thereby obtained. Brothers: We know that these settlers arc poor, or they would never have ventured to live in a country which has been in continual trouble ever since they crossed the Ohio. Divide, therefore, this large sum of money, which you have offered to us, among these people: give to each, also, a proportion of what you sav you would give to us, annually, over and above this very large sum of money: and, we are persuaded, they would most readily accept ol it, in lieu of the lands you sold them. If you add, also, the great sums you must expend in raising and paying armies, with a view to force us to yield you our country, you will certainly have more than sufficient tor the purposes of re-paying these settlers for all their labor and their improvements. Brothers: You have bilked to us about concessions. It appears strange that you should expect any from us, who have only been defending our just rights agaiiist,your invasions. We want peace. Restore to us our country, and we shall be enemies no longer. Brothers: You make one concession to us by offering us your money; and another by having agreed to do us justice, after having long, and injuriously, withheld it—we mean in the acknowledgment you have now made, that the King of England never did, nor ever had a right to give you our country, by the treaty of peace. And you want to make this act ol’common justice a great part of your concessions: and seem to expect that, because you have at last acknowledged our independence, we should, for such a favor, surrender to you our country. Brothers: You have, talked, also, a great deal about pre-emption, and your exclusive right to purchase Indian lands, as ceded to you by the King, at the treaty of peace. Brothers: We never made any agreement with the King, nor with any other nation, that we would give to either the exclusive right of purchasing our lands; and we declare to you, that we consider ourselves free to make any bargain or cession of lands, whenever and to whomsoever we please. If the white people, as you sav, made a treaty that none of them but the King should purchase of us, and that he has given that nghtto the United States, it is an affair which concerns you and him, and not us: we have never parted with such a power. Brothers: At our general council, held at the Glaiz.e last fall, we agreed to meet commissioners from the United States, for the purpose of restoring peace, provided they consented to acknowledge and confirm our boundary line to be the Ohio: and we determined not to meet you, until you gave us satisfaction on that point: that is the reason we have never met. We desire you to consider, brothers, that our only demand is the peaceable possession of a small part of our once great country. Look back, and review the lands from whence we nave been driven to this spot. We can retreat no farther, because the country behind hardly affords food for its present inhabitants; and we have therefore resolved to leave our bones in this small space to which we are now confined. Brothers: We shall be persuaded that you mean to do us justice, if you agree that the Ohio shall remain the boundary line between us. It you will not consent thereto, our meeting will be altogether unnecessary'. This is the great point which we hoped would have been explained before you left your homes, as our message last fall was principally directed to obtain that information. Done in general council, at the foot of the Miami Rapids, the 13th day of August, 1793. NATIONS. Wyandots. Seven Nations of Canada. Delawares, Shawanese, Miamies, Ottawas, Cbippewas, Senecas of the Glaize, Pattawatamies, Connoys, Munsees, Nantekokies, Mohicans, Messasagoes. Creeks, Cherokees. To the foregoing answer of the Indian nations, the commissioners immediately made the following reply, and delivered it to the two Wyandot runners, who brought the answer. To the chiefs and warriors of the Indian nations, assembled at the foot of the Miami Rapids: Brothers: We have just received your answer, dated the 15th instant, to our speech of the 31st of last month, which we delivered to your deputies at this place. You say it was interpreted to all your nations, and we presume it was fully understood. We therein explicitly declared to you, that it was now impossible to make the river Ohio the boundary between your lands and the lands of the United States._ Your answer amounts to a declaration, that you will agree to no other boundary than the Ohio. The negotiation is therefore at an end. We sincerely regret, that peace is not the result; but, knowing the upright and liberal views of the United States, which, as far as you gave us an opportunity, we have explained to you, we trust that impartial judges will not attribute the continuance of the war to them. Done at Captain Elliot’s, at the mouth of Detroit river, the 16th day of August, 1793. B. L. B. R. T. P. Commissioners of the United States. The next morning (Saturday, August 17th) the commissioners sent, by their own runners, (being one Onondaga, and two Oneidas) the following letter, and the paper therein mentioned, to the chiefs of the Six Nations: To the Chiefs of the Six iYutions: Brothers: Two runners were sent by us, this week, with a message, dated the 14di of this month, to the Indian nations assembled at the rapids of the Miami. Our instructions to the runners were, to inform you that they had such a message from us, and to request you to assemble the chiefs of the other nations, and then deliver it to you all together. From the report of the runners, we are apprehensive that they mistook our orders, and that our message has not been communicated to you. We, therefore, now send you a copy of it, No. 1. We. at the same time, sent a letter to Colonel McKee, of which, also, we enclose a copy, No. 2. Brothers: Our runners returned hither this evening; but a few hours before their arrival, two Wyandot runners arrived, with a written answer. No. 3, to our speech of the 31st of last month, insisting on the Ohio as the boundary between the Indian lands and those of the United States. As we had already explicitly declared that we could not make the Ohio the boundary, the business, of course, was at an end. However, we delivered a short speech, in writing, to the same runners, who set oft’this evening to return to the council at the rapids. We enclose a copy of it. No. 4. Brothers: Being desirous that you should be fully informed of these transactions,’ we have sent you copies thereof, which you may not otherwise obtain. Brothers: We came hither with the most sincere desire to make a peace that would be beneficial to the Indians, as well as to the United States; and, had such a peace been accomplished, we felt a confidence, that the justice and humanity of the United States, according to their present views of Indian affairs, would not only have continued, but extended their beneficence to the Indian nations, and, so far as it depended on them, have rendered the peace as lasting as the hills; and we should have been extremely happy in laying the foundation of so much good. We have now only to return home, and report our proceedings to the President of the United States. We shall sail with the first fair wind for fort Erie. Mouth of Detroit river, 16th August, 1793. B. L. B. II. T. P. Commissioners of the United States. Friday, August QSd. 1793. This morning we arrived at fort Erie, and despatched the following letters: Letters to Major Craig, Deputy Quartermaster, Pittsburg. Fort Erie, 23d August, 1793. Sir: Enclosed are two letters to Major General Wayne, which we desire you to send to him by two separate conveyances; one of them, with all possible despatch, the other, by the next conveyance which shall present. You can best tell in what way the first letter may, with the utmost speed and certainty, be conveyed to General Wayne, and that we desire you to adopt. No expense is to be spared to effect this. The commanding officer at Pittsburg will, certainly, give you anj[ aid in his power. We shall send you, at least, four other letters, for General Wayne, of the same tenor, which we desire you to forward to him, one by one, as fast as conveyances shall present. We are on our way home, the Western Indians having refused to make peace. This packet is committed to Sylvester Ash. If he delivers it to you with reasonable despatch, he is to receive ten dollars, which we desire you to pay him. If General Knox should have given you any orders about the conveyance of our letters to General Wayne, observe 46 * then., only remembering the important points of certainty and speed. The enclosed letter to General Knox, you will forward by post, unless an earlier conveyance shall offer. We are, sir, yours, &c. B. L. B. R. r T. P. Commissioners of the United Stales. To Major Craig. Sir: Fort Erie, 23d Avgust, 1793. We wrote you this day, and committed the letter to Sylvester Ash. The copy of our letter by him, is enclosed. If Ash should not have arrived, then, be pleased to observe precisely, the orders expressed in our letter by him, with respect to the letters for General Wayne, sending off one, in the way which shall afford the utmost speed and certainty of conveyance. We commit this letter to two Indian runners, to carry as far as fort Franklin, and thence the same, or others, we expect, will carry it to fort Pitt, as the commanding officer there shall think best. Whoever brings it, be pleased suitably to reward. We are, sir, yours, &c. B. L. B. R. T. P. To Major Craig. Fort Erie, 23d August, 1793. Sir: We have written to you this day, one letter, by Sylvester Ash, and another, which we expect to commit to two Indian runners, of the Six Nations. In each of those letters, we enclosed two for General Wayne, to be forwarded in the manner directed in our letter by Ash, of which we enclose a copy. We, herein, send you twro more letters for General Wayne, to forward agreeably to the same directions. This letter is committed to the care of Mr. William Wilson, of Pittsburg, who goes home by way of Genesee river. If any accident prevents his proceeding, he is to forward it by an express, whom we request you to pay. We are, sir, yours, &c. B. L. B. R. T. P. Letters to Lieutenant Tinsley, or officer commanding at fort Franklin. August 23(/, 1793—at Fort Erie. Sir: The bearer, Sylvester Ash, is charged with a letter from us to Major Craig, at Pittsburg. We desire you to afford him every necessary aid to expedite and secure his journey thither, furnishing him, if you think, them necessary, such a guard of soldiers, as you deem sufficient. The business requires the utmost despatch. The Western Indians have refused to make peace. You will, doubtless, communicate this information to all persons within your reach, lest, from an expectation of peace, they should abate of the vigilance necessary on an exposed frontier. AVe are, sir, yours, &c. B. L. B. R. T. P. To Lieutenant Tinsley, <§-c. Sir: Fort Erie, 23d August, 1793. We have this day delivered to Sylvester Ash, a letter for Major Craig, at Pittsburg; he will call on you for information and assistance. We enclose a copy of our letter to you, by him; this letter wre propose to commit to' two Indian runners, who are to be engaged to carry it to you, and if necessary to Pittsburg. But, probably you may have some of the Alleghany Indians with you, whom you know, and can trust, and who are well acquainted with the path to Pittsburg, and will cheerfully undertake to carry the letter to Major Craig. AA’e desire to leave this to your prudence. AVe suppose the passage by water more safe than the route by land; if so, it may be best for Ash to go by water, you sending with him one or two good canoe-men; then, the Indian runners can proceed by land, which we presume they may do with perfect safety. In this matter also we wish you to exercise a prudent discretion, governed by circumstances with which we are unacquainted; only we suppose it cannot admit of a doubt, that it will be best to send one letter by water, and the other by land. AVe are, sir, your friends and humble servants, B. L. B. R. T. P. Instructions to Mr. JUil/iam Wilson. Fort Erie, 23d August, 1793. Sir: 'As you propose to return to Pittsburg, by the way of Genesee river, we commit to your care two letters for General AVayne, under cover to Major Craig, at Pittsburg. AVe desire you to proceed with all practicable despatch, the letters to General AVayne being of very great importance; if any accident unavoidably detains you, forw ard the letters by an express. AVe are, sir, yours, &c. B. L. B.R. T.P. Letter to Colonel Clarke, or officer commanding at Pittsburg. Fort Erie, 23i/ August, 1793. Sir: Pursuant to our instructions from the Secretary of AVar, we are sending letters to General AVayne, to be forwarded to him from Pittsburg. The business being directly in the Quartermaster’s department, we shall enclose them to Major Craig; but the aid of troops may be requisite for their conveyance; ana this aid we request you to furnish, especially in conveying the first letter to General AVayne, which should go with the utmost speed ana certainty. The AVestern Indians refuse to make peace. AV e are, sir, yours, &c. * B. L. B.R. T.P N. B. A duplicate was sent in the packet, committed to the Indian runners. Letter to Major General Wayne. Fort Washington. Fort Erie, 23c? August, 1793. Sir: We are on our return home from the mouth of Detroit river, where we lay four weeks, waiting for the Indians to close their private councils at the Rapids of the Miami, that we might all remove to Sandusky, and open the treaty. But, after sending repeated deputations to us. to obtain answers to particular questions, they finally determined not to treat at all. This final answer we received on the lGth instant, w hen we immediately began to embark to recross Lake Erie. Although we did not effect a peace, yet we hope that good may hereafter arise from the mission. The tranquillity of the country Northwest of the Ohio, during the (supposed) continuance of the treaty, evinced your care of our safety, ana ive could not leave this quarter, without returning you our unfeigned thanks. W eare, sir, yours. &c. B. L. B. R. T. P. Letter to Genered Knox. On Lake Erie, 21s? August, 1793. Sir: The Indians have refused to make peace. We have not been admitted to an interview with them, except by their deputations. The transactions with the first deputation at Niagara have been transmitted to you. Immediately afterwards w e returned to fort Erie, and embarked for the mouth of Detroit river, where we arrived on the 21st July, and expected in a few days to receive notice from the Indians that they were ready to meet us at Sandusky. Captain Matthew Elliot, Colonel McKee’s assistant, at whose house we were furnished with quarters, was at home, waiting fora wind to sail to the Miami. He departed the next morning, taking a letter from us to Colonel McKee, advising him of our arrival, and requesting that our meeting with the Indians might be hastened. On the 29th, Elliot returned with another deputation of Indians, at the head of which were Packonchehelas, head warrior of the Delawares, Kakiapalathy, head warrior of the Shawanese, and Sa-wagh-da-wunk, who is said to be the head-man of the M yandots. The next day, they presented a written message, in the name of the confederacy, demanding an explicit answer to this question: "Are you fully authorized by the United States, to continue and firmly to fix on the Ohio river, as the boundary between your people and ours?” The next day vve answered the question explicitly: previously stating the reasons why the United States could not now make the Ohio the boundary. We also mentioned the principal concessions, and the ample compensations we were ready to make, and stipulate, expressing the prompt and annual compensations, not in precise sums, but in terms which we thought would forcibly strike them with ideas of their magnitude. The next morning they met us. and after making some observations on the subject, said they would lay our speech before their warriors. The speaker indeed told us we might go home: but this seemed to be a mistake, and contrary to what our interpreters heard other chiefs say, as they sat in this council. As soon as the speaker had done, Captain Elliot spoke to the Shawanese chief, mentioning the mistake; an explanation took place, and we were desired to remain where we were for an answer; this we requested to have forwarded without delay. On the 8th of August, two of Captain Hendricks’ men arrived to obtain some necessaries; by their information there seemed to be a fair prospect of peace. Some Munsees and Chippewas. who arrived the 9th, confirmed their account. On the 11th some Senecas arrived; they had come from the council by the way of Detroit, in order to go home, most of them being sick: their information corresponded with the former, in respect to all the nations, except the Wyandots, Delawares, Shawanese, and Miamies, who remained obstinate; yet, they said, that even of these nations, near one half were for peace. They said, also, that the Six Nations, including Captain Brandt and his ■ Mohawks, held fast together, and strongly urged the hostile nations to make peace. We find that our speech of July 31st was well understood, having been interpreted to the Shawanese, &c. by Colonel McKee, to the Six Nations, by Captain Brandt, and to the Delawares, &c. by Captain Hendricks. Having waited till the 12th of August without receiving an answer, we proposed going, in the vessel assigned for our use, to the Miami Bay, or to the. mouth of Miami river, that we might, with more ease and expedition, communicate with the Indian council; but this we were not permitted to do. So, the next day, we sent two runners, of the Six Nations, (a few being with us) with a letter to Colonel McKee, a written message to the Indian council, and verbal messages to Captain Brandt and Captain Hendricks, to advise them of the written one. The object of the letter and messages was to obtain a decisive answer from the Indian council, whether a treaty was to be held or not, and to bring the business to a speedy issue. On Friday, the 16th, in the afternoon, two Wyandot runners arrived, with a final answer from the Indian council. We made, immediately a short reply, and began to embark our effects. On Saturday morning, we completed the embarkation of our stores and baggage, and in the. afternoon sailed for fort Erie. On Friday evening our own two runners returned. According to their information, the Six Nations knew nothing of the contents of the final answer of the Indian council. Their names are not subscribed to it. They had heard, indeed, of an answer, but were told it was to invite the commissioners to meet the Indian nations on the Miamies (instead of Sandusky) about live miles below the Rapids, to which place the Six Nations proposed to remove, the day or the day after our runners left them. From the same information, it seemed probable that the Six Nations were not made acquainted with our written message of the 13th, nor the letter to Colonel McKee; so we made out copies of them, of the final answer of the Indians, anti of our last reply, ami on Saturday morning sent them off by our runners, with directions to deliver them to Captain Brandt, and to inform the other Six Nation chiefs thereof. A letter was also written to Hendricks, referring him. for information, to those copies. We v erbally directed the runners to tell those chiefs to be of good heart, and to assure them of the strong and unalterable, friendship of the United States for the Six Nations. We had thought it a matter of no small moment, that the chiefs of the Six Nations should be seen and consulted, on their return from the Miami: and our runners told ns that the chiefs wished us to stay for them at Buffalo creek. This did not seem expedient; but. we directed the runners to tell them, that, on their return, General Chapin would meet them at any place which they should appoint, and, without delay, transmit their information, ami the result of their deliberations, to the President. Enclosed is a copy of our letter to General Wayne; we shall send the same to him by other conveyances, and all by the way of Fort Pitt. We have written to the commanding officer there, desiring him to give Major Craig, to whose care we shall send all the letters for Genera! Wayne, every requisite aid in forwarding them, and we have also written to the commanding officer at Fort Franklin to afford his aid in conveying them, by land and by water, to Major Craig. In all these intermediate letters, we have mentioned the fact, simply, "that the Western Indians refused to make peace.” We have desired Major Craig to forward the first letter to General Wayne, in that way which shall promise the utmost speed and certainty, sparing no expense to effect it, and the others in succession, one by one, as fast as conveyances shall present; but, we added, that, if you should have given any orders about the conveyance of our letters to General Wayne, he was to observe them. If the wind had permitted, we should have set Sylvester Ash ashore at Presqu’ Isle, and prepared letters accordingly to go by him. He will now proceed from Buffalo creek. We expect General Chapin will procure two Seneca runners, to go with him as far as Fort Franklin: from thence he will proceed, by land or by water, as he and the commanding officer shall think best. But, whichever route he pursues, we have desired the commanding officer to send some trusty Indians by the other, to afford the greater certainty of conveyance. We enclose him duplicate letters for Major Craig and General Wayne, lor that purpose. Mr. Wilson proposes to go as far as Genesee river, and thence proceed to the Susquehannah, and thence to Pittsburg; by him we shall send the third set of letters for General Wayne. Fort Erie, 23rZ August. We arrived here between twelve and one o'clock this morning, and, our letters having been prepared on the voyage, we shall be enabled to send them oftj as soon as General Chapin and Mr. Jones can cross the river. They will go to Buffalo creek, and procure two Indian runners to accompany Ash, and two more to carrv this letter to Canandaigua, where General Chapin’s son is instantly to procure an express to carry it to Philadelphia. B. L. B. R. > Commissioners of the United States. T. P.3 P. S. We could get no account of the numbers of the Indians at the Rapids, except from the British agents, who told us there were about fifteen hundred men. We have noted them accordingly; but suppose they were rather likely to be less than more. Letter to Captain Israel Chapin, Canandaigua. Sir: Fort Erie, 23d August, 1793. The enclosed letter to General Knox, we desire you to forward by faithful express, whom we desire you to send oft’with the utmost despatch. Let him change horses to make the better speed. Nothing must prevent the prompt execution of our request. The Western Indians refuse to make peace. We are, sir, yours, &c. BENJAMIN LINCOLN, BEVERLEY RANDOLPH, TIMOTHY PICKERING, Commissioners of the United States. r The foregoing pages contain a just account of our transactions, in attempting to negotiate a peace with the Western Indians, now in hostility against the United States. BENJAMIN LINCOLN, BEVERLEY RANDOLPH, TIMOTHY PICKERING, Commissioners. Fort Erie, in the province of Upper Canada, August 24th, 1793. Attest, CHARLES STORER, Secretary to the Commissioners. Statement of the non-commissioned officers and privates in the service of the United States. Under the immediate command of Major General Wayne, including the") garrisons, of fort Washington, fort Hamilton,* fort St. Clair, and )- 3,229 fort Jefferson, ------- J At forts Knox and Steuben, ------ 104 On the upper parts of the Ohio, - - - - - - 113 Recruits on their march to Pittsburg, ----- 95 Recruits at the several rendezvous, ----- 53 At West Point, - - - - - - - - 31 In the Southwestern Territory, ------ <Z9 In Georgia, --------- ,^-T57 3,861 Deficient, ------- - - 1,259 Establishment, - - - - - - - - 5,120 * Major Gt-neinl Wayne, in his letter of the 5th October, states, that his effective force for the expedition, independent of sick and garrisons, will not, officers included, amount to more than 2,600 Effective mounted volunteers, officers included, under General Scott, as per return, 23d Oct. 1,029 3,629 War Department, December 4, 1793. II. KNOX, Secretary of War. Extract of a letter from Major General Wayne to the Secretany of War, dated Head Quarters, Hobson’s Choice, near Fort Washington, 5th October, 1793. Agreeably to the authority vested in me by your letter of the 17th of May, 1793, I have used every means in my power to bring forward the mounted volunteers from Kentucky, as you will observe by the enclosed correspondence with his Excellency Governor Shelby, and Major General Scott, upon this interesting occasion. I have even adopted their own proposition by ordering a draught of the militia, which I consider as the dernier resort, and from which I must acknowledge that I have but little hopes of success! Add to this, that we have a considerable number of officers and men sick and debilitated, from fevers and other disorders incident to all armies. But this is not all; we have recently been visited by a malady called the irffiuenxa, which has pervaded the whole line in a most alarming and rapid degree. Fortunately this complaint has not been fatal, except in a few instances, and I have now the pleasure of informing you, that we are generally recovered, or in a fair way; but our effective force will be much reduced, as you will observe by the scale at the bottom of the general return of the legion, which I have the honor to transmit by this conveyance, so that, after leaving the necessary garrisons at the several posts, (which will generally be composed of the sick and invalids) I shall not be able to advance beyond fort Jefterson with more than twenty-six hundred regular effectives, officers included. What auxiliary force we shall have is yet to be determined. At present their numbers are only thirty-six guides and spies, and three hundred and sixty mounted volunteers. This is not a pleasant picture, but something must be done immediately, to save the frontiers from impending savage fury. I will, therefore, advance to-inorrow with the force I have, in order to gain a strong position about six miles in front of fort Jefferson, so as to keep the enemy in check (by exciting a jealousy and apprehension for the safety of their own women and children) until some favorable circumstance or opportunity may present to strike with efleet. The present apparent tranquillity on the frontiers, and at the head of the line, is a convincing proof to me, that the enemy are collected or collecting in force, to oppose the lesion, either on its march, or in some unfavorable position for the cavalry to act in. Disappoint them in this favorite plan or manoeuvre, they may probably be tempted to attack our lines. In this case I trust they will not have much reason to triumph from the encounter. They cannot continue long embodied for want of provision, and at their breaking up. the}- will most certainly make some desperate effort upon some quarter or other; should the mounted volunteers advance in force, we might yet compel those haughty savages to sue for peace before the it ext opening of the leaves. Be that as it may, I pray you not to permit present appearances to cause too much anxiety either in the mind of the President, or yourself, on account of this army. Knowing the critical situation of our infant nation, and feeling for the honor and reputation of Government, (which I will support with my latest breath) you may rest assured that I will not commit the legion unnecessarily; and unless more powerfully supported than I at present have reason to expect, 1 will content myself by taking a strong position advanced of Jefferson, and by exerting every power, endeavor to protect the frontiers, and to secure the posts and army during the winter, or until I am honored with your further orders. Extract of a letter from Major General Wayne to the Secretary of War, dated Camp, S. W. Branch of the Miami, six miles advanced of Fort Jefferson, October 23d, 1793. I have the honor to inform you, that the legion took tip its line of March from Hobson's Choice, on the 7th instant, and arrived at this place in perfect order, and without a single accident, at 10 o'clock in the morning of the 13th, when I found myself arrested for want of provision. Notwithstanding this defect, I do not despair of supporting the troops in our present position, or rather at a place called Still Water, atari intermediate distance between the field of battle and fort Jefferson, and for which I shall make the necessary arrangements, in obedience to the instructions contained in your orders of the 25th of May, 1792. The safety of the Western frontiers, the reputation of the legion, the dignity' and interest of the nation, all forbid a retrograde manoeuvre, or giving up one inch of ground we now' possess, uutil the enemy are compelled to sue for peace. The greatest difficulty which at present presents, is that of furnishing a sufficient escort to secure our convoys of provision, and other supplies, from insult and disaster; and, at the same time, to retain a sufficient force in camp, to sustain and repel the attacks of the enemy, w ho appear to be desperate and determined. We have recently experienced a little check to one of our convoys, w hich may probably be exaggerated into something serious by the tongue of fame, before this reaches you; the following is, however, the fact, viz.: Lieutenant Lowry, of the 2d sub-legion, and Ensign Boyd, of the 1st, with a'command consisting of ninety non-commissioned officers and privates, having in charge twenty wagons, belonging to the quartermaster general’s department, loaded with grain, and one of the contractor’s loaded with stores, were attacked early in the morning of the 17th instant, about seven miles advanced of fort St. Clair, by a party of Indians; those two gallant young gentlemen (who promised at a future day to be ornaments to their profession) together with thirteen non-commissioned officers and privates, bravely fell, after an obstinate resistance against superior numbers, being abandoned by the greater part of the escort upon the first discharge. The savages killed, or carried off’, about seventy horses, leaving the wagons and stores standing in the road, which have been all brought to this camp without any other loss or damage except some trilling articles. One company of light infantry, and one troop of dragoons, have been detached this morning to reinforce four other companies of infantry, commanded by Colonel Hamtramck, as an escort to the quartermaster general’s and contractor’s w'agons and pack-horses. I have this moment received the return of the mounted volunteers under General Scott, recently arrived and encamped in the vicinity of fort Jefferson; 1 shall immediately order a strong detachment of those volunteers as a further reinforcement to Colonel Hamtramck. I fear that the season is too far advanced to derive that essential sendee, which, otherwise, might be expected from them; whether they can act with effect, or not, is yet eventual. It is reported, that the Indians at An Glaize have sent their women and children into some secret recess or recesses, from their towns; and that the whole of the warriors arc collected or collecting in force. The savages, however, can’t continue long embodied for want of provisions; on the contrary, we have, by great exertious, secured in this camp seventy thousand rations. 1 expect 120.000 in addition, by the return of the present convoy, unless they meet with a disaster—a thing that can scarcely happen, should my orders be duly executed, which I have no cause to doubt, from the character, vigilance, and experience, of the commanding officer. A great number of men, as well as officers, have been left sick and debilitated at the respective garrisons, from a malady called the influenza; among others. General Wilkinson has been dangerously ill; lie is now at fort Jefferson, and on the recovery. 1 hope he w ill soon be sufficiently restored to take his command in the legion. I anxiously wait the sale return of the escort and convoy, when we shall endeavor to bake neav ground, which will probably be disputed; be that as it may, the legion will not be too far committed. 3d Congress.] 
