No. 68. [1st Session. INDIAN TRADE. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE. DECEMBER 15, 1795. War Office, December 12. 1795. Sir: By d irectijn of the President of the United States. I have the honor to present herewith, “ a report of the measures taken for opening trade with the Indians:"And am, &c. TIMOTHY PICKERING. The Vice President of the. United States, and President of the Senate. Report of the Secretary of War of the measures taken for opening a trade with the Indians. The situation of the Six Nations, surrounded either wholly by the settlements of citizens of the United States; or, on one side by them, and on the other, by the British ot Upper Canada; and by both in near neighborhoods; seemed to exclude them from the experiment proposed to be made, of commencing a trade on the principle ol tur-nishing cheap supplies to the Indians: for the familiar intercourse between them and the whites, would have subjected the public to continual impositions, against which no checks were provided. Peace ivith the tribes northwest of the river Ohio, was only in a train of negotiation; these, of course, were not in a condition to participate in the projected trade. It remained then to make the experiment with the Southern tribes. And because the small appropriation for this object seemed intended merely as an experiment, it was desirable to make it with as little expense as possible. For this, among other reasons, the sum appropriated was divided unequally, and more than two-thirds destined for opening a trade with the Creeks, to whom the goods could be conveyed by sea. The remainder was designed for the trade with the Cherokees and Chickasaws. The remote situation of the Choctaws could render either of the two trading posts but of small and only contingent use to them. To accommodate the Creeks, Colerain, on the river St. Mary’s, was chosen, on the best information to be obtained, as the most eligible situation for a trading post; because it was easy of access to us, there being depth of water for sea vessels to go to the spot, and sufficiently so to the Creeks, especially of the Lower towns. For the purpose of supplying the Cherokees and Chickasaws, it was supposed that Tellico Block-house, within the country of the Cherokees, would be a convenient station'. It is already a military post ; with a small garrison of regular troops, .is such it will be secure; as advanced of the settlements of the white people, it will be convenient; and the Indians are already accustomed to resort thitlier for friendly conferences and negotiations. Notwithstanding, lest there should be any solid objection to that station, the .final choice of the trading post in that quarter is referred to Governor Blount, with a reliance on his knowiedge and judgment, to fix it in the place most suitable for effecting the true objects of the establishment. It is obvious that neither the Chickasaws nor Choctaws, especially the latter, can be much benefitted by these arrangements: nor can they be well accommodated, until at least one trading post for each be established on the Mississippi. But, besides that, circumstances did not admit of taking such posts; the whole quantity of goods appropriated to this trade, would notallow of any farther division than that above mentioned. It has been unfortunate that this trade could not have been earlier commenced: but, after procuring the goods necessary for General Wayne's treaty, and the annuity due to the Chickasaws, with some supplies accidentally demanded for the Choctaws and Chickasaws, by deputations from those tribes,the merchant stores were so drained, that the requisite assortments, especially of the articles most important for the Indian trade, could not be obtained, either at Philadelphia, New York, or Baltimore; and the purveyor was obliged to wait the arrival of the fall ships. Then, as soon as the purchases could be made, anil the very trusty persons, necessary as factors, could be procured, the goods were sent off. under their care, to their respective destinations: they are now oiTElTeir way. The Secretary of War begs leave to remark, that the annuities stipulated to be paid to the several Indians, on the borders of the United States, are the. following: To the Six Nations, and associates, to the value of To the Chickasaws, ------ To the Cherokees, . - To the Creeks, ------- To the Wyandots, Delawares, and several other tribes, northwest of the Ohio, agreeably to General Wayne’s late treaty, - tribes of 8 4.500 00 3.000 00 5.000 00 1.500 00 9.500 00 Whole amount, - - - - - To which may be added, for contingent demands. $23,500 00 6,500 00 $30,000 00 Making a total of thirty thousand dollars. Goods to this amount, to be regularly supplied, should be imported by the Government: they will cost less; they will be of the precise kind and proportions demanded : and always in season. If the wisdom of Congress should decide on a continuance and extension of the Indian trade, on the principle heretofore contemplated, and of which the experiment is now in train, the importance of importing on public account, will be vastly increased. All which is respectfully submitted to the Senate of the United States. TIMOTHY PICKERING. Department of War. December 12, 1795. 4th Congress.] 
