No. 38. [2d Session. N«) RT H W E S T K RN TR 1 B E S. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 7, 1793. Sir: War Department, January 5th. 1795. In obedience to the order of the President of the United States. 1 ha\t> the honor to submit to the Senate, a message of the Cornnlanter and New Arrow, to Major General Wayne, of the 8th ultimo. The subject of Indian affairs being under tlie consideration of Congress, the President has conceived it proper that they should be possessed o! the message now submitted. 1 have the honor to be, sir. with great respect, your most obedient servant, H. KNOX. Secretary nJMIUar. The President of the Honorable the Senate of the United States. The speech of the Cornplanter and Xcw .drrow to Jlajor General JUayne. Cmxuchshungutiio, 8th December, 1792. Brother: We are glad that our friend, whom jott send to us v. '* 1. _ \ r " message, lias arrived safe at our towns, and likewise thank this young man. (the Cornplautcr’s nephew) v. ho left his limiting to accompany him. lie informs ns» that you are desirous to know what conclusions we came to with the ’Western Indians. We shall now give you an account of our principal proceedings. We thank the Great Spirit, that we. with the rest of our chiefs, who were at council, have again arrived safe at our towns. According to the promise of our chiefs, made last winter in Philadelphia. we have been to council with the hostile Indians, to endeavor to bring them to a peace. Alter we arrived at their towns, and had acquainted them that it was the wish of General Washington to be at peace with the whole of the Indians, even those from the rising to the setting of the sun: after they had considered, they all, as one. agreed to make a peace: betas General Washington did not let us know the terms on which he Mould make peace, it was referred to a council the ensuing spring, where they wish he should be present. They wish it to be considered that they were the first people the Great Spirit seated on this island, for which reason we look on the Americans as children, to cal I them our younger brethren. In the spring, we expect to meet them in council, where we can determine on what terms peace shall be made. We are glad a road for peace is made by our brothers the Six Nations; the same road you must come in the spring, with General Washington, and at the same time you will take our brother, (lie King, by the hand, and lead him to the same council fire; you can come no other road, as only this one is open the road by the < >hio is out of use, being turned: mity and swampy, by (lie spilling; of blood, for which we blame the Americans; on which account, we say. there is only one road for you to come in the Spring. General Washington must not think hard of the loss of Colonel Harding and others, as we since have understood they were sent with messages of peace; unluckily for them and us, they had taken the bad road; if our spies, whom we. kept on that road, saw any of your people, they .took them for enemies, and treated them as such: wVknow your people Mould have done the same. Brother and Friends of the Fifteen States: We now take you by the hand. The Western nations say you always lead us to j our fires. It is true, M-e have a strong hold of each other, so we have undertaken to lead you to their fires. It is true, we have always attended to you, and hope you will this time listen to us, and we will see jrou safe. Brother: On our arrival at Buffalo creek, mc immediately MTote to General Washington an account of the if hole of our proceedings; we now let you know only the principal, as we suppose you have, before this, received a particular account from General Washington himself. We cannot come at present to visit you, as we have so much business to do among ourselves, which we must first, attend to. We thank you. and think ourselves happy in your friendship. It is the minds of the Six Nations to listen to the white people, and be friends w ith them; all our thoughts are how to keep the whole island in peace. Brother: You have a desire to know the nations we v. ere at council with; ne cannot tell the names of them. There were present three men from the Gora nations; it took them a whole season to come: and twenty-seven nations from beyond Canada. The whole of them know, that we, the Six Nations, hate General Washington bj- the hand. The twenty-seven nations also say, that after a peace is made with the Americans, and Western Indians, their wishes are for the whole of the Indian nations to declare themselves allies to Great Britain. The Shawanesc say,’that. if they make peace, it Mill be on these terms: The Americans to allow them all the lands they held in Sir William Johnston’s time; or, at least, that the river Ohio shall be the line, and they be paid for the lands improved on the south side of said river Ohio. These, they say. are the terms, and the only ones, on which they will makepeace. Brother: You mention to us a reward for our services, \\ liicli we are very happy to hear, and hope you v, i11 send it by our friend, who will deliver you this. We wish you also to consider the fifteen warriors, Mho neglected their hunting to accompany us. These are die words of the Cornplanter and New Arrow, chiefs of the Alleghany. Per me, NICHOLAS ROSECRANTZ, Interpreter. i do certify, upon oath, that the foregoing speech or message, is a true translation of that delivered vim voce, by the Cornplanter and New Arrow, to me, at Chmuchshungutho, on the 8th instant. NICHOLAS ROSECRANTZ. . Sworn before me, at Legionville, this 25th day of December. 1792. ANTHONY WAYNE. 16684372 2nd Congress.] 
