No. 35. [2d Session. THE CHEROKEES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 10. 1792. War I)ECAiiTMENf . December 10. 1792. Sir: In obedience to the orders of the President of the United States, I have the honor to submit to the Senate, the copy of a letter from his Excellency the Governor of Georgia, dated the 20th of November last, with certain enclosures, relative to Indian aftiiirs. 1 have the honor to be, sir, with great respect, your most obedient servant, II. KNOX, Secretary of I far. The President of the Honorable the Senate of the United States. State House, Augusta. ‘20th November, 1792. Sir: With respect to some late outrages committed on the Cherokees, I have to transmit the following certified documents, viz: 1st. A Proclamation. 2d. A Talk to the head-men and warriors of the Cherokee nation. 3d. The Executive order of the 15th instant, to the haw Department. 4th. A communication to Major Gaither. From all which, it will evidently appear, that there can be no doubt of the mal conduct of certain citizens of this State, who have murdered some friendly Indians, and committed other depredations. You will perceive that the necessary steps have been taken, to bring to justice those offenders, as well as to preserve a continuation of amity. I have to remark, that, from the very short crops of grain last season, no period has ever been more unfavorable for war than the present; and this, among other considerations, ought to be of great weight to preserve peace with the neighboring tribes. Should my endeavors prove unsuccessful on the score of peace, it will be necessary to be prepared: and for ibis purpose I have to call for the establishment of magazines of provisions, without which, it will not be possible to keep that number of militia in the field, which will be necessary to give confidence to the frontier settlers to keep their ground, should even war be avoided. From what I can learn, this violence on the part of the offenders has proceeded from the circumstances of four whites having been killed, horses stolen, and other depredations committed by the Cherokees; whatever palliating point of view"this may he considered in, it cannot interfere to prevent the offenders from abiding the due execution of the laws. 1 have the honor to be. sir, your most humble servant. EDWARD TELFAIR. 77ir Secretary of JJ'ar. 43 * Georgia: No. 1. By his Excellency Eihvard Telfair, Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over the State aforesaid, A PROCLAMATION. Whereas it has been officially represented to me, that certain armed men on the western frontier of this State, did, of late, tire upon, and kill, several amicable Indians of the Cherokee nation: and whereas, bv an act passed the 20th June, 1774, in the (then province, now) State of Georgia, it is, amongst other things, enacted. “Thatto murder any free Indian in amity, is, by the law of the land, as penal, to all intents and purposes whatsoever, as to murder any white,” and “that, by the law of the land, any person rescuing any prisoners so committed, is guilty of felony:” And whereas such unwarrantable proceedings are not only a daring violation of law, but must, if unnoticed, involve many innocent persons in all the horrors of Indian warfare; and as it is highly necessary that such atrocious offenders should receive the punishment due their offences: I,have therefore thought fit to issue this my proclamation, strictly charging and enjoining all officers, civil and military, within this State, to use their best endeavors to apprehend and bring to justice such offenders; and they are hereby further enjoined, and required strenuously to exert themselves in preventing the like lawless and outrageous procedure in future. Given under my hand, and the great seal of the said State, at the State House in Augusta, this fourteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, and in the seventeenth year of the independence of the United States of America. EDWARD TELFAIR. By his Excellency’s command: JOHN MILTON, Secretary. God save the State. Georgia, Secretarv’s office, 20thNovember. 1792. The above is a true copy from the orignal proclamation in manuscript, deposited in my office. JOHN MILTON, Secretary. No. 2. State House, Augusta, 14th November, 1792. To the Head-men and JVarriors of the Cherokee nation—The Talk of the Governor of Georgia. Brothers: Ever since the people of the King over the great water were driven from our land, your people and the white people of this country have lived, until a few moons ago, in peace and friendship; no blood was spilt on either side; trade, mutual intercourse, and good will to each other, did prevail, and it ever has been my great desire that we should continue in friendship with each other, white the trees grow and the waters run; but, now the bright chain is become dim, and some of its links broken, whilst you, with all your good people, as well as I, and all our good people, must lament the unhappy fate of those who have fallen by the mad-men on both sides. Then, Bothers: Let us not charge each other with the acts of our mad-men; and, since we cannot bring life back, let each of us punish those mad people who have spilt the blood of the innocent, and so open the path between us once more, brighten again the chain of friendship, and fasten all its links together, nor longer suffer the dark cloud to cover the little mountain that stands between us. Let the hatchet be buried, and the big sword shall remain in rust; we trill then again take each other high by the arm, and fast by the hand; we shall sit under the same tree, the smoke of our pipes shall make one cloud, and we will taste of the same cup. Brothers: Consider well this talk; it is the talk of peace, and will be sent to the great and beloved warrior of all the white towns, that he may know what bad men on both sides have done. EDWARD TELFAIR. By his Excellency’s command: J. MERIWETHER, Sec'y E. D. Attest, W. URQUHAIIT, Sechj E. I). No. 3. State House, Augusta, 15th November, 1792. Ordered, That a copy of the depositions relative to the burning a Cherokee town, and killing some Indians of that tribe, enclosed in General Clark’s letter of the 14th instant, be transmitted to the Department (if Attorney General; and that they proceed thereon, agreeably to law; and that the judges be severally served with a copy of this order. Attest, J. MERE WETHER, Secretary, E. D. No. 4. State House, Augusta, 14th November, 1792. Governor Telfair to Major Henry Gaither. Sir: . I have just received two depositions, which contain information of such moment that I find it indispensable for you to call out a considerable re-inforcement of horse to range on that part of the western frontier Iron Fort Mathews to Tugulo river. My information is of no less import than that a body of fifty-nine armed men did, in a lawless manner, go into the Cherokee nation, burn a town, and kill three Indians; and that two others, of the same nation, have also been killed -within the settlements in Franklin county. Those outrages have been lately committed. There is reason to apprehend that some serious and early attack is meditating by the Indians, against the settlers in that quarter. I am, sir, your humble servant, EDWARD TELFAIR. Major Henry Gaither, Commandant of the Federal troops, Georgia. 1792.] NORTHWESTERN TRIBES AND THE CREEKS. ;335 2nd Congress.] 
