No. 120. [1st Session. THE CHEROKEES. COMMUNICATED TO TIIE SENATE, MARCH 10, 1808. To the Senate of the United States: A purchase having been lately made from the Cherokee Indians, of a tract of land six miles square, at the mouth of the Chickamauga, on the Tennessee, I now lay the treaty and papers relating to it before the Senate, with an explanation of the views which have led to it. It was represented that there was within that tract a great abundance of iron ore, of excellent quality, with a stream and fall of water suitable for iron works; that the Cherokees were anxious to have works established there, in the hope of having a better supply of those implements of household and agriculture, of which they have learned the use and necessity; but, on the condition that they should be under the authority and the control of the United States. As such an establishment would occasion a considerable and certain demand for corn and other provisions and necessaries, it seemed probable that it M ould immediately draw around it a close settlement of the Cherokees. would encourage them to enter on a regular life of agriculture, familiarize them with the practice and value of the arts, attach them to property, lead them, of necessity, and without delay, to the establishment of laws and government, and thus make a great and important advance towards assimilating their condition to ours. At the same time, it offers considerable accommodation to the Government, by enabling it to obtain, more conveniently than it non can, the necessary supplies of cast and wrought iron, for all the Indians south of the Tennessee, and for those, also, to whom St. Louis is a convenient deposite; and will benefit such of our own citizens, likewise, as shall be within its reach. Under these views the purchase has been made, with the consent and desire of the great body of the nation, although not without some dissenting members, as must be the case with all collections of men. But it is represented that the dissentients are few, and under the inlluence of one or two interested individuals. It is by no means proposed that these works shall be conducted on account of the United States; it is understood that there are private' individuals ready to erect them, subject to such reasonable rent as may secure a reimbursement to the United States, and to such other conditions, as shall secure to the Indians their rights and tranquillity. The instrument is now submitted to the Senate with a request of their advice and consent to its ratification. TH: JEFFERSON.. March 10, 1808. Articles of a Treaty between the-United Stales of America, by their commissioner Return J. Meigs, who teas appointed to hold n conference with the Cherokees, for the purpose of purchasing a tract of land, a site for iron ivorks, and at the mouth of Chickamauga creek, on the south side of Tennessee. Whereas it has been represented to the chiefs and warriors of said nation, that such a site would be desirable both for the United States and the Cherokee nation, and to their mutual advantage, the chiefs and warriors have agreed to, and sold to the United States, six miles square, at the mouth of Chickamauga creek, on the south side of Tennessee, and to be laid off in a square tract, so as to include the creek to the best advantage for said site. 2. And it is further agreed, that the United States shall pay the Cherokee nation, the sum of live thousand do! lars, so soon as the said treaty shall be ratified, and one thousand bushels of corn: Provided, nevertheless. That, il the iron ore should fail within said limits ceded to the United States, then, and in that case, the United States shall have full liberty to get ore olf their land in the most suitable place. In testimony whereof, the undersigned commissioner, and the chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee nation, have set their hands and seals. Done at Hiwasee, this second day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seven. RETURN J. MEIGS, [l. s.] [Signed also by a number of chiefs and warrior-.] Hi wassee, 3d December, 1607. Sir: Enclosed I transmit, by Colonel Earle, a cession made to the United States by the Cherokee nation, of a tract of land six miles square, at the mouth of Chickamauga creek, on the south side of Tennessee river, for the purpose of an establishment of iron works, as stated in your letter of the 26th February last. The creek is large and navigable through the ceded tract, and many miles higher up. Colonel Earle has satisfactorily informed himself of this place, having all the requisites for the business, with respect to ore, timber, and ease, of transportation, to and from the works. The price of this tract, compared with large cessions, will appear high, but, considering its value for the object of Government, it is very low, and hope it will meet your approbation. I have agreed to pay the Cherokees $2,500 in merchandise, out of the United States' factory here, which they will receive this day, and in the spring, 1.000 bushels of corn, delivered at the mouth of Chickamauga creek, and the balance when directed by the Executive. Colonel Earle will inform you of the difficulty in obtaining the cession, (although intended, through benevolence, for their advantage) principally through the opposition of Vann; yet he has the art to keep himself out of the way. and put the unfortunate task of opposition on others, and who. notwithstanding they threaten the lives of those who are in favor of the Government views, are always defeated. This threatening the friends to good order is intolerable, and requires some measures of an exemplary kind, on the part of the United States, to deter such hardy villains, and their abettors. and for the relief of the well aftected. I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant. RETURN J. MEIGS. Gen. Dearborn, Secretary of War. 10th Congress.] 
