No. 71. 2d Session. THE CHEROKEES AND CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, DECEMBER 26, 1796. The Secretary of War. to whom was referred a petition of Hugh Lawson White, respectfully reports: That the claim set forth in the said petition is intended to establish a principle, that will apply to the whole of the militia which were called out under Brigadier General Sevier, in 1793, to act offensively against certain Indians southwest of the Ohio. That the expedition against these Indians, as appears from the muster rolls, comprehended a period of above fix e months, or from the 22d July to the 31st of December, 1793. That it was undertaken w ithout authority derived from the President, under the laws of the United States, and for the avow'ed purpose of carrying the w ar into the Cherokee country. That the tenor of the instructions from the Department of War, to the Governor of the Southwestern territory, particularly the annexed letter, dated the 11th day ol May, 1793, forbade offensive operations. That these considerations have heretofore opposed the settlement of the claim, and occasioned the reference for legislative interference. I Having given these facts, it maybe proper to add, that it appears, by a recurrence to official papers, that the Indians had greatly perplexed and harassed, by thefts and murders, the frontier inhabitants of Tennessee; and previous to the service tor which compensation is demanded, had shown themselves in considerable force, and killed at two stations (one of them within seven miles of Knoxville) fifteen persons, including women and children, as stated in the annexed letter; that it must rest w ith Congress to judge how far these aggressions of Indians, and such other circumstances as can be adduced by the parties, constituted a case of imminent danger, or the expedition a just and necessary measure. All which is respectfully submitted to the House of Representatives. JAMES M"HENRY. War Office, December 21. 1796. Extract of a letter from the Secretary of If’ar to Ifilliam Blount, Esq. Governor of the. territory of the United States Southwest of the river Ohio, dated War Department, 14th May, 1793. You have been fully informed of the difficulties w Inch have existed to prevent the President of the United States from giving orders, in consequence of your representations for the most vigorous offensive operations against the hostile Indians. If those difficulties existed while the Congress were in session, and which it was conceived they alone were competent to remove, they recur in the present case with still greater force: for all the information received at the time Congress were in session, was laid before both Houses, but no order was taken thereon, nor any authority given to the President of the United States; of consequence, his authority remains in the same situation it did on the commencement of the last session. It is, indeed, a serious question to plunge the nation into a war with the Southern tribes of Indians, supported as it is said they would be. But if that war actually exists, if depredations are repeated and continued upon the frontier inhabitants, the measure of protection is indispensable;M>ut that protection can only be of the defensive sort. If other or more extensive measures shall he necessary, they must probably result from the authority expressly given for that purpose by Congress. Hence, if it shall be your judgment, that the Cumberland settlements require the assistance of the militia of the other parts of your Government, you will impart it to them for such time, ami in such a degree, as shal l be commensurate frith the occasion, always taking care to report the number actually called into service, and the time for which they shall be engaged, and that (hey be dismissed as soon as the danger shall cease. Copy of a letter from Daniel Smith to the Secretary of JVur, dated Sir: Knoxville, 1st October, 1795. By adverting to the correspondence of Governor Blount, in the year 1793, (previous to his going to Philadelphia) with Mr. Secretary Knox, it will appear that very frequent acts of hostility were perpetrated on the citizens of this territory, by the Cherokee and Creek Indians. Their repeated murders, which his vigilance could not prevent, I cannot say were, in all cases, borne with as much patience as they ought to have been, considering the hopes that were held out to them, that the General Government would, in due time, interpose with efficacy. (Shortly after the Governor’s departure for Philadelphia, the enormities committed by these Indians, far from abating, grew more Hagrant. A Captain John Beard (availing himself of the general temper of the frontier citizens, heated by repeated murders being committed on them) being ordered on duty by Governor Blount, about two days before his departure, to pursue and punish the murderers of one Gilliam and son, but restricted in his order from crossing the Tennessee, violated these orders, crossed the Tennessee, and killed several Indians at the Hanging Maw’s. Beard said, on his return, he had pursued the trace of the murderers. I own I did not believe him. But the fact now stands so well attested by the testimony of several men of credibility, even of some connected with Indians, who, if they had any bias, it might be presumed'would lean in favor of Indians, that I cannot refrain from believing he did follow the trace of (he murderers across the Tennessee. Awhile after this, a party of about two hundred Indians made an attack on Henry’s station. They killed Lieutenant Tcdford and a private, but failed of taking the garrison. On that quarter being so vigorously invaded, I ordered General Sevier to march to the defence of the frontiers, with one-third of the militia who iiad been ordered, previous to the Governor’s departure, to hold themselves in readiness for such a service. But the General, under this order, had not collected more than about three hundred infantry, and two troops of horse, when a large body of Creeks and Cherokees attacked and carried Cavet’s station, seven miles below this place, and killed every man, woman, and child, belonging to it, being thirteen in number. From the information I then received, I was convinced there could not be less than twelve hundred Indians in arms against us, and later information proves that number stated too low. My situation was distressing. I could look on this act of the Creeks and Cherokees in no other light than as positive a declaration of war as ever was or can be denounced by one nation against another, because it was the act of so great a proportion of these tribes, not the act of what the chiefs are apt to call a lew bad young men, but headed also by the most distinguished of their warriors. Should I forbear to yield protection to the inhabitants, such conduct would be charged both with want of duty and humanity, and criminal in a great degree. Notwithstanding Beard’s act cannot be justified, it may be palliated in a great degree, from his having actually followed the trace of Gilliam’s murderers, as now appears; and had it not this palliation, could I look on and see the whole of the inhabitants sacrificed! innocent men, women, and children? Ought I not to have made use of the power understood to be lodged with me by the constitution, in the latter part of 10th section, 1st article, where each individual State is restricted from engaging in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of delay? I hesitated not, but ordered General Sevier, with what troops could be hastily assembled, to repel and pursue these invaders: and in so doing, I then believed I consulted the true interest of the United States. The consequences have confirmed the fact that my opinion was well founded. 'The service which those troops performed was of that importance that it laid the ground work of our present tranquillity, which otherwise could not have been effected. Yet, I learn the General and his men have not been paid. This, to my mind, carries a tacit censure of iny conduct. If no act of Congress exists, embracing the case, permit me to suggest the propriety of laying the matter before that body, to obtain their sense thereof. I am. Sir, &c. DANIEL SMITH. Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of I Car. 4th Congress.] 
