NO. 150.	[1st SESSION. AMENDMENTS PROPOSED TO THE TREATY WITH THE WYANDOTS, SENECAS, DELAWARES, SHAWANEES, PATTAWATAMIES, OTTOWAS, AND CHIPPEWAS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 29, 1817. Mr. MORROW, from the Committee on the Public Lands, to whom were referred a treaty concluded on the 29th of September last with the Wyandots and sundry other tribes of Indians, and a message of the President of the United States communicating the said treaty, and a petition of a number of the inhabitants of Huron, in the State of Ohio, relating to the same subject, reported: That, from due consideration of the provisions of the said treaty, the message of the President, and the facts stated by the petitioners, and the complaints stated by a delegation of the Wyandot and Seneca tribes, who were heard before the committee on the subject of their alleged grievances arising out of the treaty, the committee have agreed to propose several amendments to the treaty, when the particular articles to which they relate shall be under consideration in the Senate. The articles which in their opinion require amendment are the sixth and seventh. It is provided by the sixth article that a grant be made to the Wyandot tribe, of a tract of land of twelve miles square. It is objected, and appears to be a serious grievance, in their view, that the tract is too small (considering the bad soil it embraces) to afford them subsistence in the mode of life and occupation they intend to pursue—that of pasturage, for rearing and feeding of cattle. Their tribe is computed at one thousand persons; calculating each family to consist of six persons, and allowing, on a division of property, a double quantity to the chiefs, to support their dignity, the grant would not afford to each family more than five hundred acres. And further, the grant appears in disproportion to the cession of land they have made, when compared with the cessions of other tribes, and the grants made to them. The Wyandots have ceded their whole territory, except the tract to be regranted; and their cession constitutes almost the whole of the lands obtained by the treaty. It further appears that, although they were not averse from a cession of their lands, they were not cordial in their agreement to the terms on which they actually surrendered them. From these considerations, it has been deemed expedient to recommend that the grant to the Wyandot chiefs be so enlarged that it may contain a tract equal to sixteen miles square. The Seneca grant provided for, of thirty thousand acres, to be laid off on the east side of the Sandusky river, is objected to, not as insufficient in quantity, but as the location excludes from its limits much of their improvements which are on the west side of the river. This fact is confirmed by the statement of the petition referred to the committee. It is not doubted that much inconvenience and distress would be occasioned to these people, destitute as they are of the habits of industry, by an immediate removal front their huts and planting grounds; to prevent which, it will be proposed that while the location o'f their tract will remain as provided by the treaty, the lands on the west side of the river, which have been improved and are occupied by them, shall be reserved from sale, and for their use, while they continue to occupy the same. The committee view as exceptionable that clause of the seventh article which, without any control on the part of Government, authorizes the individuals of those tribes, after separate allotments have been made by the chiefs, to dispose of their lands, and grant them in complete title to any person whatever. This provision, it is believed, is unprecedented by any former treaty, and at variance with the general principles on which intercourse with the Indian tribes has been conducted. The laws have regulated their trade, and confined it to persons licensed to carry it on; and have also prohibited any sale of their lands, except made in public council, and to authorized agents of the Government; thus presuming their incapacity to transact their business, and assuming on the part of Government a superintending concern and guardianship over their interests, in order to protect them against the impositions of civilized men, more enlightened than they, but too often less just. To dispense in the present instance with the usual prohibitions, or some other equivalent provisions, would appear to be improper. The lands regranted by the treaty are valuable, and, from the progress of cultivation and improvement in their vicinity, will soon become more so, presenting a desirable object for attainment to our citizens. It is probable that, if this provision should be ratified in its present shape, treaties with the chiefs would soon be commenced, by unauthorized persons, for the allotment of the lands among the individuals of the tribes, and with the individuals, for the alienation of their rights; and that a capital would be employed for that purpose, different from that which is usually applied to the purchase of public lands, for settlement and cultivation; and that the chiefs and other members of the tribes would not long resist (whatever their present resolutions may be) the force of arguments, and temptations of money, which would he brought to bear on their minds to effect that object. It will be proposed that no sale or transfer of the lands regranted to the Indians be made to any person except an Indian, without the approbation of the President, or some agent specially appointed for that purpose. An abstract view of the cessions of land made to the United States, and the grants of land provided to be made, and moneys stipulated to be paid to the Wyandot, Seneca, Shawanee, Delaware, Pattawatamie, Ottawa, and Chippewa tribes of Indians, by a treaty concluded with the said tribes on the 29th of September, 1817, at the foot of the Rapids of the Miami of Lake Erie. In estimating the quantity of land ceded to the United States by the said treaty, perfect accuràcy was not attainable. The boundary lines of the tracts ceded were traced on the map lately published by Mellish, and the length and bearing of those lines determined thereby. If his map can be relied on for a tolerably accurate delineation of that part of the country, the view now given will approximate the truth. The principal tract is that ceded by the Wyandots, in form approaching to that of a regular square, or 70 miles north and south by 75 east and west, containing 5,250 square miles, or 3,360,000 acres. Of that quantity is receded or granted to the Wyandot and Seneca chiefs, in trust, and to individuals of the said tribe, in fee-simple, 128,440 acres; that is: Nett lands ceded by the Wyandots, after deducting lands regranted out of that tract, -	- 3,231,560 The cession made by the Pattawatamie, Ottawa, and Chippewa tribes is equal to an ob long of 50 miles by 16,	-	-	-	-	-	-	512,000 Receded to them, viz: to Ottawa chiefs, in trust,	-	-	-	21,760 Reserved for Ottawas, but not granted,	-	-	-	-	16,000 To individuals of that tribe, -----	1,280 Tn a Pattawatamie, ------	640 39,680 Nett lands ceded by the above tribes, after deducting grants and reservation,	-	-	472,320 - - - 8,320 - - - 5,760 - - - 2,560 - - 3,360,000 - -	512,000 - -	8,320 3,880,320 - -	128,440	. -	39,680 - -	11,900 - -	5,760 185,780 - - Acres, - 3,694,540 The cession by the Delawares,	-	-	- Regranted to the same tribe,	-	-	- Nett cession by them, exclusive of regrants,	-	- Summary. Gross quantity ceded, viz: Wyandots,	-	-	-	- Pattawatamies, Ottawas, and Chippewas, -	- Delawares,	-	-	-	- Regranted and reserved, viz: Wyandots and Senecas,	-	-	- Pattawatamies, Ottawas, and Chippewas, -	- Shawanees and Senecas,	-	-	- Delawares, -	-	-	- Nett total of lands ceded, exclusive of regrants and reserves, - In consideration of which was stipulated to he paid, viz: In perpetual annuity to the— Wyandots,	------	$4,000	00 Shawanees,	------	2,000	00 Senecas,	------	5Q0	00 $6,500 00 Annuity for fifteen years to the— Pattawatamies,	-----	1,300 00 Ottawas, -	-	-	-	-	1,000 00 Chippewas, ------	1,000 00 3,300 00 Delawares, for one year,	------	500 00 The present worth of the annuities stipulated to be paid to the Indians by the treaty will be: First, The perpetual annuity of $6,500, at 6 per cent., is worth	-	-	108,333 00 Annuity, for fifteen years: $3,300, at 6 per cent., is worth	-	-	- 32,060 00 Delawares, in hand, ------	500 00 The present worth of the annuities and other moneys stipulated to be paid,	-	$140,893 00 Acres of land, ------	3,694,540 Purchase money, ------	$140,893 00 Price per acre, 3 cents 8 mills.	■■	- Amendments proposed by Air. Harrow. At the end of the first paragraph of the sixth article, insert—“And, in addition to the said grants of land, there shall be reserved, for the use of the said tribe, a tract of one hundred and twelve square miles, which shall be laid oil'adjoining to, and on three sides of, the aforesaid tract of twelve miles square, in equal quantities 011 each side, so that the boundary line adjoining the traet to be granted to the Delawares at Captain Pipe’s town shall remain as provided by the original article.” At the end of the second paragraph of the sixth article, insert—“And there shall be reserved from sale by the United States, after a survey of the lands shall have been made, every quarter section, and fraction of a section, lying west of and adjoining the Sandusky river, opposite the aforesaid tract provided to be granted to the chiefs for the Seneca tribe, where such quarter section or fraction is now inhabited and occupied for cultivation by any Seneca Indian or Indians, and the same shall be reserved for the use of such Indian or Indians while he or they shall continue to inhabit and occupy the same for cultivation.” Strike out the seventh article, and insert—“And the said chiefs, or their successors, may, at any time they think proper, convey to either of the persons mentioned in said schedule, or his heirs, the quantity secured thereby to him, or may refuse so tu do; the use of the said land, however, shall be in the said person. But no such person, whose share of land may have been conveyed to him by the chiefs, nor person who may receive a grant of land in virtue of any article of this treaty, shall have the right or power to sell, convey, or lease the same to any person whatever, other than an Indian, unless he shall be authorized so to do by an agreement entered into between the tribe to which he belongs, convened in public council, and an agent or commissioner of the United States authorized for that purpose, and such agreement ratified by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate.” 15th CONGRESS.]	
