No. 106. [2d Session. THE CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 14, 1804. To the Senate of the United Stales: I present, for your advice, a treaty entered into, on behalf of the United States, with the Creek Indians, for the extinguishment of their right in_ certain lands in the forks of Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers, within the State of Georgia. For the purpose of enabling you to form a satisfactory judgment on the subject, it is accompanied with the instructions of one thousand eight hundred and two, April 12th, to James Wilkinson, Benjamin Hawkins, and Andrew Pickens, commissioners; those of one thousand eight hundred and three, May 5th, to James Wilkinson, Benjamin Hawkins, and Robert Anderson, commissioners; and those of one thousand eight hundred and four, April 2d, to Benjamin Hawkins, sole commissioner. The negotiations for obtaining the whole of the lands, between the Oconee and Oakmulgee. have now been continued through three successive seasons, under the original instructions, and others supplementary to them, given from time to time, as circumstances required; and the unity of the negotiation has been preserved, not only by the subject, but by continuing Colonel Hawkins always one of the commissioners, and, latterly, the sole one. The extent of the cession to be obtained being uncertain, the limitation of price was what should be thought reasonable, according to the usual rate of compensation. The commissioner has been induced to go beyond this limit, probably by the just attention due to the strong interest which the State of Georgia feels in making this particular acquisition, and by a despair of procuring it on more reasonable terms, from a tribe which is one of the most fixed in the policy of holding fast their lands. To this may be added, that, if, by an alteration in the first article, instead of giving them stock, which may be passed into other hands, and render them the prey of speculators, an annuity shall be paid them in this case, as has hitherto been practised in all similar cases, the price of these lands will become a pledge and guarantee for our future peace with this important tribe, and, eventually, an indemnity for the breach of it. On the whole. 1 rest with entire satisfaction on the wisdom and counsel of those whose sanctions the constitution has rendered necessary to the final validity of this act. TH. JEFFERSON. December 13th. 1804. ./? Treaty concluded between the United States of .'hncrica and the Creek nation of Indians. The parties being desirous of establishing some friendly arrangements, in addition to the treaties subsisting between them, the undersigned, Benjamin Hawkins, being authorized thereto, by the President of the United State, and Hopoie Micco, the speaker, and select men of the Creek nation, being authorized thereto by the said nation, have agreed to the following: Article l. The Creek nation, for the consideration hereinafter expressed, have, and by these presents do, sell and deliver to the United States, all that tract of land lying and being within the following bounds: Beginning at the High shoals of Apalachy, and running thence, in a direct line, to the mouth ol Ulcofauhatchee, (the first fork of Oakmulgee, above the seven islands); thence down the middle of Oakmulgee, to the Oconee, and up the same, and the line of the treaty of fort Wilkinson, to the beginning, saving and reserving all the islands in the Oakmulgee, and a tract of land four miles in length, and two in width, bordering on the river, to include the Oakmulgee old fields, bounded as follows: To begin on the river, two miles above the mouth of Ookehoneoolgau, in a straight line; thence running at right angles with the same, two miles; thence, at right angles, down the river, four miles; thence at right angles to the river, and up the same, to the beginning. In full consideration for the lands aforesaid, the United States shall furnish, for the use of the Creek nation, two sets of blacksmith’s tools, and smiths, and strikers, for ten years; shall extend the time of these promised at fort Wilkinson, from three to ten years; and pay to the said nation two hundred thousand dollars in stock, bearing an interest of six per centum per annum, payable half yearly, at the factory of the United States, on the frontiers of the State of Georgia. The stock created, pursuant to this agreement, shall be to the Secretary of War. for the time being, in trust for the Creek nation. Art. -2. The land reserved in the first article, including the Oakmulgee old fields, is hereby set apart for the purpose of a trading establishment, so long as the President of the United States may deem such an one necessary, to be laid off by, and to be under the direction of, the agent for Indian affairs, in the Creek department, until the President take order in the premises, which he is hereby authorized to do. Art. 3. The President may cause the line to be run from the High shoals of Apalachy, to the mouth of Ulco-fauhatehee, at such time and manner as he may deem proper: and this treaty shall take eft'ect. and be obligatory on the contraeting parties, as soon as the same shall have been ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice of their Senate. Done at the ageuev, near Flint river, this third of November. 1801. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. [Signed by llopoie Micco. and other Indians.] Ilopoic Micco to Benjamin Hawkins. You are the agent for the President; you have been long in our land doing good for ns; you are an old chief among us; we appoint you our agent, to see justice done us in our affairs, as well as the white people. The tract of land at the Oakmulgee old field is ours; we have reserved it for a place to meet and trade with our white friend*: and we want you to see justice done to our merchants and traders, and ourselves, as well at that place, as in the nation, and to take the direction of every thing then, for the benefit of both parties, in such way as you may think best; and I wish you to put this in the treaty this day concluded, that the President may see it. his HOPOIE + MICCO. mark. Flint River, in the Creek Agency. 3d November, 1804. in the communication made to you, through General Meriwether, you will see liopoie Micco's talk to me, and my reply, lie came to me here on foot, being unable, from sores, to ride, and the most distinguished chiefs of the opposition met him. He stated to me, ” that, from his indisposition, and the sickness or death of some of those appointed to go on w ith him to the President, he was under the necessity of postponing the fulfilment of the promise made by the nation to General Meriwether and me, on this head, til! some time next year. He thought then, notwithstanding the continued hostility towards our views, if the United States could allow them the value for the lands beyond Oakmulgee, he would 'make the greatest part of that river the boundary: that he understood from some of his people, who had been to the Northw est, the United States sold their land at two dollars per acre; and if they would buy his, and give him enough to pay all the debts of the nation, and something for every town, for ever, he would then bring the chiefs to accommodate the views of the President, on this point He understood well what was said to them in the name of the President, at Tuekaubatchee, and was very desirous of doing what might be agreeable to hint; but his nation were yet in the dark, and foolish; and that, of all things, this of land selling wa* the most disagreeable to an Indian.*’ 1 replied, 1 saw his situation as w ell as he did himself, and no one regretted more than I did. the divisions among them, and the necessity he was under of postponing his visit to the President til! the next year: but as the opposition chiefs were present, and several of those appointed to go on from the Lower tow ns to the President, and I had authority, I would begin with him, and them, and see if we could agree on Oakmulgee as the boundary, and adjust every thing submitted to them at Tuekaubatchee. He acquiesced in the experiment, but doubted of success in the face of the opposition. In the evening I commenced the conference in like manner as at Tuekaubatchee, recapitulated every thing said there, and enforced it with such observations as occured, and were suitable to the occasion. The opposition commenced, and continued to oppose, with all the arguments as well as rudeness in their power. After several days spent in this way, the speaker asked me if I could pay their debts, and allow them about five hundred dollars per annum, for each of the. towns in the nation; that, if I could, he would mention it. and begin a speech in favor of it, as the opposition had now tired themselves. I replied, the sum w as greatly beyond w hat he had a right to expect, the debts being one hundred thousand dollars at least, and the annuity eighteen thousand five hundred dollars. 'Flint the annuity was much more than I contemplated ottering, and that we must take in view, whenever we talk on this subject, the expense the United States were under in assisting and protecting us, . and the real value to us in the use we made of these lands. He replied, " some of them know the value of lands, as well as the obligation they were under to the United Skates; and, under this impression, they had given the hand* at fort Wilkinson. All I he Indians had an equal right; and in future, w henever land was sold, all would expect to receive something: that the opposition had been in conference with the clerks of Mr. Forbes, on a like subject, and he believed they had bargained for the lands below' Flint river, as far as they could, without his aid; that he should oppose this; but, if they succeeded, our debts would be less here." I told him, to make an end of this land selling, if he would bring his mind to make Oakmulgee in its whole extent the boundary, and a new one from that river to Ocafinocau. I would then offer them the value, and to let the chiefs in the conference know my intention on this subject. After a day or two he told me, I might get Oakmulgee in part for its value as he stated, but they were determined not to go to its source, as it would give bad neighbors to their friends the Cherokees. I asked him if he preferred a sum in hand to an annuity. lie said the annuity was what he wanted. If he chose, he could pay his debts with it, or keep it, and pay them in some other way. liut if I got this land, I must put oft'the road.and every thing else, to the next meeting of the nation, and he would do what he could then; and if he got his affairs light, he would visit the President; but, I must bring my mind to be satisfied with the lands from the High shoals to Oakmulgee, and down that river, as no more could now be obtained. The opposition would join, and sign with us, if I would give for it what he asked. 1 told him what he asked was too much; that I would give him six thousand dollars per annum, for all Oakmulgee, and the line I had inentioned below, and to name this in the conference. The day after, he stated to me, I could get no more than he had marked out, at any price; and the price for this was live hundred dollars, to each town, forever, and the payment of the debts due after the discharge of such in contemplation at the sale to Mr. Forbes: that I knew the country and its v alue, and if I would take it aftheir offer, it was well; if not, they would see me again in the summer; that they should adjourn to-morrow, and some of them were going this evening; 1 replied that they must come down to a reasonable price, and I would close with them, but what they asked was out of all bounds: they persisted to the moment of departure, when I offered the sum mentioned in the treaty, and told them expressly, that it was not unlikely it would not be ratified, and we should have the whole subject before us again: upon this we agreed, and I drew the treaty. 1 attempted the placing of the factory on this side of Oakmulgee, but they opposed, as they did the water line dividing the islands, and they urged to the last, that I should insert an article to have the trading district under the goverment of the agent, as it was Indian lands. 1 told them I could not, but the agent_shoula govern it until the President took order. The speaker said lie would agree to tins, if I would put his talk on the back of the treaty, that the President might see it. This I agreed to, and we signed. I believe several ot the gentlemen with you from Georgia, were acquainted with these lands. We have acquired somewhat more than two millions of acres, half of which is unquestionably the best land in this country. I have done the best I could in this transaction, and I believe a delay to another year would not have benefitted us/and it would have greatly inconvenienced the views of Georgia, who have an undoubted right to these lands, whenever they can be obtained at a reasonable price, and the one given, in my opinion, is far from being unreasonable. The speaker told me that, as soon as the treaty was ratified, and lie informed of it,'I must allow him ninety days to see what he could do to collect and restore the negroes in the agency, belonging to Georgia, and that, within this time, he would do all he could on this head. I have the honor to be. very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant. BENJA. HAWKINS. The H on. Henry Dearborn, Secretary of War. War Department, May 5th, 1803. Gentlemen: You having been appointed by the President of the United States, as commissioners, to treat jointly, or any two of you, with such chiefs or head-men of the Creek nation as may be deputed by that nation for the purpose, you will please take the necessary measures, as early as practicable, for obtaining a meeting of the chiefs and head-men of said nation with yourselves, at some suitable place within their settlements, as early in July next as circumstances will permit. The object of the proposed treaty is to procure from the Creek nation a cession of such part of the land lying between the rivers Oconee and Oakmulgee, as they can be prevailed on to relinquish their title to. But your more particular attention will be pointed to the tract, which lies between the Oakmulgee and the westerly boundary of the cession made by the Creeks, in the treaty held in July, one thousand eight hundred and two, at fort Wilkinson. The importance of establishing a strong natural boundary, between the white people and the Creeks, and affording to the United States a convenient site for a military post and factory, with the advantage of transportation by a navigable river, are too obvious to require enforcing by additional remarks. You will therefore perceive the propriety and necessity of ev ery possible exertion on your part, to convince the chiefs and head-men of the propriety and use, as well to themselves as to the United States, of making the cession, on such fair and reasonable terms as shall be mutually agreed on. The sum to be given must, from the nature of the business, principally depend on your judgment and discretion. Twelve thousand dollars will be lodged in the Bank of Georgia, and two thousand dollars in the hands of Mr. Halstead, agent of the United States at fort Wilkinson, who will likewise be directed to furnish you with goods from the factory, to the amount of three thousand dollars, if found necessary; which sums will be at yonr disposal, for paying the Creeks for such cessions as you may obtain, and for the expenses attending the treaty. You will determine whether specie, in silver or goods, w ill be the most pleasing to the Indians, and make any payment stipulated by treaty accordingly. It may not be improper to observe, that thirty thousand dollars is the amount of the appropriations for meeting the demands, arising from treaties with the several Indian nations: and as some part thereof may be necessary for objects other than what may relate to cessions made by the Creeks. You will perceive the necessity of confining your positive stipulations within such reasonable limits as will not exceed the appropriations, after deducting a reasonable proportion of the fund for other objects: but, if the Creeks should discover a disposition to make so extensive a cession as would, at the usual rate of compensation, require a sum beyond the foregoing limits, it will be necessary to stipulate conditionally for the payment of such extra, sum, as it must depend on the will of Congress. An annual stipend, as part compensation for any cession you may obtain, would be preferable to payment of the whole sum at one time. 1 am, &c. H. DEARBORN. Gen. James Wiikinson. Col. Benj. Hawkins, and Robert Anderson, Esquire. The Secretary of War to General Wilkinson, Benjamin Hawkins, and .Andrew Pickens, Commissioners. <S*c. Gentlemen: A successful issue to your negotiations with the Creek nation, is so highly interesting to the United States, and the State of Georgia, that you will pardon me for exhorting you to an ardent application of those talents, you so eminently possess, in calling into your service all the fair means in your power, for rendering the most favorable result. The first object of your negotiation is, the obtaining from the Creeks a cession of the tract of country called-Tallassee county, bounded as follows, viz: Beginning at the junction of the Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers; thence, running in such a southerly direction as will intersect the extreme source of St. Mary’s river; thence, down the said river to the old line; thence, by the said old line to the river Altamaha: thence, up the said river, to the first mentioned bounds. For this tract, it is presumed that the Creeks will not expect a large compensation, they having once sold it to the State of Georgia, and received payment in full for it. Ten thousand dollars, with an annuity of one thousand five hundred dollars, will probably be sufficient. The second object is, the purchase of the Indian title to that tract of land, situate between the Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers, called the Oakmulgee fork, bounded as follows, viz: beginning at the junction of the Oakmulgee with the Oconee, and extending northward, including the whole of the lands between the two rivers, to fort Wilkinson, on the Oconee, or as far as the Creeks will consent to cede ; if facility can be given to the obtaining of this highly important object, by relinquishing that part of Tallassee county, to the westward of a line to be drawn from the mouth of Kettle creek, near the mouth of the Oakmulgee, to the St. Mary’s river, at the southern extremity of the great Akinfonoka swamp, you will consider yourselves authorized to make such a compromise, but no part of the Tallassee tract is to be relinquished, if the other object can otherwise be obtained on reasonable terms. The northern boundaries of the Oakmulgee tract must be governed by circumstances and your own discretion. If the purchase can be extended to tort Wilkinson, or the Indian path which crosses the Oconee, a little below the fort, making the path leading from thence to the Buzzard roost the northern boundary line between the Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers, it may not be prudent to urge a further extension at present. For which tract, bounded as above, you will be authorized to engage the payment of twenty-five thousand dollars, and an annuity of two thousand: but, if this tract can only be obtained by relinquishing a large part of the Tallassee tract, you will make such deductions from the sums, collectively, as may, in your judgment, be proper. Mr. Jonathan Halstead, agent at the factory, will furnish the necessary provisions and other accommodations for yourselves, and for the Indians who may attend the treaty. The furnishing of any spirits, or not, to the Indians, will be left to your discretion and directions. Given at the War Office ot the United States, this 12th April, 1802. H. DEARBORN. To Brig. Gen. James Wilkinson, &c. Commissioners for treating with certain nations of Indians south of the Ohio. Sir: War Department, .April 2d, 1801. The Governor of Georgia having requested that an effort should be made with the Creeks, at their council, proposed to be held in May next, to obtain a further cession of land between (he Oconee and Oakmulgee, or in Tallassee county, (lie President of the United States has thought proper to direct, that you, with the aid of General David Meriwether, (who is directed to meet you at said council) should make every reasonable and prudent exertion, in your power, to obtain from the Creeks such further cession of lands, for the accommodation of the State of Georgia, as (he Creeks can be induced to give up, on such terms as may he considered reasonable. To enable you to meet any expense, or to make such payments as maybe stipulated, I have written to the cashier of the Bank ol'Savannah, (Georgia) (o answer your drafts for a stun not exceeding, in the whole, twelve thousand dollars. If you shall be so fortunate as to obtain such cession as shall ultimately require a larger sum. exclusive of an annual stipend, it will remain with Congress to provide (he fund therefor. In the mean time, four or five thousand dollars may be stipulated to be paid in October or November next, in such articles as may be deemed most useful for them. General Meriwether not having an appointment as commissioner should not prevent his opinion having as full weight, in any transaction at the proposed conference, as it would have if he had received an appointment as a commissioner. You will, nevertheless, consider yourself responsible for whatever you agree to. it is desirable the most perfect harmony should prevail between General Meriwether and yourself. If you should think it expedient to have one or two thousand dollars’ worth of goods at the council, and they can be furnished at the factory, you are hereby authorized to draw on Mr. Halstead tor the same, and you will make such arrangements, with respect to provisions, as you may judge expedient. You will let the chiefs know that General Meriwether has been particularly requested, by the President of tbe United States, to attend w ith you for the purpose  aforesaid. 1 am. &c. H. DEARBORN. Col. Benjamin Hawkins. Sth Congress.] 
