No. 104. [1st Session. THE KASKASKIA AND OTHER TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE. OCTOBER. 31, 1803. To the Senate of the United States of America: [ now lay before you the treaty, mentioned in my general message at the opening of the session, as having been concluded with the Kaskaskia Indians, for the transfer of their country to us, under certain reservations and conditions. Progress having been made in the demarcation of Indian boundaries, 1 am now able to communicate to you, a treaty with the Delawares, Shawanese, Pattawatamie-. Miamies. Eel Rivers, Weas. Kickapoos, Piankeshaws.Jand Kaskaskias, establishing the boundaries of the territory around St. Vincennes. Also, a supplementary treaty with the Eel rivers. Wyandots, Piankeshaws, Kaskaskias, and Kickapoos, in confirmation of the fourth article of the preceding treaty. Also, a treaty with the Choctaws, describing and establishing our demarcation of boundaries with them. Which several treaties are accompanied by the papers relating to them, and are now submitted to the Senate for consideration whether they will advise and consent to their ratification. TIL JEFFERSON. October 31, 1803. Articles of a Treaty made at Vincennes, in the Indiana territory. between lUiltiam Henry Harrison, Governor of the said territory. Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and commissioner plenipotentiary of the United States for concluding any treaty or treaties which tnuy be found necessary, with any of the Indian tribes northwest of the. river Ohio, of the one part: and the head chiefs and warriors of the Kaskaskia tribe of Indians, so catted, (but which tribe is the remains and rightfully represent alt the tribes of the Illinois Indians.originally called the Kaskaskia, Mitchigamia. Cuhokiu. and Tamoriu.) of the other part. Article. 1. Whereas, from a variety of unfortunate circumstances, the several tribes of Illinois Indians are reduced to a very small number, the remains of which have been long consolidated and known by the name of the Kaskaskia tribe, and finding themselves unable to occupy the extensive tract of country, which of right belongs to them, and which was possessed by their ancestors for mail}' generations: the chiefs and warriors of the said tribe being also desirous of procuring the means of improvement in the arts of civilized life, and a more certain and effectual support for their women and children, have, for the considerations hereinafter mentioned, relinquished, and, by these presents, do relinquish, and cetle to the United States, all the lands in the Illinois country, which the said tribe lias heretofore possessed, or which they may rightfully claim: reserving to themselves, however, the tract of about three hundred and fifty acres, near the town of Kaskaskia. which they have always held, and which was secured to them by the act of Congress of the third day of March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety one; and also the right of locating one other tract of twelve hundred and eighty acres, within the bounds of that now ceded ; which two tracts of land shall remain to them forever. Art. 2. 'Plie United States will take the Kaskaskia tribe under their immediate care and patronage, and will afford them a protection as effectual, against the other Indian tribes, and against all other persons whatever, as is enjoyed by their own citizens. And the said Kaskaskia tribe do hereby engage, to refrain from making war, or giving any insult or offence, to any other Indian tribe, or to any foreign nation, without having first obtained the approbation and consent of the United States. Art. 3. T lie annuity heretofore given by the United States to the said tribe, shall be increased to one thousand dollars, which is to be paid to them,either in money, merchandise, provisions, or domestic animals, at the option of the said tribe; and when the said annuity, or any part thereof, is paid in merchandise, it is to be delivered to them either at Vincennes. Fort Massac, or Kaskaskia, and the first cost of the goods in the sea port where they may be procured, is alone to be charged to the said tribe, free from the cost of transportation, or any other contingent expense. Whenever the said tribe may choose to receive money, provisions, or domestic animals, for the whole or in part of ihe said annuity, the same shall be delivered at the town of Kaskaskia. 'kite United States will also cause to be built, a house suitable for the accommodation of the chief of the said tribe, and will enclose for their use a field, not exceeding one hundred acres, with a good and sufficient fence. And whereas ihe greater part of the said tribe have been baptised and received into the Catholic church, to which they are much attached, the United States will give, annually, for seven years, one hundred dollars towards the support of a priest of that religion, who will engage to perform for said tribe the duties of his office, and also to instruct as many of their children as possible, in the rudiments of literature. And the United States will further give the sum of three hundred dollars, to assist the said tribe in the erection of a church. The stipulations made in this and the preceding article, together with the sum of five hundred and eighty dollars, which is now paid, or assured to be paid, for the said tribe, for the purpose of procuring some necessary articles, and to relieve them from debts which they have heretofore contracted, is considered as a full and ample compensation for the relinquishment made to the United States, in the first article. Art. 4. The United States reserve to themselves the right, at any future period, of dividing the annuitiy now promised to the said tribe, amongst the several families thereof, reserving always a suitable sum tor the great chief and his family. Art. 5 And to the end that the United States may be enabled to fix, with the other Indian tribes, a boundary between their respective claims, the chiefs and head warriors of the said Kaskaskia tribe do hereby declare that their rightful claim is as follows, viz: Beginning at the confluence of the Ohio and the Mississippi; thence up the Ohio to the mouth of the Saline creek, about twelve miles below the mouth of the Wabash; thence along the dividing ridge, between the said creek and the Wabash, until it comes to the general dividing ridge, between the waters which fall into the Wabash, and those which fall into the Kaskaskia river; and thence along the said ridge until it reaches the waters which fall into the Illinois river: thence in a direct course to the mouth of the Illinois river; and thence down the Mississippi to the beginning. Art. 6. As long as the lands which have been ceded by this treaty shall continue to be the property of the United States, the said tribe shall have the privilege of living and hunting upon them, in the same manner that they have hitherto done. Art. 7. This treaty is to be in force, and binding upon the said parties, so soon as it shall be ratified by the President anil Senate of the United States. In witness whereof, the said commissioner plenipotentiary, and the head chiefs and warriors of the said Kaskaskia tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, and affixed their seals, the thirteenth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and three, and of the independence of the United States the twenty-eighth. WM. HENRY HARRISON. [Signed, also, by certain chiefs and warriors.] Articles of a Treaty made at fort Wayne, on the Miami of the lake, between IVUliarn Henry Harrison. Governor of the Indiana territory. Superintendent of Indian .Affairs, and Commissioner Plenipotentiary of the United States, for concluding any treaty or treaties, which may be found necessary, with any of the Indian tribes, northwest of the Ohio, of the one part; and the tribes of Indians, called the Delawares, Shawanese, Pattawatamies, Miamies, and Kickapoos, by their chiefs and head warriors, and those of the Eel river, I Teas, Piankeshaws, and Kas-kaskius, by their agents and representatives, Tuthinipee JVinnemac, Rieherville, and Little Turtle, who are properly authorized by the said tribes, of the other part. Article 1. Whereas it is declared, by the 4th article of the treaty of Greenville, that the United States reserve for their use the post of St. Vincennes, anti all the lands adjacent, to which the Indian titles had been extinguished: And whereas it has been found difficult to determine the precise limits of the said tract, as held by the French and British Governments, it is hereby agreed, that the boundaries of the said tract shall be as follow: Beginning at Point Coupee, on the Wabash, and running thence, by a line north, seventy-eight degrees west, twelve miles; thence by a line, parallel to the general course of the Wabash, until it shall be intersected by a line at right angles to the same, passing through the mouth of White river; thence by the last mentioned line, across the Wabash, and towards the Ohio, seventy-two miles; thence by a line north, twelve degrees, west until'it shall be intersected by a line at right angles to the same, passing through Point Coupee, and by the last mentioned line, to the place of beginning. Art. 2. The United States hereby relinquish all claim which they may have had to any land adjoining to, or in the neighborhood of, the tract above described. Art. 3. As a mark of their regard and attachment to the United States, w hom they acknowledge for their only friends and protectors, and for the consideration hereinafter mentioned, the said tribes do hereby relinquish anil cede to the United States the great salt spring, upon the Saline creek, which falls into the Ohio, below the mouth of the Wabash, with a quantity of land surrounding it, not exceeding four miles square, and which may be laid off in a square or oblong, as the one or the other may be found most convenient to the United States. And the said United States, being desirous that the Indian tribes should participate in the_ benefits to be derived from the said spring, hereby engage to deliver yearly, and every year, for the use of the said Indians, a quantity of salt, not exceeding one hundred and fifty bushels, and which shall be divided among the several tribes, in such manner as the general council of the chiefs may determine. Art. 4. For the considerations before mentioned, and for the convenience which the said tribes will themselves derive from such establishments,it is hereby agreed, that, as soon as the tribes called the Kickapoos, Eel river, Weas. Piankeshaws, and Kaskaskias, shall give their consent to the measure, the United States shall have the right of locating three tracts of land, of such size as may be agreed upon with the last mentioned tribes, on the main road, between Vincennes and Kaskaskias, and one other between Vincennes and Clarksville, for the purpose of erecting houses of entertainment for the accommodation of travellers. But it is expressly understood, that, if the said locations are made on any of the rivers which cross the said road, and ferries should be established on the same,that, in times of high water, any Indian or Indians belonging to either of the tribes who are parties to this treaty, shall have the privilege of crossing such ferry toll free. Art. 5. Whereas there is reason to believe, that, if the boundary lines of the tract, described in the first article, should be run in the manner therein directed, that some of the settlements and locations of land, made bv the citizens of the United States, will fall in the Indian country, it is hereby agreed that such alterations shall be made in the direction of these lines as will include them; and a quantity of land, equal in quantity to what may be thus taken, shall be given to the said tribes, either at the east or the west end of the tract. In testimony whereof, the commissioner of the United States, and the chiefs and warriors of the Delawares, Shawanese, Pattawatamies. Miamies, and Kickapoos, and those of the Eel river, Weas, Piankeshaws, and Kaskaskias. by their agents and representatives, Tuthinipee, Winnemac, Rieherville, and the Little Turtle, who arc properly authorized by the said tribes, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals, at fort Wavnc, this' seventh day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and three, and of the independence of the United States the twenty-seventh. WM. HENRY HARRISON. [Signed, also, by certain chiefs and warriors of the nations enumerated in the title.] A Treaty between the United States of Jhnericu and the Indian nations called Eel River. Wyandot, Pian/ceshaw, and Kaskaskia, and the tribe of the Kickapoos, by their repcsentatiues, the chiefs of the Eel River nation, made and concluded at Vincennes. At a council holden at Vincennes, on the seventh day of August, one thousand eight hundred and three, under the direction of William Henry Harrison, Governor of the Indiana Territory, Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and commissioner plenipotentiary of the United States, for concluding any treaty, or treaties, which may be found necessary, with any of the Indian nations, northwest of the river Ohio; at which were present, the chiefs and warriors of the Eel River. Wyandot, Piankeshaw, and Kaskaskia nations, and also the tribe of the Kickapoos, by their representatives, the chiefs of the Eel River nation: The fourth article of the treaty, holden and concluded at fort Wayne, on the seventh day of June, one thousand eight hundred and three, being considered, the chiefs and warriors of the said nations give their free and full consent to the same, and they do, hereby, relinquish and confirm to (he United States, the privilege and right of locating three several tracts of land, of one mile square each, on the road leading from Vincennes to Kaskaskia; and, also, one other tract of land, of one mile square, on the road leading from Vincennes to Clarksville; which locations shall be made in such places, on the aforesaid roads, as shall best comport with the convenience and interests of the United States, in the establishment of houses of entertainment, for the accommodation of travellers. In witness whereof, the said William Henry Harrison, and the said chiefs and warriors of the before mentioned nations and tribes of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, and affixed their seals, the day and year first above written. WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON, [l. s.] [Signed also by certain chiefs and warriors of the nations enumerated in the title.] A treaty of demarcation and cession, between the United States of America and the Choctaw tribe of Indians, concluded conformably to the convention of fort Confederation, by the commissioners appointed on the part of the United States, and the agents and representatives of the said Indian tribe, at Iloc-buck-in-too-pa. To whom these presents shall come: Know ye. that the undersigned, commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States of America, of the one part, and of the whole Choctaw nation, of the other pari, being duly authorized by the President of the United States, and by chiefs and head-men of the said nation, do hereby establish, in conformity to the convention of fort Confederation, for the line of demarcation recognised in the said convention, the following metes and bounds, viz: Beginning in the channel of the Hatchee-Come-sa, or Wax river, at the point where the line of limits between the United States and Spain crosseth the same; thence, up the channel ot said 1804.] THE DELAWARES AND PIANKESHAWS. 689 river, to the confluence of the Chickasaxvhay, anti Buck-ha-tannee rivers; thence, up the channel of the Buck-ha-tannee, to Bogue-hooma, or Red creek; thence, up the said creek to a pine tree, standing on the left bank of the same, and blazed on two of its sides, about twelve links southwest of an old trading path, leading from the town of Mobile to the Hewhannee towns, much worn, but not in use at the present time. From this tree, we find the following bearings and distances, viz: South fifty-four degrees thirty minutes, west one chain one link, a black gum; north thirty-nine degrees, east one chain seventy-live links, a water oak; thence, with the old British line of partition, in its various inflections, to a mulberry post, planted on the right bank of the main branch ofSintee Bouge. or Snake creek, where it makes a sharp turn to the southeast, a large broken-top cypress tree standing near the opposite bank of the creek, which is about three poles wide; thence, down the said creek to the Tombigby river; thence, down the Tombigby and Mobile rivers, to the abovementioned line of limits, between the United States and Spain, and, with the same, to the point of beginning. And we, the said commissioners plenipotentiary, do ratify and confirm the said line of demarcation, and (To recognise and acknowledge the same to be the boundary which shall separate and distinguish the land ceded to the United States, between the Tombigby. Mobile, and Pascagoula rivers, from that which has not been ceded by the said Choctaw nation. In testimony whereof, we hereunto affix our hands and seals, this 31st day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and three, to triplicates of this tenor and date. Done at Hoe-buck-in-too-pa. the day and year above written, and in the twenty-seventh year of the independence of the United States. JA. WILKINSON. [seal.] Mingo Poos Coos. + his mark, [seal.] Alatala Hooma, + his mark. [seal.] We, the commissioners of the Choctaw nation, duly appointed, and the chiefs of the said nation who reside on the Tombigby river, next to Sintee Bogue. do acknowledge to have received from the United States of America, by the bands of Brigadier General James Wilkinson, as a consideration in full for the confirmation of the above concession, the following articles, viz: Fifteen pieces of strouds, three rifles, one hundred and fifty blankets, two hundred and fifty pounds of powder, two hundred and fifty pounds of lead, one bridle, one man's saddle, and one black silk handkerchief. [Signed by the said commissioners and chiefs.] [Note. For the instructions to General Harrison, see No. 109.] 8th Congress.] 
