No. 152 TREATY WITH THE CREEKS. [] COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE ON THE 6T1I OF MARCH, 1818. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, March 5, 1818. I lay before the Senate, for their consideration and the exercise of their constitutional power of advice and consent, respecting the ratification thereof, a treaty concluded on the 22d of January last with the Creek nation of Indians. This treaty is accompanied by certain documents having relation to it. JAMES MONROE DEPARTMENT OF WAR, Marek 2, 1818. The Secretary of War has the honor to transmit the treaty recently made by Governor Mitchell, accompanied by a plat of the cession made by Major Kearney from a map of Georgia. The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. A treaty of limits between the United States and the Creek nation of Indians, made and concluded at the Creek agency, on Flint river, on the twenty-second day of January, one thousand eight hundred and eighteen. James Monroe, President of the United States of America, by David Brydie Mitchell, of the State of Georgia, agent of Indian affairs for the Creek nation, and sole commissioner, specially appointed for that porposc, of the one part, and the undersigned kings, chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Creek nation in cooncil assembled, on behalf of the said nation, of the other part, have entered into the following articles and conditions, viz: ARTICLE 1. The said kings, chiefs, headmen, and warriors do hereby agree, in consideration of certain sums of money to be paid to the said Creek nation by the Government of the United States, as hereinafter stipulated, to cede, and forever quit claim, and do, in behalf of their said nation, hereby cede, relinquish, and forever quit claim unto the United States, all right, title, and interest which the said nation have or claim in or unto the two following tracts of land, situate, lying, and being within the following bounds, that is to say: 1. Beginning at the mouth of Goose creek, on the Alatamaha river; thence, along the line leading to the Mounts, at the head of St. Mary’s river, to the point where it is intersected by the line run by the commissioners of the United States under the treaty of Fort Jackson; thence, along the said last-mentioned line, to a point where a line leaving the same shall run the nearest and a direct course by the head of a creek called by the Indians Alcasalekie, to the Oakmulgee river; thence, down the said Oakmulgee river, to its junction with the Oconee, the two rivers there forming the Alatamaha; thence, down the Alatamaha, to the first-mentioned bounds* at the mouth of Goose creek. 2. Beginning at the high shoals of the Appalachee river; and from thence, along the line designated by the treaty made at the city of Washington on the 14th of November, 1815, to the Uleofauhatche, it being the first large branch or fork of the Oakmulgee, above the Seven Islands; thence, up the eastern bank of the Uleofauhatche by the water’s edge, to where the path leading from the high shoals of the Appalachee to the shallow ford on the Chatahoochee crosses the same; and from thence, along the said path, to the shallow ford on theChatahooehee river; thence, up the Chatahoochee river, by the water’s edge, on the eastern side, to Suwanee Old Town; thence, by a direct line, to the head of Appalachee; and thence, down the same, to the first-mentioned bounds at the high shoals of Appalachee. ART. 2. It is hereby stipulated and-agreed on the part of the United States, as a full consideration for the two tracts of land ceded by the Creek nation in the preceding article, that there shall be paid to the Creek nation by the United States, within the present year, the sum of twenty thousand dollars; and ten thousand dollars shall be paid annually for the term of ten succeeding years, without interest; making, in the whole, eleven payments in the course of eleven years, the present year inclusive; and the whole sum to be paid one hundred and twenty thousand dollars. ART. 3. And it is hereby further agreed on the part of the United States that, in lieu of all former stipulations relating to blacksmiths, they will furnish the Creek nation for three years with two blacksmiths and strikers. ART. 4. The President may cause any line to be run which may be necessary to designate the boundary of any part of both or either of the tracts of land ceded by this treaty, at such time and in such manner as he may deem proper. And this treaty shall be obligatory on the contracting parties as soon as the same shall be ratified by the Government of the United States. Done at the place and on the day and year before written. D. B. MITCHELL, [L. S.] [Signed, also, by the kings, chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Creek nation.] SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, October 31, 1817. In compliance with your request, I now enclose you a regular commission to treat with the Creeks for the lands mentioned in your former instructions. In the late treaty made with the Cherokees, they have ceded the lands lying north of a line run from the high shoals of the Appalachee to the Chatahoochee river, and bounded by that river; between this line (the line established by the treaty with the Creeks on the 14th of November, 1805,) and the Oakmulgee river, there will remain a gore of land, which it would be very desirable for the State of Georgia to obtain, and which, perhaps, may be obtained without agitating the question of the boundary line between the Creeks and Cherokees, by making the Oakmulgee. river the boundary between the Creeks and us. You will therefore endeavor to obtain a relinquishment of all the lands claimed by the Creek nation on the east side of the Oakmulgee. When McIntosh was here, he expressed much sensibility upon the question of the boundary line between the Creeks and Cherokees; and I understand that there has been a council held by the chiefs of those two nations for the purpose of settling their boundary, but that it terminated without coming to any agreement. The boundary line which is considered here as the proper one between those two nations is, a line run directly from the high shoals of Appalachee to the Ten Islands, or Turkeytown, on the Coosa river, if you find the sensibility of the Creek chiefs abated in relation to this question, in consequence of what may have passed at the council lately held with the Cherokees,and you find that the question of boundary can be agitated without endangering the other objects which you have in charge, you are authorized to establish the above-mentioned line as the northern boundary of the Creek nation; and if you can establish this line, it will justify you in giving a greater compensation for the relinquishment of the title to the two tracts of land for which you are authorized to negotiate. I have the honor to be, tec. GEORGE GRAHAM. D. B. MITCHELL, Creek Agent. SIR:	CREEK AGENCY, January 6, 1818. I yesterday received a letter front the Little Prince, a copy of which I have the honor to enclose. It seems the messenger sent to the Seminoles has returned to Fort Mitchell without calling here. You will find the motives which induced me to send to the Seminoles explained in my letter of the 14th of December last, and, from the answer brought back, 1 have yet hopes that the difficulties we have gotten into with these people may be settled without entering the Spanish territory, if to avoid such a step be still desired by the Government. All the principal chiefs and warriors of the friendly part of the nation are to meet me here on the 11th instant, and, in consequence of the report of Hopoie Haijo that he bad “ met the Mickasukies at the half-way ground coming with a peace talk to us,” and of the wish expressed in the latter part of the Little Prince’s letter respecting the Choctaws, I have despatched a messenger with a copy of the letter to General Gaines, or the officer commanding, (for I understand the general has gone to St. Mary’s,) with a suggestion on my part that, if a little time is allowed for the decided interference of the friendly Indians, a settlement of differences may possibly be had; but, if not, that.the friendly warriors, after their efforts shall have been ineffectual to procure peace, will heartily unite in compelling the hostile ones to submit. Although I shall again, in a few days, have occasion to communicate the result of our deliberations at the contemplated meeting, yet I deemed it my duty not to delay one moment in communicating the result of the mission to the Seminoles. I have the honor to be, with high consideration and esteem, your obedient setvant, •	D. B. MITCHELL. Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. MY FRIEND:	FORT MITCHELL, December 30, 1817. The messenger who was sent to the Mickasukies has returned with an answer to our talk. The Mickasukies say it was not they that began the war; they were sitting down in peace, and the white people came on them in the night and fired on them. The Mickasukies are all sitting down in their town, and doing no mischief, and waiting to see if the white people will make peace with them. The people that shot at the boat and killed all the white people were the Old Red Sticks from the upper towns—they that turned hostile last war. The man that was sent to the Mickasukies (Hopoie Haijo) with a peace talk’met the Mickasukies at the half-way ground coming with a peace talk to us. Mr. Hambly and Mr. Doyle were taken prisoners. Hopoie Haijo saw them. Tustenuggee Chapeo has gone to relieve them, and carry them to the fort of St. Mark’s. I have sent you this little talk now; our meeting that you appointed will soon be, and then every thing will be made straight. We hear that the army has crossed at Hartford. The Chickasaws have received two letters from the army, and they had nobody to read them, and they do not know the contents, and wish the army could be stopped until our meeting is over. TUSTENUGGEE HOPOIE. To D. B. MITCHELL. SIP.:	CREEK AGENCY, January 28, 1818. I have the honor to enclose a treaty made with the headmen of the Creek nation at this place on the 22d instant. The extent of territory ceded is much greater, and the price given much less, than 1 had any reason to expect either would be at the commencement of the meeting. It is the result of my best exertions, and I trust will meet the approbation of Government. The great extent of territory which this nation lost by the late war makes them reluctant in parting with any more, and I could not prevail upon them to make the Oakmulgee the boundary of the second tract mentioned in that treaty; neither would they consent to bring the line of the lower tract so high up as Fort Hawkins. It is my opinion, however, that these two points can be attained before many years. There is à tract of land lying on Wills creek, and between that creek and the Coosa river, on the west side of the latter, and north of the treaty line of Fort Jackson, which they may be prevailed upon to part with; in treating for which they are willing to discuss and settle the subject of the boundary between them and the Cherokees. They, however, contend that their present boundary with the Cherokees is by the Suwanee path, where it leaves the western line of Jackson county, to the Suwanee Old Town, on the Chatahoochee river; and from thence, by a direct line, to the mouth of a certain watercourse, called by them Little river, where it unites with the Coosa. They have furnished me with a copy of certain questions put by the Creeks to an old Cherokee chief and the Cherokee interpreter, (who was their mutual interpreter on the first settlement of the Cherokees in the Creek country,) at their late meeting, a copy of which, and of the answers, is enclosed; by which it does appear that the Cherokees have for a long time occupied, and do now occupy, a certain portion of Creek land, and that they do not claim lower down the Chatahoochee than Suwanee Old Town, the path to which, from the high shoals of the Appalachee, has always been considered as their boundary east of Chatahoochee. This is a very different boundary to that which Mr. Graham informed me in his letter of the 31st October last was understood by the Government to be the boundary between the two nations. It has always been customary, at meetings of the Indians called by the agent, either for treaty or for pay- mentof annuities, tec., for the agent to furnish provisions during such meetings; and as the Indians, at the meeting at Fort Hawkins, in July last, paid for the provisions expended out of their annuity, Mr. Graham desired me to provide for the amount in the treaty which has just been concluded, and which was then in contemplation. . This, however, has not been done, because the Indians did not seein to understand the necessity of inserting it, and did not wish the sum to appear larger than what they actually received for their land. I-therefore did not insist upon it, but there can be no objection on that account to its being appropriated by Congress, when appropriations are made to carry the treaty into effect, if approved by the President and ratified by the Senate. The sum expended was a little upwards of six thousand dollars. I shall have the honor to address you again by next mail upon some important matters relating to this agency, which the want of time prevents my doing now. 1 am, sir, with high consideration and respect, your very obedient servant, D. B. MITCHELL, Agent for Indians. The Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. Questions put to, and answers of Shoe Boot, interpreter for the Creeks and Cherokees, from the first settling of the latter in the Creek country. October 19, 1817. Question 1st. Were you an interpreter for the Creeks and Cherokees when the Cherokees first came into the Creek country? Answer. I was the linguist; but the chiefs of both nations present at that time are either dead or absent, except these men, (Chowoluca, Micco, and Sour Mush.) Question 2d. Where did the Cherokees come from? and was the country now in dispute their country or not? Answer. They came from Tennessee, being driven away by the white people, and came into the Creek co'untry. Question 3d. Within what limits did the Creeks lend them land? * Answer. They talked with the Upper Creeks, being sent there by some of the Lower Creeks who saw them on their way to the Spanish settlements. They went to Au-beh-cau, a town in the Upper Creek country, and had their talk. The Creeks told them to live down as low as Wills creek, on the west side of Coosa river. They held a second talk at Hiwassee, when the Creeks told them they might live on the head waters of the Cousa or Hightower river. 20 E Question 4th. Did you think, at the time it was lent, that it was Creek country? Answer. I did, and the Creeks told them to live on the Coosa or Creek river. Question 5th. Did these men now present, (Chowoloca, Micco, and Sour Mush,) know any thing about its being Creek country? and do they know any thing about it now? Answer. The old chiefs know it, and now acknowledge it. W. S. MITCHELL, Assistant Agent Indian Affairs. SAMUEL HAWKINS, I „ , T , GEORGE LOVETT, f Creek InterPreters- Several of the Creek chiefs who were at the first council with the Cherokees were present and in council when the foregoing questions were put and the answers given thereto. W. S. MITCHELL, Assistant Agent Indian Affairs. 15th CONGRESS.]	
