NO. 219 RECAPITULATION. TREATY WITH THE CHOCTAWS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, ON THE 27TH JANUARY, 1825. [To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, January 27, 1825. I transmit to the Senate a treaty concluded in this city with a deputation from the Choctaw Indians, accompanied with a report from the Secretary of War, with a copy of the correspondence connected with the negotiation, for the advice and consent of the Senate. JAMES MONROE. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, January 22, 1825. I have the honor to lay before you the enclosed treaty, which has been concluded with the Choctaw delegation, together with the correspondence relating thereto. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, J. C. CALHOUN. To the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. TREATY WITH THE CHOCTAWS. Articles of a convention made between John C. Calhoun, Secretary of War, being specially authorized therefor by the President of the United States; and the undersigned chiefs and headmen of the Choctaw nation of Indians, duly authorized and empowered by said nation, at the city oj Washington, on the twentieth day of January, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and twenty-five. Whereas a treaty of friendship, and limits, and accommodation, having been entered into at Doak’s Stand, on the eighteenth of October, in the year eighteen hundred and twenty, between Andrew Jackson and Thomas Hinds, commissioners on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and warriors of the Choctaw nation of Indians: and whereas the second article of the treaty aforesaid provides for a cession of lands west of tho Mississippi, to the Choctaw nation, in part satisfaction for lands ceded by said nation to the United States, according to the first article of said treaty: and whereas, it being ascertained that the cession aforesaid embraces a large number of settlers, citizens of the United States; and it being the desire of the President of the United States to obviate all difficulties resulting therefrom, and also to adjust other matters in which both the United States and the Choctaw nation are interested: the following articles have been agreed upon and concluded between John C. Calhoun, Secretary of War, specially authorized therefor by the President of the United States, on the one part, and the undersigned delegates of the Choctaw nation, on the other part: ARTICLE 1. The Choclaw nation do hereby cede to the United States all that portion of the land ceded to them by the second article of the treaty of Doak’s Stand, as aforesaid, lying east of a line beginning on the Arkansas, one hundred paces east of Fort Smith, and running thence, due south, to Red river; it being understood that this line shall constitute and remain the permanent boundary between the United States and the Choctaws; and the United States agreeing to remove such citizens as may be settled on the west side to the east side of said line, and prevent future settlements from being made on the west thereof.	, ART. 2. In consideration of the cession aforesaid, the United States do hereby agree to pay the said Choctaw nation the sum of six thousand dollars, annually, forever; it being agreed that the said sum of six thousand dollars shall be annually applied, for the term of twenty years, under the direction of the President of the United States, to the support of schools in said nation, and extending to it the benefits of instruction in the mechanic and ordinary arts of life; when, at the expiration of twenty years, it is agreed that the said annuity may be vested in stocks, or otherwise disposed of, or continued, at the option of the Choctaw nation. ART. 3. The eighth article of the treaty aforesaid having provided that an appropriation of lands shall be made for the purpose of raising six thousand dollars a year, for sixteen years, for the use of the Choctaw nation; and it being desirable to avoid the delay and expense attending the survey and sale of said land; the United States do hereby agree to pay the Chqctaw nation, in lieu thereof, the sum of six thousand dollars, annually, for sixteen years, to commence with the present year. And the United States further stipulate and agree to take immediate measures to survey, and bring into market, and sell the fifty-four sections of land set apart by the seventh article of the treaty aforesaid, and apply the proceeds in the manner provided by the said article. ART. 4. It is provided by the ninth section of the treaty aforesaid that all those of the Choctaw nation who have separate settlements, and fall within the limits of the land ceded by said nation to the United States, and desire to remain where they now reside, shall be secured in a tract or parcel of land, one mile square, to include their improvements. It is, therefore, hereby agreed, that all who have reservations, in conformity to said stipulation, shall have power, with the consent of the President of the United States, to sell and convey the same in feesimple. It is further agreed, on the part of the United States, that those Choctaws, not exceeding four in number, who applied for reservations, and received the recommendation of the commissioners, (as per annexed copy of said recommendation,) shall have the privilege, and the right is hereby given to them, to select, each of them, a portion of land, not exceeding a mile square, any where within the limits of the’cession of eighteen hundred and twenty, where the land is not occupied or disposed of by the United States; and the right to sell and convey the same, with the consent of the President, in fee-simple, is hereby granted.	'ART. 5. There being a debt due by individuals of the Choctaw nation to the late United States trading-house on the Tombigbee, the United States hereby agree to relinquish the same; the delegation, on the part of their nation, agreeing to relinquish their claim upon the United States to send a factor with goods to supply the wants of the Choctaws west of the Mississippi, as provided for by the sixth article of the treaty aforesaid. ART. 6. The Choctaw nation having a claim upon the United States for services rendered in the Pensacola campaign, and for which it is stipulated, in the eleventh article of the treaty aforesaid, that payment shall be made, (but which has been delayed for want of the proper vouchers, which it has been found, as yet, impossible to obtain,) the United States, to obviate the inconvenience of further delay, and to render justice to the Choctaw warriors for their services in that campaign, do hereby agree upon an equitable settlement of the same, and fix the sum at fourteen thousand nine hundred and seventy-two dollars and fifty cents; which, from the muster rolls, and other evidence in the possession of the Third Auditor, appears to be about the probable amount due for the services aforesaid; and which sum shall be immediately paid to the delegation, to be distributed by them to the chiefs and warriors ,of their nation, who served in the campaign aforesaid, as may appear to them to be just. ART. 7. It is further agreed, that the fourth article of the treaty aforesaid shall be so modified, as that the Congress of the United States shall not exercise the power of apportioning the lands, for the benefit of each family or individual of'the Choctaw nation, and of bringing them under the laws of the United States, but with the consent of the Choctaw nation. ART. 8. It appearing that the Choctaws have various claims against citizens of the United States for spoliations ef various kinds, but which they have not been able to support by the testimony of white men, as they were led to believe was necessary, the United States, in order to a final settlement of all such claims, do hereby agree to pay to the Choctaw delegation the sum of two thousand dollars, to be distributed by them in such way, among the claimants, as they may deem equitable. It being understood that this provision is not to affect such claims as may be properly authenticated, according to the provision of the act of eighteen hundred and twenty. ART. 9. It is further agreed, that, immediately upon the ratification of this treaty, or as soon thereafter as may be, an agent shall be appointed for the Choctaws west of the Mississippi, and a blacksmith be settled among them, in conformity with the stipulation contained in the sixth article of the treaty of eighteen hundred and twenty. ART. 10. The chief Puck-she-nub-bee, one of the members of the delegation, having died on his journey to see the President, and Robert Cole being recommended by the delegation as his successor, it is hereby agreed that the said Robert Cole shall receive the medal which appertains to the office of chief; and, also, an annuity from the United States, of one hundred and fifty dollars a year, during his natural life, as was received by his predecessor. ART. 11. The friendship heretofore existing between the United States and the Choctaw nation is hereby renewed and perpetuated. ART. 12. These articles shall take effect and become obligatory on the contracting parties so soon as the same shall be ratified by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. In testimony whereof, the said John C. Calhoun, and the said delegates of the Choctaw nation, have hereunto set their hands, at the city of Washington, the twentieth day of January, eighteen hundred and twenty-five. J. C. CALHOUN. MOOSHULATUBBEE, his X mark. ROBERT COLE, his X mark. DANIEL McCURTAIN, his X mark. TALKING WARRIOR, his x mark. RED FORT, his x mark. NITTUCKACHEE, his X mark. DAVID FOLSOM. T	. J. L. MCDONALD. In presence of: THO. L. MCKENNEY, HEZEKIAH MILLER,	• JOHN PITCHLYNN, United States Interpreter. WASHINGTON CITY, November 8, 1824. The Choctaw delegation, in opening the business of their mission, submit the following remarks to the Secretary of War:	• At a period about two years subsequent to the .treaty which was made with our nation in the autumn of the year 1820, some of the chiefs were notified by Colonel William Ward, the United States agent, that it was the desire of the Government to procure a modification of that treaty; and that, for that purpose, commissioners had been, or would be, appointed to meet the Choctaws in council. We were at that time surprised at the proposition, especially when we understood that the contemplated treaty was with a view of repurchasing some of the lands which had been ceded to the Choctaws beyond the Mississippi river. Some of us had been beyond the Mississippi previous to the treaty of 1820, and knew that white settlers were on the laud proposed to be cpded. General Jackson was informed of the fact. He stated that the arm of Government was strong, and that the settlers should be removed. They have not, however, been removed; nor have we learned that any efforts have been made to effect their removal. We told the United States agent that we were not, at that time, willing to meet the commissioners. We wished to visit our great father the President of the United States, and hold a talk with him. We had often met commissioners. We had stated to them, at different times, some of the many grievances under which we labored; and we had asked for redress. They had uniformly stated, in reply, that they were unable to grant it; that their powers were limited. We, therefore, on this occasion, wished to visit the President of the United States, (the fountain-head of power,) and have a full understanding with him on all the points of difference between our white brothers and ourselves. We have accordingly arrived here, (after an interval of more than twenty years since our last visit,) and have presented ourselves before you as the representative of the President. We wish now to hear from you what talk those commissionershad been authorized to deliver to our council,and what propositions they had been empowered to make. Respectfully submitted by PUSH AM AT AH AH, his x mark. MOOSHULATUBBEE, his X mark. ROBERT COLE, his X mark. '	DANIEL McCURTAIN, his X mark. TALKING WARRIOR, his X mark. RED FORT, his X mark. •	NITTUCKACHEE, his X mark. DAVID FOLSOM. j. L. MCDONALD. Delegates from the Choctaw nation. Interpreted by me, and signed by the delegation in my presence. JOHN PITCHLYNN. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, November 9, J.824. Since my conversation with you yesterday, I have examined more fully the maps and communication in relation to the eastern boundary line, established by the treaty of the 18th October, 1820, of the cession made under the said treaty to the Choctaws, between Red river and the Arkansas. I find, by reference to the documents, that our surveys and settlement on Red river extend quite up to the mouth of the Kiamsha; and that a line, to comprehend our settlements, must run as far west as that point. From the mouth of the Kiamsha to the western boundary' of the Territory of Arkansas, established by an act of the last session of Congress, is a distance of but a few miles; and as that Territory has expressed an anxious desire that that should be established as the eastern boundary of the Choctaw cession, the Piesident instructs me to say that he will be much gratified if the delegation will agree to fix it as the boundary. It would certainly possess many advantages for a boundary; among which is not the least prominent, that it would be permanent. There is no probability that any State or Territory will be erected to the west of the Arkansas Territory, which would leave the Choctaws, who might choose to emigrate, a quiet and undisturbed possession of the immense country lying between the Arkansas and Red rivers, and the western boundary of the Territory of Arkansas, and the boundary between the United States and Mexico; being a country of nut less than three hundred by one hundred and twenty miles, and amply sufficient for the wants of the whole Choctaw nation. Should the line, on the contrary, be drawn any where to the east of the western boundary of the Territory of Arkansas, so as to include within the cession to the Choctaws a part of that Territory, there is no likelihood that such a" boundary would be permanent, as there is every reason to believe that the people of that Territory would never rest satisfied until the Indian title was extinguished to its western boundary. In order that you may have a just idea of the country in question, I herewith enclose the latest and most accurate map of that portion of the United States, which may be relied upon as sufficiently accurate for all practical purposes. The line marked A and B, drawn in red ink, indicates the boundary, as established by the treaty of the 18th of October, 1820; a line, also drawn in red, marked C and D, indicates the western boundary of the Territory of Arkansas, the line proposed to be established by the Government; and the line marked E and F, the western boundary between the United States and Mexico. I am authorized by the President to state, that, should the delegation agree to the line proposed to be established, he is willing to make a reasonable and adequate compensation to the Choctaws for the country which may be thereby ceded.	, Should, however, the delegation not approve of the line proposed to be established, I should be glad if they would state their ideas upon what ought to be the boundary line, and their proposal as to. where it should -run. I also suggested, yesterday, that it was the desire of the Government to extinguish part of the Choctaw title to lands joining the county of Monroe, in the State of Mississippi. In making this proposition, it is not the desire of the Government to acquire more land in that quarter; but that county lying detached from all the others in the State, and it being insufficient in itself, under the constitution of the State, to form a judicial district, subjects the people of the county to great inconvenience. Under these circumstances, the President would view in a very favorable light a cession contiguous to that county, sufficient to form two or three counties, in order to form a judicial district, and thereby remove the inconvenience now experienced. If the delegation accede to the request, I am authorized by the President to state that a liberal and fair compensation will be made, not only for the land ceded, but to the individuals who may have improvements lying within such cession. I shall be glad to hear from the delegation, either in writing or verbally, on both those points. •	I am, &c. JOHN C. CALHOUN. To the CHOCTAW DELEGATION, now in Washington. SIR:	,	* CITY OF WASHINGTON, November 12, 1824. We have received and considered your proposal in relation to our lands beyond the Mississippi, and also in relation to a cession of land adjoining Monroe county. This latter proposition we will first dispose of. After a full discussion among ourselves, we have come to the conclusion that we cannot sell any more of our lands bordering on the Tombigbee. The Government must be satisfied of our friendly disposition towards our white brothers. In war, we have given them our assistance; and in peace, we have endeavored to show our hospitality. Our determination, therefore, cannot be supposed to result from any unfriendly feeling. It is the result of a thorough conviction on our own minds that we act in conformity with the wishes of our countrymen. About eight years since, we held a treaty with certain commissioners, of whom General Coffee was one. At that time, we sold all our lands lying east of the Tombigbee. We had hoped that that would have been the last request to sell more lands in that quarter. We were induced to hope so from the assurances of the commissioners. We were told that, by selling our lands east of the Tombigbee, and confining ourselves entirely to the west side, we should establish a good boundary; having the Mississippi on one side, and the Tombigbec on the other, there was a reasonable prospect that our limits would be permanent. We cannot consent to change the line. We wish that the Tombigbce should continue to be our boundary on the east. We now come to consider your proposition in relation to our lands between the Arkansas and Red rivers. You propose to purchase all our lands lying within the Arkansas Territory. We do not feel ourselves authorized to sell so much. We consider it a misfortune that our white brothers are settled on the lands which were ceded to us; and it is our earnest desire to effect an amicable and satisfactory arrangement, so as to accommodate our white brothers of the Arkansas, without injuring ourselves. We are willing to sell that portion which is most thickly populated, and not more. Take us to the western boundary of the Arkansas Territory, and you take all our valuable land. You bring us, also, in contact with Indian tribes who are in enmity with us. On the banks of the Red. river, and below the Kiamsha, the lands are fertile. There, our people could settle; some might cultivate the land, and some would live by hunting. We do not wish that our people should always live by hunting. We wish them to live where there are inducements to agriculture. Beyond the Kiamsha we meet with nothing but prairies. That tract of country is by no means so valuable as that on which the white people are settled. We are not, therefore, willing to sell so much as you require, but we are willing to sell some. That portion of country which we propose ceding, (provided we receive adequate compensation,) lies between the Washita and Red rivers, and is bounded as follows: Up the Washita, from the point where the Choctaw boundary line crosses the same, to its source; thence, south, to that point on Red river where the Spanish line strikes the same; thence, down Red river, to the present boundary line; thence, to the place of beginning.	• This section of country we believe to be the most thickly populated. We know it to be valuable; but our white brothers are there, and we wish to live in peace and harmony with them. We make our proposition in the spirit of accommodation; and we trust you will regard it as proceeding from the most friendly feelings and motives. •	. Respectfully, your friends and brothers, PUSHAMATAIIAH, MOOSHULATUBBEE, .	ROBERT COLE, DANIEL MCCURTAIN, TALKING WARRIOR, •	RED FORT, NITTUCKACHEE, ■DAVID FOLSOM, J.’ L. MCDONALD. The Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, November 15, 1824. I have laid your communication of the 12th instant before the President, who has given it due consideration. The object of the Government, as stated in a former communication, in wishing to acquire additional territory adjoining the county of Monroe, in the State of Mississippi, was not for the desire of obtaining more lands, but for the accommodation of that State in the arrangement of its courts. The President regrets that you have made a ' final decision against the cession.	\ In proposing the western boundary of the Territory of Arkansas as a limit between the United States and the Choctaws’ possession beyond the Mississippi, it was the sincere wish of the President to fix upon a boundary that would be permanent between the United States and the Choctaws’ possession in that quarter. The one proposed seemed to possess, in that point of view, great advantages. It is, however, by no means the dfesire of the President tu obtain a cession of all the cultivatable lands which are now owned by the Choctaws on that side of the Mississippi, under the treaty of the 18th October, 1820. In wishing that the Choctaws would remove to the west of the Mississippi, the Government does not desire that they should change their agricultural habits for their former hunter’s habits. While, therefore, the President respects the motive which the delegation assigns against extending the line of cession so far west, he cannot approve of that which the delegation proposes to fix. It is believed that the cession proposed would not fulfil any one of the desires of the Government. It would leave a large number of our population still on the Choctaw land; to avoid the trouble and the difficulty of removing them, constitutes one of the principal objects in proposing the present treaty. Nor would there be any likelihood that the boundary proposed would be permanent; for, by reference to the map, it will be seen that it leaves a narrow neck of land between the Arkansas and the upper branches of the Washita in possession of the Choctaws, which would be surrounded on two sides by our population, and which, having no strongly-defined natural boundaries, would be subjected to the perpetual intrusion of our citizens. This state of things could not fail to produce irritation on both sides; to remove which, a new treaty most be held, and more natural and permanent boundaries fixed. This bad better be done at once. For which purpose I propose, by direction of the President, the extension of the western boundary of Louisiana, from the point where it strikes the Red river, due north, to .the Arkansas; with the understanding that, if the line so extended should strike the Arkansas west of Fort Smith, then, in that case, the line to be- from the point where the Louisiana line strikes Red river to Fort Smith. By inspecting the map, it will be seen that the line will pass, for the most part, through an elevated country, dividing the waters of Little river, Kiamsha. and the Poteau; and it is presumed will be both mountainous and poor, and will probably constitute a good natural boundary. It is believed that it would possess more advantages than any other that can be drawn, taking into view the mutual desire of the Choctaw nation and the United Statès. To the former, it will leave a sufficient tract of fertile woodland country, suitable for cultivation; while, to the latter, it would leave the most of our settlements in that quarter on the east side of the line, and afford a prospect to both of permanent limits. If the delegation will accede to the proposition, (which I trust they will, for the reasons I have assigned,) I will be prepared to discuss the question of compensation.	I am, <fcc. I	J. C. CALHOUN. To the CHOCTAW DELEGATION, now at Tennison's Hotel, Washington City. SIR:	CITY OF WASHINGTON, November 17, 1824. The Choctaw delegation yesterday received a communication from the War Department, on the subject of the mode in which the price for our lands beyond the Mississippi was to be appropriated. The delegation cannot, at this time, give a decisive answer on this subject. We are authorized to say, that the understanding among us is, to appropriate the money which we receive for our lands for the purpose of educating Choctaw youth; but we cannot say to what amount, nor in what particular manner. The delegation wish you to tell them what price you are willing to pay for the land which they propose to cede; and they can then determine, with the less hesitation, on the manner in which the compensation for the cession shall be applied. We are, respectfully, vour obedient servants, DAVID FOLSOM, To the Hon. J. C. CALHOUN.	J. L. McDON'ALD. FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, November 19, 1824. Having agreed upon the limits of the cession which you propose to make of your lands west of the Mississippi, I now proceed to make you an offer for them. It being the wish of the Government to be liberal, and more especially so as you have intimated your intention of applying a part, at least, of their proceeds, to the improvement and education of your children, I have concluded to offer you five thousand dollars, to be paid immediately upon the ratification of the treaty, and the provision by the Congress for carrying it into effect; and six thousand dollars, annually, for ten years: it being understood that not less than three thousand dollars of the annua) allowance be.applied, under the direction of the Government, to the improvement of your children, by the agency of schools, an’d in making them acquainted with agriculture and the mechanic arts. Considering the remoteness of the lands proposed to be ceded, and the price which has been usually given for those similarly situated, it is believed that the oiler is a liberal one, and I hope the delegation will find no difficulty in acceding to it. I am, &c. To the CHOCTAW DELEGATION.	. JOHN C. CALHOUN. SIR:	CITY OF WASHINGTON, November 20, 1824. The compensation proposed to be given, in a communication from the War Department of yesterday, for a portion of the Choctaw lands west of the Mississippi, is considered by the delegation entirely inadequate. They can never consent to surrender their lands on such terms; and, unless the Government can bring itself to the conclusion to make a far more liberal offer, the negotiation must come to an immediate close, and the delegation return to their homes. To show, however, their disposition to make a satisfactory adjustment on what they conceive to be just and liberal terms, the delegation will make a further communication to the War Department on Monday or Tuesday- next', in which their views on the subject will be more fully expressed. Respectfully, your obedient servants,	DAVID FOLSOM, j. L. MCDONALD, To the Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN.	On behalf of the Choctaw Delegation. SIR:	WASHINGTON CITY, November 22,1824. We propose, in this communication, to express our views on the subject of what we conceive to be a just and liberal compensation for our lands beyond the Mississippi. We shall speak with some freedom, but not without respect. We esteem you our friend and brother, and as the organ of our great father the President of the United States, who has shown himself the friend of the red man. We approach you, therefore, with respect; but, at the same time, it is not inconsistent with that respect to speak openly and frankly on the subject of our business. The price you have offered us for the land which we propose to cede we consider altogether inadequate. The proposed cession contains at least five millions of acres, the greater part of it valuable land. You have considered your offer liberal, because the country is remote. It is remote, undoubtedly; but it is, nevertheless, valuable. To us, distance is nothing; nor can it be much to you. By means of the Arkansas and Red rivers, your citizens can have easy access to the Mississippi and to New Orleans. A large portion of the land embraced in the'proposed limits is, we believe, fit for cultivation. Suppose you should not be able to sell more than one-third; that, at the minimum price of public lands, will bring you more than two millions of dollars. Is it not just and right that we should receive, in annuities, a reasonable portion of that sum? We will advert to another consideration. A part of the country is in the highest degree fertile, (especially that bordering on Red river,) and in a fine state of cultivation. We have made no improvements ourselves, we admit; but they have been made for us. It is a well known fact, that there are fine farms, dwelling-houses, cotton-gins, and mills of various descriptions, on the land which was ceded to us by the treaty of the 18th of October, 1820; and are not these, in strict justice, our property? Those improvements which were made previous to the treaty of 1820 were sold to us by the commissioners of the United States. They were apprized of the fact of there being while settlers on that land; they, nevertheless, sold the land, and the improvements with it. Those improvements which have been made since the trea’ty, without any color of right, and contrary to the laws of Congress, which prohibit settlement on the Indian lands, are unquestionably ours. The labor has not been ours, we freely acknowledge; but who can sav that the property is not? Suppose the Government, in compliance with its obligation, were forcibly to remove the settlers from our lands; (this would be, we are ready to believe, a severe and distressing task; we could not, ourselves, see it without a painful feeling; but we put the case fairly before you:) suppose the measure accomplished; what inducements would not then be presented to some of our people for a removal across the Mississippi? We should have good farms and dwelling-houses, for the reception of those who should choose to emigrate. Can we not, then, with propriety, demand compensation for those rights, and for that property of which we are deprived by the failure of the Government to comply with its obligation? We are informed that there are five or six thousand inhabitants on our land. Some of their improvements, especially on the Red river, are very valuable. We may, therefore, without entering into any nice calculation, venture to affirm that the value of improvements made by such a population amounts to several hundred thousand dollars. We do not wish to embarrass our father the President by these considerations; nor do we mean to assume any thing like a threatening tone. When the arm of your Government is lifted, we are weak—we are powerless. We rely entirely upon your justice; and for that we shall patiently wait. We shall not attempt to remove those people by force; but, if you comply not with our request, we ask you to remove them. Having presented these views to your consideration, we next proceed to state the terms which, in our opinion, present a fair and reasonable compensation for the cession which we propose to make. We wish, in the first instance, to have some points rectified in the last treaty—we mean that of the 18th October, 1820. We wish the fourth article abolished. It has excited fears and jealousies, on the part of the Choctaws, lest a premature incorporation should take place with the citizens of Mississippi. We wish the annuity of $6,000, promised to be paid in the last treaty, immediately to commence. Instead of fifty-four sections of land, which were to have been set apart as a school fund, we would	rather	take the money, at the minimum price of public lands; the interest, under the direction of the President,	to	go	to	the education of our children. Those reserves which were taken under the ninth article of the treaty of 1820 we wish should be granted in fee-simple to the occupants. They are capable of managing for themselves, and there were but two reserves taken. A few, also, petitioned for reserves in 1820, and received the recommendation of the commissioners. These reserves, injustice, ought to be granted; and we request that they may be. The foregoing points (in relation to the treaty of 1820) we are persuaded are a matter of indifference to the Government. We presume that it neither gains nor loses by a compliance with our request. We npw make a direct proposition for the proposed cession west of the Mississippi. After the views we gave in the beginning of this letter, you will not be surprised that we think our terms reasonable. We ask, first, that thirty thousand dollars worth of goods be distributed as presents to our nation—fifteen thousand dollars the first year; fifteen thousand dollars the second. Secondly, that nine thousand dollars a year, for twenty years, be appropriated for the support of mechanical institutions among the Choctaws. Thirdly, that the same sum be appropriated, annually, for twenty years, for the education of Choctaw children, in colleges or institutions out of the nation. Fourthly, that three thousand dollars a year, for twenty years, be eppropriated for the education of Choctaws beyond the Mississippi, when they shall have settled there, and an agent appointed to live among them: these annuities to be applied for the purposes expressed, under the direction of the President of the United States. The price we ask may be more than has been usually given for lands lying so remote; but it is not more than what we think to be their just value. We wish our children educated. We wish to derive lasting, and not transient, benefits from the sale of our lands. The proceeds of those sales we are desirous should be applied for the instruction of our young countrymen. It is for this important object that we may seem to you to be unreasonable in our proposition. We feel our ignorance, and we begin to see the benefits of education. We are, therefore, anxious that our rising generation should acquire a knowledge of literature and the arts, and learn to tread in those paths which have conducted your people, by regular gradations, to their present summit of wealth and greatness. Respectfully, your friends and brothers,	1 PUSHAMATAHAH, his X mark. MOOSHULATUBBEE, his X mark. ROBERT COLE, his X mark. DANIEL McCURTAIN, his X mark. TALKING WARRIOR, his X mark. RED FORT, his x mark. NITTUCKACHEE, his X mark. DAVID FOLSOM. , j. L. MCDONALD. I certify the foregoing to be the talk of the chiefs, it having been interpreted by me. '	"	JOHN PITCHLYNN. To.the Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN. FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, November 27, 1824. I have submitted for the consideration of the President the terms on which you propose to make the cession to the United States of lands west of the Mississippi, in conformity to the offer contained in your letter of the 22d instant, and I am instructed by him to say that they are wholly inadmissible. It is believed that the lands could not be suld (as a body) for the price at which you propose to dispose of them, were they brought into the market, and the entire tract sold at once; and that they would not realize to the Government the sum at which you have offered them, on the final sales, even through the Land Office, after deducting the expense attending the survey and sales, and calculating the interest on the sum for which you propose to sell them. Unless, therefore, the Choctaw delegation are prepared to make a very great reduction in the terms on which they have offered to sell, it would be useless to attempt to conclude a treaty. In the present stage, it is not deemed necessary to touch upon the several articles to which you have referred in the treaty of the 18th October,*1820, as the arrangements which you propose can only be considered in connexion with the sale of the lands west of the Mississippi.	. I am, respectfully, your friend and brother, To the CHOCTAW DELEGATION. SIB:	CITY OF WASHINGTON, November 30, 1824. We have received your letter in reply to our communication of the 22d instant. You state that the terms proposed by us are considered by the President wholly inadmissible, and that, unless the delegation shall determine to make a very great reduction in the price which they ask for their lands, it is useless to attempt to conclude a treaty. Our determination is made: we cannot depart essentially from our original proposition. We may have erred in the estimate we made of the value of the land which we proposed to cede; but we cannot, consistently with the opinions we have formed, consent to make the reduction of price which you expect. Our situation is one of great responsibility. Our people are looking towards us with interest and anxiety. They expect that we shall cither make an advantageous treaty, or none. We do not believe that your terms offer us the advantage we were prepared to expect. The negotiation, therefore, comes to a close, and we shall prepare to return to our homes. Before we leave the city, (which we wish to do in a few days,) we shall present for your consideration a number of claims which our people have against the Government of the United States. Those are subjects on which commissioners have seldom given us satisfaction; and it was for that reason we were the more desirous to visit this city, and see the President. We hope to have a perfect understanding with you on those points. Notwithstanding we have differed on the most important subject of our negotiation, we can still say, with the utmost sincerity of heart, that we are now, as we ever have been, Your friends and brothers, PUSHAMATAHA, his x mark. MOOSHULATUBBEE, his x mark. ROBERT COLE, his X mark. DANIEL McCURTAIN, his X mark. TALKING WARRIOR, his X mark. RED FORT, his x mark. . •	NITTUCKACHEE, his x mark. DAVID FOLSOM. ,	j. L. MCDONALD. To the Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN. FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:-	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 31, 1824. Your two letters, of the 30th ultimo and 1st instant, were duly received, and laid before the President at the first opportunity. A press of business, both upon the President and myself, has prevented an earlier attention to them. I now have to inform you, after full inquiry and deliberation, that the price asked by you for your lands west of the Mississippi cannot be given. The President is willing to give the full value, but cannot think of giving more than what the land is fairly worth; and is desirous, both on your account and that of the United States, to conclude a treaty of cession. He trusts that you will reconsider your offer, and agree on one more reasonable. Should it be acceptable to you, I will include in the arrangement, upon an equitable settlement, an adjustment of your Pensacola claims, and also any other just claims which you may have upon the Government. I am, respectfully, your friend and brother, J. C. CALHOUN. To the CHOCTAW DELEGATION. SIR: ,	CITY OF WASHINGTON, January 3, 1825. We have received your letter of the 31st December, in reply to a communication some time since made'by us. You state that the price which we ask for our lands cannot be given; and yuu convey the wish of the President that we would reconsider our offer, and agree upon one more reasonable. Notwithstanding we had believed the negotiation terminated, we are still animated with the desire of making an amicable adjustment of the differences between us. We can therefore assure you, that, although we thought our original offer reasonable, we are, nevertherless, willing to make a liberal reduction in our price. We have already assured you that we cannot take the price which you proposed to give. We expect that you will make a liberal advance. It will be unnecessary for us to make an offer. What we should consider more reasonable, you might still think too much. To avoid delay, therefore, we would respectfully suggest that the proposal come from you. Tell us, at once, the highest price you can give—the utmost extent to which you can go; and we can immediately determine whether to accept or reject your offer. We would take this opportunity to request that you would communicate your views on the points presented for your consideration in our letter uf the 1st December. Respectfully, your friends and brothers, MOOSHULATUBBEE, his X mark. ROBERT COLE, his x mark. DANIEL McCURTAIN, his X mark. TALKING WARRIOR, his X mark. RED FORT, his x mark. NITTUCKACHEE, his X mark. DAVID FOLSOM, j. L. MCDONALD. To the Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN. FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	WAR DEPARTMENT, January 5, 1'825. In reply to your letter of the 3d instant, and in compliance with your suggestion that the proposition of a price for your lands west of the Mississippi be made by me, I propose, as the highest price that can be given, the sum of $90,000, payable in ten annuities of $9,000 each; also, to relinquish the claim of the Government upon your nation for the sum due by it to the late Choctaw trading-house; it being understood that you relinquish your claim upon the Government for the establishment of a trading-house, as provided for by the sixth article of the treaty of the 18th October, 1820. 70 E Should this proposition be accepted, I propose further to comprehend in the definitive arrangements a provision for an equitable allowance for your services rendered in the Pensacola campaign, and also to settle such other just claims as you may have to present. The several other points referred to in your letter of the 1st ultimo will be considered, and replied to as soon aS P°SS'	I am, respectfully, your friend and brother,	J. C. CALHOUN. To the CHOCTAW DELEGATION. ■p_.	CITY OF WASHINGTON, January 14, 1825. We have attentively considered the proposition contained in your letter of the 5th instant. We asked you to state the highest price which you were willing to give for our lands beyond the Mississippi. You have named $90,000, to be discharged in ten annual payments. This, as it stands, we cannot accept. After deliberate reflection, we have ourselves determined to make a final proposition. It will not vary much from yours; but it will be in a shape which holds forth the promise of more permanent benefit to our people. You will remark that we have made a very great reduction in our price. We have done so, not because our original opinion of the value of the land is changed, but because of the peculiar circumstances of the' case, and on account of the views which you have given us in your communications, written and verbal. The terms which we propose are the following: 1st. $6,000 a year, perpetual annuity; that annuity to be sold, or continued by the Choctaws, at their option, any time after twenty years. 2d. The annuity of $6,000 for sixteen years, promised in the treaty of 1820, to commence the present year. 3d. The relinquishment (as suggested by you) of all claims which you may have against individuals of the Choctaw nation, for debts due to the trading-house, in consideration that we relinquish our claim to have a tradinghouse established west of the Mississippi.	, 4th. An equitable settlement of the Pensacola claims, and of all other just claims which may be presented. ' The foregoing are the principal conditions. There are others which we cojild wish granted, but upon which we would not insist with pertinacity. For instance: we would rather take money, and apply the interest to the purposes of education, than the fifty-four sections of land provided to be set apart under the treaty of 1820. We wish certain reserves (taken under the same treaty) to be confirmed in fee-simple; and we wish to sell you two small reserves (the one containing eight, the other two square miles,) which we have on the Pascagoula and Tombigbee rivers. They were retained under the treaty of 1805, and are valuable. Should you wish to make the purchase, we presume there would be no difficulty in agreeing on a price. 'We hope that the terms we have proposed may be satisfactory, and that our business will be speedily closed. Respectfully, your friends and brothers, MOOSHULATUBBEE, his x mark. ROBERT COLE, his x mark. '	DANIEL McCURTAIN, his x mark. TALKING WARRIOR, his x mark. RED FORT, his X mark. NITTUCKACHEE, his X mark. DAVID FOLSOM. ■	j. L. MCDONALD. I certify that the foregoing is he correct talk of the chiefs. JOHN PITCHLYNN. FKIENDS AND BROTHERS:	WAR DEPARTMENT, January 15, 1825. I have received your letter of yesterday, in which you vary the proposition made by me in mine of the 5th instant for a cession of your lands west of the Mississippi; and offer, in lieu of it, another, which you state as follows: “1st. Six thousand dollars a year, perpetual annuity; that annuity to be sold, or continued by the Choctaws, at their option, any time after twenty years. “2d. The annuity of six thousand dollars for sixteen years, named in the treaty of 1820, to commence the present year. “ 3d. The relinquishment (as suggested by you) of all claims which you may have against individuals of the Choctaw nation, for debts due to the trading-house, in consideration that we relinquish our claim to have a tradinghouse established west of the Mississippi. “4th. An equitable settlement of the Pensacola claims, and of all other just claims which may be presented.” I have submitted the foregoing proposition to the President, who directs me to accept it, with the understanding that the annuity for six thousand dollars be applied to the support of schools in your nation, and to the improvement of your people in the mechanic arts.	s The outlines of a treaty will be prepared for your signatures early in the coming week. I am, respectfully, your friend and brother, J. C. CALHOUN. To the CHOCTAW DELEGATION. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OP INDIAN AFFAIRS, January 22, 1825. I have the honor to state, that only two persons of the Choctaw delegation have succeeded to reservations of one mile square, under the provisions of the ninth article of the treaty of 1820; their names, as reported by the Choctaw delegation now here, are Molly McDonald and Wesley Trahern; to whom the right to sell, in feesimple, with the consent of the President of the United States, is ceded by the fourth article of the treaty concluded on the 20th instant. The extract from the letter of General Jackson and Thomas Hinds, commissioners, which accompanied the treaty of October 18, 1820, recommending similar privileges of location, and the right to sell to certain individuals of the Choctaw nation, contains the information necessary to explain the remaining part of the provision of the fourth article of the treaty aforesaid.	, I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, T	.	.	THOS. L. McKENNEY. To the Hon. the SECRETARY OF WAR.	• Extract from the letter of General Andrew Jackson and Thomas Hinds, which accompanied the treaty concluded by them, as the commissioners on the part of the United States, with the Choctaw nation, on the 18th October, 1820, dated October Wth, 1820. “ You will receive, accompanying the treaty, a request from the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation, in favor of Noble Osborne and Alexander Hamilton, which it is our desire should be laid before Congress, and the object of the petition granted. Should a law be passed in favor of Hamilton, it is suggested that be ought to be restricted, so as to be prevented from locating his section on a town site, or on any portion of land set apart for the support of schools in the Choctaw natiun. Hamilton is three-fourths white man, and a native of the country. He has been a soldier, and at one time appointed an officer in the army of the United States. He is poor, and we have promised to use our endeavors to secure to him this grant of land, and that he be made a citizen, and subject to our laws. Mr. Osborne has for many years kept a United States stand on the public road running through the nation. His treatment to both Indians and white men has given general satisfaction, and all have interceded in his behalf. “ The application of Greenwood Leflore to become a citizen of the United States, and have his section of land, to include his improvements, secured to him in fee, is believed to be just and reasonable, and ought to be granted. It will, it is presumed, have, a good effect, and in a short time induce all those who remain on this side of the Mississippi to petition for the same privilege. The applications of George Turnbull and Alexander McKee* are reasonable, and should also be granted by Congress.” NOTE.—The application in favor of Noble Osborne, referred to in the foregoing extract, being to secure to hitni “ the privilege of entering, at Congress price, one section of land where he now lives,” has been complied with. The cases, therefore, remaining to be complied with, and to which the provision made in the fourth article of the treaty to which this is annexed is particularly intended to apply, are those of Alexander Hamilton, Greenwood Leflore, George Turnbull, and Alexander McKee. It is proper to observe, that, since the application was first made, Hamilton has died; and it has been renewed, at the request of the Choctaw delegation, for the benefit of his legal representative or representatives. ' THOMAS L. MCKENNEY. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, January, 1825. SIR:	CITY OF WASHINGTON, December 22, 1824. In compliance with your verbal request of this morning, to communicate to you my views and opinions on the subject of the proposed treaty with the Choctaw Indians, for the purchase of a part of the lands which they claim west of the Mississippi river, by virtue of the treaty of 1820, I submit the following, after investigating the facts, and reflecting maturely on the subject. It is known to your Department that the people of Arkansas have complained, with a common voice, of the unhappy influence of the treaty of 1820 upon their interests and prosperity; yet they have never imputed to the Government of the United States a desire to retard the growth of their Territory, or a disposition to injure their personal rights or happiness as citizens, but attributed the unfortunate treaty of 1820 to a want of correct information as to the extent of the injury which Arkansas and her citizens would receive from its fulfilment. The complaints which they made on the subject proceeded not from a disposition on their part, under any circumstances, to oppose the authority of the Government, or to do injustice to the Choctaw Indians; but from a • fixed confidence, which they have always entertained, in the justice and magnanimity of the Government, and a conviction that the Choctaws might be induced to yield, for an adequate consideration, the tract of country on which they were settled previous to the treaty; and that the Government, after knowing their situation, would lose no time in making the necessary arrangements for their relief. Influenced by just considerations, Congress, on the representation of my predecessor, passed a law establishing as the western boundary of the Territory a line to be run due south from the southwest corner of the State of Missouri to Red river; and the appropriation which was previously made, by law, to carry the treaty into effect, was to be applied by the President, to secure a modification of the treaty, to relieve the settlers within the limits designated by the above-named act from the unhappy condition into which they were thrown by the treaty of 1820. When this was made known to the people of Arkansas, the complaints which they had made were succeeded by a general burst of joy, and the most unqualified expressions of gratitude to their Government for its liberality and justice. But, when an examination was made as to the course the line would run, it was ascertained that from twelve hundred to two thousand souls would fall west of it. With this knowledge, the General Assembly of Arkansas passed a memorial to Congress, praying for an extension of the line, to embrace all the settlements and counties that were formed previous to the treaty of 1820. The same liberality and justice which dictated the first measure for their relief, influenced Congress, at the last session, to grant the request; and a law was passed, extending the boundary line forty miles west of the southwest corner of the State of Missouri, and thence, due south, to Red river. With this boundary, the people are satisfied. It embraces the most, if not all, who were living in the country previous to the treaty, and gives to Arkansas sufficient territory to form a strong State on our frontier. To give you a more correct knowledge of the importance which the people of Arkansas attach to the purchase of the country from the Indians, to our western line, as established by law, I herewith submit a copy of the memorial of the General Assembly of that Territory, (marked A,) which was presented the 23d of March last to the United States Senate, and referred to a select committee; and to show the view which that committee took of the subject, and the importance they allowed it to possess, I also submit a copy of the report made by the chairman, (marked B.) I have said to you, in conversation, that the line proposed in the negotiation which is pending with the Choctaws will be east of that which the General Assembly of Arkansas remonstrated against; and that between two and three thousand souls, if that line should be established, will still be within the limits of the Choctaw claim. To strengthen this position, I herewith submit, as evidence of the fact, a copy of a statement (marked C) which was made by Major Bradford, at the last session of Congress, to the select committee of the Senate, to which the memorial of the General Assembly of the Territory, on the subject of the western boundary, was referred. It shows that two thousand persons were disfranchised by the law establishing a boundary from the southwest corner of Missouri, due south, to Red river. Otherwise Alexander H. McKee. The line proposed at present is east of that several miles, and, if established, will cut off a greater number of our citizens.	‘ I am aware of the kind disposition of our Government towards Arkansas, and of the anxiety which the Executive and you, sir, have manifested, by your frequent expressions on the subject, to consult the views and wishes of the people, in relation to this important subject; and, also, of the difficulties which the Choctaws create by the slow and hesitating manner with which they consent to surrender even a part of the country inhabited by our citizens. But I trust that difficulties of this character will not induce the Government to adopt any measure which will be destructive to the peace and interests of so large a proportion of the population of Arkansas. That the establishment of the line proposed will be ruinous to thousands, is evident from the facts and evidence to which 1 have referred you. As the Delegate of Arkansas, I can never consent to any measure which is calculated to check the prosperity of my Territory, or to destroj' the interest of any portion of its inhabitants. That the boundary suggested in the negotiation will do both, is, I presume, a point which will not be disputed. If the whole of the Choctaw claim within the limits of Arkansas cannot be extinguished by treaty, I would suggest to you a line from the mouth of the Poteau to the mouth of the Kiamsha, as one which would save the most of the inhabitants. But it would only be after all hope had vanished of securing a treaty for the whole that I would consent to this line on the Kiamsha and Poteau rivers; and between the Poteau and Canadian fork there are very extensive tracts of the most fertile lands—much more, I presume, than can ever be cultivated by thé Choctaws, independent of the vast region of country which they claim west of the limits of Arkansas. In conclusion, I must ask'of the Executive of the United States, in the event of a failure at this time to purchase from the Choctaws the tract of country which was inhabited by our citizens prior to the treaty of 1820, to suspend the operations of the treaty until a purchase can be made; and, in the mean time, to cause the Choctaws, who may and have moved west of the Mississippi, to he located west of the Kiamsha and Poteau, until some definitive arrangement can be made with them to our satisfaction. With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, HENRY W. CONWAY. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War.	'	1 A.	‘ To the honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled: The Legislature of the Territory of Arkansas respectfully represent: That the citizens of this Territory have seen with astonishment, and no small degree of regret and concern, an act of the last session of Congress, entitled “ An act making further appropriations for the military service of the United States for the year one thousand eight hundred and twenty-three, and for other purposes,” (chap. 24, and sec. 3,) that a line due south from the southwest corner of the State of Missouri, to Red river, has beeh established as the western boundary of the Territory of Arkansas. To press this subject upon thé consideration of the nation, it [is] deemed by your memorialists only necessary to advise the General Government that the line, as established, will forever blast the hopes and just expectations of the citizens of the Territory, as it will transfer to the Choctaw Indians a large portion of the counties of Miller and Crawford, a section of the country which, by the fertility of the soil and amenity of situation, has been justly considered as one of the most choice tracts of land in our Territory—the pride, the boast of Arkansas. Indeed, the line, as established, will transfer to the Choctaw Indians more than one-half of the most» respectable inhabitants of the county of Miller, which is now a well-organized community, located upon the public lands already surveyed. And the representatives of the people feel it a duty which they owe to themselves and their constituents to press the consideration of this subject upon the National Government, with that degree of solicitude and anxiety which the magnitude and importance of the subject so justly inspires. Your petitioners represent the propriety of a modification or change in our western territorial line, so as to commence at the southwest corner of the State of Missouri, and running thence to the falls on the Verdigris river, and from thence to the mouth of the Kiamsha, on Rod river. We believe that the establishment of the line above mentioned is equally as important to the General Government as to this Territory. Your petitioners would observe, that the line heretofore established is well calculated to keep Arkansas in a state of territorial bondage. If such has been the object of the nation, it is well calculated to effect that object. This we cannot believe; but, if the General Government feel a disposition to see this Territory prosper, and increase in wealth, population, and respectability, the establishment of the line for which we ask will secure to us certain success. Your petitioners would further observe, that, although the tract of country already included within the bounds of this Territory is large, yet a knowledge of the situation of our country is sufficient to convince all that it does not contain, within its present limits, a sufficient, quantity of good land for a State Government. The lands calculated to attract the attention and admiration of the emigrant are situate upon the margin of the navigable streams; and that part of them which is most navigable, and upon which our future prosperity greatly depends, is confined within the limits of that line to which your memorialists would invite your deliberate consideration.	’ T. FARRELLEY, Speaker of the House of Representatives. SAM. C. ROANE, President of the Legislative Council. Approved October 18, 1823. ROBERT CRITTENDEN, Acting Governor. .	B. Mr. BENTON, from the select committee to whom was referred the memorial from the General Assembly of the Territory of Arkansas, reported: That the memorialists represent that the line prescribed,'by an act of the last session of Congres^, for the western boundary of the Territory of Arkansas, will pass through the counties of Miller and Crawford, and leave a proportion of the population of said counties on the outside of said line, and beyond the jurisdiction of said Territory; and they pray that the line may be altered, and fixed so far west as will include the residue of said counties and their inhabitants. By information derived from the Delegate of said Territory, the committee are informed that the number of inhabitants thus cut off from the Government under which they had lived amounts to about twelve hundred souls; and the inquiries which present themselves are: 1st. Whether the said inhabitants shall be left as they are, without law to govern them? 2d. Or, whether they shall be compelled to come within the present limits of the Territory? 3d. Or, whether the western boundary shall be extended to include them? The first alternative the committee reject, for reasons too obvious to require specification. To the second, many objections are found, arising from the organized state of the counties; the claim which many of the inhabitants set up for pre-emption rights, under the act of Congress of the 12th of April, 1814; and, above all, from the fact that, by an order issued from the War Department on the 15th December, 1818, a line drawn from the source of the Kiamsha to the source of the Poteau was fixed as the limit of western settlements in Arkansas, and settlers west of that line were ordered to be removed to the east of it; in the execution of which order, by the commanding officer of Fort Smith, on the Arkansas river, the settlers in the now counties of Miller and Crawford were not removed, because found to be on the eastern side of said line. The third alternative is, therefore, adopted by the committee, as well for the reasons growing out of the objections to the first and second, as because a line further west will divide into two equal parts the territory of the United States upon the Arkansas, east of the Mexican boundary, and will give to the future State of Arkansas that power and magnitude, to which, as a frontier State, in relation both to a foreign nation and numerous Indian tribes, it will be justly entitled. The adjustment of the Indian boundary lines not being a subject of legislation, the committee do not make any report upon the existing boundary between the Choctaws and white settlers in the Territory of Arkansas. They leave that subject to the operation of treaties, made, or to be made; and report a bill solely for the extension of the western boundary line of the Territory of Arkansas. C. Upon the request of Mr. Conway, Delegate in Congress from the Territory of Arkansas, I make the following statement: In the month of June, in the year 1819, being in command of the United States troops stationed at Fort Smith, on the Arkansas»river, I received an order from the commanding officer of the southern division, (General Jackson,) commanding me to remove all the settlers who should be found west of a line drawn from the sources of the Kiamsha to the Poteau; (the former, a stream emptying into Red river; the latter, into the Arkansas river;)' and to compel all such settlers to return to the east side of said line. Upon the receipt of the order, I set out with some half a dozen soldiers on horseback, (a corporal’s guard,) and proceeded to the tract of country on which the intruders had settled. I found about two hundred families, in the whole, on the west side of the line designated: some of them had crops growing; others, none. I read the order which I had received to the heads of the different families, requiring those who had no crops growing to obey it immediately; and to those who had, time was allowed till October. The order was immediately obeyed; and some of those to whom I had given leave to remain till their crops were gathered were driven in before that time by Captain Combs, commanding at Natchitoches, who had received a similar order, and executed it in the district of country next to Red jiver; in some instances, burning the houses and destroying the crops. Afterwards, Mr. Downs and Mr. Woodward, being authorized by Government to run certain lines in Arkansas, fixed upon a line from the mouth of Canadian Fork, southwardly, to the head of Jack’s Fork of Kiamsha, and down it to its mouth. This line was further west than the one designated in the order which I had received and executed; and, immediately after, many of those who had removed under the order of myself and Captain Combs re-occupied the ground from which they had been removed. Information of this having reached the Government of the United States, an order was sent to Colonel Arbuckle, commanding at Fort Smith, in the fall of the last year, commanding him to drive back all such intruders to the east side of the line from the sources of the Kiamsha and Poteau. This was accordingly done, and the people, thus twice removed back, settled in the counties of Miller and Crawford; and, I should suppose, that about two thousand souls were cut off from the Territory by the line fixed for the western boundary of Arkansas at the last session of Congress. Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, this 25th day of March, 1824. W. BRADFORD. SIR:	WAR DEPARTMENT, January 18, 1825. I have laid before the President your letter of the 22d December last, in which you object to the line which was proposed to be established between the Red river and the Arkansas, in the treaty now pending with the Choctaw delegation, on the ground that there would remain upwards of two thousand of the inhabitants of the Territory west of the proposed line; and I am directed by the President to inform you, that it has been his anxious desire, in the proposed arrangement with the Choctaws, to establish the line in a manner perfectly satisfactory to the Territory. With this view, it was first proposed to the delegation to establish the western boundary of the treaty as fixed by the act of 26th May, 1824, as the eastern boundary of the country to be retained by the Choctaws west of the Mississippi; but the proposition was decidedly and firmly rejected by the Choctaw delegation, on the ground that the country west of it is so destitute of timber, and of such sterile soil, as to render it unfit for agriculture. Actuated with the same desire, the President was anxious to fix the line of the Kiamsha and Poteau as the boundary of the proposed cession. But the deputation, governed by the same motives above stated, refused to go farther west than the western boundary of Louisiana; to which line you object. It is certainly to be deeply regretted that so large a number of the inhabitants of the Arkansas Territory should reside west of the proposed line; but the President is of the impression that, under all the circumstances of the case, the views you have presented against its establishment are not sufficient, and has accordingly directed the negotiation to proceed upon the basis of establishing that line. Should the proposed treaty fail, there would be no other alternative left but to enforce the treaty of 18th October, 1820, which establishes a line far east of the one now proposed; and which, instead of the removal of two thousand, would, according to the best information, cause the removal of about five thousand.’ The reason why tbe treaty has not been heretofore enforced now no longer exists to justify its non-fulfilment. So soon as it was discovered, after the ratification of the treaty of 1820, that a large number of the inhabitants of the Territory resided west of the line which was thereby established as the eastern boundary of the Choctaw possessions, a proposition was made to modify the treaty, so as to prevent the disagreeable necessity of removing our citizens; which proposition has been the subject of correspondence and discussion to the present time. During its pendency, the President felt justified in omitting to take steps to fulfil the treaty in relation to the points under discussion. But, should the treaty now pending fail, and there should be no further hope (as would be the fact) that a modification of the former treaty could be obtained, there could be no good excuse for delay ing the enforcement of its provisions, and, consequently, of removing those of our citizens who have unfortunately settled and made improvements on the Choctaw side of its eastern boundary. To avoid so disagreeable a consequence, and to mitigate the evil as far as practicable, when it cannot be wholly remedied, the President is of opinion that it would be preferable to establish the boundary now proposed, than to enforce the original. In fact, he considers the object so desirable, as to present strong inducements of acceding to what might otherwise be considered as a high price, than to be reduced to the necessity of subjecting so many families and individuals to the distress and losses which must necessarily be attendant on a removal. In coming to this decision, he is nut of the impression that the settlements on the land in question have been lawfully made by those who now occupy it, or even that they have been under the implied sanction of the Government. The orders to which you allude, to prevent settlements west of the Kiamsha and Poteau, were not intended to encourage settlements east of those rivers, on lands belonging to the United States, and can, fairly considered, furnish no sanction for the settlements in question; and it is even very probable that those who made the settlements did so without knowledge of the order, most of them having made them, it is believed, before the order could have been made known in that quarter. But, though our citizens have no claim, in strict justice, against their removal, they still have claims upon the humanity of the Government'. The settlements have probably been formed thoughtlessly, under the temptations of fine soil and a genial climate, without reflecting that the lands were not theirs, and that they rendered themselves liable, of course, to be removed as intruders, under the laws of the country. The general mode of forming settlements in our country, no doubt, encouraged the settlements; and the settlers may be considered, under those circumstances, as having claims, not upon the justice, but humanity of the country. Their situation is thus viewed by the President; and, while he cannot yield to their desires upon the score of justice, be feels very solicitous to make such a modification of the treaty of 1820 as will subject as few as possible to the distress and losses which must be attendant on a rigid enforcement of its provisions. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, vour obedient servant, J. C. CALHOUN. To the Hon. H. W. CONWAY, Delegate from Arkansas, United States Congress. CONGRESS.] 
