No. 100. [ 2d Session. THE CHOCTAWS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 7, 1803. » Gentlemen of the Senate: I submit, for your approbation and consent, a convention, entered into with the Choctaw nation of Indians, for ascertaining and marking the limits of the territory ceded to our nation, w hile under its former government, and lying between the Tombigby and Mobile rivers, on the east, and the Chickasawhay river on the west. We are now engaged in ascertaining and marking, in like manner, the limits of the former cessions of the Choctaws, from the river Ya/.oo to our southern boundary, which will be the subject of another convention; and we expect to obtain, from the same nation, a new cession of lands, of considerable extent, between the Tombigby and Alabama rivers. These several tracts of country will compose that portion of the Mississippi territory, which, so soon as certain individual claims are arranged, the United States will he free to sell and settle immediately. TH: JEFFERSON. January 7, 1803. A Provisional Convention, entered into, and made. by Brigadier General James Wilkinson, of the State of Maryland, commissioner for holding conferences with the Indians, south of the Ohio river, in behalf of the United States, on the one part; and the whole Choctuw nation, by their chiefs, head-men, and principal warriors, on the other part. For the mutual accommodation of the parties, and to perpetuate that concord and friendship which so happily subsists between them, they do hereby, freely, voluntarily, and without constraint, covenant and agree: Article 1. That the President of the United States, may, at his discretion, by a commissioner or commissioners, to be appointed by him, by and with die advice and consent of the Senate of the United States, retrace, connect, and plainly re-mark the old line of limits, established by and between his Britannic Majesty and the said Choctaw nation, which begins on the left bank of the Chickasaw hay river, and runs thence, in an easterly direction, to tiie right bank of the Tombigby river, terminating on the same at a bluff', well known by the name of llach-a Tig-goby; hut it is to be clearly understood, that two commissioners, to be appointed by the said nation, from their own body, are to attend the commissioner or commissioners of the United States, who may be appointed to perform this service, for which purpose the said Choctaw nation shall be seasonably advised by the President of the United States, of the particular period at which the operation may be commenced; and the said Choctaw commissioners shall be subsisted by the United States, so long as they may be engaged on this business, and paid for their services, during the said term, at the rate of one dollar per day. Article 2. The said line, when thus re-marked and re-established, shall form the boundary between the United States and the said Choctaw nation, in that quarter; and the said Choctaw nation, for, and in consideration of, one dollar, to them in hand paid, by the said United States, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, do hereby release to the said United States, and quit claim forever, to all that tract of land which is included by the before named line on the north, by the Chickasawnay river, on the west, by the Tombigby and the Mobile rivers, on the east, and by the boundary of the United States, on the south. Article 3. The chiefs, head-men, and warriors, of the said Choctaw nation, do hereby constitute, authorize, and appoint, the chiefs and head-men of the Upper towns of the said nation, to make such alteration in the old boundary line, near the mouth of the Yazoo river, as may.be found convenient, and may be done without injury to the said nation. Article 4. This convention shall take effect and become obligatory on the contracting'parties, as soon as the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall have ratified the same. In testimony whereof, the parties have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals, at fort Confederation, on the Tombigby, in the Choctaw country, this seventeenth day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and two, and of the independence of the United States the twenty-seventh. JAMES WILKINSON. . Fort Confederation, . ? On the Tombigby river, October 17th, 1802.3 Sir; I have this day accomplished a provisional convention with the Choctaw nation, which I have the honor to transmit vou, under cover, and I will express the hope, that it may meet the Presidential approbation. I experienced little difficulty in removing all obstacles to the re-establishment of the old boundary on the side of Natchez; and, to remedy a defect which I have discovered in Purcell’s line, I prevailed on the nation to authorize the chiefs of the Upper towns, to make such alterations in it as may be found convenient and necessary. The Indian commissioners, who are to attend the re-survey, are appointed from those towns? and will, I expect, be deputised to act for them. Believing the concession between the Chickasawhay, the Tombigby, and the Mobile rivers, which includes one and a half million of acres, might prove interesting to Government at an early period (it is certainly so at this moment to our citizens, settled on that tract) I exerted my feeble faculties, and with much difficulty effected it. I perceived, at an early day, that it was essential to the successful issue of my views, to distribute, at this conference, the annuities which I brought with me from fort Stoddart to this place, and I instructed Mr. Dinsmoor, the agent, accordingly; to whose co-operation I am much indebted, as I have no assistant with me, and have been afflicted since the 24th ultimo, by a fever, which has several times changed its character, which remains unsubdued, and has greatly reduced my strength. This circumstance will, 1 hope, excuse me for omitting ordinary details at this time, and also for any informality which may appear on the face of the contract. The assembly of Indians on this occasion greatly exceeds any previous conference; they number more than eighteen hundred, yet their subsistence will not amount to three hundred dollars. The day after to-morrow, I shall mount my horse, thought illy able to keep the seat, and shall proceed for the mouth of'the Yazoo. I send this letter by express to the post-office, in the Chickasaw nation, to go to you by mail from thence. And am, with great respect, sir, your obedient servant, JAS. WILKINSON. The Hon. Henry Dearborn, Secretary of War. Copy of a letter to General Wilkinson, dated War Department, September 7, 1802. Sir: Your several letters, including those of the 9th and 18th ultimo, have been duly received, and yesterday, Lieutenant Macomb arrived with the treaty. &c. The information obtained from Mr. Periell, appears to be important, and I conceive, will have a happy effect in determining the lines between the Indian nations and the United States. It is the opinion of the President, that whatever relates to the boundaries between the United States, and the Choctaws and Creeks, should be left atyour discretion, with such aid as you may obtain from Colonel Hawkins; but that no sum, over and above the usual presents, be stipulated definitively, as a compensation to the Indians, as an inducement to their consenting to the lines being established, conformably to the information received from Mr. Periell; but if any considerable sum, in addition to the usual presents, should be found absolutely necessary, you will please to ascertain their lowest terms, and let them knowr that the decision of Congress, and the President of the United States, will be necessary to give a full sanction to the business; but if the sum should be small, there will be but very little doubt of its being sanctioned, and that, therefore, they may consent to the lines being run and marked. It has been determined to establish a trading house in the Choctaw country, but we have been at a loss to determine on a site, that would, under all circumstances, be most useful and convenient. Will you be so obliging as to take the subject into consideration, and give me your opinion thereon. On the Tombigby, not far from the junction of the Tombigby and Alabama rivers, has been considered as a convenient place, if we could, without difficulty, navigate the river through the Spanish territory. The goods have been sent by water to New Orleans, and the factor has gone down the Ohio and Mississippi. Another trading house will be established at Chickasaw bluffs; the goods and agent are on their way; and also one at Fort Wayne and Detroit, are to be established. 1 fear that the business of opening the road from Tennessee to Natchez, is progressing but slowly; you will be pleased to pay some attention to that business, if in your power. I am, sir, respectfully, &e. H. DEARBORN. Copy of a letter to General James Wilkinson, elated War Department. September 14, 1802. Sir: Believing it will be found expedient to establish the trading house for the Choctaws on the Tombigby, and having written to Governor Claiborne on the subject, submitting the subject to his and your consideration, I suggested to him the probable necessity of a military guard at the store, presuming that the Indians would have no objection; but I wish your opinion on the propriety of the establishing a guard, and whether the post, on the Mobile, could, with propriety, be removed up the river, to a place suitable for a site for the store. In deciding on the most eligible place'for the store, it may be proper to take into consideration a site for a military post, so as to combine both objects, in doing which, a number of circumstances will present themselves, worthy of consideration, which you will be able to examine, and give their due weight. The influence most to be apprehended, as unfavorable to our views, will probably be that of the house o (Panton, and others; but, if they should take any measure hostile to the benevolent intentions of the Government, we shall have itinour power to confine their trade within the Spanish boundaries, and to prohibit their going within the limits of the United States. When you go to New Orleans, it may not be improper to mention our intentions of establishing a trading house on the Tombigby, with a view of sounding the present feelings of the government, on the subject of our navigating the Mobile. It should be taken for granted, that those rivers which empty themselves out of the United States into the ocean, through a small part of the Spanish territory, are common highways, but to be used in such a manner as not to injure our neighbors. If you discover it to be a delicate subject, you will waive it, and only intimate, that we expect not to be interrupted in supplying our posts, trading house, &c. until some arrangement shall be made between the governments on the subject; all that is washed at present is, that the disposition of the Spanish officers may be so far known, as to prevent any difficulties, until the ultimate arrangement of the governments shall be concluded. By information received from New Orleans, it appears that the Chickasaw' chief, who has been closely attached to the Spanish interest, and not very friendly to the United States, has, on a late visit to the Governor, been highly offended, and has, in his passion, relinquished a pension of five hundred dollars, which he has heretofore received annually from that Government. It may be proper to take advantage of his present disposition, and endeavor, by presents, or other means, to attach him to our interest; he is called Ugitlucayube. Lieutenant Macomb is here, and proposes being transferred to the corps of engineers. Colonel Cushing i> established at Fredencktown: Colonel Burbeck and Major Swan are on a tour to the Northward. I am, sir. &c. H. DEARBORN. * I 7th Congress.] 
