No. 101. [2d Session. TRADE. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, JANUARY 18, 1803. Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House of Representatives: I enclose a report of the Secretary of M ar, stating the trading-houses established in the Indian territories, the progress which has been made in the course of the last year, in settling and marking boundaries with the different tribes, the purchases of lands recently made from them, and the prospect of further progress in marking boundaries, and in new extinguishments of title m the year to come; for which, some appropriations of money will be wanting. To this I have to add, that when the Indians ceded to us the salt springs on the Wabash, they expressed a hope that we would so employ them, as to enable them to procure there the necessary supplies of salt; indeed, it would be the most proper and acceptable form in which the annuity could be paid, which we propose to give them for the cession. These springs might, at the same time, be rendered eminently serviceable to our w estern inhabitants, by using them as the means of counteracting the monopolies of the supplies of salt, and of reducing the price in that country to a just level. For these purposes a small appropriation would be necessary to meet the first expenses; after which, they should support themselves, and repay those advances. These springs are said to possess the advantage of being accompanied with a bed of coal. TH: JEFFERSON. January 18, 1803. War Department, January 17//;, 1803. Sir: By treaties held with the Creek and Choctaw nations of Indians, in the course of the last year, considerable tracts of land have been obtained, and there is reason to believe, that additional cessions, may be obtained on reasonable terms, from the aforementioned and other Indians, in the course of the present year. The boundary line between the State of North Carolina and the Cherokees, has been completed, and the line between the Natchez, territory and the Choctaws, is probably, by this time, established and marked in a manner, which it is presumed will he satisfactory to the United States and to the Choctaw nation. A boundary line has also been agreed on to the tract of land on the \\ abash river, including Vincennes, which will soon be run and marked: and, likewise, the lines around the two tracts on the Portage, between the head waters of the Wabash and the Miami of the lake, including lort Wayne. Some measures have been taken for ascertaining the boundaries between the Indians and the white people, on the Mississippi, commonly called the Kaskaskia settlements, below the mouth of the Illinois river, but for want of authentic documents, it wall probably be necessary to resort to a new convention with the Indian nations, for establishing said boundaries, and for procuring some additional cessions, for the purpose of affording means for increasing and strengthening that distant and exposed frontier. In addition to the two factories, or Indian trading-houses, heretofore established, it has been considered advisable to establish four others, viz: one at Detroit, one at fort Wayne, one at Chickasaw Bluffs, and one with the Choctaws. The surplus of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, appropriated by an act of Congress, of the 16th of April, 179G, and which had not been applied to the two factories, heretofore established, on the frontiers of Georgia and Tennessee, has been applied to the four other establishments recently made. From an investigation of die accounts made anti reported to Congress at its last session, it was satisfactorily evident, that the funds employed prior to that period, had not been diminished, and it is confidently believed, that the sum appropriated to that object, may be employed not only without diminution, but with great advantage to the public, not in point of commercial profits, but by attaching and securing the friendship anil confidence of the natives, which cannot be sufficiently relied on, while their towns and hunting camps are constantly the resort of unprincipled foreign traders, who make every exertion! in their powrer to withdraw the confidence of the natives from the United States, and to inspire them with jealousies and unfriendly dispositions towards our frontier settlers, our public agents, and the Government. The greatest caution has been observed in selecting the agent for managing the several factories; and, in the course of another year, it is presumed that a satisfactory statement may be made of the state of the funds, and of the effects of their application. An appropriation of ten thousand dollars,* to enable the Executive to embrace any favorable opportunity for obtaining any further cession of land from the natives, and a renewal of the act authorizing the establishment of trading-houses with the Indians, with a renewal of the appropriation for that object, is submitted to the consideration of Congress. With respectful consideration, I am, sir, your humble servant. H. DEARBORN. The President of the United States. ' This sum is in addition to the sum in the general estimate. Jin extract of a letter from Matthew Ernest, Esq. collector of the district of Detroit, to the Secretary of the Treasury, dated November Is/,1802. Sir: I have made very strict inquiry with regard to the information you had received respecting the conduct of certain British merchants, and have had a consultation with Colonel Hamtramck on that subject, but cannot find that the report has any foundation of truth ; any insinuations from them, which has come to my knowledge, was to this amount: That the United States, by establishing trading-houses in this country, and disposing of their goods to the Indians, at a reduced price, must effectually ruin them, as well as the,- American traders; and that they intended to close their business in the Indian country, by the first of June next, and would not, hereafter, enter any goods at the custom-house for that purpose; and as to the prohibition of vending spirituous liquors to the Indians, they one and all highly approve of the law, as the only plan which could be adopted to civilize them, and render their situations more comfortable. MATTHEW ERNEST. 7th Congress.] 
