NO. 209 PROPOSITION OF A PART OF THE CHEROKEES TO CEDE THEIR LANDS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, APRIL 16, 1824. [To the House of Representatives:	APRIL 16, 1824. I herewith transmit to the House of Representatives a report from the Secretary of War, which contains the information requested by the resolution of the 8th instant, respecting the proposals that were made by certain Indians therein described, of the Cherokee nation, for the cession of their lands to the United States. JAMES MONROE. ®,R:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, April 12, 1824. I have the honor to furnish, herewith, copies (marked A) of all the correspondence called for by the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 8th instant, in relation to the proposals made by several Creek Path Indians of the Cherokee nation to make cession of their lands to the United States; also, a copy of a letter from this Department (marked B) to Colonel Meigs, on the subject of that proposition.t I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, To the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. A. DIVISION OF THE SOUTH, HEAD-QUARTERS, SIR:	NASHVILLE, January 18, 1821. On yesterday, a deputation of Cherokees from the Creek Path Town, consisting of George Fields, Wolfe, and Turtle Fields, handed me the letters marked Nos. 1, 2, and 3, herewith enclosed. The paper marked No. 4 contains the explanation and talk delivered to me by their confidential agent, Turtle Fields, and subscribed to by the others, which is also enclosed. On my return from the Creek frontier last summer, and'passing through the lower part of the Cherokee country, I found great dissatisfaction prevailed, arising from the jealousy of Hicks and others, which, I think, I communicated to you. When I set out to hold a treaty with the Choctaws, 1 heard that the Path Killer had sent to me a deputation. They passed my house, and, finding me not at home, followed me to the Choctaw nation; that deputation consisted of part of the present, viz: George Fields and Wolfe. They remained with me, during the negotiation with the Choctaws; said they had a talk for me when it was concluded; and appeared very desirous that the Choctaws should obtain a country adjoining their Cherukee brothers on the Arkansas, that they might aid each other in the day of danger. They did not, however, hint their business till 1 reached Russelville, Alabama, on my return, and on the morning when we were to part. They then informed me of their instructions to-consult me whether their father the President of the United States would, upon the terms mentioned in their talk, (marked No. 4, and herewith enclosed,) give to them the reservation asked for; informing me, also, that they had no confidence in Hicks, &c.; that their people had not been heard in council, and for three years had not received any part of the annuities; that they were fearful that Hicks and others would, at some future day, cheat them out of their land: all of which they wished to make known to their father the President of the United States, and get him to secure them permanently in the lands they now ask for. I then told them that I could make no communication to their father the President until the chiefs of their town would, in writing, address me on that subject; when that was done, 1 would freely make it known, through you, to him, and I had no doubt but it would be granted. I do believe it to be a reasonable request, and ought tu be granted. It is a small demand, compared to what their population entitles them out of the whole country reserved to the Cherokee nation. The only good land on the reserve asked for is on Thompson’s and Brown’s creeks. • The distance from the one to the other is about one mile and a half; and from Brown’s to Short creek is about the same. The whole reservation does not contain more than six thousand acres of good land; the balance is rock and mountain of the most rugged kind. I do believe, in a political point of view, as well as injustice to these people, their prayer ought to be noticed. It is inviting Congress to take up the subject, and exercise its power, under the Hopewell treaty, of regulating all the Indian concerns as it pleases. This is a precedent much wanted; that the absurdity in politics may cease, of an independent sovereign nation holding treaties with people living within its territorial limits, acknowledging its sovereignty and laws, and who, although not citizens, cannot be viewed as aliens, but as the real subjects of the United States. If Congress, by law, will, on the terms proposed, take up the subject and give them the grant asked for, it will give to Georgia and Alabama all the Cherokee lands not settled upon by those who will petition Congress, at the next session, for the right of citizenship. In short, I believe, in a very short time, these people will offer this part of reserved land to the United States for lands on the Arkansas; and, as part of their nation is now there, good policy will dictate the propriety of sendingall there, who do not wish to remain where they now are as citizens of the United States. This belief is bottomed on my mere opinion, and to be taken as such. These people wishing to go to the Arkansas, could not, unless they abandoned their improvements, go without compensation. They now fear the injustice of the upper part of the nation, and desire to become independent of them, and be in such a situation that they can remain where they now are forever; or, if they choose, offer theirs for other land in a country more beneficial to themselves. If the. real object of the Government is to send all over the Mississippi that are not disposed to be citizens, to consolidate our southern population, now is the proper time for Congress to take up the subject, allow the grant, and establish a happy precedent, that will hereafter establish the rule of legislating for, rather than treating with, the Indians within our territorial limits. This will secure to the nations of Indians more justice, and great saving to our nation. I have only to add, that I do hope their prayer may be granted, and the precedent established of Congress legislating for them. I am, sir, with great respect, vour most obedient servant, ANDREW JACKSON. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of IFcr. No. 1. i Address of the Chiefs and Warriors of Creek Path Town, in the Cherokee nation, to Major General Andrew Jackson. DEAR SIR:	CREEK PATH TOWN, January 3, 1821. Having learned by our messenger, George Fields, your friendly disposition towards us, your having told him to inform us that you would use your influence to see justice done to us with respect to the land we now live on, we address you with full confidence that you will not see us wronged out of what we consider our just right by any persons whatever. Unhappily, differences exist between us and the upper part of the nation; they claim the right of depriving us of our lands when they think fit to do so; they allow us no voice in the national councils; and, in fact, they treat us, in a manner, as intruder?. We now appeal to you to use your influence to have us reinstated in the enjoyments and privileges we formerly possessed as a part of our nation; and to put it out of the power of the upper part of the nation to dispose of our lands against our consent. Owing to indisposition, the Path Killer is not with us while writing this, but has sent us, by a trustman, what he wishes inserted in this letter; (which is, as nearly as the writer can understand, to this effect:) “ My dear brother: My first acquaintance with you was at Fort Strother, in the Creek campaign. We went on and beat our enemies. The next time I saw you was at Turkey Town; then, after that, you were at Highwassee; but, from my indisposition at that time, I was deprived of the pleasure of seeing you; but was much pleased to hear of the good advice you gave my people, particularly to the women. We feel thankful to you for having the intruders removed from amongst us. We feel satisfied that you will keep them off from our lands, and from doing violence to us. We have been informed that some of them intend returning and planting corn again in the spring; but trust you will have them removed, if they should. Captain James Reed and his sons have been a protection to our property ever since they have lived amongst us. We hope that you will do what you think best, in order to give them power to suppress any bad practices of ill-disposed white men towards us. For further information, we refer you to our messenger, George Fields, who will give you a full account of our wishes with respect to boundaries, &c.” ' The Path Killer commenced a letter to you, but, for the want of a writer who could explain to you what he wished to communicate, he had to decline it. The scrap, as begun, we have sent, enclosed, by George Fields and others, whom we shall send; and, on their return, we request that you will be so good as to write us on the subject of this letter. Accept, dear sir, assurances of onr regard and good will. SPEAKER, his X mark. WASAUCY, his X mark. ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL, his X mark. '	-	NIGHT KILLER, his X mark. JAMES SPENCER, his x mark. JOHN THOMPSON. No. 2. SIR:	JANUARY 8, 1821. We, the chiefs of Creek Path, do send the two messengers that you saw before, with two more with them; and we would wish you to receive them as your real friends, as they are. We have chosen one man out of the four, that, if any thing should be omitted in writing to you, he shall tell you our wishes; and we wish you to receive what he tells you the same as if it was a letter. The one who will tell you is Turtle Fields, one of our young chiefs. If our messengers should fall short of money or provisions, by being detained, we would wish you to assist them.	We remain, with respect, your real friends and well wishers. SPEAKER, his X mark. WASAUCY, his X mark. ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL, his X mark. JAMES SPENCER, his X mark. JOHN THOMPSON. No. 3. MY DEAR WHITE BROTHER:	DECEMBER 11, 1820. I understand, by our messengers, that you are resolved to do any thing for us respecting onr petition; and, if that is the case, I want you to do every thing that is in your power for us. PATH KILLER, his X mark, King of the, Cherokee Nation. No. 4. The following chiefs, as a delegation from the lower part of the Cherokee nation, viz: George Fields, Wolfe, and Turtle Fields, reached Nashville this 17th of January, 1821, and presented to me the following letters: first, an address of the chiefs and warriors of the Creek Path Town, in the Cherokee nation, to Major General Andrew Jackson, dated the 3d of January, 1821, signed by the Speaker, Wasaucy, Archibald Campbel), Night Killer, James Spencer, and John Thompson; another from the same chiefs, dated the 8th of January, 1821; and one from the Path Killer, chief of the Cherokee nation, dated the 11th of December, 1820. On the 8th of January, 1821, I met this delegation, and had the following talk with them: Friends and brothers: I am glad to see you and shake you by the hand, and greet you not only as friends and brothers, but as my trusty warriors; and to express to you the pleasure I feel on hearing that my old friend and brother the Path Killer still lives. Friends and brothers: I have read the two letters from your chiefs, and the one from the principal chief of the Cherokee nation, Path Killer, with great attention; and can assure you, your chiefs and warriors, that I have no doubt but your father the President of the United States will do every thing he can do to secure you in possession of that tract of land you desire, upon your relinquishing to the United States all claim to any other part of the land reserved to the Cherokee nation. But, before I can forward your letters and request to your father the President, you must state to me the precise bounds of the country your chiefs and warriors wish to have reserved for themselves; the number of families, and the number of the chiefs and warriors within your district, who wish to be included in the bounds of the reservation you ask for. To which they answered: The reservation we wish is represented in the plan we hand you, and bounded as follows: Beginning on the south bank of the Tennesseé river, above Ditto Landing, where the present Cherokee boundary is established; thence, with said line, round the head of Thompson’s and Brown’s creeks, to an acute point in said line, northeast to General Jackson’s trace to Fort Strother; then, a due north line to Short creek; thence, down said creek, to the Tennessee river, to include the islands at the month of Short creek; and thence, down the Tennessee, to the beginning. There are, and will be, settled within these bounds, about eighty families, and upwards of one hundred chiefs and warriors. Upon our father the President, and the Congress of the United States, securing to us, the chiefs and warriors of said district, a permanent right to said land, as above described, we will relinquish to the United States all claim to any other land within the limits reserved for the Cherokee nation by treaty. We are instructed to state to you, and to request you to lay the same before our father the President of the United States, that we are entitled to a proportionable part of the annuities granted to the Cherokee nation by treaty with the United States, that have become due, or may hereafter become due; none of which we have received for three years, nor have we been heard by our chiefs in council for that period. The council for the Cherokee nation last fall divided the nation into eight districts or counties; the one in which we live is bounded as follows: Beginning on the Tennessee river, at the mouth of Racoon creek; runs up that creek, to its source; thence, in a direct line, to the forks of Coosa river, at the mouth of Emuchchy creek; thence, to the Creek line; with the Creek line to the Coosa river, with the Coosa river to the mouth of Well’s creek; thence, with the Cherokee boundary, to the Tennessee river, and up that river to the beginning; which being considered one-eighth part of the nation, we are entitled to one-eighth' part of the annuities, which we pray may be secured to us, and placed in the hands of our own chiefs, to he equally divided amongst us by them in whom we have confidence, under the conditions and stipulations of the treaty of 1817, which secured to all who wished to remove to Arkansas compensation for their improvements, transportation, and provisions. Many of us were prepared to remove, and incurred great expense; we were forbidden by our king and chief the Path Killer. Without the consent of any of the chiefs of our town, a delegation was sent on to the city of Washington, who made a treaty, securing to themselves and some others reserves and benefits, rescinding the stipulations of the treaty of 1817, which secured to the Cherokee pay for his improvement, and transportation and 1824.] PROPOSITION OF CHEROKEES TO CEDE THEIR LANDS. 505 provision on his removal, which has prevented many who were prepared to remove to the Arkansas. From such acts as these we are fearful that the upper part of the nation may, at some future day, deprive us of our country without our consent; we therefore wish the President and Congress to take into consideration our prayer, and that, by a solemn act, we may be permanently secured in the title to the bounds herein set forth, and in the plan handed you; and that we may be protected from the intrusion of others, by wholesome regulations: all which we request, for ourselves, and as representatives of the ehiefs and warriors of our district, you will lay before the President of the United States; and, looking to you as a friend and brother, that you will use your influence with our father the President of the United States that our prayers may be heard, and that we and our posterity may be secured in the peaceable enjoyment and permanent possession of the small spot of land we ask for. GEORGE FIELDS, TURTLE FIELDS, his X mark. Test:	ANDREW JACKSON.	WOLFE, his X mark. DIVISION OF THE SOUTH, HEAD-QUARTERS, FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: ’	NASHVILLE, January 18, 1821. By the hands of our brothers George Fields, Wolfe, and Turtle Fields, I received your letters—one from my old friend and brother the king of your nation, the Path Killer, dated the 11th December, 1820, and two from your ehiefs, the Speaker, Wasaucy, Archibald Campbell, Night Killer, James Spencer, and John Thompson; which I have read and considered with great attention, and have received from the mouth of your faithful friend and agent, Turtle Fields, who has explained to me all your wishes, not expressed in your letters, as it respects the boundary you wish reserved, and the grievances you labor under, from the want of being heard in the councils of your nation by your chiefs, heretofore, and your apprehensions of being hereafter deprived of your country without your consent, as you have been of receiving your proportion of the annuities for the last three years: all of which I think reasonable, and I have no doubt will be heard and redressed by your father the President of the United States. You have fought with me; I then told you I was your friend; that your father the President of the United States was not only your friend, but he loved you as children, and he would act always as your friend. You now ask him, through me, to have secured to you a tract of country, small in proportion to what you are entitled to, compared with your numbers, and compared with the whole country reserved by treaty for the use of the whole Cherokee nation; and to have this allotted to you and your posterity, permanently, so that your nation cannot sell, without your consent, to the United States—relinquishing all right to any other land you may be entitled to, which has been secured by treaty to the Cherokee nation, and which may of right belong to you as part of that nation. This is so reasonable, that I have no doubt but your father the President of the United States, and Congress assembled, will readily grant it. The chiefs of the upper part of your nation cannot complain of this. They can procure, by proper application, the same security. This done, you know that you will rest unmolested in possession of what is thus allotted to you, as long as you choose to possess it; and, if the upper part of the nation choose, it can obtain the same security you now ask for. I hope your request will be granted you; and I can assure you, as a friend and brother, and as a friend of your whole nation, that, as far as I have influence, it shall be exercised to obtain your request from the President and Congress of the United States; and fur which purpose I have transmitted to your father the President the three letters received by your trusty friends and brothers addressed to me, as well as<your trusty agent Turtle Field’s explanation of all your wishes. So soon as I receive an answer from your father the President of the United States, I will forward it tu you. Friends and brothers: I never have flattered or deceived one of my red brothers. I never tell them lies. I have not the power to say positively that your request will be granted; but I will make a faithful recommendation of it to your father the President of the United States, and use my influence that the reserve you ask shall be made to you. Your happiness and permanent security require it; the interest of your white brethren urges it; from which I conclude it will be granted to you. I have directed your delegation to shpke you all by the hand for me as friends and brothers, and tu say to you that I wish the happiness of you and your whole nation. I am your friend and brother, ANDREW JACKSON. To Path Killer, Speaker, Wasaucy, Archibald Campbell, Night Killer, James Spencer, and John Thompson. SIR:	NASHVILLE, December 8, 1822. A few days since I received the communication, herewith enclosed, from the Creek Path Cherokee Indians; and, in reply, gave it as my opinion that our Government would not be disposed to purchase any of their lands, unless with the approbation of at least a majority of the headmen of the nation. But, as they were desirous to know the disposition of the President in relation to this matter, I have thought proper to forward their address, and to request that you will be pleased to communicate such decision as may be made thereon. I have the honor to be, tec. .	WM. CARROLL. The Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Washington City. DEAR SIR:	CHEROKEE NATION, November 2, 1822. We, the undersigned, chiefs of the Creek Path towns in the said Cherokee nation, beg your attention a short time to read a few lines addressed to you from your red brethren, the Creek Path people. You are no stranger to the services we rendered you in time of the Creek war, when we were under the command of General Jackson. At that time we had Colonel Richard Brown, our beloved chief, for nur leader; but he is now no more, and it is we that feel the effects, to our sorrow. While he was yet alive, we had a representative in our national councils; but since his death'we have none, and cannot be heard, and for no other reason than this. About the summer of 1817, General Jackson was appointed by the United States to hold a conference with the Cherokees, at Turkey Town, on Coosa river, for the purpose of extinguishing part or all of the Cherokee claim of land; but did not, at that time, get his ends accomplished. Some time after this, Governor McMinn was appointed commissioner to conclude said treaty at Highwassee, when we fully understood our country was to be given up as a part of said cession; but finally they did not treat with Governor McMinn, and appointed a delegation, altogether from the . 64 E upper part of the nation, giving us no chance to be heard at all. These went on to the federal city, and made a treaty to please themselves, which made them and their friends all rich, by getting money and reservations of six hundred and forty acres of the best lands in all the country; in the mean time, getting rights in fee-simple for all their relations, (a great part boys and women,) that never had been of any service to their country, and leaving men out who have been of essential service to the United States—such as Captain John Thompson,forone, whom you were well acquainted with during the war. True it is, some of us did enrol our names as Arkansas emigrants, not knowing but our lands were sold at the same time; and finding, shortly after, they were not, we sat still on our farms that we had made, thinking no one had a better right than we who made. them. Nevertheless, we plainly see there is no peace for us on this side the Mississippi; therefore, we have sent our long tried friend, Captain James Reed, to you, for the purpose of getting you to use your influence with the General Government, and your State members in Congress, for us, the Creek Path people, to have the privilege to sell our own part of the country, at a reasonable price, to the United States, and for us to reap the benefit of the proceeds of the sales, to enable us to move away in peace; well knowing the United States are not bound to furnish us with any thing, without an equivalent, to defray our expenses in removing away. We are not able to move without we can have that privilege. The upper chiefs are now in council, as we understand, for the purpose of selling all the Cherokee lands in the chartered limits of the State of Georgia. The next will be ours, if they can. Our request is a reasonable one. We only want from the mouth of Short creek, down, which is only eight miles above Deposite, on Tennessee river; thence, to Coffee’s Bluff; thence, with the crooked line that General Coffee run, for the express purpose of favoring the Creek Path people; otherwise it would have been Government land before this time. The bearer can give you full information on the subject, having lived among us for several years. In confidence, we conclude, and remain your respectful brothers, so long as we live, WASAUCY, SPEAKER, GEORGE FIELDS, TURTLE FIELDS, GEORGE GESS, JAMES SPENCER, YOUNG WOLFE, JOHN -THOMPSON, Interpreter. To His Excellency WM. CARROLL, Governor of the State of Tennessee. B. Copy of a letter from the Secretary of War to Colonel R. J. Meigs, Cherokee Agent, dated SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 30, 1822. I have received your letters of the 20th and 22d ultimo, and the 4th instant. The Department has been apprized of the proceedings of the National Committee and Council, by a communication from them, previous to the receipt of your letter of the 22d ultimo. Your remarks upon these proceedings are believed to be correct, and it is hoped, notwithstanding the declaration which they contain, a treaty will be effected with the Cherokee nation, by the commissioners appointed for that purpose. The enclosed extract of a letter from the Creek Path towns, addressed to Governor Carroll, and transmitted by him to this Department, will show that the nation are not unanimous in the declaration not to cede any more lands, above referred to; and you will use every proper exertion to dispose the nation generally to meet the commissioners at the time appointed by them for holding the 'purposed treaty. You will lay the enclosed extract before the commissioners, for their information, on their arrival at the agency. I have, &c. .«•	J. C. CALHOUN. Colonel R. J. MEIGS, Cherokee Agent. CONGRESS.] 
