NO. 158  ALTERATION OF THE SYSTEM FOR TRADING WITH THE INDIANS. [COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 15, 1819. Mr. HENRY SOUTHARD, from the committee to whom was referred so much of the President’s message as relates . to Indian affairs, reported: That they have considered the subject to them referred with that attention and solicitude which the importance of it demands, both with regard to the peace and future happiness of those savage tribes, and the safety and permanent security of the citizens of the United States. Your committee have examined the several laws of the United States, from the commencement of the Government to this time; the primary object of which appears to have been to cultivate peace and amity with the Indian tribes on our frontiers, by establishing trading-houses or posts convenient to their settlements, so as to supply them with such articles of trade as their necessities required in exchange for their peltry and furs. This trade has been carried on for more than forty years, with alternate loss and gain. The sums of money that have been appropriated by the several acts of Congress, as a fund for carrying on said commerce, have amounted, in the whole, to $300,000, exclusive of the sum of $20,000 annually drawn from the treasury of the United States for the payment of superintendent, agents, clerks, &c. It is deemed unnecessary to exhibit a detailed and particular statement of the increase or dimioution of the capital of this establishment at the respective periods at which they have taken place; it is sufficient to state that, previous to and during the late war with Great Britain, at the respective agencies, in the whole we sustained a loss, by the destruction and ravages of the enemy, to the amount of $44,538 36. After the ratification of the treaty of peace with England, on the 1st of April, 1815, the value of the capital in stock, fur, and property on hand, was stated to amount to $273,989 03. On the 30th of June, 1818, it is estimated at $308,536 37. The gain arising from the prosecution of the trade from 1st of April, 1815, to 30th of June, 1818, is $34,547 34. Although these establishments have been a pecuniary loss to the United States, in some respects, yet no doubt is entertained that, on the whole, they have been of great advantage, not only on the score of humanity to the Indian tribes, but also in preserving the lives and property of our frontier inhabitants, which would otherwise, under the influence of foreign traders, have been in hostile array against us; and, no doubt, this policy has much weakened the power and force of those nations that have been at war with us.	- Notwithstanding the committee are sensible that much good has been done by the partial system now in operation, they are induced to believe that it is susceptible of great improvement on the present plan; but, from the importance of the subject in its various bearings and consequences, they believe that more extensive and energetic measures ought to be adopted by Government to effect the humane and benevolent purposes of Congress, and meet the ardent wishes of the people of the United States, as manifested by the various memorials presented to the National Legislature, and which have been referred to the committee. 24 E From these sources of information, which have been drawn from the experimental knowledge of several religious societies and associations of friends, who, at their own expense, and by their unwearied exertions, have done much to ameliorate the distressed condition of those wretched inhabitants of the forest, little or no doubt remains of the policy and practicability of improving the friendly Indians in agriculture, manufacture, education, and all the arts of civilized life; and, at the same time, of teaching the hostile tribes that their safety, interest, and happiness will be promoted by cultivating peace and amity with us. Under the existing regulations, the United States have sustained great injury by foreigners and improper characters having been licensed to trade on their own account, with little or no responsibility to any Government; and a kind of peddling traders, without license, vending their wares and ardent spirits, to the great injury not only of the savages, but to the peace and safety of our frontier inhabitants. Your committee have paid due attention to the report of the Secretary of War, made the 8th day of December, in obedience to a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 4th day of April last, [see No. 157;] and, having considered the system now in force, and compared it with the principles contained in said report, are of opinion that a more energetic and extensive system is necessary to improve the various Indian tribes in agriculture, education, and civilization, and, at the same time, secure the interest and safety of the citizens of the United States. In order to promote these desirable objects, the committee beg leave to report several bills. [NOTE.—See Nos. 157, 163, 165.] CONGRESS.] 
