No. 37. [2d Session. THE CHEROKEES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 24, 1792. War Department, December 24/A, 1792. Sir: The President of the United States has directed me to submit to the Senate, the copy of a letter from his Excellency the Governor of Georgia, dated Augusta, December 5th, 1792, with an enclosure, relatively to Indian A flairs in the southern department. I have the honor to be, sir, with perfect respect, your most obedient servant, H. KNOX, Secretary of I Car. The President of the Honorable the Senate of the United States. State House, Augusta, 5th December, 1792. Sir: The enclosed certified document, beingthe deposition of Owen T. Bowen, relative to the murder of eight whites, by Cherokees, on the Western frontiers of this State, will evince that the savage principle of retaliation cannot be guarded against. It will now become indispensable that measures be taken to prevent farther outrage. Three companies of horse have already been ordered to range in that quarter where the murders have been committed, and it may be necessary that additional reinforcements be called in, to give protection and confidence to the settlers. No answer has, as yet, been received to my talk sent to the Cherokees, of which, you was furnished with a copy in my last. I have the honor to be. sir. your most humble servant. EDWARD TELFAIR. / The Secretary ok War. State of Georgia, Richmond County, ss. Owen T. Bowen, of the county of Franklin, planter, being duly sworn, saitli: that, on Thursday evening last, being the twenty-ninth ultimo, he passed by the house of one Mrs. Crockett, a widow woman, ill the said county, where he saw the said widow, and advised her to move away into the fort in the neighbor-hood, as two Indians had been, on that day, seen in the settlement. That the said Mrs. Crockett replied, she would move as soon as her son came home. That, the next morning, the deponent went to the same house, and there saw the said Mrs. Crockett, together with her son, a young man, three young women, and three children, the youngest about six years old. all lying dead, scalped, and cruelly mangled: and that, from every appearance, the said murders were committed by Indians, and by Cherokees as the deponent believes. _ The deponent further saitli, that there were two war clubs lying by the dead bodies, and several arrows sticking in them. This deponent further saitli not. OWEN T. BOWEN*. Sworn to this 3d day of December, 1793,, before T. HOUSTOUX. B true copy from the files of the Executive. Attest, W. URQT'HART. C. E. I). 2nd Congress.] 
