No. 29. [2d Session. GENERAL VIEW. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ON THE 7'ril, AND TO T1IE SENATE ON THE: 21 ST NOVEMBER, 1792. W ar Department, November 7, 1792. Sir: .. In obedience to the directions of the President of the United States. I have the honor to submit to the Senate and House of Representatives, the following papers, on the subject ql Indian Aft’airs, to wit: 1st. A statement of the measures taken, and the overtures made to procure a peace with the Indians, northwest of the Ohio. 2d. Information received relatively to the. pacific overtures, and the dispositions ol the Indians northwest of the Ohio. 5d. A statement of the measures which have been taken to conciliate and quiet the Southern Indians. 4th. Information received relatively to the dispositions of the Southern Indians, and the causes of the hostilities of part of the Cherokees and Creeks. 5th. A statement of the troops in the service of the United-States. It is humbly suggested, that the public good requires that anumber of these papers be considered as confidential. I have the honor to be, with great respect, Your most obedient humble servant, H. KNOX, Secretary of War. [Addressed to the presiding officers of both Houses of Congress] No. I. . A Statement of the measures taken, and the overtures made\ to procure a peace with the Indians Northwest of the Ohio. The Secretary of War to the Rev. Samuel Kirkland.—December 20, 1791. Sm: At a conference held by Colonel Pitkering with the Senecas, and all the other Six Nations (excepting the Mohawks) at the Painted Post, in the month of June last, it was agreed that certain chiefs,should repair to Philadelphia, during the time of Congress being in session, in order to carry into execution certain principles, tending to the civilization of the said Indians. ' . Colonel Pickering now writes to those chiefs at Buffalo Creek, and other places, inviting them to repair here. In his invitation, he has invited Captain Brandt; perhaps this may notbe a sufficient inducement for him to come. You will, therefore, write to him in your own name, assuring him that you will pledge yourself for his safety and welcome reception.   * Immediately on your return to Oneida, you wall send Indian runners to the several chiefs who are named by Colonel Pickering. You are explicitly to understand, that the presence of a few of the principal chiefs is desired. You will appoint Geneseo as the place for you to meet the said chiefs, with whom you will proceed directly to this city, by way of Tioga and Luzerne county. Your knowledge of the language and customs of the Indians, a confidence in your character and integrity, induces me to place an entire reliance on you relatively to this business. That you will send faithful and intelligent messengers, particularly to Captain Brandt, from whom you will endeavor to obtain an explicit answer. That you will meet the said Indians at Geneseo, at the time you shall appoint, which ought to be as soon as convenient.   ■ That you trill make suitable provision for them at Geneseo, and thence on the route to this city. That you will take all due care that they are not insulted on the road, but kindly received. That you will inform me, in due season, of their number, and when they will arrive in this city, in order that suitable accommodations may be provided for them. That you will keep the accounts of the expenditures upon the road, in a fair and clear manner; taking receipts for every expenditure, so that every shilling may have a proper voucher annexed thereto. In order to enable you to execute this business in a proper manner, I have directed that the sum of three hundred and fifty dollars be placed in your hands, for which you will be held accountable. Besides defraying your necessary expenses, while in the actual execution of this business, you shall have a reasonable compensation for your trouble, which shall be settled and paid upon the issue'of the business in this city. I shall depend upon receiving your communications upon all necessary occasions; and particularly, I shall wish to obtain as early information as possible of the effect which the late defeat of our army has had upon the minds of the Six Nations, particularly the Senecas. You will not fail, upon all proper occasions, to impress on the minds of all Indians; so that the sentiment may be diffused far and wide, that the, President of the United States and Congress are-highly desirous of being the protectors, friends, and ministers of good, to all peaceably disposed Indians; and, at the same time, they will punish all murderers and disturbers of the peace of the frontiers. Message from the Secretary of War to the Cornplanter, and other Seneca chiefs, January 7th, 1792, under cover to Lieutenant Jeffers, per post to Pittsburg. To the Cornplanter,-and other chiefs of the Seneca nation, on and near the waters of the Alleghany river. Brothers: . ' ' _ . Opeu your ears and hear the words of your friend, for it is by General Washington's order, the Great Chief of the United States, I speak to you. _ _ . The unfortunate defeat of our troops at the Westward, does not dishearten the United States, .and I hope it does not you. It is true, we lament the blood that has been spilt in a war, .which you know we wished to avoid. You know this, as well from the mouth of our great chief, General Washington, as from the endeavors of Colonel Procter, whom I sent to you last spring. But the number of men we have lost, we can easily replace; and, therefore, although the continuance of the war will be troublesome, yet, in the long run, we must conquer. . The United States have wished to be at peace with the. Miami and Wabash Indians; but they have refused to listen to our invitations, and have continued to murder our people. Brothers: The United States must, and will protect their frontier inhabitants; and if much evil befall the bad Indians, they will have brought it upon themselves. General Washington regards you as our fast friend, and he will take care of you. Lieutenant Jeffers tell usyou have been threatened by the bad Indians; if this should be the case, had you not better remove near his garrisonr or shall we build a fort near where you are, to w hich you may resort in case of danger? Speak, for we wish to consider you and your people as part of ourselves. ■ I have sent you a few presents, to replace those things which some had people plundered you of last spring. Receive them as an earnest of the good will of the United States; and let us know what other articles you wish, and they shall be sent you. Let nothing shake your friendship: for, be assured, we only seek to do that which is right and just. [l. s.] Given, &c. H. KNOX, Secretary of War. 'The Secretary oj War to the Rev. Samuel Kirkland, January 9th, 1792. Sir: I have received a letter from General Schuyler, dated the ’1st instant, informing me that he had persuaded Good Peter and French Peter to return with you; I therefore expect this letter will reach you at Genesee. I hope this ardently, because Captain Hoops, who lelt Genesee’ lately, saw there the Farmer's Brother, with whom he had much conversation. The Farmer’s Brother informed me of a great council about to be held at Buffalo creek, the decrease of the present moon. It is all important to know- the object of this council; I conjure, you, therefore, to spare no pains nor expense to gain this information, and let me know- the result by an express. I nope you will go to that council; and knowing the kindness of the General Government, that you will exert yourself that no wrong measures be taken. I hope, earnestly, that you will succeed in bringing the chiefs to this city with you. I consider this as highly important at this time. I know, when the Indians are persuaded of the good intentions of the United States to them, that they will use their highest exertions for peace. Let me hear from you as early as possible. I am, sir, yours, &c. Instructions to Captain Peter Pond and JVilliam Steedmun, January 9th. 1792. Gentlemen-:   _   ... .- Having verbally acquainted you with the general causes of the existing hostilities between the United States and certain Western tribes of Indians, it will not be necessary to recapitulate, particularly, the same to you in writing. This war is irksome to the President and General Government, as well as to the people, generally, of the United States. It has, however, been brought on by events which the Government could not control. Governor St. Clair, early in 1790, sent messages to all the tribes inhabiting the Wabash river and the Miami villages, inviting them to peace. These messages were delivered by two Frenchmen, by the name of Gamelin. But, the invitations being disregarded, and the outrages renewed with greater violence than ever. Brigadier General Harmar,' with some regular troops and militia, was sent forth, the last year, with the intention of chastising the refractory Indians, die issue of which is well known. Immediately after this affair. Governor St. Clair sent messages to the Wyandots and Delawares. In February last, the Cornplanter, a Seneca chief, then in this city, was informed by a written speech, signed by the President’s own hand, that the. United States wanted nothing of the Miami Indians, excepting peace. The Cornplanter. impressed with a conviction of the truth of these declarations, offered to go to tlie Miami village. But, as some disturbances happened about the time of his arrival at fort Pitt, he was delayed. Colonel Procter, March 12th, 1791, having in company Captain Iloudin, was sent to push forward the Corn-planter, and to accompany him to the hostile Indians, with the speech No. 1, together with the speeches from Governor St. Clair, No. 2. But, on his arrival at the Cornplanter's, he found him indisposed to go forward to the Miami village, unless accompanied by some more of his tribe, residing at Buffalo creek. The colonel and the Corn-planter, therefore, repaired to Buffalo creek, and assembled the Indians. But the councils were tedious, although they finally agreed to accompany Colonel Procter, provided a vessel could be obtained to carry them across the lake; but, this being impracticable, the object failed. In addition to these measures, Colonel Pickering assembled the Six Nations, at the Painted Post, in June last, for the purpose of conciliation: and Captain Hendricks was sent forward to the Miami Indians, but was frustrated in his object by causes unnecessary to be detailed. All conciliatory measures, therefore, failing, it became necessary to try the effect of coercion; but this, too, proved abortive, and the army under General St. Clair was defeated. As the sentiments of the United States remain the same, the efforts for peace are again to precede other measures. Our forces have been defeated, and we have lost a number of brave men. But the numbers so defeated were indeed small, compared with the numbers we are able to send. No doubt can exist that our strength and our resources are abundant to conquer, and even extirpate the Indians, northwest of the Ohio. But this is not our object. We wish to be at peace with those Indians—to be their friends and protectors—to perpetuate them on the land. J'he desire, therefore, that we have for peace, must not be inconsistent with the national reputation. We cannot ask the Indians to make peace with us, considering them as the aggressors: but they must ask a peace of us. To persuade them to this effect is the object of your mission. Repair to Niagara and Detroit, without suffering your business to escape you, until the proper time. When at Detroit, assume the characters of traders with the Indians—a business Mr. Pond is well acquainted with. Mix with the Miami and Wabash Indians. Find their views and intentions, through such channels as your discretion shall direct. Learn the opinions of the more distant Indians. Insinuate, upon all favorable occasions, the humane disposition of the United States; and, if you can by any means ripen their judgment, so as to break forth openly, and declare the readiness of the United States to receive, with open arms, the Indians, notwithstanding all that is past, do it. If such declaration'should be made, at the Miami or Wabash, and be well received, you might persuade some of the most influential chiefs to repair to our posts on the Ohio, and so. from post to post, to tins place. But, if you should be so fortunate as to succeed in persuading the chiefs of the Miami and hostile, and any other neighboring tribes, to repair here, every possible precaution must be taken by you, and by the commanding officer of the troops, who is hereby required to afford the necessary escorts, in order to guard the Indians from being injured by the whites. While among the Indians, or at Niagara, or Detroit, endeavor to find out the numbers and tribes of the Indians who were in the attack of General St. Clair, and their loss, killed and wounded; what number of prisoners they took; and whaPthey did with them; what disposition they made of the cannon taken, arms, tents, and other plunder; what are their intentions for the next year; the numbers of the association; how "they are supplied with arms, ammunition, and provisions. You. will readily perceive, that the information required must be given me at the earliest period possible. You will, therefore, let me know, by some means which you must devise, your arrival at Niagara, Detroit, and the Miami village; and, il possible,'from thence, what are your prospects. You have herewith delivered you eight hundred dollars—for this sum you will be held accountable, and for'which you must produce vouchers. It is intended to defray your expenses, and to facilitate the great object of your inis-sion. Your reputation will stand pledged that it be applied only on proper occasions. Besides your reasonable expenses, while employed in this mission, you shall be paid, on your return, a liberal compensation for your services, by the United States. It is unnecessary, at. this time, to say what the sum shall be; but. you may be assured, in any event, it shall be in'proportion to the hazard and fatigue of the business; and, if successful, also in proportion to the services you may render. You are hereby informed, that I have employed the Reverend Mr. Kirkland to persuade some of the chiefs of the Six Nations to repair to this place. You will probably see him at Genesee. But, although you may obtain as much information from him as possible, yet you must not discover the object of your mission to him, or any other mortal, until the proper time of its execution: if you do, you will ruin the plan, and, perhaps, lose your lives too. 1 have been informed, that, at the decrease of this moon, there is to be a gre<atcouncil of the Senecas assembled at Buffalo creek, near fort Eric. It is important I should know the object of this council; endeavor, therefore, to find it out, and let me know, by an express: provided, however, that Mr. Kirkland should not be able to inform you. 1 have written to him upon this subject, which I deliver to you. Your route will be from hence .to Wyoming; thence to the Painted Post, and to Genesee, where you will obtain runners to go with you to Niagara. Given, &c. II. KNOX, Secretary of I Par. To Captain Waterman Baldwin.—10th February, 1792. Sir: You have herewith delivered to you a message from me to the New Arrow, Cornplanter, and other chiefs of the Seneca Indians, residing oi7 the Alleghany, which you are to deliver and explain to tnem. The standing object of the United States, is, to be at peace with all the Indian tribes; but the bad conduct of the Western Indians renders it impracticable at present. In this situation of affairs, the Seneca Indians, at Buffalo creek, have been invited, and are expected in Philadelphia. As we depended on the attendance of the New Arrow, Cornplanter, and other chiefs, at the Alleghany, we did not send messages to them at the same time, more especially, as we understood that they had gone to the council at Buffalo. But, as they may possibly conceive themselves neglected, they are now invited. It is doubtful, however, whether they may think their families safe, during their absence, and therefore decline to come. . If this should be the case, you may assure them of the decided friendship of the United States. That, if they can be answerable for their young men not joining at all the war, they had better remain quiet. But if they think (he young men will join one side or the other, they had better join ours; which conduct will cement our friendships, and render us one people. In this cEvse, we will turnish them with arms, ammunition, provisions, and, besides, will pay them as shall be agreed upon. But it is my desire that, if possible, the chiefs, Captain Snake included, should repair to this city, in order to make a general arrangement; if they will consent to this measure, you are to accompany them, together with Joseph Nicholson, the interpreter, to whom I have written. If the said chiefs come here, you will pay their expenses on the road; and, in order to enable you so to do, I shall direct that, upon your return at fort Pitt, Major Craig shall furnish you with two hundred dollars, and I now give you one hundred dollars for your expenses. As soon as you get the answer, you are to return here to me with all possible despatch. . 'You will call at fort Pitt for Joseph Nicholson, and at fort Franklin, to let Lieutenant Jeffers know your business. But you are to keep your business a secret from all other persons, excepting Captain Cass, at fort Pitt, to whom you are to communicate it in confidence. _ > Your activity and fidelity have been approved, your discretion and judgment are now to be tried. I hope they will be equal to the duty assigned you. ) Message from the Secretary of War to the 'Neiv-Jlrrow, Cornplanter, Big-Log, and other Seneca chiefs, to repair to Philadelphia—per Captain W. Baldwin. 10th February, 1792. Brothers: I sent a message to you on the 7th day of last March, by Lieutenant Jeffers. I hope you received that message, and the goods therein mentioned. Your situation is such, and the bad Indians are so hostile, that it is the desire of the President of the United States, that the New-Arrow, the Cornplanter, and two other principal chiefs, should immediately .repair to Philadelphia, in order to decide on the measures which shall best promote the common good of the Senecas and the white people. This invitation is to extend to Captain Snake, and one or two other influential chiefs of his tribe, residing on the Alleghany. , _ We have invited the Farmers’ Brother, and other chiefs, who reside at Buffalo creek, to repair here, in order to convince them how much it will be for their interest to consider themselves as the fast lriends of the United States. Although we have a full conviction of the friendship of the New-Arrow, the Cornplanter, and-the other chiefs and warriors residing on the Alleghany, yet we should like them to be present at the proposed meeting with the chiefs from Buffalo creek, so that all our proceedings maV be marked with the highest openness and truth. But you arc to judge how far you may with safety leave your families, for the time you must necessarily be absent, in order to repair here. . If you should judge your families would not be safe, then we will concur in the best arrangements to secure them, as we should to secure our own women and children. ' .» Let us know, immediately, your intention, because, if you cannot come and receive the words which I have to speak to you in the name of the President of the United States, I must commission some person to repair to you with another message, and some further propositions concerning your own safety, and to cement our friendship. I send you this message by Captain Waterman Baldwin, wno will accompany you to this city; or who, in case of your declining to come, will be the bearer of your message. Given, &c. ' .. H, KNOX, Secretary of War. To Captain Joseph Brandt—per Mr. James M. Reed, express. 9.5th February, 1792. Sir: . Colonel Pickering, who had some communications with the Senecas, and others of the Six Nations, during the two last years, was duly authorized to invite you to visit this city, in order to consult you upon .the best means of civilizing and advancing the happiness of the Indians. Some information has been recently received from Mr. Kirkland, intimating your disposition to perform the visit, but declining to do it upon theformer invitation, as not beingsulliciently explicit. ■ 1 now repeat to you this invitation, accompanied with a wish that you would repair to this city, which is the seat of the General Government; and I can assure you that the President of the United States will be highly gratified by receiving and conversing with a chief of such eminence as you are, on a subject so interesting and important to the human race. This invitation is given to you from the fairest motives. The President of the United States is conscious of the purest dispositions to promote generally the welfare of the Indians, and he flatters himself that proper, occasions only are wanting to impress them with the truth of this assertion. He considers your mind more enlightened than theirs, and he has hopes that your heart is filled with a true desire to serve the essential interests of yonr countrymen. The United States, much against the inclination of the Government, are engaged in hostilities with some of the Western Indians. We, on our parts, have entered into it with reluctance, and consider it as a war of necessity; and not, as is supposed and industriously propagated by many, for the purpose of accumulating more land than has been ceded by the treaty with the Indians, since the peace with Great Britain. We are desirous of bringing it to a conclusion, not from any apprehension as to a favorable result, because, by a comparison of forces and resources, however troublesome a perseverance therein may be to us, it must be utter destruction to the hostile Indians. We are desirous, for the sake of humanity, of avoiding such a catastrophe. This is the main business which will be mentioned to you on the part of the United States; and it is an object worthy of the best cultivated head and heart. If you should enter into this view, Mr. Kirkland has directions to concert with you the most satisfactory mode of your performing the journey. The nature of the case will show the necessity of your coming without delay, if you incline to accept this invitation. To the Rev. Samuel Kirkland—per Mr. James M. Reed, express. 25th February, 1792. Sin: I have received your letter of the 13th, with its enclosures, by Mr. Reed. ? I transmit you a letter for Captain Brandt, whose presence here is considered of great importance. You will, of course, spare no pains in endeavoring to induce him to coine; the means you will carefully devise. In case of his compliance, you will arrange with him the most satisfactory mode of travelling, which ought to be as flattering to him as may be; and you will accompany him. It will be important that the Buffalo and Genesee Indians also come, particularly the former. In case of their journey, you will inform me duly thereof, and send them under the care of General Chapin, or such other person as you shall judge proper, with suitable interpreters, while you accompany Captain Brandt I have ordered Mr. Reed three hundred dollars, agreeably to your request ... The Secretary of War to the Rev. Samuel Kirkland—per Colonel Procter and Lieutenant Sedam.—7th March. 1792. Sir: I have received your favor of the 25th ultimo. I am heartily glad you have succeeded in obtaining the chiefs to come with yon. I am sensible the number, with some people, will be considered as objectionable, but I am induced to believe that your prudence has been properly exercised on this point. In order to secure the Indians from any insult, 1 have persuaded Colonel Procter and Lieutenant Sedam to meet and conduct you to this city. It would be proper (hat I should be acquainted, at least a week before your arrival, how they are to be lodged, whether in one house, or any distinction made in the manner of their accommodation. I would have them satisfactorily treated on the road; in order to this end, I have sent you. by Lieutenant Sedam. seven hundred dollars. You will remember that duplicate vouchers must be produced for all expenditures. It is the desire of the President of the United States that no pains, or even reasonable expense, should be spared to obtain a visit from Captain Brandt. You will therefore arrange this matter on the best possible footing, on receiving my letter of the 25th ultimo. Speech of the President of the United States to the chiefs and representatives of the Five Sat ions of Indians, in Philadelphia.—23d March. 1792. Sachemsano Warriors of the Five Nations: It affords me great satisfaction to see so many of you. who are the respectable chiefs and representatives of your several tribes; and I cordially bid you welcome to the seat of Government of the United States. You have been invited to this place by Colonel Pickering, at my special request, in order to remove all causes of discontent, to devise and adopt plans to promote your welfare, and firmly to cement the peace between the United States and you, so as that, in future, we shall consider ourselves as brothers indeed. I assure you that I am desirous that a firm peace should exist, not only between the United States and the Five Nations, but also between the United States and all the natives of ibis land: and that this peace should be founded upon the principles of justice and humanity, as upon an immoveable rock. That you may partake of all the comforts of this earth, which can be derived from civilized life, enriched by the possession of industry, virtue, and knowledge: and I trust that such judicious measures will now be concerted to secure to you, and your children, these invaluable objects, as will afford you just cause of rejoicing while you live. That these are the strong and sincere desires of my heart, I hope time and circumstances will convince you. But, in order that our peace and friendship may forever be unclouded, we must forget the misunderstandings of past times. Let us now look forward and devise measures to render our friendship perpetual. I am aware that the existing hostilities with some of the Western Indians nave been ascribed to an unjust possession of their lands by the United States. But be assured, that this is not the case; we require no lands but those obtained by treaties, which we consider as fairly made, and particularly confirmed by the treaty of Muskingum, in the year 1789. If the Western Indians should entertain the opinion that we want to wrest their lands from them, they are laboring under an error. If this error could be corrected, it would be for their happiness; and nothing would give me more pleasure, because it would open to both of us the door of peace. I shall not enter into further particulars with you at present, but refer you to General Knox, the Secretary of M ar. and Colonel Pickering, who will communicate with you upon the objects of your journey, and inform me thereof. As an evidence of the sincerity of the desires of the United States for perfect peace and friendship with yon, I deliver you this white belt of wampum, which I request yon will safely keep. GEO. WASHINGTON. [On the 13th of March, a deputation of the Five Nations, consisting of fifty, arrived in Philadelphia. They were iri\ ited through the agency of Mr. Kirkland, for the purpose of attaching them to, and convincing them of, the justice and humanity of the United States: and also, to influence them to repair to the hostile tribes, in order to use their efliirts to bring about a peace. These objects appeared to be effected, and they departed to carry them into execution. Besides abundant presents, fifteen hundred dollars, annually, were stipulated to these Indians by the President and Senate of the United States, for the purpose of attempting to civilize them. All the various speeches, to and from them, have not been deemed necessary to be here inserted. The speeches of the President of the United States to them, of the 23d of March, soon after their arrival, and of the 23d of April, before their departure, together with Colonel Pickering’s speech to them, of the 30th of April, will show the general aspect of this conference. . They arrived at Buffalo creek in the beginning of June, but, owing to their frequent counselling, and dilatory manner of conducting business, they did not set out from fort Erie for the hostile Indians until the middle of September, when they were accompanied by the firm friend of the United States, the Cornplanter. The result of their interference is not yet known, but may, with the determination of the hostile Indians, be daily expected.] Instructions to Captain Alexander Trueman, of the First United States' Regiment.—3d April, 1792. Sir: Confiding in your judgment and abilities to execute the mission herein designated, 1 hereby request you, in the name of the President of the United States, to enter upon the duties thereof, with all possible despatch. You will, therefore, immediately repair to Pittsburg. I have herewith given you an order to Captain Hughes, to furnish yon with an escort, and a boat to transport you to fort Washington. On your arrival at that place, you will disclose to Lieutenant Colonel-commandant Wilkinson the object of your mission, and concert with him the proper means for carrying it into execution. I have directed him, in a letter herewith delivered to you, to afford you all possible facility in pursuance of your orders. 1 have also, herewith delivered you a speech for the Western Indians, with which you will repair to the Miami village, accompanied by such Indians, men or women, or both, as shall be judged best by you and Lieutenant Colonel Wilkinson. This speech is also accompanied by a belt. It wall be ol the highest importance that you 'hall have an interpreter capable fully of explaining your ideas. You will observe that the speech is designed to effect a peace with the hostile Indians, on the terms of humanity and justice; your language must all, therefore, be to the same effect. As the confederacy of Indians is supposed to be extensive, it will require time to bring your negotiations to a favorable issue. Your patience, your fortitude, and your knowledge of the human character, will all be tested by the objects of your mission. It maybe said on all occasions, and the issue will justify the assertion, that nothing is more desired than to remove all causes of discontent, and to establish a peace upon a firm foundation. But. that, in order to bring about am event so pregnant with happiness to the Indians, they must instantly abstain from all further hostilities, recall their parties if they have any out, as we shall do, and let every thing be settled amicably. 30 If the chiefs of the hostile tribes can be induced to repair here, it is conceived the view of the population of the country, and the improvements of all sorts, will exhibit to their minds,in strong colors, the futility of their continuing the war. As a further inducement to repairing here, presents of clothing and silver ornaments may be stipulated. The Creek treaty, the treaty with the Cherokees, and the present manner in which the deputation of the Six Nations, now in this city, are treated, may be cited as strong proofs of the pacific and liberal intentions oi the General Government. Impressed verbally, as you have been, of the importance of a peace being concluded with the hostile Indians, little more need be added. I shall only say, that it is an event most devoutly desired by the President of the United States, and the people generally. If you shall be the instrument of effecting it, much personal reputation and honor will be the result: besides which, I am authorized by the President of the United States, that your expenses, while in the employment, shall be supported by the public, and that you shall be liberally rewarded in a pecuniary manner. It will be important that you take with you some white, or other persons, to serve as messengers between you and the commanding officer, so that he may be informed, and through him, me, of your prospects, from time to time. If you should succeed, yon will please to accompany the chiefs to this place; but if you should fail, you will join the army under the commanding officer, after stating in the most ample manner the progress and result of your proceedings. 1 am, sir, &c. H. KNOX, Secretary of War. Speech from the Secretary of War, to all the Sachems and IVarriors of the tribes inhabiting the Miami river of Luke Erie, and the waters of the Wabash river, the Wyandots, Delawares, Otlawas, Chippewas, Pattawalamies, and all other tribes residing to the southward of the lakes east of the Mississippi, and to the northward of the river Ohio, 4th April, 1792—per Captain Alexander Trueman. Brothers: The President of the United States, General Washington, the Great Chief of the nation, speaks to you by this address. Summon^ therefore, your utmost powers of attention, and hear the important things which shall be spoken to you concerning your future welfare; and after having heard and well understood all things, invoke the Great Spirit above to give yon due deliberation and wisdom, to decide upun a line of conduct that shall best promote your happiness, and the happiness of your children, and perpetuate you and them on the land of your forefathers. Brothers: The President of the United States entertains the opinion, that the war which exists is founded in error and mistake on your parts. That you believe the United States want to deprive you of your lands and drive you out of the country. Be assured this is not so; on the contrary, that we should be greatly gratified with the opportunity of imparting to you all the blessings of civilized life, of teaching you to cultivate the earth, and raise corn; to raise oxen, sheep, and other domestic animals; to build comfortable houses, and to educate your children, so as ever to dwell upon the land. Brothers: The President of the United States requests you to take this subject into your serious consideration, and to reflect how abundantly more it will be for your interest to be at peace with the United States, and to receive all the benefit, thereof, than to continue a war which, however flattering it may be to you for a moment, must in the end prove ruinous. This desire of peace has not arisen in consequence of the late defeat of the troops under Major General St. Clair; because, in the beginning of the last year, a similar message was sent you by Colonel Procter, but who was prevented from reaching you by some insurmountable difficulties. All the Senecas at Buffalo creek can witness for the truth of this assertion, as he held, during the month of April last, long conferences with them, to devise the means of getting to you with safety. War, at all times, is a dreadful evil to those who are engaged therein, and more particularly so where a few1 people engage to act against so great numbers as the people of the United States. Brothers: Do not not suffer the advantages you have gained to mislead your judgment, and influence you to continue the war; but reflect upon the destructive consequences which must attend such a measure. The President of the United States is highly desirous of seeing a number of your principal chiefs, and convincing you, in person,how much he wishes to avoid the evils of war for your sake, and the sake of humanity. Consult, thereiore, upon the great object of peace; call in your parties, and enjoin a cessation of all further depredations; and as many of the principal chiefs as shall choose, repair to Philadelphia, the seat of the General Government, and there make a peace, founded upon the principles of justice and humanity. Remember that no additional lands will be required of you, or any other tribe, to those that have been ceded by former treaties, particularly by the tribes who had aright to make the treaty of Muskingum in the year 1789. But, if any of your tribes can prove that you have a fair right to any lancls, comprehended by the said treaty, and have not been compensated therefor, you shall receive full satisfaction upon that head. The chiefs you send shall be safely escorted to this city; and shall be well fed and provided with all things for their journey; and the faith of the United States is hereby pledged to you for the true and liberal performance of every thing herein contained and suggested; and all this is confirmed, in your manner, by the great white belt, hereunto attached. Captain Trueman, the bearer, will show you the treaties which the United States have made with the powerful trib es of Indians south of the Ohio—the Creeks,' Cherokees, Chickasaws, and Choctaws. _ You will there nave the most decisive proof of the justice and liberality of the United States towards the Indian tribes. At present, there is in the city of Philadelphia, a deputation of fifty of the principal chiefs of the Five Nations, to wit: The Oneidas, Tuscaroras, Onondagas, and Senecas. _ Were you to see, with yourown eyes, the kind manner in which these chiefs are treated, you would never more think of lifting the hatchet against the United Stales, who are desirous of being your best friends. Come, then, and be convinced for yourselves, of the beneficence of General Washington, the Great Chief of the United States, and afterwards return and spread the glad tidings of peace and prosperity of the Indians fo the setting sun. H. KNOX, Secretary for the Department of War, and Director of Indian Affairs. The Secretary of War to Captain Joseph Brandt, 2Sd April, 1792, per Doctor Deodat Allen. Sir: I have received your letter of the 27th of March, postponing your visit to this city until a period of thirty days after that date. I regret exceedingly the existence of any circumstance which suspended your visit. But as the dispositions of the President of the United States remain the same, as to the objects mentioned in my former letter, I can with great truth assure you, that vour visit at the time you proposed, will be cordially received. General Chapin, who is appointed an agent to the Five Nations, will either accompany you to this city, or he will obtain some other person for that purpose, as shall be agreed upon between you and him. GENERAL VIEW. 231 The Secretary of JJar to General Israel Chapin, 23d April 1792, per Doctor Dcodat Allen. Sir: I have the pleasure to inform you, that the President of the United States appoints you a deputy temporary agent to the Five Nations of.Indians, until further directions, at the rate of five hundred dollars per annum. It will be necessary that you should take the oaths which are herein enclosed, before a magistrate, and transmit the same to me. I herewith transmit you, by the hands of Doctor Deodat Allen, the sum of four hundred dollars- The main object in placing this sum in your hands at present, is to enable you to make a suitable provision for Captain Joseph Brandt, who it is expected will shortly make a visit to this city, and to request that you would either accompany him to this city, or that you would otherwise provide for his journey in a manner perfectly agreeable to him; and that you would give me due notice of his approach at least five days previously to his arrival here. 1 shall shortly transmit you particular rules for your conduct in this office. In the meantime I observe that it is the firm determination of the President of the United States, that the utmost fairness and kindness shall be exhibited to the Indian tribes within the United States. That it is not only his desire to be at peace with all the Indian tribes, but to be their guardians and protectors against all injustice. You will please to observe, that a due accounting of all moneys or goods, placed in your hands, will be rigidly exacted, and that you must always produce vouchers for every dollar expended. The Secretary of JJar to Doctor Dcodat Allen, 25th April, 1792. Sir: I request that you will please to proceed with the letter herewith delivered to Captain Brandt, who is again invited to repair to this city. I have written to General Israel Chapin, at Genesee, who is appointed deputy agent, to make a suitable provision for Captain Brandt’s journey, and to accompany him to this city. If General Chapin should not be able to perform the journey, I should hope you will do it; for which I shall compensate, as well as for the performance of the business herein requested. I have also delivered herewith, a letter to General Chapin, and a warrant for four hundred dollars, on which you will receive the money and deliver the same to General Chapin. Message from the President of the United States to the delegation from the Five Nations of Indians in Philadelphia, 25th April, 1792. My Children of the Five Nations! You were invited here at my request, in order that measures should be concerted with you, to impart such of the blessings of civilization as may at present suit your condition, and give you further desires to improve your own happiness. Colonel Pickering has made the particular arrangements with you, to carry into execution these objects, all of which I hereby approve and confirm. And in order that the money necessary to defray the annual expenses of the arrangements which have been made, should be provided permanently, I now ratify an article which will secure the yearly appropriation of the. sum of one thousand five hundred dollars, for the use and benefit of the Five Nations—the Stockbridge Indians included. The United States having received and provided for you as for a part of themselves, will, I am persuaded, be strongly and gratefully impressed on your minds, and those of all your tribes. Let it be spread abroad among all your villages, and throughout your land, that the United States are desirous not only of a general peace with all the Indian tribes, but of being their friends anti protectors. It has been my direction, and I hope it has been executed to your satisfaction, that during vour residence here, you should be well fed, well lodged, and well clothed; and that presents should be furnished for your waves and families. I partake of your sorrow on account that it has pleased the Great Spirit to take from you two of your number by death, since your residence in this city. I have ordered that your tears should he wiped away according to your custom, and that presents should be sent to the relations of the deceased. Our lives are all in the hands of our Maker, and we must part with them whenever he shall demand them; and the survivors must submit to events they cannot prevent. Having happily settled all your business, and being about to return to your own country, I wish you a pleasant journey, and that you may safely return to your families after so long a journey, ami find them all in good health. Given under my hand, &c. GEO. WASHINGTON. Instructions to General Israel Chapin, deputy temporary agent to the Five Nations of Indians—the Stockbridge Indians included, 28th April, 1792, per Joseph Smith. Sir: Having transmitted you the original of the enclosed duplicate on the 23d instant, by Doctor Deodat Allen, I now'transmit you, by Mr. Joseph Smith, the following general rules and orders, for your government as deputy temporary agent for the Five Nations. Enclosed you have a law of Congress relative to Indian affairs, and certain regulations which have been delivered to the superintendents; all of which you will observe, as far as the same shall be applicable to you as deputy agent. Arthur St. Clair, Esq. the Governor of the territory of the United States norihwest of the Ohio, is the superintendent for the Northern district. You being, therefore, under him, will correspond with, and inform him ol all general occurrences in your agency, and receive and obey his orders in all things relative thereto; and at the same time you will constantly correspond with me as Secretary of War, and receive and obey all orders I shall transmit to you, as the orders’ of the President of the United States. It being important for the regular administration of the Departments of Government, that every transaction should be made w'ith due form; you will, therefore, please to observe, that ,1’nr all sums and effects you receive, you must credit the United States, by the department through which you have received the said sums and effects. That for all your deliveries, you will debit the United States, noticing the cause of such deliveries, and to whom; and in all practicable cases, you will take receipts for the articles and sums delivered; and for all other cases, you will have certificates of respectable witnesses, of the deliveries. By adhering to these general principles, and keeping your accounts in a perspicuous manner, they will he passed with ease, and much perplexity prevented on your part. That it is the most ardent desire of the President of the United States, and the General Government, that a firm peace should be established with the neighboring tribes of Indians, on such pure principles ol justice and moderation, as will enforce the approbation of the dispassionate and enlightened part ol mankind. 'Diat it is the intention of the President of the United States, that an adherence to this desire, as to a w'ell founded maxim, shall be the leading feature in the administration of Indian affairs, while he is at the head of the government. That lie shall lament, exceedingly, all occasions which shall either suspend or impede the operations of those principles, which he considers essential to the reputation and dignity of the republic. That in pursuance of these ideas, he endeavored that a genuine state of their situation, and of the general dispositions of the United States, upon this subject, should be brought home to the minds of the Western Indians, before any coercion was'attempted. That, although the essays to this end were then ineffectual, yet it has been his directions, that similar intimations shall be continued. That, therefore, every effort is making, in order to impress the hostile Indians with their past errors. That the United States require nothing of them but peace, and a line of conduct tending to their own happiness. That all which is passed, shall still be buried in oblivion, provided they will immediately agree to a treaty of peace, in which they will obtain all they can possibly desire, and relinquish nothing; for we demand none of their lands. <r . That we are not sensible the hostile Indians, that is1, the Miami and Wabash Indians, have any just claims to lands comprehended in the former treaties. But, notwithstanding, if they show they possess a fair right to any of those lands, they shall receive a liberal compensation for the same. Itis presumed, if these sentiments could be fully impressed on the minds of the hostile Indians, (and measures are taking for that purpose) that the establishment of tranquillity on the frontiers, would be the probable consequence. But if the hostile Indians should, after having these intentions of the government laid fully before them, still persist in their depredations on the frontiers, it will be considered as the dictates of humanity, to endeavor to punish, with exemplary severity, so incorrigible a race of men, in order to deter other tribes, in future, from a like conduct. In pursuance of these friendly sentiments, the United States have stiimlated with the Five Nations the following article, and have thereon made the arrangements contained in your special instructions of this date: “ GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States of America, “ To all who shall see these presents, greeting: “ Whereas an article has been stipulated with the Five Nations of Indians, by, and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States, which article is in the words following, to wit: “ ‘ The President of the United States, by Henry Knox, Secretary for the Department of \\ ar, stipulates, in behalf of the United States, the following article, with the Five Nations of Indians, so called, being the Senecas, Oneidas. and the Stockbridge Indians, incorporated with them the Tuscaroras, Cayugas, and Onondagas, to wit: the United States, in order to promote the happiness of the Five Nations of Indians, will cause to be expended, annually, the amount of one thousand live hundred dollars, in purchasing for them clothing, domestic animals, and implements of husbandry, and for encouraging useful artificers to reside in their villages. “ ‘ In behalf of the United States: [l. s.] H. KNOX, Secretary for the Department of War. “   Done in the presence of Tobias Lear, Nathan Jones.’ “ Now, know ye, That I, having seen and considered the said article, do accept, ratify, and confirm the same. “ In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed, and signed the same with my hand. Given at the City of Philadelphia, the twenty-third day of April, in the year of our Lord [l. s.] one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, and in the sixteenth year of the sovereignty and independence of the United States. GEO. WASHINGTON. “ By the President: Thomas Jefferson.'"You will clearly understand, that the United States have, under the constitution, the sole regulation of Indian affairs, in all matters whatsoever. You will, therefore, receive no orders but from me, in the name of the President, and from the superintendent. In all your transactions, your conduct must be marked with economy, and a due regard to the public interests. Your permanent appointment and your reputation, will materially depend on your attention to this order. It will, therefore, be your duty, not only to guard the public property from waste or embezzlement, but to prevent any other person from doing the same. Your accounts will be rigidly examined, and any deviations from this order will be in your own wrong. You are to understand, that any improper assembling of the Indians, will be considered as a violation of your orders, and will be severely censured, besides the expenses disallowed. It will be proper, that you establish some certain mode of communicating with me, by confiding your letters to some persons of reputation, on the route from Canandaigua to Philadelphia. Colonel Pickering is of opinion that Matthias Hollenback, of Wilkesbarre, Guy Maxwell, Esquire, at Tioga Point, and Mr. John Morris, at Newtown Point, would be proper persons for this purpose; I shall, accordingly, direct my letters to you through them, until I receive your further communications on the subject. Given, &c. H. KNOX, Secretary for the Department of War. 'S The speech of Timothy Pickering, commissioner, to the Sachems and Chiefs of the Five Nations. As some of you propose to attend the great council of Western Indians, soon to be held near the west end of Lake Erie, you are nerebv authorized to assure those Indians of the sincere disposition of the United States to make peace with them. That there has been, probably, an unhappy mistake prevailing among them, relative to the claims of the United States to the lands northwest of the Ohio, as though we extended them even to the Mississippi, and to all the country between the lakes Erie, St. Clair, Huron, and Michigan. As you have in your hands the map of the country, you can explain it to them: and show what parts the United States have purchased at the treaties at fort M'Intosh and Muskingum, and at the mouth of the great Miami, which runs into the Ohio. That we claim no lands but what belong to the. nations who sold to us, that we claim not a foot of the lands of any nation, with whom we have yet held no treaties. That if, at the treaties held with other nations, there has been any wrong doing, the United States will do what is right, and make ample compensation. That, if they are disposed to treat with the United States, in order to make peace, and settle all matters in dispute, and they will send runners to give notice thereof, to the commanding officers of any of our posts, orders will be given for their friendjy reception, and measures taken to conduct the chiefs and alt others, who shall come to the treaty, to fort Washington, on the Ohio, near the mouth of the little Miami, where provisions in abundance will be ready for their support. And as the long continued hostilities may have rendered them jealous, the United States will deliver into their hands a proper number of officers, as hostages for the safety of the chiefs, and all who shall attend them at the treaty. Fort Washington is proposed as the most suitable place for the treaty, because it is but a few steps from the country of the Western Indians; because provisions can be got there in plenty; and because there will be commissioners on the spot, to treat with them. If they enter into a treaty, the Western Indians will experience the friendship of the United States, as you have done; and those who are the instruments in bringing about a peace, will be liberally rewarded, while'they will receive the thanks and blessings of many nations. In behalf of the United States: TIMOTHY PICKERING, Commissioner. Dated at Philadelphia, the thirtieth of April, 1792. [The Five Nations, especially the Senecas, manifesting great uneasiness at the proposal of holding a treaty at fort Washington, whither they said the hostile Indians would not come, the passage here written, was added:] “Although the Western Indians would be perfectly safe, in attending a treaty at fort Washington, yet, if they are unwilling to go to that place, we will meet them at some other, convenient to them and to us; as on the Muskingum, or Big Beaver creek, or twenty or thirty miles up French creek, above Venango, at places where there are no forts.” The Secretary of JJ'ar to Colonel Timothy Pickering.—May 3d, 1792. Sir: I have received your letter of this date, relatively to the presents designed for the Oneidas, Tuscaroras, and Stockbridge Indians; all which shall be complied with. Will you be so good as to stipulate with Captain Hendricks, and his brother, a satisfactory compensation for his journey? If the object shall be effected conspicuously by his means, lie shall, in addition to the compensation, have live hundred dollars, his brother two hundred, and the Delaware the same. Pray have the goodness this day to inform Colonel Louis, explicitly, of the intentions of the Government, and of the measures which will be proper for him to pursue in concurrence therewith. He ought to be well clothed, and have money, so that he may return immediately. The Secretary of War to General Israel Chapin.—8th May, 1792. Sm: Captain Hendricks, the bearer, and his brother, having been themselves convinced of the moderation and justice of the intentions of the United States towards the hostile Indians, propose attempting to display the same to the said Indians. Captain Hendricks proposes obtaining a passage in a canoe from Buffalo creek. He will show you his instructions. As it is of great importance there should be no delay or impediment in his going forward, I request that you would accompany him' to.Buffalo creek, and stimulate his instant departure. The horses which Captain Hendricks and his brother ride will be delivered to you, together with the saddles and bridles, all of which you will sell for the most they will fetch, and charge yourself with the proceeds, and inform me of the amount thereof. Instructions to Captain Hendrick . Japanmitt. Chief of the Stockbriilgc Indians.—8th May, 1792. You having agreed to repair to the great council of Indians, soon to be held at the Miami river of lake Erie, in order to convince them of the moderation, justice, and desire of the United States for peace, are to regard this letter as the general rule of your conduct. You will immediately repair to General Israel Chapin, in the Genesee country, having the charge of Indian aftairs in that district. He will accompany you to Buffalo creek, or such other place upon lake Erie as shall be agreed upon, and make arrangements for your immediate departure for the Miami river. Upon your arrival at the assembled council, you will, in the manner you shall judge best, inform the said Indians of the desire of the United States for peace; that they claim no Indian lands but those purchased at a fair treaty. That all the stories they have heard to the contrary must be disbelieved. You having been informed upon this subject, and being furnished with a map of our claims, will be able to be precise upon this subject. They must be sensible, if they will reflect, that our desires of peace do not arise from any fear of a war, but for the sake of humanity. Inform them that we have also despatched officers from the Ohio to them, in order to give them the same information, and that they must treat these officers kindly. You will also inform them that General Putnam will be sent by the President of the United States to conclude a truce, and in order to this end, he will be at fort Jefferson, our advanced post, to which place they must send an escort to receive him, which escort you will accompany. That, if they are desirous of peace, they must instantly despatch runners to call in all their war parties; and that, until the issue of these offers are made known, they may not be apprehensive of our striking their towns. As General Putnam will be waiting at fort Jefferson, it will be absolutely necessary that you go personally and inform him of the dispositions of the council of Indians, whether favorable or otherwise. The business on which you are employed is of high importance to the United States, and honorable to yourself. In order to execute it properly, will well deserve your highest exertions and perseverance. Let nothing, therefore, be wanting on your part, but push forward with all your might. Given, &c. II. KNOX. The Secretary of JFar to Mr. John Heckenwehler.—18/h May, 1792. Sir: I have the honor to inform you that the United States have for some time past been making pacific overtures to the hostile Indians northwest of the Ohio. It is to be expected that these overtures will soon be brought to an issue, under the direction of Brigadier General Putnam, of Marietta, who is specially charged with this business. He is now in this city, and will be in readiness to set out on Monday next; and being acquainted with you, he is extremely desirous that you should accompany him in the prosecution of this good work. Being myself most cordially impressed with respect lor your character and love for the Indians on the purest principles of justice and humanity, I have acquiesced cheerfully in the desire of General Putnam. I hope sincerely it may be convenient lor you to accompany or follow him soon, in order to execute a business which is not unpromising, and which, if accomplished, will redound to the credit of the individuals who shall perform it As to pecuniary considerations, I shall arrange them satisfactorily with you. 234 INDIAN AFFAIRS. [1792. 'The Secretary of War to Mr. John Heckenwelder, at Bethlehem.—21 .st May, 1792. Sir: . I was very much satisfied to receive your letter of the 19th. Rut, by some mistake, General Putnam was not informed of it until to-day. He will set out for Pittsburg to-morrow, and as he will travel slowly, he hopes you will arrive there about the same time with him. But, if not, he w ill wait for you. Any sum you may require as an advance, shall be paid to your order. 7Tie Secretary of TFar to Major Alexander Trueman.—22d May, 1792. Sir: This will be delivered you by Brigadier General Putnam. He has been charged by the President of the United States with a similar commission to the one given to you. This has not been done from any distrust of your zeal or exertion. But the importance of the object, and the contingencies to which the persons employed in the business are subject, have induced the President of the United States to employ General Putnam in addition to you. If you shall have, succeeded, it will be a fortunate circumstance for you. If you should have entered upon the business, you will find great satisfaction in assisting General Putnam in its prosecution and termination. It will ever afford me satisfaction to reflect on the patriotism and cheerfulness with which you undertook the mission, and I hope will redound greatly to your honor. Instructions to Brigadier General Rufus Biilnam.—22d May, 1792. Sir: As you have, at the request of the President of the United States, agreed to attempt to be present at the general council of the hostile Indians about to be held on the Miami river of lake Erie, in order to convince the said Indians of the humane dispositions of the United States, and thereby to make a truce or peace with them, it is proper that you should receive all due information and instructions relative to your mission. You have herewith delivered to you— First. A copy of the treaty of fort Stanwix, made on the 22d day of October, 1784. Secondly. A copy of the treaty of fort McIntosh, made the 21st January, 1785. Thirdly. A copy of the treaty with the Shawanese, made at the Miami, in January, 1786. Fourthly. And of the treaties with the Six Nations, and with the Wyandots, &c. concluded at Fort Harinar on the 9th of January, 1789. These last mentioned treaties confirm nearly the bounds of the treaties made at fort Stanwix, in 1784, and fort McIntosh, in 1785. And, that there should be no mistake as to the boundaries claimed by the United States, by virtue of the said several treaties, you have herewith delivered to you a map, whereon the boundaries are clearly marked. You will observe that there are several reservations to the United States marked within the Indian lands. Information has been received that the Indians consider these reservations with great uneasiness. If, upon your bringing this subject to view at the council, it should appear to be the case, you may express your opinion, that, upon an ultimate adjustment of differences, the said reservations may be relinquished by the United States, excepting for those parts about the fort at Detroit, which will be necessary lor the garrison. The chiefs of the Five Nations of Indians, who were so long in this city, lately, were astonished at the moderation of our claim of land, it being very different from what they have been taught, by designing people, to believe. It would seem that the Indians have been misled with respect to our claims, by a certain map, published in Connecticut, wherein are laid out ten new States, agreeably to a report of a committee of Congress. The United States are desirous, in any treaty which shall be formed in future, to avoid all causes of war, relatively to boundaries, by fixing the same in such a manner as not to be mistaken by the meanest capacity. As the basis, therefore, of your negotiation, you will, in the strongest and most explicit terms, renounce, on the part of the United States, all claim to any Indian land which shall not have been ceded by fair treaties, made with the Indian nations. That we conceive the treaty of fort Harmar to have been formed by the tribes having a just right to make the same, and that it was done with their full understanding and free consent. That if, however, the said tribes should judge the compensation to have been inadequate to the object, or that any other tribes have a just claim, in both cases they shall receive a liberal allowance, on their finally settling all disputes upon the subject. That, with respect to the lands ceded or retained by the treaty with the Shawanese of the Miami of the Ohio, doubts are entertained of any rights possessed by the said Shawanese, excepting those of sufferance, by the tribes who justly claim the same. But, if the rights to the Shawanese should be conceded by the other neighboring tribes, who should think proper to confirm the boundaries marked for the said Shawanese, the United States will abide thereby. As the United States have never made any treaties with the Wabash Indians, although the said Indians have been repeatedly invited thereto, their claims to the lands east and south of the said Wabash have not been defined. This circumstance will be a subject of your inquiry with the assembled Indian tribes; and you may assure the parties concerned, that an equitable boundary shall be arranged with them. You will make it clearly understood, that ice want not a foot of their land, and that it is theirs, and theirs only; that they have the right to sell, and the right to refuse to sell, and that the United States will guaranty to them their said just right. That all we require of the Indians is a peaceable demeanor; that they neither plunder the frontiers of their horses, or murder the inhabitants; that the United States are bound to protect the inhabitants at the risk of every inconvenience of men and money. You will represent to them, that a new state of things has taken place in the United States; that, formerly, we were an association of several separate States, like their several separate tribes, and that there was no portion of union and strength sufficient to regulate the several parts, as belonging to the same machine. But, that now we have a General Government, embracing all parts of the Union, as it respects foreign nations and Indian tribes. That General Washington is placed at the head of this government, and that he, or some person immediately authorized by him, must make all treaties with the Indian tribes. That, therefore, in future, all the Indian nations may rest with great confidence upon the justice, the humanity, and the liberality of the. United States. That it is not only the sincere desire.of the United States to be at peace with all the neighboring Indian tribes, but to protect them in their just rights, against lawless, violent white people. If such should commit any injury on the persons or properties of a peaceable Indian, they will be regarded equally as the enemies of the General Government, as the Indians, and will be punished accordingly. Let the Indians at the said council know fully, that the United States are friends with the Creeks, to whom we give fifteen hundred dollars annually; with the Cherokees, (excepting a few outcasts, who have been leagued with the Shawanese) to whom we also give fifteen hundred dollars annually. That we have treaties of peace with the Choctaws and Chickasaws, to whom we shall probably assign an annual allowance, as they have proved themselves our friends. That we have, also, lately allowed the Five Nations, to wit: the Senecas, Cayugas, Oneidas, including the Stock-bridge tribe, Onondagas, and Tuscaroras, the sum of fifteen hundred dollars, annually. That the United States are highly desirous of imparting to all the Indian tribes the blessings of civilization, as the only mean of perpetuating them on the earth. That we are willing to be at the expense of teaching them to read and write, to plough, and to sow, in order to raise their own bread and meat, with certainty, as the white people do. In short, that the United States, willing to believe that the conduct of the hostile Indians hitherto, has been more the effect of misrepresentation of bad people, than any hardened malignity of the human heart, are desirous of forgetting, and burying deep forever, all the evils which have passed, and to administer such good things to the said Indians, as will make them rejoice forever, at the annual return of the day on which they may conclude a treaty with the United States. You will inform the hostile Indians, that these sentiments are not the offspring of the defeat of the 4th of November last: but that they arise from the purest desires to avoid the further effusion of blood. That our dispositions for peace are not the consequence of any apprehensions of the issue of the war. may be made apparent to the Indians by a comparison of the strength unit resources of the United States and the Indians. That we entertained these dispositions for peace early in the last year, and attempted to send various messen gersaccordingly, but who were prevented by unforeseen circumstances. The Senecas, whom Colonel Procter persuaded to accompany him to the Miami village, will be a good witness to the truth of this: as will Captain Hendricks, the chief of the Stockbridge Indians, who also made considerable progress in his journey, but was stopped at the Grand river, north of lake Erie. Two persons were engaged, in January last, to repair to the Miami village, and actually proceeded as far as Niagara, where they were stopped—their business not being known. February 10th. Brigadier General Wilkinson was directed, as you will particularly observe by the extract (A) of my letter, herewith delivered, to intimate, by himself and Major Hamtramck. our desire for peace. Doctor Brown was chosen to repair to the Miami village, for this purpose, and it is probable that he is on his mission accordingly. Major Hamtramck, in his letter of the Slst of March, a copy of which you have delivered you, states, that, besides making peace with the Wea and Eel River Indians, he has despatched agents to most of the hostile Indians west of the Wabash and Omec rivers. You have, also, herewith delivered you. copies of the instructions to Major Trueman, and the speech w ith which he was charged to the hostile Indians, dated the 3d of April. Every thing which can be effected by an ardent zeal, may be expected from the major's mission; and you will please to confide in, and employ him in your business, agreeably to my letter to him, herewith delivered to you. The chiefs of the Five Nations who were lately in this city, have agreed to repair to the Great Council about being held. They departed this city, apparently well impressed with the justice and humanity of the United States, and stipulated to use their highest exertions to effect a peace. Colonel Louis--------, of the Caynawagas, also came here to inform the Government that the Seven Castles, so called, in Canada, had been invited to the council to be held at the Miami river of lake Erie. He being also convinced of the justice of the United States, promised to use his influence towards a peace. Captain Hendrick Aupaumut, chief of the Stockbridge Indians, and his brother, have also gone specially charged to prepare the way for your reception, and to meet you at fort Jefferson. His instructions you have also delivered to you. The recital of these several measures are made, in order to show you that the business is in a considerable degree matured. 1 have written to Mr. John lleckenwelder, of Bethlehem, to accompany you, which he has promised to do, but he cannot set out from Bethlehem until the 25th instant; but lie will probably overtake you at Pittsburg or Marietta. This person superintended one of the Moravian towns in the Muskingum, and has a general acquaintance with, and influence over, the Wyandots and Delawares. Much good may be expected from the agreement made by Major Hamtramck with the Wabash Indians. It is hoped it will be a happy introduction to a general peace. Their influence and agency may be expected with the other Indians; and you may obtain from them escorts and messengers to the hostile Indians. You have herewith delivered to you an invoice of Indian goods, at fort Washington, and an order for the same. These goods, or ]>nrt thereof, may he presented to the Wabash Indians, who have agreed with Major Hamtramck, provided it should be the joint judgment of Brigadier General Wilkinson and yourself, but under such restrictions as to preclude all abuses. Besides these goods, you have delivered to you twenty sets of silver ornaments for such of the principal chiefs as shall come to a pacific agreement, and also nose and ear jewels. Besides the above, a further provision of goods will be made immediately, and forwarded to fort Pitt, to a considerable amount; the disposition of which will be hereafter directed. Your firstgreat object, upon meeting the Indians, will be to convince them that the United States require none of their lands. The second, that we shall guaranty all that remain, and take the Indians under our protection. Thirdly. They must agree to a truce, and immediately to call in all their war parties. It will be in vain to be negotiating with them while they shall be murdering the frontier citizens. Having happily effected a truce, founded on the above assurances, it will then be your primary endeavor to obtain from each of the hostile and neighboring tribes two of the most respectable chiefs, to repair to the seat of the Government, and there conclude a treaty with the President of the United States, in which all causes of difference should be buried forever. You will give the chiefs every assurance of personal protection while on their journey to Philadelphia, and, should they insist upon it, hostages of officers for the safe return of the chiefs, and, in case of their compliance, you will take every precaution by the troops for the protection of the said chiefs, which the nature of the case may require. But if, after having used your utmost exertions, the chiefs should decline the journey to Philadelphia, then yon will agree with them on a plan for a general treaty. In considering upon this plan, perhaps Pittsburg, or its vicinity, would be as proper a place as could be decided upon. Provisions could be procured m abundance, and it would be the point to which the goods could be easily transported. In this event, it will be necessary that I should be informed by the earliest opportunity, in order that the principles of, and arrangements for, the treaty, should be fixed. It will also be of the highest importance that you keep General Wayne constantly informed of your progress and prospects, as his movements will be governed by your information. As it may be necessary for you to conciliate some chiefs by money, and also to obtain runners, you have delivered you a warrant on the treasurer for one thousand dollars, for which you will be held accountable. Ot all your disbursements, either of money or goods, you will keep fair accounts, supported by vouchers, in all possible cases, or of witnesses as evidences ol the delivery of goods. As this will be considered as an extra service from your military employment, vour expenses will be paid by the public; and, if you succeed in effecting a peace, you are hereby promised, in behalf of the United States, a handsome pecuniary reward. In case any accident should happen to you, while employed in this mission, you may rest assured the Government will make a suitable provision for your family. It has been conceived, that, were you to repair to fort Washington, and thence to fort Jefferson, you would, more readily than from any other point, find a communication with the hostile Indians. Upon a nearer approach. you will form your own judgment, and take your own measures. Having given you a view of the object, and the train in which things are, the rest must be left entirely to your discretion. But I cannot close these instructions without urging you to the highest possible exertions in bringing the war to a close, and of devising every proper means for that purpose. _ An Indian war is destructive to the interests of humanity, and an event from which neither dignity or profit can be reaped. It has been imposed on the Government by strong causes, which it could not control or prevent; and the sooner it is terminated the better. You may be assured that all the stipulation of rewards you make shall be fully complied with, and they ought to be liberal. On your arrival at fort Washington, all the women and children belonging to those tribes with whom Major Hamtrainck has made peace, arc to be well clad, and released from their captivity; the women to have some of the silver ornaments presented to them. Enclosed you have a letter to Brigadier General Wilkinson, on the subject of the release of the above described prisoners. These instructions are given by the authority of the President of the United States, and are to be regarded accordingly. Given, &c. H. KNOX, Secretary of War. (A.) “ The objects on which I now write, are of great importance. “ In the first place you will instruct Major Hamtrainck that he send intelligent and confidential agents of the French inhabitants, as well as the friendly Indians among the hostile Indians, to endeavor to impress these sentiments on them: that the United States require nothing of them but to be at peace; that we wish for none of their lands; that we should be happy if they would afford us the opportunity of convincing them of the truth of these assertions. But, in order thereto, they must manifest sincere dispositions on their part, by a proper representation of all their tribes, w'ho will be permitted to repair to fort Washington, to state any grievances under which they labor, or suppose they labor, from the United States. “ That, if they fail to give this proof of their desire for peace, the United States wall be compelled to raise a sufficient force, to punish them for their past, and to prevent their future crimes. “ In order to enable the major to execute this business with effect, you will send him, with the instructions upon the subject, one thousand dollars, for which he w ill be held accountable. I have enclosed an order on Mr. Swan for this sum, and a further order for the same sum, to be delivered to you, for similar objects. You will endeavor, either by your prisoners, or such other means as you may devise, to send similar messages, independent, of the messages through Major Hamtrainck. “ 1 have, by the way of the lakes, also, sent similar messages, by two persons, whose names I am unwilling to commit to paper; but, if they come within your command, they will be sufficiently able to demonstrate the authenticity of their mission. _ “ The public mind has received strong impressions'in favor of peace with the Indians, and a prejudicial clamor has been raised against the war. It is, therefore, the direction of the President of the United States, that ev ery possible expedient be devised, to place before the hostile Indians their true situation. “ 1 rely, with great confidence, upon your endeavors on this head, so that the most unequivocal evidence may, hereafter, be exhibited, that every proper measure has been taken to produce a peace without further conflict. ” The Secretary of War to Captain Joseph Brandt.—27th June, 1792. Sir: You have been invited to the seat of the General Government as a chief of the Six Nations, and one who has a general interest in the soil and the welfare of the Western Indians. The main purpose of the invitation is to explain to you the humane disposition of the President of the United States, as well in regard to the hostile Indians as to the Indian tribes generally; hoping from your general character for intelligence and attachment to the Indian interest, that you will fully and truly unfold to them those things which may conduce to their happiness. _ 'There are many circumstances which induce the opinion, that some of the hostile Indians are entirely mistaken as to the object of the war, and that they have joined therein from an apprehension and belief that the United States have formed the design of wresting their lands from them. As you have been fully informed on this subject, and as you have agreed to repair to the assembled nations at the Miami river of lake Erie, you may be able to convince them of the contrary. The present Indian war commenced with the Miamies and Wabash Indians, and the Shawanese. With the two former nations the United States have never been able to form any treaties. Partial hostilities seem to have existed, without intermission, from the year 1776 to the present time. You may truly assure the hostile Indians— 1st. That the United States are willing to bury the red hatchet forever, and to forget all past evils 2d. That the United States require no Indian lands but those, which have been ceded by treaties, made with the full understanding and free consent of the chiefs, and will restrain the whites from settling upon them. 3d. That we have thus estimated the treaty of Muskingum, herew ith delivered to you, made and concluded on the 9th day of January, 1789, agreeably to the map herewith delivered to yon. 4th. That if, however, it should hereafter be made to appear, either that the compensation then given was inadequate, or that other than the parties who made it have any just claims on the lands ceded thereby, that we shall be willing to give them a just compensation. 5th. That any compensations which shall be agreed upon shall be furnished annually, in such goods as shall be most for the comfort of the Indian families. 6th. That the United States will make arrangements to teach the Indians, il'agreeable to them, to raise their own bread and cattle, as the white people da But it will be necessary to have a treaty, at some place to be agreed upon, where these points, and all others, shall be examined and amicably adjusted. As Major Trueman and Brigadier General Putnam will probably repair to the assembled council of Indians at the Miami river, it is probable some place suitable will be agreed upon by the Indians. But it is conceived that it would be more satisfactory to the Indians were the chiefs to repair to this city, and here conclude a treaty: provided they could be convinced of their safety while upon the business. On this point we shall be ready to afford them the most solid satisfaction, either by giving them hostages or any escorts necessary for theirsafety. If the treaty should be had at the seat of the General Government, all'claims or points of dispute could be adjusted as they arise. But if commissioners should be appointed to go a considerable distance, their authority must be limited, ana, of course, claims which may arise from the Indians, either could not be granted, or much time must be expended in obtaining new instructions lromthe Government. Besides, if a treaty should be made in Philadelphia, the President would have the satisfaction of forming an acquaintance with the cliiefs, and of knowing that the treaty should be adjusted exactly according to his wishes.- But, in case of agreeing upon a place of treaty, either at any spot northwest of the Ohio, or in this city, it will be indispensably necessary that there be a complete representation of all the parties, so that whatever shall be then concluded, shall be binding upon all concerned. If the hostile Indians listen, and agree to a treaty, then they must call in all their war parties. We have restrained our warriors until the effect of our pacific overtures be known, and they must do so likewise. To you, who possess the information, it would be unnecessary to say, that these overtures are the offspring of pure humanity, and not from any apprehension for the consequences of the war. Your own observation of our numbers will have convinced you, that, in a long and continued contest with the United States, the Indians must be utterly ruined. But the President of the United States is anxiously desirous, for the sake of humanity, of avoiding so great an evil. He cannot but hope, that, when the Indians fully understand that all their lands not fairly ceded are their own, and that they cannot be dispossessed thereof, excepting bj a fair and voluntary sale, made under the authority of the United States, they will accede to a treaty which will secure them the blessings of the earth. 1 am well aware of the labor and trouble the request herein contained will create. But it is fairly inferred, from the interest you discovered in the year 1786, and at subsequent periods, for the welfare of the Western Indians, and from your being impressed that their happiness is materially involved in making peace with the United States, that you will zealously concur in accomplishing so just and so benevolent an object. I am, &c. The Secretary of tVar to General Israel Chapin, deputy temporary accent to the Five Nations of Indians. June'27th, 1792—per his son. Sir: I have received your letter of the second instant, by your son, who, with Doctor Allen and Captain Joseph Brandt, arrived in this city on the 20th instant. Captain Brandt’s visit will, I flatter myself, be productive of great satisfaction to himself, by being made acquainted with the humane views of the President of the United States. It was well judged to deliver Captain Brandt’s son the horse you mentioned. Doctor Allen's account will be settled and paid here. For the sums you advanced him you will be credited. No horses have been purchased on the way to this city, as the journey was mostly performed by water. 'For the sums your son expended down here, you will be credited two hundred dollars. He has been paid here for his services from the time of his setting out until his return home, at the rate of two dollars per day. And he has advanced to him, on your account, the further sum of six hundred dollars, for which yon will be held accountable. About two hundred dollars of this sum. at the excess, may be expended, in order to defray their expenses back; which will leave the sum of four hundred dollars in your hands, to be appropriated as the public interests may require. I am sorry you did not find it convenient to repair to this city, as certain sentiments of economy and modes of management of the Indians, might have been more successfully impressed than may be done by letter. But I beg leave to observe strongly, that the system of the Indian expenses and allowances are by no means to be measured by the helter-skelter conduct which was observed under the late management, which, in several instances. were unjustifiably expensive. None but discreet men, having a proper regard to their own characters.and who will be content with reasonable compensations, are to be employed in the Indian department under your direction. As you at present are regarded favorably, as well for your zeal as your economy, it will be important to you that these principles be manifest in all your future conduct; and while you continue to make the public good the rule of your action, you may proceed with confidence, as you may depend upon support. As to your being allowed a clerk, there is no such establishment. You may, however.be allowed occasional assistance, at a reasonable compensation: but at present no fixed assistant can be allowed. Messrs. Pierce and Dan forth have no exclusive right to trade with the Indians. If they assert any such thing, they do no honor to their recommendations, and exhibit themselves in the first instance as unworthy of confidence. This w ill be manifest when the enclosed copies of the permission be examined, and when you are informed that Governor Clinton has also recommended for the same trade Abraham Fowler, anti John Kane, to whom permissions are also given. I am, &c. The Secretary of War to Israel Chapin. Junior.—27lh June, 1792. Sir: The sum of six hundred dollars has been delivered to you, on the-account of your father, Israel Chapin, deputy temporary-agent to the Six Nations. Out of this sum, you are to defray the expenses of Captain Brandt, his servant and two horses, from this city to Niagara; and, also, of yourself and Doctor Deodat Allen, with this exception, that Doctor Alien has received an allowance for horse hire, or the transportation of himself from this city to the Genesee country. Captain Brandt will take two horses from this city. Upon vour arrival at Albany or Schenectady, you will for yourself purchase a low priced horse to take you home, and deliver him to your father. I am, &c. The Secretary of War to his Excellency the Governor of the Stale of New York.—27th Jane, 1792. Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency’s letter of the 19th instant. Captain Brandt appears to be a judicious and sensible man. 1 flatter myself his journey w ill be satisfactory to himself and beneficial to the United States. , He appears anxious that his friend, the Fish Carrier, of the Cayugas, may be satisfied about their reservation. 1 have informed him that this affair is entirely under your Excellency’s direction, who, 1 was persuaded, would do every thing in your power to accord to the reasonable desires of the Fish Carrier and his people. 1 have only to add that the Fish Carrier and his parly seem at this moment to be a little ticklish, and that they, as a reason for their discontents, mention the affair of the reservation. It is well ascertained that a party of them were in the action of the fourth of November last. 1 am, See. The Sccre/an/ of War to Brigadier General Tufas Putnam, Fort 7 th, 1792. Sir: TFashington, via Pittsburg. —August I have had the honor to receive your communications of the fifth, eighth, and ninth of July. I have no doubt biit'vthat poor Trueman has been sacrificed by savage barbarity! But it is still questionable, whether the motive thereto has been the blood-thirstiness of an individual; the desire of the Shawanese, and other inveterate tribes, to frustrate a peace; or a dictate of the general council. If either of the two former, peace may be yet attainable. Captain Hendricks, accompanied by three friendly Indians, probably set out from Buffalo for the Omee river about the eighteenth of June. The Senecas would be later; anti Captain Brandt would probably be at au Glaze about the tw-entieth of the present month. It would be an uncommon assemblage of unfortunate circumstances, if all our overtures fail. ... You will cultivate and make peace with the Wabash tribes, to the utmost of your power: and you will judge how far your going to Post Vincennes, or any other place, will facilitate the object. Extend your treaties w ith 31 * one tribe after another, as far as possible, always subjecting them to the ratification of the President and Senate of the United States. 'The United States require no lands of the Wabash Indians, not heretofore ceded. Impress this idea upon all the tribes. Apply the goods at fort Washington to the purposes of the said treaties. If it should so happen, that, in pursuance of your instructions, you should have an immediate opportunity of repairing to the hostile Indians, you trill appoint such time for assembling, to the Wabash tribes, and all their connexions, as not to militate with the first object. . _ I will endeavor to have more Indian goods transported to fort Washington: and I hope that an opportunity, by a peace, will be presented you, of bestowing them to the benefit of the United States. I have communicated a copy of your letter of the 8th ultimo to the President of the United States. The advancement of the public interests being the sole object of my pursuit, and not the establishment of any particular opinions, I am sincerely obliged to you for the propositions relative to a different route by the Cayahoga. No. II. Information received relative to the pacific overtures, and the disposition of the Indians Northivesl of the Ohio. Letter from General Rufus Putnam to the Secretary of War. Fort Washington, July 5th, 1*92. Sir: _ _ My last letter was from Marietta, of the 23d ultimo. I was not able to leave that place until the 2G(h. I halted at Gallipolis one day, and arrived here the 2d instant, in the morning. Soon after my arrival, General Wilkinson returned from Fort Jefferson, with the disagreeable news, that, on the 25th ultimo, about one hundred Indians made an attack on a party of our men, who were cutting hay, near fort Jefferson; that sixteen of our people were killed and missing; that tour dead bodies only had been found. It is observable, that this happened the day Cor at most but one day alter the time) I had appointed to be at fort Jefferson, as notified to the Indians, in my speech sent them from Pittsburg, dated the 5th June. It is said the Indians had three horses along; that they are generally dressed in white shirts, (one having a scarlet coat on;) that they came from, and returned towards, the lower part of the Tawa river. On the 3d instant arrived here, Mr. Vego, and two other gentlemen from Vincennes, who report that, about the 28th of June, some Wea chiefs, sent by Major Ilamtramck to Eel river, returned with news, that four men, going from some of our forts, with a ilag, had been fired on by a party of Indians; that three of the men were killed on the spot; that the man who had the flag and papers was taken, and after keeping him one day they killed him also; that the Indians took the papers to some white man who could read; that the papers contained a long and good talk from a great chief; which, when the Indians understood, they were sorry for what they had done. If this account be true, there is little reason to doubt but Major Trueman, (if not Colonel Harden) has fallen a sacrifice, soon alter they left fort Washington. These circumstances leave it very doubtful, in my mind, whether friend Hendricks will be permitted to come to fort Jefferson, or not; however, I think the matter will be reduced to a certainty in a short time. With Mr. Vego came the Wea chief, whose wife and children are prisoners here; and with him three or four men whose relations are also prisoners. For the want of an interpreter, the affairs of these people have not been attended to yet; but an express is gone to Kentucky, for a man who understands their language, and expect him here in two days or three. From Major Hamtramck’s letter to General Wilkinson, and information by Mr. Vego, and others, the. real intentions of the Wea and Eel river Indians appear to me very doubtful; to get back their prisoners, in the opinion of some gentlemen from Vincennes, is the principal object with them. But whatever their intentions may be, I think measures should be taken, as soon as possible, to complete a treaty with them, agreeably to the stipulations made with them by Major Hamtramck: for, however desirable an object it may be to bring their chiefs to Philadelphia, I believe it is at present altogether impracticable.- I am informed that they object strongly against the proposition made to them by Major Hamtramck, of coming to fort Washington; they say it is too far, and they were promised a treaty at fort Knox. It is my opinion that a person should be authorized to hold a treaty with them at fort Knox, (or at this place, if they will consent to come thus far) and complete the business as far as a commissioner can do it, agreeably to the articles stipulated with Hamtramck. That some goods be given them, as an evidence of the ability and disposition of Government to sene them. That the boundaries of their lands be defined, but no proposition of purchase be made at present. That Government having by her justice (and a tew acts of liberality, which will cost little) gained their confidence, their chiefs may afterwards be willing, and probably will be desirous, to make a visit to the seat of Government, and pay their respects to the Great Chief of the nation; and as to purchasing of their lands, you will find they will otter them for sale before the United States can have any occasion for them.   , - Beginning in this way with the tribes nearest to Vincennes, there is no doubt but others will soon follow their example; and probably in this way, most, if not all the tribes, w estward of the Wabash', may be prevented joining, or soon detached from the more hostile nations. The person to be employed on this business should be one well disposed towards the Indians, and against whom they entertain no particular prejudice; and it w-ould be better still, if one can be found with whom they are acquainted, anil for whom they have a particular kindness. But to return among the more hostile tribes: I do not yet despair of success; for although I have no doubt but many of the Shawanees, and others, at present shut their ears against, and reject every- idea of peace; that they have murdered Major Trueman, and probably all the other white men that have been sent out; that it was a party of those fellows who came to fort Jefferson to take me off; yet I much doubt if those measures are countenanced by the chiefs in general; I rather believe they are the work of a few, who, by such means, endeavor to distract the councils of the more moderate, and thereby prevent a treaty’s taking place, while a great majority are wishing for such an event. The same account that gives us reason to believe that Major Trueman, and others, are murdered, informs us, that the President’s speech was preserved, and considered as a good one; and, if to murder me was the object of those who were lately at fort Jefferson, it proves that my speech had reached the Tawa river. Add to this, the inttuence that Captain Hendricks, with that of the deputy from the Six Nations, Colonel Lewis, and the deputies from the Seven Castles, may probably have when they arrive, and I think there is reason to hope the nations will yet consent to treat of peace. I have the honor to be, with great respect and esteem, sir, your obedient servant, RUFUS PUTNAM. Major General Knox, Secretary of War. From the same to the same. ' Fort Washington, 26th July, 1792. Sir: I herewith enclose a duplicate of my letter to you of the 22d instant, (which I forwarded by way of the wilderness, with copies of some speeches, which are connected with the business of that letter. Despatches to Major Hamtramck, on the subject, went off yesterday by express. I have requested him to send the speech, a copy of which you have enclosed, to the Wabash Chiets, and similar ones, in my name, to as many other tribes as he shall think proper. I have considerable expectations from this business. Mr. Wells, the interpreter, whom I mentioned to you in a former letter, tells me that Kaweahatta is a very sensible man; that the British account him the best speaker among all the Indian nations; that he is the greatest chief, and has more influence than any other man in the Wabash country; that when he, Mr. Wells, left Eel river, in June last, this chief was gone to the council on the OmeB but Mr. Wells thinks he is disposed for peace, although he declined to come down to the Post when invited by Major Ilamtramck. He has two_ sisters, and other relations among the prisoners, and Mr. Wells thinks there is no doubt but on this message lie will come down. Through the influence of this man, I am yet in some hopes to be admitted to speak with their high mightinesses the Shawanese, and other hostile chiefs. I have the honor to be, with great respect, RUFUS PUTNAM. Major General Knox. Secretary of War. From the same to the same. , Fort Washington, 22rf July, 1792. Sir: Jean Krouch, the principal Wea chief, who arrived here the 3d instant with Mr. Vego, on a visit to his family, died on the 16th. The prisoners I mentioned in my letter of the 14th instant, having made their escape from the Indians, and being then at fort Hamilton, have since arrived here; and by the information they give, especially Sehafter. whose deposition General 'Wilkinson forwards to you by this conveyance, there is the highest reason to believe, that Freeman, Trueman, and Hardin, are all murdered, with all the people who went with them, except one, who they considered as a servant, or person of no consequence, and for that reason spared. And if the squaw told true, it appears that Trueman must be murdered by order of the council, as a confirmation of their resolution not to make peace. When I add to this the circumstance that I hear nothing of Captain Hendrick, I conclude the Indians met on the Omee, orTawa river, have rejected the overtures made them by the United States, in the several speeches sent to them; and that the prospect of mv speaking with them through the channel first proposed, is now at an end. That, from the information received from the Wabash, mentioned in my former letters, together with the information received from Mr. Wells, the interpreter, and the two old Wea men, who came with Jean Krouch on a visit to their families, I conceive there is very little reason to expect any more of the chiefs from that quarter; or if any should arrive, it will be only such as have relations among the prisoners, who are of the inferior grades, and a treaty with them will be of no consequence; wherefore, I conceive that my tarrying here much longer, can be of no service whatever, except to receive your further orders, which I should certainly wait for, or return up the river, but for the following reasons, viz: It appearing highly probable that the principal1 chiefs from nearly all the Mre»tern tribes, with agreat number of warriors, and others, may be collected at Post Vincent, if the business is seasonably attended to, that by a proper management, therejis a prospect that most, if not all the Western tribes, may be detached from those nations who have originated the war, and return to, or be kept in a state of peace. That this is the only remaining channel by which there is the least prospect of my being able to speak with the more hostile tribes. That it is essential to the success of the business, that these Western Indians be met as soon as possible; at all events, before their hunting season commences. That, if the day should not be fixed on, and the Indians advertised of it, without waiting your further orders, so much time will probably elapse before an answer to my letters on this subject, or any orders in consequence of them, can arrive in this quarter, as may render the whole business abortive. For these reasons, sir, 1 have been induced to form the resolution of going to Post Vincent, for the purpose of holding a treaty withthe Western tribes, about the 20th of September, and shall take measures to have them invited to meet there for the purpose about that time. Having communicated my resolution to General Wilkinson, and requested that an escort might be provided, and other arrangements made to enable me to prosecute the object, he has very politely assured me, that he shall, with the utmost alacrity, make every practicable exertion for the accommodation of the movement.” 1 propose to leave this with Indian goods, Indian prisoners, &c. about the 15th of August. This delay is partly on the idea of a bare possibility that Captain Hendrick, or some other messengers of peace, may yet arrive from the north, and partly from the probability that some new orders may arrive from the War Office, as I find by some ■letters from Pittsburg, that you have been advertised of the murder of Trueman, and by a Pittsburg paper, I find Mr. Brandt has been with you in Philadelphia. I hope that an answer to my letters respecting the business of the Wabash Indians, will arrive before the time proposed for holding the treaty; in which case, if Major Ilamtramck is appointed the commissioner, 1 shall feel myself perfectly satisfied in being excused, and, at the same time, shall cheerfully afford him all the assistance in my power. But if I should be disappointed, and no further instructions or commission arrive, I shall, notwithstanding, prosecute the business of a truce, or peace, as far as circumstances and my present instructions will warrant me. I have the honor to be, with the highest possible esteem and respect, sir, your most obedient humble servant, RUFUS PUTNAM. Major General Knox, Secretary of JVar. Indian Speech to General Putnam, and his answer. The following speech was delivered by one of the Wea men to General Putnam, at fort Washington, July 19 th, 1792: Companion, or Confident Friend: I call you so, because brothers may sometimes differ, but companions never do. I am no chief, nor do I know well how to speak. This man (pointing to one sitting by) is a chief, but not a great chief; nor can he speak. The man who is dead was a chief, but not the greatest chief, and could speak well. I fear these women and children will all die, if they remain here much longer. 1 pray you will take us along to the (). Post as soon as possible. I fear very few of our chiefs, if any, will come to tnis(place; but a great, many chiefs will meet you there, who can speak well. I pray, therefore, that you will go along with us to the 0. Post as soon as possible.—[A string of wampum with two branches.] On the 20th of July, General Putnam made the following speech in answer to the foregoing: Brother: You call me confident friend, which name is very good, but I wish us to retain the name of brother, since we were born on one island, and are of one family. ’Tis true, brothers sometimes (lifter, yet they soon unite again. Brother: I feel very sorry for the loss of your chief, who was a great man, and a good speaker, and who was to transact the business between you and me. You spoke to me yesterday with tears in your eyes; yet I understood you. 1 can't say all to you at this time that I wish to say; but when our mourning shall have ceased a little, I shall be able to speak cheerfully. Brother: I wish to make you happy in every respect; your women and children are under iny care and protection, and I am making the necessary arrangements for our journey to the 0. Post, where I hope and expect to see all your chiefs and great men, there to consult on, and make a lasting, peace between the Indian tribes inhabiting the Wabash country, and the people of the United States (or the Thirteen Great Fires.) In thirty days I shall be ready to set out with you.—[A string of wampum of two branches.] The speech of Rufus Putnam, agent of the Great Chief General Washington. . 'To Kaweahatta, (he Great Chief on the Eel river, and to all the chiefs and warriors of the Wyachtenos, and other Indian tribes living on the waters of the Wabash river. _ Brothers: I am on my way to you from the great council fire of the United States, where the great and good chief, General Washington, resides. I am coining with the wishes of his heart to you, which are very good, and which I hope will make your hearts rejoice, when you hear them. Brothers: Out of love to you I am come this Tong way. I wish you to become a happy people; and, believe me, nothing is wanting to make you so, but that you and the United States might once see and hear one another, and remove such obstacles against which we hitherto have stumbled. In order to obtain this end, I have appointee! the twentieth day of September for us to meet each other at Post Vincent, there to consult each other in a friendly and brotherly manner: to wipe off all tears, to set our hearts aright, and to establish a lasting peace and friendship, taking one another by the hand as true brothers, and loving one another from all our hearts. Brothers: You see something very good preparing for you; make yourselves ready, and come and see what it is. I expect to see you on the day appointed; your friends and relations I shall bring with me.—[A string of wampum with three branches. ] RUFUS PUTNAM, Agent. Fort Washington, July 24th, 1792. Letter from General Putnam to the Secretary of War. Fort Washington, August-16, \7§2. Sir: My last letter was dated July 26th, with which I enclosed a duplicate of one of the 22d of the same month, with copies of some speeches connected with the business of treating with the Indians at_Post Vincent. I have been in anxious expectation to receive some information from you or General Wayne, before" this time, that should have removed every doubt with respect to Major Trueman and the other messengers being murdered; as I conceive Captain Hendrick would ascertain that matter, and have it in his power to report to you or General Wayne, although lie might not have it in his power to give me any-information on the subject; but hearing nothing from Captain Hendrick, or any other quarter, to contradict the measure, I shall leave this to-morrow for Post Vincent, in' pursuit of the object I wrote vou in the letter above referred to. The Indian prisoners, ana goods for.the treaty, started down the river this morning. I flatter myself that a pretty large'number of Indians will assemble, and accordingly have sent forward goods sufficient to supply about seven hundred, of different sexes and ages, with a blanket, stroud, or breech-clouts, leg-gins, and a shirt to each, besides thirty coats and thirty hats for chiefs, knives, looking glasses, and some other small articles; and I take with me some of the medals, arm and wristbands, and other jewels. 1 feel exceedingly embarrassed on the occasion, lest, possibly, Captain Hendrick or some other friendly messenger should arrive from the north, in my absence, or that some instructions from the War Office may be issued, with which my visit to Post Vincent should be inconsistent. But the moral certainty of the murder of our flags, and so much time having elapsed without any intelligence relative to the primary object for which I came out, together with the prospect of rendering essential service to Government, by taking advantage of existing circumstances, which would probably be lost forever, if the present moment should not be embraced, I trust will render my conduct excusable, at least, if not commendable. fl mean such circumstances as these: That the chiefs have expressed a willingness to come to Post Vincent to treat, but no further; and if they are not soon gratified in this, they are every moment in danger, through the influence of bad neighbors, of forming worse resolutions; that, from the agreement of Major Hamtramck, they expect to be treated with at that place, and should Government not comply with that agreement, in what they consider as a reasonable time, the mischief might not easily be remedied. That the prisoners being taken along, will probably influence many to come to the treaty which otherwise would not. And when they shall see these prisoners well clothed, and generously given up to their friends, with the report which they will make of their good usage whilst prisoners, it must have a very great and good effect with ail who shall be present—a circumstance, this, which may never exist again. Besides, I am well assured, that some of the first characters among the Wabash chiefs refused to come in on Major Hamtramck’s invitation, because he was no more than a war captain; and the further I have inquired into this business, the more I am convinced it is a matter of considerable consequence, and ought to be attended to: for I find they have no idea of war captains treating of peace—this province belongs to other characters, and it was for this reason that Kaweahatta, the great Eel river chief, refused to see Major Hamtramck last winter, but told his brother, who was a war captain, that he might go; that it was proper one war captain should speak with another. To avoid this prejudice, and, also, that they might have an idea of the business I wish to speak with them upon, from their correspondence with the British, I have, in my speech sent among them, taken the character of agent of the great chief, General Washington, and that I may be consistent throughout, I have thrown by my uniform, and taken the habit of a citizen. Such circumstances are trivial with us, and, perhaps, with some, may be thought laughable; but with this barbarous people, they are considered as matters of great moment; and if we mean to make a peace with them, we ought to accommodate ourselves to their ideas of propriety, especially those which they consider as essential to a treaty that is binding on them. I shall make every possible exertion, in persuading these Western tribes to send a deputation to Philadelphia, and am not without hopes of prevailing with them on that head. ■ I presume that my letters, as late as the eleventh of July, must have reached you by the tenth instant, and if your answer is forwarded by express from Pittsburg, the despatches will reach fort Washington by the first of September, and General Wilkinson will immediately forward,them to me at Post Vincent, where diey cannot fail of arriving by the tenth or fifteenth of September. I made this calculation when I appointed the treaty, and I still hope to receive your instructions before the time of opening it. August 17tli.—I enclose you an abstract of Indian goods still remaining at fort Washington; some of these goods are much damaged, and, in my opinion, ought to be sold, and some others are not suitable for Indian .purposes; there are four hundred and thirty-four and a half yards of lindsey, which is a darkish striped cloth, and which would answer very well for making into overalls and hunting shirts, to supply the riflemen anti other scouting parties occasionally, when sent into the woods, as it is much more healthy than linen, and lighter than the common woollen, and, from the color, will serve for concealment much better than the common uniform. I have the honor to be, &c. Major General Knox, Secretary of War. > ' RUFUS PUTNAM. From the same to the same. ' Rapids of Ohio, August 21 st, 1792. Si R * The escort with the Indian prisoners, &c. arrived here yesterday, without any accident. The low state of the' water obliges us to haul the goods, provisions, and baggage, by the rapids in wagons, which will occasion some expense, and cause two or tliree days’ detention. [ enclose an extract from Major Haintramck's letter to me of the 9tli instant. I wrote you very particularly on the 16th instant, from fort Washington, and have, nothing new to add, except, thlt I hear that a person by the name of Harden, who lives some where near the Ohio, on this side, of Cumberland river, is meditating a stroke at the Indians, in some quarter or other. I am told, from good authority, that he. advertises publicly for volunteers on the occasion. He is said to be the same man who murdered a number of friendly Indians near Post Vincent, about three years ago. Should this wretch be successful in raising his party, and fall oh the Wabash Indians at this time, it must undoubtedly put an end to all prospect or peace in that quarter; and all expenses which Government are at on this occasion, will be worse than thrown away. It is thought by some, that few men will join Harden in his proposed expedition, and that he. will not he able to strike any blow ot consequence. But shall the United States suffer an individual thus to insult her authority with impunity? I hope not; but that proper measures may be adopted to punish every one who shall endeavor to set on foot an expedition against any Indians whatever, without proper authority therefor. I have the honor to be. &c- RUFUS PUTNAM. Major General K.vox, Secretary of War. [enclosure.] Extract of a letter from Major Hamtramek to Rufus Putnam, dated Fort Knox. Post Vincennes. August 9th, 1/92. “I have to acknowledge your letter of July 24th. Every arrangement to promote the public service will be attended to, with all possible exactness: but I am afraid that the lowness of the water will make it difficult for any boats or pirogues to ascend the Wabash. Your speech to the Wabash Indians has already been delivered to two nations, and will be delivered to the others as soon as possible. They appeared to be well pleased, and every thing will work right, if they are but sincere. I have also sent your speech to the Pattawatamies, by the sori to the first king to that nation, who has been with me for some time, (I suppose as a spy) and he assures me that lie will bring his nation to see you, as they sincerely wish to be at peace with the United States. 1 shall have some difficulty to send to the Illinois country, owing to the. extravagant price they ask. However, it must be done. If all the Indians attend, they will draw about seven or eight hundred rations per day."'Indian speech to Major Hamtramek. My Father: Me, Lagesse, the first and great chief of the Pattawatamies, take upon myself to answer for all the nation here represented. We are very glad to hear from you. but sorry we cannot comply with your request; the situation of our affairs in this country prevents us. A\|g are every day threatened by the other Indians, that if we do not take a part with them against the Americans, they will destroy our villages. This alone, my Father, nakes it necessary for all the chiefs to remain at home. Was we called to Post Vincennes, it might be done with ease and safety: but to go to Rocky river, on the Ohio, (meaning head-quarters) is at too great a distance from us. My Fa ther: You tell us you are ignorant why the red people makes war on your white people; we areas ignorant of it as you are: for. ever since the beginning of the war. we have laid still in our villages, although we have repeatedly been invited to go to war: but, my Father, the confidence we have in you has prevented us from making war against you, and we hold you by the hand with a stronger gripe than ever. ■ . My Father: Keep up your spirits more than ever, lor you have this year more red people to fight than you have had yet. Do your best to chastise the nation this year: for, if you do not, we shall have no more hopes, and we will be obliged to abandon our villages to the prey of our enemies. If I could give you a hand I would do it. hut I cannot: and I am glad if me and my people can have a quiet life this summer. If I had been disposed to believe all the reports I have heard, 1 would have made your messengers prisoners: for we are told they are spies, and that you have an army coming against us: but I am deaf to every thing that comes from the Miami. Every day we receive messengers from those people, but we have been deaf to them, and will remain so. M v Father: It would be very necessary that you should have a garrison at Kalmkia: it would be a convenient place for all the Indians of this country' to speak at. A Father should be near his children, and it would give terror to the. bad Indians. Wa.novv all of us take you by the hand, and wish you success. LAGESSE. . General Israel Chapin to the Secretary of War. CA.vANDAuquA. July 17th. 1792- Sir: Agreeably to the directions I received for the. purpose, I set out for Buffalo creek the 9th ultimo. It was out of my power to despatch Captain Hendricks as soon as I could have washed. The chiefs of the Five Nations at first peremptorily insisted on his waiting to accompany them, and it was not without difficulty that they were induced to relinquish the point. After a council, which was protracted for several days, they, however, gave their consent. He set out in a bark canoe on the eighteenth, with suitable attendants and provisions. It'was the opinion of the Indians, he would reach the place of destination in eight days. As I had possessed myself with all the information I expected, I would have returned home after the departure of Captain Hendrick, but the chiefs would by no means consent to my leaving them, while the treaty continued. And, indeed, I have not since been sorry, as ! have reason to believe that my continuance has been the means of more, perfectly reconciling the Onondagas and Cayugas. The far greater part, of both nations, have resided at Buffalo creek, ever since the last war. On iny first arrival, the principal chief of the Cayuga nation, commonly- known by the name of the Fish Carrier, and, indeed, the whole of both nations, .were extremely disaffected. For the grounds of their disaffection, I must refer you, sir, to the speeches delivered to me on the. occasion, which I ordered to be taken down in writing on the spot, and transmit to you by this despatch. After several conferences with the Fish Carrier, in which I was greatly assisted by several chiefs who attended Congress, he gradually relaxed in his severity, and at last became perfectly friendly. A number of young warriors had gone oil'in the spring, to join the hostile Indians: the Fish Carrier promised me that he would not only recall the party, but would go in person to the Southern treaty, and use every exertion to bring about a general pacification between Congress and the Southern Indians. That, after he had been useful, he would go and see General Washington; and could then take him by the hand with confidence and pleasure. Few Indian chiefs have a more extensive influence than the Fish Carrier. The alteration, therefore, of. his sentiments, could not hut afford me the highest pleasure. I can only express it as my private wish, that all his reasonable requests might he gratified. You have no doubt heard, sir, that a number of the Senecas were concerned with our people in cutting otfa scout of hostile Indians. This event has occasioned a good deal of uneasiness among the. Five Nations. Their resentment is peculiarly excited against the commander ot fort Jefferson. They say, that, contrary to the advice he has received from Congress, he has excited some of their thoughtless young men to strike the tomahawk into the heads of their brothers; that it has occasioned an uneasiness towards the whole of their nation, and thrown obstacles in the way of their influence in favor of their friends. The chiefs from Oneida did not arrive during the council: I should otherwise have been able to have despatched the chiefs of the Five. Nations to the Southern treaty, previously to my leaving Buffalo creek. Two of the Massasoiga chiefs attended council with the Five Nations: their appearance was perfectly friendly. They expressed a wish to be made acquainted with our great men. The Mohawks were sent for from the Grand river; but, as Captain Brandt Mas absent, and their principal chief sick, they did not attend. Colonel Butler, the British superintendent of the Six Nations, was also requested to attend. lie came as far as the garrison: the commanding officer would not permit him to proceed further. lie, however, sent a speech to the Indians, in which he told them they were in the right path, and advised them to continue in it. I was visited by several British officers and gentlemen from the settlement of Niagara; they behaved with a politeness that seemed nearly to approach to real friendship. On the whole, every circumstance that respects the Six Nations, wears, at present, a most, flattering appearance. The chiefs that went to Congress are our zealous friends: they particularly explained to the nations, who convened for the purpose, the speeches they had made and received while absent; the reception and treatment they received at Philadelphia: and Iliad the pleasure of observing, that they met with universal approbation. From the best intelligence I could procure, the Southern nations rest in quiet, except the Delawares and Shaw-anese: neither can I learn that they at present have,any thoughts of sending out war parties; but are very attentive lest an enemy should surprise their villages. The grand council of Indian nations are now convening at the falls of the Big Miami.' It is thought it will be the largest ever known. The Indians trom Canada are invited, and every day expected at Niagara. No offensive step will be probably token until after the general deliberation; and, from the number of friends we shall have there, I am induced to expect a favorable issue. The Five Nations manifested gratitude to Congress for their intention of erecting schools among them, and providing them with blacksmiths. I would, however, inform you, sir, that it will be out of my power to do either, except greater encouragement is given; and, if I may be permitted to give my private'judgment, if Congress would establish at present only one school to the west of Genbsee river, and endow it with a stipend that would make it an object for a gentleman of character, it might prove of. infinite service, both in conciliating the affections of the Indians, and in laying a foundation for then-civilization. I would wish, sir, some direction, how far I am to distribute to the Indians. I am continually surrounded by a crowd of them, since my appointment. They all expect to be fed from my table, and made glad from my cellar. Some instances, too, of clothing, I have not been able to deny. I would suggest the idea, whether a small store of provisions and goods, to be distributed on necessary occasions, might not be a saving to the public. I am, with respect, your most humble servant, ISRAEL CHAPIN. Extract of a letter from Israel Chapin to the Secretary of War. Sir: Canandaigua, August 14, 1792. Since I had the honor to write you, on the 17th instant, Captain Brandt, together with’ Doctor Allen and my son, have arrived at this place. The former appeared highly gratified with the attention paid him during Ins stay in Philadelphia, and appears to speak of it with pleasure; and I flatter myself his visit to that place will produce the desired effect. He made but a short [stay at this place, being very unwell. He was anxious to proceed on his journey with as much speed as possible, and was desirous to have Doctor Allen accompany him as iar as Niagara: and I wishing to have a continuance of his friendly disposition readily complied, and they arrived at Niagara the 24th ultimo, as Captain Brandt has informed me by letter, a cony of which I do myself the honor to enclose. Doctor Allen proceeded on to fort Erie, at which place he was taken with a violent bilious fever, and at present remains there very sick. I think it may be depended on, that the Canada Indians, to the number of fifty or sixty, have gone on to the Miamis to attend the general council; and by the latest information I have obtained, the chiefs of the Six Nations were at fort Erie, waiting for a vessel to carry them on to attend the council with their brethren, and I sincerely hope the result of their deliberations will be a general and lasting peace. The Governor of Upper Canada, after perusing the papers the Indians brought from Philadelphia, encouraged them to pursue the good work they had begun, and he would grant them every assistance in his power. From the same to the same. Canandaigua, 24th September, 1792. Sir: . I wrote you on the 14th and 25th ultimo, to which letters I have not received any answer, neither have I received any despatches from you since the 27th of June. Nothing material has transpired in this quarter, except the intelligence received from the Farmer's Brother is so considered. He. informs, that, on his arrival at Detroit, he despatched two of the Seneca Indians who had accompanied the Canada Indians to that place, to Buffalo creek, (where they arrived about the 16th instant, and on the 22d two others arrived at this place, with a string of wampum from him) and informed that the Canada Indians, after their arrival at Detroit, saw a large collection of the hostile Indians; they remained at that place some days, without having any conference with them; that two of the Canada Indians went to the camp of the hostile Indians, and related to them the business which had brought them into their country. The hostile Indians informed them that their requests would not be granted, and any overtures for peace they would not listen to. On the return of the Canada Indians to Detroit, the conversation among them was as follows: "What shall we do? We expected we were sent for to attend a treaty- of peace. Why did they- not, when they sent for us, request us to bring our guns with us? We should then have known what they wanted of us. The next morning, the Canada Indians left Detroit, to repair to the place appointed to kindle the council fire at the rapids of the Miami. On their route they met an Indian on horseback, who informed them that he was sent to call all the Western nations to war, and was directed to call them timely, as they complaitied of being neglected, and that timely notice had never been given. At the rapids of the Miami, they were told, by Colonel Magee, the British agent, that it was unfortunate for them they had come so far from home to attend the council which was intended to have been held at that place; but that it was determined it should be removed to the mouth of the river Muskingum; that the Shawanese and Delaware tribes were the cause of a removal, and all his influence could not prevent it. Had it been held at that place he intended to have supplied all the Indians bountifully with provisions and clothing, but it would not now be in his power. They also inform, that scouts were daily going out and returning with prisoners, scalps, &c. That the hostile Indians reported, that the American army were within three days’ march of the rapids of the Miami; that, on the return of the two Senecas to Detroit, they had met the Farmer’s Brother, who had that day arrived with the other chiefs of the Five Nations, amounting to forty-two, at that place. That Simon Girty addressed them thus: You suppose you have come to attend a treaty of peace; you are mistaken—the tomahawk will be presented to you. The Farmer’s Brother then directed the two Senecas abovemen-tioned to return to Buffalo creek, and give particular information to the tribes at that place; and likewise to give me information of their reception in that country, where he would remain, and should any thing of consequence take place, he would despatch another runner. I nave not heard any thing of Captain Hendrick since he left Buffalo creek; hope he is safe. Captain Brandt is recovering his health, and, from information, I think it will be re-established in a short time. I leave this place this day for the Oneida and Stockbridge villages: and should nothing extraordinary take place. I intend being in Philadelphia by the 20th of next month, unless I should receive your directions to the contrary. I am. sir. your most obedient servant, ISRAEL CHAPIN. Copy qf a letter of Jsoeph Brandt to Israel Chapin. ' ■ Niagara, July L2Sth. 1792. Sir: 1 arrived here on the 24th instant, without any thing remarkable occurring on the way, and only have to say that the Seven Nations of Canada and the Senecas are now waiting at fort Erie for the arrival of a vessel to take them to Detroit, on their way to the Miamis, at which place numbers of Indians are already collected, and others joining daily. From every information I can get. they all seem determined upon a new boundary line, without which I am apprehensive difficulties will be found before a peace will he established. From some conversation with the Fish Carrier and the Onondaga Chief, they wish much that justice may be done relative to the lands, which business has already been explained, and to you they look as a person in authority, i expect to be able to go up by the next return of the vessel, and hope the route will in future be taken that I pointed outas the safest for messengers in future tube sent. Major Trueman, I am sorry to have to say, is no more; being going with a message, was met by an Indian man and boy a hunting, the latter of whom killed him; a circumstance I much regret. I am, &c. Pittsburg, ss. Personally appeared before me, a certain William May. a private soldier belonging to Captain Armstrong’s company, of the late first regiment; was born at Dover, in the State of Delaware, aged about thirty-one years, who, upon oath, saith: That, on or about the 13th of April, he was sent from fort Hamilton, with orders to follow on the trail of Trueman, who, with a French baker, and another man, were sent as a Hag to the Indians. That, after passing Four-mile creek, he steered a north course, by a pocket compass, to General Harniar’s route, which lie reached the seventh day, and followed it. about eleven miles, where he discovered Trueman, and the two other men, lying dead, scalped and stripped. He then steered west for General St. Clair's route. After travelling twelve or tour-teen miles on that course, he fell in with three Mingoes, and soon after with eleven Chippewas, who took him prisoner about eleven o’clock the same day: and the next, at three o'clock, reached Gen. St. Clair's field of battle, where they remained two or three hours, and took a straight course, freipiently falling in with the same Indian path which Gen. St. Clair followed. lie knows it to be the same; and that, from the field of battle to a little diage, burned by General llarmar, situate on the St. Josephs, is fifty-seven miles: from thence, they struck across the country for about fifty miles, when they fell in with a Delaware town, on the Tawa river, where he was much beat; from thence lie was carried down the side of the laid liver, passing through several little villages, about ten miles, to a trading town, where many of the principal traders live, among whom are Messrs. McKenzie and McDonald, Robert Wilson, and two by the name of Abbot, to whose father, and to Simon Girty, it is said, Majoi Trueman had letters, which mentioned his name, as Captain Armstrong had requested the major to make inquiries after him in particular, n hich had nearly occasioned Ins being put to death. At this place the river Glaze forms a junction with the Tawa, and is the principal town, or Indian head-quarters, where there were 3.600 warriors. These men draw daily rations to that amount, which is sent them from Detroit. That he was employed three months in the transport service, on board of a schooner that carried about 160 barrels. That he made a trip generally once in eight, ten, or twelve days. That lie had often loaded the vessel, and had the direction other. That he had formerly followed the sea, and .shall oping, and made the sails for the schooner. That from his knowledge of shall oping, &c. he was purchased by Mathew Elliot. That Alexander McK.ee is the principal Indian agent, and keeps his stores at the rapids, sixteen miles above the mouth of the river. From the mouth of the river to Detroit is one hundred and eight miles, or ninety miles along the lake, and eighteen miles up the river to Detroit. That he was condemned to die, but saved by Simon Girty, and sent to war with twenty-two Indians, on or about the beginning of May, and reached fort St. Clair in eight days, where they killed one man, and returned through die field of battle, where lie discovered the cannon, two of them in Diskee creek, one of them a six pounder; that he put his hand into it: the other three are under a fallen hollow tree, on the opposite side of the creek from the field ot battle. Just at the rising of the hill there is a hollow free standing close by the fallen tree; these three were given to Simon Girty by the Wyandots, whom he commanded on the day of battle. The Shawanesedid not behave well on the day of action, and were called cowards by the jWyrmdots and Mingoes; but that the Wyandots made them a present of two cannon in the creek. That in the latter end of June, some Indians came on board the vessel for provisions; among whom was one who had two scalps upon a small stick, one of them lie knew to be 'William Lynch, Major Trueman's waiter, with whom lie was well acquainted; lie had light hair. That he mentioned at once whose scalp it was, the other they said was Major Trueman’s; it was darker than Lynch's; the manner in which Trueman was killed, was mentioned by the Indian who killed him, to an Indian who used to go in the vessel with May, in his presence, and immediately interpreted, viz: This Indian, and an Indian boy, having met with Trueman, his waiter Lynch, and the interpreter, William Smally, that Major Trueman gave the Indian a belt; that after being together three or lour hours, the Indians were going to leave them. Trueman inquired the reason from the interpreter, who answered, that the Indians were alarmed, lest, there being three to two, they might injure them in the night. Upon which, Trueman told them they might tie both his servant and himself. That his buy Lynch was first tied, and then Trueman. The moment Trueman was tied, the Indian tomahawked and scalped him, and then the hoy. That, the papers in possession of Major Trueman were given to Mr. McKee, \\ ho sent them by a Frenchman, called Captain Le Motte, to Detroit, on board the schooner of which lie. May, had the charge. That upon his return from Detroit, to the rapids, he saw a scalp said to be Captain Hardin’s; that he also sawa Hag by the route of Sandusky, and that the hair was dark brown, but don’t know by what nation he was killed; these papers were also sent to Detroit, on board the schooner, by Mr. Elliott; that a Captain Bruniley, of the fifth British regiment, was in the action, but did not learn that he took any command; that Lieutenant Sylvy, of the same regiment, was on his inarch with three hundred Indians, butdid not get up in time to participate in the action; that Simon Girty told him, there were twelve hundred Indians at the place, but three hundred of them did not engage, who were taking care of the horses, exclusive of the three hundred with Lieutenant Sylvey, in all fifteen hundred. That the hostile Indians say they are to be joined by seventeen nations, in case of war, among whom are now at the Glaze, the Pattawatames, Shawaiiese, Mutinies, Tawas, Wyandots, Delawares, Munsees, Ottawas, and Chippewas; that ten chosen Indians were sent to accompany three Creeks, to the Creek nation, with seven horses loaded with presents, among which, were a great many suits of gold and silver laced clothes, sent on board the schooner from Detroit; that these Creeks were in the late action, and it was expected they would be joined by great numbers from the Creek nation. That it was the common opinion, and the common conversation, that no peace would take place, unless the Ohio river be established as the boundary line, between the Indians and Americans; that this was the general and unanimous sentiments of all the Canada ami other Indian nations, who were assembled and assembling at au Glaze, to bold the grand treaty; and that all the Indian nations are determined to join the confederacy against us, unless we consent to that boundary, nor would they return till they compelled the Americans to agree to it: having brought their families with them or sent for them. That he arrived at fort Erie about the 5th of September, where the Cornplanter, with about three bundl ed and eleven Indians, from Canada and the Six Nations, were, about one hundred ot whom were Senecas; he don’t think they will let the Cornplanter return, unless he agrees to join them, '-hould they determine for war. _ That Captain Brandt returned froiii fort Erie to Niagara in a chair; that lie went to fort Erie, with a view of going to the treaty, but said he was too sick to go 0115 that he met Brandt at Niagara, two days after he returned from fort Erie; that he did not look like a sick man, and that it was the opinion of the people at Niagara, that he never intended to go to the council ; that lie was afraid of the hostile Indians. That on Saturday, the 25th of September, Simon Girty, with two hundred and forty-seven Wyandots and Mill-goes, and two guides, Darling ot Captain Strong's company, and William Smalley the interpreter, with an intention to strike at the pack-horses, at a place called the Falfentiinber, between forts St. Clair, and Hamilton; that if he missed them he would go to Columbia, and do every mischief in his power, before the meeting of the Council; that he would raise hell to prevent a peace; that Girty was sent upon that business by Colonel.McKee, the Indian Agent. That he returned to Detroit on Sunday evening, and got a pass from the commandant of the fort, and sailed next day for fort Erie, where he arrived on the 5th ot September as aforesaid; on the ninth he got a pass from the commandant of Niagara, and on the seventeenth from General Chapin. WILLIAM MAY. Sworn before me, at Pittsburg, this 11th day of October, 1792. ANTHONY WAYNE. Information given by Sergeant Reuben Reynolds, of Connecticut, belonging to Captain BueVs company of the second regiment. . He says he was sent by General Wilkinson to visit the hostile tribes of Indians, in quality of a deserter, to explore the waters in the country, and make what observations he could. That lie left fort St. Clair on the 12th of May last; that on the third day after, lie reached the old Miami towns, which he conjectures to be about eighty or ninety miles from fort St.Clair; that he tarried at these towns three nights, and then set off towards the river St. Josephs, and after travelling three days more, in which lie supposes he went about fifty miles, he fell in with a hunting party of Miami Indians, consisting of fourteen families; these at first threatened to kill him, but afterwards laid aside that intention,1 and treated him well. The place where he met with these Indians, was on a branch of the river St. Josephs, between two towns of the Miami Indians, about thirty miles from that river as the branch runs; but not more than eight miles in a direct line. That after being with these Indians about three weeks, lie was sold to a family of Wyandots, with whom he continued but three days, when lie was again sold to the Miamies, and returned to the party by which he was first taken. He descended the St. Josephs with them to a town of the Pattawatamies, about one hundred and fifty miles from where lie entered the St. Josephs, and about sixty or seventy from its mouth. At this place he stayed about fourteen or fifteen days, and from'thence went to the British post, called fort Michilimackinac, where he continued twenty days, and lived in capacity ofa kitchen servant, in the family of a Mr. Champion. Observations madefrom the time of leaving fort St. Clair, till he reached fort Michilimackinac. He left fort Jefferson about one miie and a half on the left hand, and fell into'the track from that fort to the ground on which the battle was fought on the fourth of November; crossed that ground, and went to the old Miami towns; the travelling very good. From these towns to the place w here he fell in with the' Indians, the travelling not so good, interrupted by swamps, and the country level and the lands good.. The nearest village to the Miami towns, forty-five or fifty miles. The w idth of the branch 011 which he met the Indians, was about six rods, and abou t two or three feet deep; the navigation tolerable to the St. Joseph, and after entering the latter river, the navigation is good to*'its mouth for canoes and large flat bottomed boats, and the St. Josephs is likewise navigable for the like craft, fifty miles above the mouth of the creek on which he met with the Indians. ,  * The St. Josephs is about as wfide as the branch mentioned above, and holds about the same width to its mouth, but it is much deeper than the branch. The British fort, Michilimackinac, is garrisoned by a company of sixty men, commanded by Captain William Doyle, of the twenty-fourth regiment. The fortification is of stone, and of a circular form, with two bastions at each corner of the front. He was not allowed to go within the fort. Indians were daily coming in and going from the forts; he saw arms, ammunition/scalping knives, provisions, Sec. given to them; but whether sold as from the traders, or given on other accounts, he could not learn. The soldiers of the garrison appeared to be inveterate against the Indians; he heard nothing of the grand council to be held. Fourteen chiefs went down to Canada, it was said, for the purpose of consulting the Governor with respect to the war with the Americans. After remaining at Michilimackinac twenty days, as before noted, he had a passport given him, by Captain Doyle, to go to Montreal in a boat of Mr. Champion’s; and, accordingly, he set out, and went along lake Huron, two hundred and forty miles to the French river, from thence into a late, called, by the French, lake Nipsang, afterwards into the Grand river, and down to Montreal, from w hich place he came through Vermont to the city of Philadelphia. He observes, that the Grand river is nearly half a mite broad, and very rapid; that it has many carrying places, one of three miles; that some parts of the river are broad, and appear like lakes, and other parts narrow'. That the trade from Montreal is carried through that river by bark canoes; that there are several trading parts along the Grand river, and the nearest settlements to Montreal, about eighty miles, &c. He knetv not the strength of the different tribes which he was among. The Indians, living about lake Superior, bad joined the hostile tribes; and it was said that there had never before been known such a confederacy of Indians against any nation; that they expected to have three thousand or three thousand five hundred Indians in the field against the Americans. He saw several of the prisoners, taken on the fourth of November; they were slaves; some w'ere treated well, others ill. He could get no information, from these prisoners, of the designs of the Indians, as they could not speak their language. _ _ . The Indians which he met with, in the course of his tour, were the Miami, Sciota, Chippewas, Wyandots, Ottawas, Nipsang, from the French name of the lake mentioned above. Philadelphia, October 19th, 1792. The foregoing information of Sergeant Reynolds was taken by Mr. Lear. Captain Joseph Brandt to ihe Secretary of ff'dr. Nassau, 27th March. 1792, Sm; Yours, of the 25th of February, I have the pleasure of acknowledging the receipt of, and entertain the highest sense of the honor done me by the invitation, and flattering compliment contained therein. It is a visi t I have long been desirous of making, and the time now seems not to be far distant, when that desire will be accomplished. Visiting you, as an individual, W'ould be by no means tending to the accomplishing any good end; as those meetings must show, that have hitherto been held witli people not deputized by the nations, in general, to transact business. I should, therefore, wisli to visit yon vested with some power that will enable me to speak with certainty to what I may assert, and not assert what I, at the same time, must well know would he by no means approved of. This has been too much the case, of late years, and, in my opinion, principally the cause of the present disturbances. 1*92.] GENERAL VIEW. 245 An explanation of grievances, it is absolutely necessary should be made, and that to the head of the United  States, from whom, I entertain not the smallest doubt, but justice will be given when due. To accomplish such desirable ends as civilization and peace-making, no exertions on my part shall be wanting; and though circumstances render it impossible for me to do myself the honor of accepting the invitation at present, as I cannot say whether the Western nations would approve of it. 1 shall, therefore, despatch messengers immediately to the Miamies, with your invitation, to have the opinion of the people there, who I have no great reason to suppose otherwise than that they will approve of my going, and, very possibly, invest me with such powers as will give energy to what I may do. My messengers, I suppose, will return here in about thirty days, until when, 1 shall remain at home; if visiting you, after that, would not be too late to answer the good end intended, I shall endeavor to accomplish my wished for journey, at least if I may hear from you. in answer to this, ere that period. I am. sir, with esteeem. yours, &c. JOSEPH BRANDT. Niagara, 26//; July, 1792. Sir: Since my arrival here, 1 am sorry to have to say, that intelligence respecting Major Trueman's being killed, by an Indian boy. who met with him a hunting, has arrived. This will induce you to recollect what passed between us, relative to messages being sent. _ The route. Presqu’ Isle. I again recommend as the most eligible, from thence, keeping along the lake to Miamis. at which place the chiefs are aptest to he met with, and, w hen once there, they are safe;’ sending such a number of messages, rather makes the Indians suspicions of your intentions; and. by any other route, they are much more liable t<> meet with hunters. There are mwv great numbers of Indians collected; and, from all their councils, seem determined upon a new boundary line. In short, they are all sensible, that what lias hitherto been done, which I fully explained to you. was unfair; and. I am of opinion, peace will not be easily established, without relinquishing part of your claim. The purchases were all made from men who hail no right to sell, and who are now to be thanked for the present difliculties. The Senecas, and Seven Nations of Canada, are now waiting at fort Erie for a passage for Detroit, on their way to the Miamis. 1 shall be able to go up. bv the next trip of the vessel; my intention and wash is still for the accomplishment of peace; 'tis a business will require time; things, too rashly or hastily agreed upon, seldom have the effect of those seriously and coolly reflected on: knowing the foundation to be just, and the benefits that will arise therefrom, afford a greater space for forwarding the business. After leaving your place, until my arrival here, 1 had a tedious journey; the fatigue is done away by the recollection of the politeness and attention shewn me by your officers of Government, for which I cannot but return my warmest thanks, and request you to communicate the same. If any return should be in my power to make. I shall think myself particularly happy, and am. sir. Your most ob't servant, JOS. BRANDT. No. III. Statement of the measures which have been taken to con-iliate and quiet the Southern Indians. The Secretary of War to Governor Blount.—31st January. 1792. Sir: _ I have tiie honor to acknow ledge the receipt of your letter of the 25th of December, by Mr. Allison, and enclose a duplicate of mine to you, of the 10th December last. The militia must not be called out, excepting in cases of real danger. I am confident, that this power will be. used by you with a just regard to the interest of the United States. It is important that the line should he run; but. perhaps, as there mav be some misconception on that bead, although I know of none, yet, as we may want the assistance of the Cherokees in our military operations, perhaps there may be a greater degree of delicacy in having the line ascertained previously than subsequent to the campaign. lam impressed with tiic importance of having some of all the Sourthern tribes with our troops in the field: because, I am apprehensive, that their passion for war will constrain them to join the other side, if they do not ours. However, both the point of time, and the characters you propose for running the line, wilj be left to your discretion. Captain Roberts will not be with you, and, therefore, the money intended for his rations, you will be at liberty to apply to the use of the Indian department. I presume your accounts are altogether satisfactory, and that they have passed the offices. Mr. Allison, who is an amiable and interesting character, will take with him tlie money for the militia guard, who attended at the treaty, and, also, the amount for the rangers of the county of Summer: the money for the counties of Davidson and Haw kins shall also be paid, as soon as they shall be received and passed. \Vc I save been surprised with a visit of the following Cherokees; Nenelooyah, or Bloody Fellow. Chul/oh or King Fisher. Nontuaka, or the Northward, Tcestekc. or the Disturber, Kulhagusta, or the Prince, Sehvcwegce, or George Miller, the squaw Jane Dougherty, and James Carey the Interpreter. They have stated the following objects as their business, the most material of which will be complied with, especially the additional annuity. 1st. To obtain a higher compensation for the lands they relinquished by the treaty with Governor Blount, on the^ 2d July, 1791. 2d." That the white people, who are settled southward of the ridge which divides the waters of the Tennessee from those of Little River, should be removed; and, that the said ridge should be the barrier. 3d. That a person of reputation should be commissioned, in behalf of the General Government, to reside in the Cherokee nation, who should at once be their counsellor and protector. 4th. That the projected settlement of the Tennessee company at the Muscle Shoals, should be prevented. 5th. That the annual allowance of goods should be now furnished, together with some ploughs and other implements of husbandry, as mentioned in the treaty. 6th.   That James Carey, and such other person as the nation shall hereafter choose, shall be appointed interpreters. They will return in a fewr days, enriched with presents, personally, and carrying with them fifteen hundred dollars' worth of goods. They will return by the way of Charleston, by which route they came. It would appear, that General Pickens endeavored to prevent their journey, but in vain. They will be accompanied, on their return, by a worthy young gentleman, Miv Leonard Shaw, who has been educated at Princeton college, and who, from the purest motives, is desirous of being employed in the Indian department. He is to reside with the Cherokees, and correspond with you regularly. I shall broach to the Cherokees the idea of their joining our army, but I have not yet fully done it. I have been extremely desirous that all the proceedings which have taken place with these Indians, should have been transmitted to you, by Mr. Allison. But the particular circumstances which compel him to return by a given day, will prevent. But I shall do it, as soon as possible. You will then find, what you will always find, that, although this particular affair has been, and others which may occur hereafter may he, transacted separately from you, yet, that the whole will tend to induce a more perfect confidence on the part of the Indians, in your character, and. of course, will confirm you in an entire reliance upon the candor and uprightness of the Executive of the United States. I have the honor to be, &c. 7'he Secretary of War to Governor Blount.—1 Gift February, 1792. Sir: I wrote you on the 31st ultimo, by Mr. Allison, who, I hope, safely arrived. At that time, it was contemplated that the Cherokees should either embark at this place or New York. But, upon more mature consideration, it has been concluded to return them to their own homes, by the way of your'government, and, accordingly, they will set out in a wagon, accompanied by James Carey, the interpreter, and Mr. Leonard Shaw, who is to reside in the nation as a deputy agent. This young gentleman is amiable and well informed, and has been' educated at Princeton college. He possesses a strong desire of being useful in the Indian department, and this opportunity has been given him for the exercise of his talents. He will shew to you the communications of the Indians with the Government, the messages to the Creeks, the Choctaws, and the Chickasaws, and his particular instructions. Rut, independent of this information, I shall endeavor to have copies of all the papers transmitted by him, for your use. You will perceive the desire to employ the Southern Indians, and the motives which have led thereto. The President of the United States desires, that you will cordially exert yourself in pursuit of this design. James Seagrove, Esq. is, probably, with the Creeks at this time, and he will urge the same measure. It will be absolutely necessary that I should be informed, atsthe earliest moment, of the decision of any of the Southern tribes to take up the hatchet; you will, therefore, please to send an express as soon as a resolution should have been entered into by any of the tribes, to join our troops, stating the time when they would join, and their numbers. The first of June would be the best rime for them to arrive at fort Washington, prepared to operate during the campaign. It will be of the highest importance that the Indians, about to set out from this city, be shielded from all insult or injury, on their journey to your government; you will? therefore, please to take the most effectual measures on this head, by sending some influential characters at public expense to meet them on their journey from Staunton to llolston. This point is so essential at this moment, that you will not omit any measure to render the protection perfect. Besides the goods for the Cherokees, it has been thought proper to send you a w agon load of strouds and blankets, wherewith you may, from time to time, conciliate the natives under your direction. The invoices are herewith included, amounting to seven hundred and three dollars and ninety-three cents. For the delivery of these articles you will render proper vouchers at the treasury, when you will be exonerated from the charge. - You will perceive that we are about presenting the Choctaws and Chickasaws with goods from fort Wash-ton; large quantities have been forwarded to the Creeks, by way of the Rock Landing, and the Cherokees have been well furnished at this time. I shall gladly receive the information from you of the safe arrival of these Cherokees, and the best consequences are to be expected from their visit, which, upon the whole, has been not a little expensive. James Carey, the interpreter, appears to be desirous, and even zealous, to promote a good understanding betw een the United States and the Cherokees, and, therefore, he is to be encouraged, and his interest promoted. I have the honor to be. &c. The Secretary of War to Brigadier General .Alexander Me Gillivray.—17lh February, 1792. Sir: Your several letters of the 15th and 25th of September, and of the 4th of October, were received by Lieutenant Hetli; they would have been replied to earlier, had not information been received of your departure tor Pensacola, or New Orleans, with the intimation that you would probably return to the Tallassee, about the first of March. The ostensible reason of your leaving the Creek nation at this critical period, is said to have been the disturbances excited by Bowles’ appearance, and the countenance given him by a great part of the Lower towns. If this should have been the true reason, then he must have gained ground rapidly soon after your letter of the 4th October: for you must probably, by a comparison of the dates, have set out from Tallassee somewhere about the first of November. Your knowledge of the Creeks, and the proper modes of managing them, induces a reliance upon your judgment. But whatever may have been the reason of your journey, it would appear that Bowles has availed himself of it, describing it as a flight; it is, however, probable, impressed as you were, that he, being an impostor, you were willing to give him time to verify your predictions concerning his being such; and that the Indians would, upon being convinced thereof, drive him out of the nation. You may rest perfectly assured, and assert the same with full confidence, that Mr. Hammond, the British minister to the United States, has, in the most unequivocal language, in writing to the Secretary of State, disclaimed, on the part of his court, the least countenance or support to Bowles. He is a bold adventurer, attempting to push his fortune by your destruction, and ought, therefore, to be developed, and expelled the nation. The United States will support you in any proper measures which you may think proper to pursue on this occasion. Captain Roberts’ and Captain Mills’ companies, of the second regiment, have been wadded to the troops at the Rock Landing, partly with a view to relieve any of the convalescents, and partly to be at hand to afford countenance to'you-and your measures, taken in pursuance of the treaty with the United States. James Seagrove, Esq. has been appointed by the President of the United States to communicate with you on the present state of affairs, and it will be important that you take immediate measures to have an interview with him, for the purpose of quieting the disturbances excited by Bowles, and running the line agreeably to the treaty of New York. The amiable manners of Mr. Seagrove, and his general character, which cannot be unknown to you? will probably render him highly acceptable to you; you will, therefore, mutually concert measures lor the restoration of peace and good order; and to this end, he is furnished with goods and money, to a considerable amount. It is to be hoped, that, by a proper distribution of these articles, and judicious arguments impressed on the Indians, of the great advantages of connecting themselves closely with the United States, that you will gain a great ascendency in the minds of the Creeks, ami dissipate the cloud which has hung over you lately. — The expulsion of Bowles will probably be the first object of your attention, and it would seem to be a point on which Ihere should be no unnecessary delay. The second will be the running of the line agreeably to the treaty. This is of great importance, as on it rests all the advantages expected from the treaty. The intimation, in your letter of the 15th ol September, of a departure from that line, cannot be admitted; and when you reflect upon the injurious consequences which would result from an attempt to deviate, in the least degree, from the line established by the treaty, it is presumed you will exert yourself to the utmost to have it fulfilled. The treaty, upon both sides, is sacred, and must be complied with, in all its parts. The President of the United States and the General Government are responsible for its execution on our side, and you and the chiefs are responsible on yours. Your reputation, and all dependent thereon, will be blasted forever, if the line be not run as soon as the disturbances are quiet. The troops of the United States have been waiting at the Rock Landing for this purpose, since the first of October, together with Mr. Ellicott, the surveyor, and any further delays, without strong reasons, will excite general dissarislaction, as well in the people at large, as the Government. I urge you, therefore, by the common interest of the United States and the Creeks, by your own reputation, and by a contemplation of the ruinous consequences of a deliberate and wanton breach of the treaty, that you agree with Mr. Seagrove upon an early day when the Indians mentioned in the treaty shall attend, and the line be run in precise conformity thereto. Mr. Seagrove will inform the Governor of Georgia of the time which shall be agreed upon, so that the commissioners may attend from that State. You have no doubt heard of the disaster of the troops northwest of the Ohio. Although we regret the blood spilt on this occasion, we are not discouraged from pursuing the war; and accordingly, a more adequate force will be sent the ensuing season. The United States arc desirous of peace, and they intimated the same even before you were in New York, and before the Government had taken any offensive measures. Bnt the Wabash Indians refused to listen, and still continued their murders. The Government were constrained to take the measures for coercion, which, however, as yet, have been very unsuccessful. 1 enclose you a printed statement of this business. The apprehension is, that you may not be able to keep your young men from joining one side or the oilier. In this case, you and all the chiefs well know, that it is your interest to join us. Confident of your attachment, and remembering your intimations upon the subject. I have asserted, that dependence may be placed upon a number of Creek warriors joining our army the next campaign. I am persuaded you will exert yourself to accomplish this point. Select a party of three hundred, and put them under experienced leaders, and let them pass down the Tennessee river into the Ohio,, and thence, up that river, to fort Washington, so as to be there about the 1st of June, prepared to operate for four or five months. It will be necessary to know your decision speedily, so as to inform the people of Kentucky. The warriors who shall join our army shall he well paid, well armed, and. after the campaign, well rewarded. The same propositions are made to the Cherokees, anil the Ghickasaws and Choctaws. Piamingo. the mountain leader of the Chickasaws, acted with onr troops the last campaign, and he will probably join the army the next campaign, with a body of three hundred of his warriors. Please to let me hear from you soon and explicitly on this head, as well through Mr. Seagrove, as Governor Blount, which will perhaps be the best route, if you should be at the Little Tallassee. The Bloody Fellow, and five other chiefs and warriors, have been here on a visit, and returned well pleased. They have obtained fifteen hundred dollars a year, instead of one thousand, mentioned in the treaty. Mr. Leonard Shaw, an amiable young gentleman, returns with (hem, to reside in the Cherokee country. He will probably pay you a visit, and I shall depend on your kindness to him. With an entire reliance upon your activity and atttacliment in the cause of the United States, 1 am, sir. yours, &c. Instructions to Leonard Shaw, temporary agent to the Cherokee nation of Indians.—February 17, 1792. Sm: The President of the United States is desirous that you should accompany the Cherokee chiefs, who are at present in this city, to their own nation, for the objects hereinafter particularly stated, as well as for the general purpose of attaching the said Indians, and all the Southern Indians, whom you may occasionally see, to the interests of the United States. It is the sincere desire of the United States to be at peace with all the Southern tribes, and all others within their general limits. Treaties were made at Hopewell on the Keowee. in 1785, anil 1786, with the Cherokees. Choctaws, and Chickasaws, and in the year 1790, with the Creeks, all of which treaties you have herewith delivered ) on. Some dissatisfaction having occurred upon the treaty with the Cherokees. a new treaty was formed with that tribe, on the second day of last July, by Governor Blount, of the Tennessee government. The chiefs whom you are to accompany, were delegated lor the purpose of endeavoring to obtain a higher annual compensation for their lands than was stipulated in the treaty, and to obtain satisfaction on other points, all of which have been freely granted by the President of the Unite® tares, and they are returning apparently well satisfied. The communications they have made, and the answers thereto, by the President of the United States, together with my answers,are contained in a book made for that express purpose, which is committed to you. Upon their return to their own country, it is highly probable that all the said communications will be duly considered at the public councils. Mr. James Carey, who has been present, will be the interpreter. His attachment to the United States, and his zeal in their service, will, 1 am persuaded, in future, realize the expectations which have been formed of him. You will continue to cultivate his fricndSip, and endeavor, through him. to infuse into all the Indians the uprightness of the views of the President of the United States, and his desire to belter the situation of the Indians in till respects. The proposal that the Cherokees should join our forces, will be a subject of discussion. You know the motives of this proposal; that it arises from an apprehension of their young men being constrained to join one side or the other, and that it will be for the happiness of the Cherokees that they should join ours in preference to that of the hostile . Indians. You will fully and frequently inculcate the purity of the conduct of the General Government to the hostile Indians, and how reluctantly the war has been imposed on us; and further, that its views are to make a firm peace with the said Indians, as soon as they have manifested their sincere intentions for this purpose. It is of high importance that the Southern Indians should be prevented joining the Indians north of the Ohio, and no expedient occurs, so proper to attain this end, as inducing them to join our army. The difference between civilized and savage modes of life is so great, as, upon a first view, almost leads to the conclusion that the earth is peopled with races of men possessing distinct primary qualities; but, upon a closer inspection, this will appear fallacious, and that the immense difference arises from education and habits. A due performance of your duty will probably require the exercise of all your patience and fortitude, and all your knowledge of the human character—the school will be a severe but interesting one. If you should succeed in acquiring the affections, and a knowledge of the characters of the Southern Indians, yon may be at once useful to the United States, and advance your own interest. You will endeavor to learn their languages; this is essential to your communications. You will collect materials for a history of all the Southern tribes, and all tilings thereunto belonging. You will endeavor to ascertain their respective limits; make a vocabulary of their respective languages; teacli them agriculture, and such useful arts as you may know of can acquire. You will correspond regularly with Governor Blount, who is Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and inform him of all occurrences: you will also cultivate a correspondence with Brigadier General McGillivray, and you will also keep a journal of your proceedings, and transmit them to the War Office. You will, for the present, be allowed at the rate ol five hundred dollars, annually; a greater sum will probably depend on the evidence of your utility. You have advanced you on this account, two hundred and fifty dollars; and you have herewith delivered you a Mini of five hundred dollars, on account of defraying the expenses of the. Indians’ return. You will keep accurate accounts of such expenses, taking bills and receipts for every cent expended and charged; and you will, before you leave Governor Blount, transmit the said account and vouchers. Besides this sum, winch is founded on an estimate, you have herewith delivered to you two hundred and fifty dollars. This is to serve as a contingent fund, after your arrival in the nation, and for which you will he held accountable. You are to exhibit to Governor Blount the Cherokee book, and all the writings therein; the messages to the several tribes of Indians, and these instructions. v A stage wagon will accompany you to the na\ igable waters of the llolston, and also two wagons, loaded with the Indian goods; a contract has been formed for the wagons, and the hire is to be paid on their return to this city, and each wagoner is to pay the expenses of himself and his teams. 1 will write to Governor Blount to furnish you with boats, to carry the Indians and their goods down the llolston and the Tennessee, to the Cherokee country; on your arrival at Staunton, you will embrace the first opportunity of informing him of your approach, that lie may meet you and the Indians with a safe escort. Your route will be hence to Reading, thence Harriss’s ferry to Carlisle, to-----ferry, on the Potomac, to Winchester, to Staunton, to------, and to llolston. I should hope that you would travel upwards of twenty miles each day, and that you should reach the llolston in about thirty days. You will write to me on your arrival at Carlisle, Winchester, Staunton, and llolston. You have the invoices of the Indian goods, which accompany the said Indians; which goods are for three distinct, purposes; 1st. The personal presents to the chiefs and warriors and interpreters, amounting to three thousand four hundred and sixty-two dollars and twenty-one cents. 2d. The personal presents to the chiefs, mentioned in the speech of the President of the United States to the Cherokees. 3d. The eight suits of clothing, and the silver ornaments, designed for the chiefs mentioned in the message to the Chickasaws and Choctaws. This Mill leave a surplus of four suits, and four sets of ornaments, in your possession, which you will either give to the chiefs of the Creeks or others, as in your judgment may best promote the public interest. But it is to be observed, that a large quantity of valuable goods were sent from this city to the Rock Landing, in December last, designed for the Creeks. 4th. The goods for the Cherokee nation. This quantity amounts to one thousand seven hundred and fifteen dollars and fourteen cents, which considerably exceeds the promised compensation, and of which you will make a proper use, to shew that the United States mean to conduct munificently to the Cherokees. Besides all the above goods, there is a separate wagon load, amounting to seven hundred and three dollars and ninety-three cents, put under jour charge for Governor Blount, to be by him distributed for the public service. The Indians must be informed of this circumstance distinctly and strongly, so that no suspicion arise in their minds that this quantity was part of their goods. _ All public goads, money, or property of any sort, passing through your hands, must be minutely accounted for; you will, therefore, keep accurate accounts of all deliveries, the motive, the time and place, and, if possible, to obtain vouchers of white persons present; but if this should not be practicable, you must take an oath to the truth, of the statement. Given at the War Office, &c. - Message from the Secretary of War to the Creeks.—17 th February, 1792. To Chinnabie, the great Natchez warrior, ami the other chiefs of the Creek nation, who lately sent a talk to the President of the United States, by the Cherokee chiefs: Brothers: Your father, General Washington, the Great Chief of the United States, has directed me to send this talk to you; receive it therefore with gladness, as an evidence of his love and attachment to the Creek nation. He recollects you, Chinnabie, and the other chiefs who accompanied your beloved chief, General Alexander McGillivray, to New York. The treaty then made is the bond of union between the United States and your nation. You have asked about one Bowles, who has caused disturbances in your nation; that man is an impostor, and n. deserves and ought to be driven out of your nation immediately. It is not necessary to enlarge, as I have written fully to your beloved chief. General McGillivray, and sent a great white belt, as a perpetual remembrance of our friendship. Your beloved chief will inform you of all the news, and you will obey him as your best friend. Your friends, the Cherokees, have been well received, and have been gratified in all their requests; they therefore return home witli great joy and satisfaction. Given at Philadelphia, &c. Message from the Secretary of War to the Choctaw nation.—17 th February, 1792. To the chiefs and warriors of the Choctaw nation: Brothers: . Your father, General Washington, the Great Chief of the United States, has received your talk which you sent by the chiefs of the Cherokees last autumn. He received it with satisfaction, and holds it fast to his heart, as he does all the peaceable red people, and particularly the Choctaws. The United States are at peace with the Creeks, the Cherokees, the Choctaws, and Chickasaws. - General Washington is anxiously desirous that this peace should be rendered as firm and lasting as the mountains; he will cheerfully embrace every occasion to render our friendship closer and closer, and to unite us in bonds of brotherly love. But, although the United States are at peace with all the Southern tribes, yet they are at war with some bad Indians, north of the Ohio. These Indians are the Rickapoos, and their allies, who are your enemiesas well as ours. The war which the bad Indians have waged against the frontier settlements,_ is the cause of the United States raising troops, and attempting to punish the said Indians; but these Indians having, by their lies, seduced other Indians to join them, they beat our troops last year. But the United States are not disheartened at this event; they will still punish the bad Indians severely, unless they immediately come and make peace. We do not want their lands; we do not want to injure them in any respect; but we wish they could behave as good children, so that we might treat them with kindness. Brothers: Your father, General Washington, desires that you will not believe any lies which these bad Indians shall endeavor to impress on you. , I have told you the truth, that is, their murdering the-white frontier people, which is the cause we make war upon them; and I repeat it. that unless they will be quiet, they must be destroyed; Brothers: If these bad Indians continue the war, we shall send a large body of troops to fort Washington, on the Ohio, the next year. Your father, General Washington, says, that such of your young warriors as choose, may join our troops at that place. Those of them who shall come there, shall be well fed, well armed, and well rewarded after the campaign shall be over. Such of your warriors as shall join our troops, ought to be there by the first of June next. Your father. General Washington, sends you two great silver medals, and two sets of arm bands, and also two suits of rich uniform clothes, as a mark of his affection. You will point out the two great chiefs who are to receive these marks of distinction. But besides those articles, which are the forerunners oi other good things, he has directed the commanding general at fort Washington to give you more extensive presents for your nation. Let him I;now when and where >rou will be ready to receive those, and he will send them to you. Chiefs anti warriors, remember the treaty of Hopewell as the bond of our union. Adhere to it on your parts as we shall on ours. The United States will be your friends and protectors upon all occasions, and you must regard Genera] Washington as your father. After the next campaign shall be over, General Washington invites four or five of your great chiefs to visit him in Philadelphia. He wishes to see you, and convince you personally how desirous he is of promoting your happiness. You shall be kindly received, well treated, and sent back enriched with presents. As an evidence of the goodness of his heart, and of the friendship of the United States, General Washington sends you a great white belt, to be kept as an everlasting token thereof. Given at the city of Philadelphia. / Message from the Secretary of IVur to the Chickasaw nation, dated \7th February, 1792. To Piamingo, the mountain leailer, and the other chiefs and warriors of the Chickasaw nation. Brothers: Your lather. General Washington, the Great Chief and President of the United States, lias commanded me to send you this talk. Receive it, therefore, as an evidence of his affection, and the affection of the United States towards the Chickasaw nation. lie heartily thanks Piamingo, and die other Chickasaw warriors, for joining our troops the last season. The Indians north of the Ohio have for several years been committing murders on the defenceless white men, women, and children, on the frontiers. General Washington sent a message to these bad Indians, to tell them they were doing wrong, and that they must be quiet, and make peace with the United States; but instead of complying with the invitations for peace, they were more violent than ever. Our troops were sent to punish the bad Indians for their crimes, but more Indians joining than was expected, our troops were defeated. This ^defeat may appear a vast thing to the bad Indians, who will now think themselves great warriors; hut, although we lament the blood which was spilt on the occasion, yet we are neither disheartened, or afraid to pursue the war; unless, therefore, the bad Indians come and make peace, the United States will raise a sufficient force not only to curb them, and prevent their murders in future, but, il necessary, to drive them out of the country altogether. Although the loss of men is to be avoided, if possible, on our part, yet we can bear a much greater loss than we have sustained, without being greatly weakened, whereas, the loss of a thousand warriors to the hostile Indians, would be a blow from which they would never recover. Numerous as we are, the lives of the hostile Indians are at our disposal. We wish not, however, to cut them off from the face of the earth; but, on receiving evidence of penitence for their past crime, and proper security for their good behar ior, we are willing to receive them into our protection, and to impart to them the blessings of civil life. The President of the United States is very desirous to reward the attachment of Piamingo, and the warriors who were with him at fort Washington, and he now sends to Piamingo, and two other principal chiefs,---great silver medals, and each a suit of rich uniform clothes; and further, he has ordered presents to be sent from fort Washington to the Chickasaw nation generally, of such articles as shall be useful to them. The Chickasaws must send a message to the commanding officer at fort Washington, giving him sufficient notice of the time when, and the place where, they will receive the goods. These goods are sent as presents, and as an evidence of the attachment of the United States to the Chickasaws. and a reward for their friendship. If Piamingo should, with other chiefs, choose to join their arms with ours in the cause of the next campaign, let them repair to fort Washington by the first of June next, where they shall be well armed, well fed, and, also, after the campaign, well rewarded for their services, in money or goods, as they shall best like it. Mr. Shaw, the bearer, who accompanies the Cherokee chiefs to theirown country from this city, will deliver you the message and the presents; he will receive also your answer to this request. Treat him kindly, for the sake of the President of the United States, and let him know at what time, and with how many warriors, you will join our army at fort Washington. The President of the United States has received jour talk by the Cherokees, and lie has satisfied them entirely upon their business, and they are about returning home with great joy. Besides writing this talk. General Washington sends a great white belt to the Chickasaws, asa perpetual evidence of the pure intentions and strong affections of the United States to the Chickasaw nation. After the next campaign, our beloved chief, General Washington, invites Piamingo, and three other great chiefs, to repair to Philadelphia. He wishes to convince them, by a personal interview, how desirous he is of promoting die happiness of the Chickasaws. The chiefs who shall come forward shall be kindly received, well treated, and return to their own country enriched with presents. Given at the city of Philadelphia, &c. The Secretary of I Far to James Scugrovc, Esq.—20 th February, 1792. Sir: Your letter to the President of the United States,dated at Trader's Hill, on the liver St. Mary’s,near the Indian line, on the 30th of November 1791, and yours to me, dated at Savannah, on the 7th ultimo, have been both received within the last week. Major Trescolt, for whom I had written to fort Pitt, delayed his arrival longer than I expected. The rivers became obstructed with ice. Information was received of General McGillivray's absence from the nation, without whom it would have been impolitic to have taken any important measures. The arrival of certain Cherokee chiefs at this city, upon business collaterally connected with your mission; the time it was conjectured it would require you and the troops and goods to repair to the Rock Landing, combined to prevent the main objects of your instructions being sufficiently matured until this time. You will now please to regard this letter as the general rule of conduct in the measures which you may take, for more closely cementing the interests of the Creeks with those of the United States. The main objects of your mission will herein be designated, but the accomplishment thereof will principally depend upon the wisdom of your conduct, your own resources and talents. To assist you, however, in your operations. Captain Mills had under his charge, money and goods to the amount of seven thousand seven hundred anti twelve dollars and thirty two cents, to wit: two thousand seven hundred and twenty two dollars and thirty' four cents, in money, and four thousand nine hundred and eighty nine dollars ninety eights cents in goods at the first cost, independent of the transportation to the Rock Landing. I have enclosed you an order to Captain Mills for the delivery of the said money and goods to you. Of the expenditure thereof, you will keep regular accounts—stating to whom delivered, the motives, anti the times and places; and in all possible eases, the delivery must be evidenced by two commissioned officers of the troops of the United States, or two other white persons. You will please not to consider these rules as any evidences of distrust, but as general principles, operating throughout the Indian department; and you will, every six months, state your account, supported by vouchers, and transmit the same to me. In this account you w ill state the money* or articles received and delivered, and the quantities remaining on hand. You wijl also please to take an oath, prescribed by the laws, and transmit the same to this office, in order to be enregistered. The following will be the main objects of your attention : First. To quiet the disturbances which have been excited among the Creeks bjr the a nival of Bowies, and to have his impostorship properly exposed, and his person either secured or banished the nation. Secondly. To have the treaty of New York complied with in all respects, as well of prisoners as of running the boundary lines, precisely according to the treaty. Thirdly. To obtain a body of three hundred warriors of the Creeks, to join our army at fort Washington, on the Ohio, which is near where the great Miami empties into the said river. I enclose you an open letter for Brigadier General MeGillivray upon these subjects, in order that you may be fully acquainted with the views of Government, and that jrou may take a copy thereof, under the official restrictions of secrecy. It is to be hoped that the accomplishment of the first object will not be attended with great difficulty: for Mr. Ellicott writes, on the 14th of last month, from the Rock Landing, and encloses a report of Charles Weatherfield, by which it would rather appear that Bowles was preparing to return to the Bahamas, as he had then retired eighty miles down the Flint river. 1 am induced to hope, that, although General McGillivray had gone to New' Orleans or Pensacola, yet that it was not with the intention of moving entirely out of the nation. He formerly intimated a removal of his residence nearer to Pensacola, upon some fertile lands, and it is probable that he had removed his negroes to his intended future residence; but, although I mention this, it is only conjectural. As to Walker’s information, perhaps it is to be received with caution: for I have been informed that Mr. McGillivray had entertained a penchant for one or two daughters of Walker’s, and the apprehension on this subject may have occasioned the latter’s removal. At this distance, it would appear, that any strong attempts to remove even Bowles, unless in consequence of measures connected with Mr. McGillivray, would be to hazard his resentment and attachment to the United States. Jealousy is easily excited, and it would, at this time, be a delicate, and perhaps improper measure, to endeavor to establish an influence among the Creeks, independent of Mr. McGillivray. I am strongly impressed with the conviction, that his absence is a temporary one; that he will return in March or before; and that, it,Bowles should not then have gone off, he will fake the most decisive measures for his destruction. It is a circumstance of the highest importance, and of which you w ill make the fullest use, that Mr. Hammond, the British minister here, has disavowed explicitly the least knowledge of, or support to, Bowles. He is, as it respects any of his assertions of being supported by the British Government, an impudent impostor; and it is most likely that it will prove the same with respect to his pecuniary promises. Your primary object wdl therefore be, to see Mr. McGillivray, and arrange with him the utter extirpation of Bowles. With respect to the second object, you will attentively observe my letter to him upon that subject. The line marked in the treaty is the only one that can be accepted. The treaty was solemnly made and ratified, and has become the law of the land. The United States are bound to protect the Creeks in the boundary specified in the treaty, and they cannot consent to any other being marked. The true line, and that only, can be established. The fifteen hundred dollars yearly, is given principally for that part of the treaty. The future importance of Mr. McGillivray. as it shall respect his connexion with, and support by, the United States, depends upon his carrying the treaty into full effect. Although this object is of the highest importance, yet, considering the inflammability of the Indians, and their perturbed situation, owing to Bowles’ interference, it would not be wise to make the running of the line instantly, a sole condition on which the United States will continue at peace with the Creeks. It may (if indispensably necessary to afford time for reflection, and better dispositions) be postponed a month or two, without diminishing the force of the claim or treaty. But you will hold up, in a firm, but temperate language, the ideas above suggested. The United States w ill liberally compensate the Indians for any evidence of their attachment, and therefore, rewards to particular eminent characters maybe held forth with a certainty of being realized: the continuance of which, how ever, always to be conditioned on evidences of the attachment of the party who shall receive them. The third object is particularly mentioned in the. letter to Mr. McGillivray. The entire defeat of our troops the last year, will render the hostile Indians intolerably audacious. They will have their emissaries with the Southern Indians, and unless powerfully counteracted, it is but too probable they will obtain assistance. To prevent this measure, which would be a prelude to a general war with all the Southern tribes, arid also to strengthening the treaties that have been made, it is thought advisable to employ the Southern warriors to join our troops against the hostile Indians. You will endeavor to accomplish this point with General McGillivray, so that he may send three hundred of his people. He mentioned to me his desire, when the treaty was made, to find some employ for his warriors. One now'occurs in which he may evince, decisively, the sincerity of his attachment to the United States. The Cherokees will probably send a body of their warriors, and the same will also take place with the Chicka-saws, and probably the Choctaws. _ """1 enclose you three statements of the causes of the war with the Northern Indians. It may be safely affirmed that the United States are desirous of establishing a general arid firm peace with all the Indian tribes, founded on the principles of moderation and justice—a knowledge of. and reliance upon this principle, will be the pole star of your conduct. You will exert yourself to influence and attach the Indians to the President and the United States. Your exertions in pursuance of this service, will entitle you to the approbation and thanks of the President. You will, of course, avoid everything that is harsh and disagreeable to the Indians, whom you will conciliate by kindness and mildness, instead of terrors or threatenings. I have not mentioned the rate of your compensation, as a bill is pending before Congress upon the subject of Indian affairs generally, in which it is expected provision will be made for the agents employed in the Indian department. The appointment, for the present, will have the appearance of being a temporary one, and, therefore, a commission is not transmitted. You will, as soon as possible, inform me of the receipt of these instructions, and of your movements consequent thereon. The troops at the Rock Landing have been increased, under the ideas of awing and repressing any turbulent spirits among the Indians who might be disposed for mischief by Bowles’ instigations. I am persuaded that Major Call, the commanding officer, will do every thing in his power to concur with you in promoting the public service. Mr. Fdlicott, the surveyor, has been hitherto detained at the Rock Landing, with the expectation of running the line, and he will be instructed to continue there unless appearances should terminate the expectations upon that head, in which case he will return. Although these instructions are not signed by the President of the United States, you are to consider them as formed by his express order. In your letter to the President you mention an idea of Bowles’ introducing goods, through the St. Mary’s, into the Creek nation. If this should be the case, you will detain the said goods until you receive the further orders of the President thereon. I ain, sir, &c. Sir: The Secretary of War to Governor Blount.—31sf March, 1792. I have received your favor of the 2d of March, with its enclosures, all of which have been submitted to the President of the United States. He approves the calling the Chickasaws and Choctaws to Nashville, the first of June next, for the purpose of conciliating and attaching them cordially to the interest of the United States. You will, therefore, take the necessary steps to carry into full execution the objects contained in your letter, particularly the contracting for the necessary quantity of provisions. Mr. Allison will stay here until the goods are prepared, which shall be done as soon as possible, although it is doubtful whether, until the arrival of the spring ships from Europe, a sufficient quantity of proper goods may be obtained. You are hereby authorized to call into service, so many militia and officers, on the pay and rations allowed by the United States, as shall in your judgment be indispensably necessary for the defensive protection of your Government. Although the two companies you mention, do not appear excessive, yet the President requests it may be impressed upon you, that he regards that responsibility of character you possess, as an entire security against any excessive number. You will regulate the time for which these men shall be engaged. You will please to observe, that they will be entitled to pay and rations only—the President not being authorized to allow the militia any clothing. Mr. Shaw must have arrived with you long before this, with the Cherokees. As lie is ordered to make a full communication of all the business transacted at this place with said Cherokees, I am persuaded it was satisfactory to them, and I hope it will be so to you. 1 shall write you more fully by Mr. Allison. , I have the honor to be. sir, &c. The Secretary of Jfar to James Seugrove, Esq.—II th April, 1792. Sm: I have duly received your letters of the 14th of January, and 20th of February, with their several enclosures. 1 now transmit you. herewith, by order of the President of the United Slates, a certified copy of an official letter from Mr. Hammond, his Britannic Majesty's minister, now resident in this city, to the Secretary of State, relative to an utter disavowal of the court of London, of having any communication whatever with Bowles. You will make use of this information as you shall think best, in conformity to the spirit of my instructions to you of the 20th February hast. By the first opportunity from this place, I shall reply particularly to your letters. I am, &c. ‘Philadelphia, 30th March, 1792. “Sm: By the last packet I have received from my court, (in consequence of a communication from me of the reports circulated upon the subject") a corroboration of the truth of the sentiments which I had the honor of stating to you as the result of my personal conviction, in my letter of the 14th of December, relative to Mr. Bowles. I am directed to assure this Government, in the most explicit manner, that the assertions said to have been made by Mr. Bowles, of his pretensions having been encouraged or countenanced by the Government of Great Britain, or of his having been furnished by it with arms and ammunition, are entirely without foundation. The report, also, of his having obtained from the Government of Great Britain any sort of commission as superintendent of the Indians, or in any other character, or of his having received authority to promise to the Indians protection and assistance in the recovery of their old boundary with Georgia, or to hold out to them the expectation of any English reinforcements in the spring, is equally groundless. I feel the sincerest satisfaction in being empowered to communicate to you, sir. this additional proof of his Majesty’s Government to promote a good understanding with the United States, which solicitude cannot be more decidedly evinced than by this prompt contradiction of the rumors to which I have alluded, and which are as repugnant to the truth, as they are injurious to the establishment of that mutual confidence w hich ought to subsist between our respective countries. I have the honor to be, with great respect and esteem, sir, vour most obedient humble servant, GEO. IIAMMONI). Mr. Jefferson’. Department of State, ss. I do hereby certify that the preceding letter from his Britannic Majesty’s minister plenipotentiary, dated 30th March, 1792, and addressed to the Secretary of State, is truly copied from the original. In testimony whereof, 1 have caused my seal of office to be hereunto affixed, this thirty-first day of March, 1792. [l. s. ] TH. JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.''The Secretary of I far to Brigadier General Andrew Pickens.—21st April, 1792. Rip.: It is most probable that you are not unacquainted that hostilities have for many years past existed between certain tribes and a banditti of Indians northwest of the Ohio, and the people of the United States residing upon the frontiers lying along that river. That these evils, rising by degrees, at last became too enormous to be longer borne without attempting to curb them. That the attempts for this purpose, made both by Brigadier General Harmar and Major General St. Clair, were unsuccessful. That the posture of allairs have induced the Congress to raise a large body of troops, and that recruits are raising accordingly. In this stage of the business, it is the ardent desire of the President of the United States, that every effort for peace should precede coercion, and accordingly attempts are making to effect, that end. But the success is too doubtful for the United States to place any dependence thereon. Every preparation will of course be made for a vigorous campaign, in case the efforts for peace should prove fruitless. In the mean time, there can be no doubt but that the hostile Indians are endeavoring to excite the Southern Indians to join them. This event would be attended with the most pernicious effects, and it must, if possible, be avoided. But when the passions for war of the younger part of the Indians be contemplated, it must be confessed to be a work of difficulty, and almost impracticable to keep them quiet: and, upon reflection, no expedient seems so proper, to prevent their acting against us, as inducing them to join our troops against the hostile Indians. It is presumed that, if the Indians northwest of the Ohio are offered the most moderate and just terms of peace which can be devised, and they still continue their depredations, that the United States will be justified by every principle of humanity in guarding themselves from injury by the very means used by an unjust and barbarous enemy. Little reasoning is required to establish a principle so self evident. Governor Blount is to hold a treaty at Nashville, with the Chickasaw’s and Choctaws, about the first of June next, to which he will be requested lo add some of the principal chiefs of the Cherokees. Some recent murders will vender it proper as to the latter nation. At that treaty, offers will be made to the nations who shall be present, of joining their young warriors to our army, in case the hostile Indians should persist in their dispositions for war. The President of the United States, who is impressed with respect for your character, has directed me to invite you to be present at that treaty, in order that your influence may be used, not oidy to induce the Indians to accede to the propositions which may be made to them, of the nature before described, but, if they accept, that you should command them combined!}* on the proposed expedition northwest of the Ohio. The President of the United States, upon mature reflection, has conceived that your influence oyer the Cherokees particularly, and the Southern Indians generally, would, if exerted at the present time, be peculiarly useful and important to your country. And the reputation you possess trill not permit him to doubt, that, if it be possible, you will not hesitate to undertake the object. The compensation which will be allowed you, will be equal to a brigadier’s pay, and, as you possess that rank in the militia, you will retain it while employed in the service, which will be in its nature temporary. If a body of Southern Indians could be obtained, not exceeding in all five hundred in number, well armed with their own rifles, ami, upon their arrival at fort Washington, to be combined with a body of riflemen and cavalry, they might be of themselves almost irresistible and of the highest utility. In case of this measure being complied with by the Indians, the manner of their joining the army must be concerted with Major General Wayne, the commander of the troops at fort Washington, who might order boats to fall down to (be mouth of Cumberland and there receive the Indians, or they might be marched by land, whichever may be considered as the best. As this letter is written in consequence of the immediate directions of the President of the United States, and as it will be sent by express to Governor Blount, and from him to you, I pray you that you would not hesitate to communicate to him your determination by the return of Governor Blount’s express, anil he will instantly transmit it to me. I am, sir, &c. Sir: The Secretary of War lo Governor Blount.—22d Jlpril, 1792. I have the honor to enclose you a duplicate of my letter to you of the 31st ultimo, acknowledging the receipt of yours of the 2d ultimo by Mr. Allison, and containing some general principles relative to the militia you may judge expedient to call into service, for the defensive protection of such parts of j our government as are exposed to the incursions of hostile Indians; and also, containing the approbation of the President of the United States, for the proposed conference with the Ciiickasaws and Choctaws, at Nashville, on the first day of June next. Having on the 13th instant received your letter of the 14th of the last month, I shall now reply to it, and the one of the 2d of the same month. But previously thereto, I take occasion to state, that it is the most ardent desire of the President of the United States, and the General Government, that a firm peace should be established with all the neighboring tribes of Indians, on such pure principles of justice and moderation, as will enforce the approbation of the dispassionate and enlightened part of mankind. That it is the intention of the President of the United States, that an adherence to this desire, as to a well founded maxim, shall be the leading feature in the administration of Indian affairs, while he is at the head of the Government. That he shall lament exceedingly all occasions which shall either suspend or impede the operations ofthose principles, which he considers essential to the reputation and dignity of the republic. That, in pursuance of these ideas, he endeavored that a genuine state of their situation, and of the general dispositions of the United States upon this subject, should be brought home, to the minds of the Western Indians, before any coercion was attempted. That, although the essays to this end were then ineffectual, yet it has been his directions that similar intimations should be continued. . .... 'That, therefore, every effort is making in order to impress the hostile Indians with their past errors; that the United States require nothing of them but peace, and a line of conduct tending to their own happiness. That all which has past shall still be buried in oblivion, provided that they will immediately agree to a treaty of peace, in which they wilt obtain all they can possibly desire, and relinquish nothing; for we demand none of their lands. That we are not sensible the hostile Indians, that is. the Miami and Wabash Indians, have anj' just claim to lands comprehended in the former treaties; but, notwithstanding, if they can show they possess a fair light to any of those lands, they shall receive a liberal compensation for the same. It is presumed, if these sentiments could be fully impressed on the minds of the hostile Indians, (and measures are taking for that purpose) that the establishment of trauquillity on the frontiers would be the probable consequence. But, if the hostile Indians should, after having these intentions of the Government laid fully before them, still persist in their depredations on the frontiers, it will be considered as the dictate of humanity to endeavor to punish; with exemplary severity, so incorrigible a race of men, in order to deter other tribes, in future, from a like conduct. I have been thus particular in detailing to yon these sentiments, in order that you may lay them before the assembled nations, at the proposed conference, m full and strong terms. It will, therefore, be only in the result of the hostile Indians continuing in their hostility, that the aid of the -Southern Indians would be required. But, as this result will be known, and as the commanding general will be directed to communicate it to you, by expresses, while you are at the conference, you will, of course, proceed in obtaining the number mentioned in the letter to General Pickens, which is enclosed open for your perusal and consideration. The President of the United States, being very favorably impressed with the character of General Pickens, is greatly desirous, if the war must proceed, that he should command the Indians, combined with other troops. You will, therefore, please, immediately, (o forward the letter to General Pickens, first sealing it, and, upon receiving his answer, you will transmit it to Richmond, by express, whence it will arrive by the stages as soon as by express. Mr. Allison has been detained for the arrival of the spring ships. But he lias now provided all the goods you requested, as per invoice herein enclosed, excepting the rifles, which, unfortunately, cannot be obtained here, without taking those which are designed for the rifle corps. IP Mr. Allison can obtain the number requested, in the Southern district, he is requested so to do. He will embark with the goods, for Richmond, on the 25th instant. Besides the goods, which amount to eight thousand one hundred and ninety-one dollars eleven cents, he is charged with the sum of two thousand dollars, to pay for the provisions and other expenses of the treaty, as stated in your estimate, together with the sum of seven hundred and fifty dollars, contingencies of the treaty. In addition, he is charged with the sum of three thousand dollars, to pay the expense of transportation to Richmond, and thence to your government. He is also charged with the further sum of three thousand dollars, to pay the levies who served in the campaign under General St. Clair. < I am anxious to hear of the safe arrival of Mr. Shaw with yrou, and that they have gone forward into their nation, continuing in that grateful state of mind in which they departed from this place. I flatter myself, the manner of their treatment here, and the impressions of good designed by the United States for their, and the other friendly nations, will be received with joy by all the well disposed Cherokees, and will, of course, put to the rout the ill disposed and bloody minded. We have, in this city, at present, a numerous delegation of the principal chiefs of the Five Nations, who have been invited to make this visit, in order to prevent their being influenced to war by the hostile Indians and their emissaries. They wilt return in a few day's, apparently well satisfied, and have engaged to repair to the Miami village, in order to influence the Indians in that quarter, to peace. I am commanded by the President of the United States, to whom your letters are constantly submitted, to say, with respect to your remarks upon the line at Little river, that you wiil be pleased to make a liberal construction of that article, so as to render it entirely satisfactory to the Indians, and, at the same time, as consistently as may be with the treaty; and to observe that he is satisfied with your sentiments on that subject. It is submitted to you, as the late depredations by the Cherokees must, in some degree, have interrupted that harmony and confidence which ought to have ilowed from the treaty of Itolston, whether it will not be for the public interest to invite a few of the chiefs of the Cherokees to be present at the proposed conference at Nashville. And it were to be wished that Mr. McGillivray’s affair with Bowles would permit him also to attend, provided you should be convinced of his cordiality to the post at Bear’s creek, and the employment of some Creeks. You would then have an opportunity, perhaps, of talking over the whole affair, relatively to Rear's creek, which the Chickasaws relinquished as a trading post, by the treaty of Hopewell. II' this could be established, by the general and open consent ot all the tribes, it would be well; but, it is to be apprehended that starting a new object, at the mouth of Duck river, would have the effect to excite suspicions and jealousies, and unhinge any confidence they may have. That, at this crisis, the riske of inquiry would far overbalance any advantages, and therefore the atttempt ought not to be made. The distance'from Duck river to Nashville, is not more than fifty or sixty miles; and, although not quite as convenient as at the mouth of Duck river, yet the difference is not so great as to require any hazard of bad consequences from the attempt. General Robertson has, from his sitaiation, character, and other circumstances, incurred expenses on account of the Indians, for which he has petitioned Congress. The petition is referred to me. Although general principles of equity seem to support the claim, more especially coming from a man of his character, yet it is extremely difficult to establish a general principle of law, to compensate such unauthorized advances, without fixing dangerous precedents.. The object of my mentioning this, is, that in future, and until further arrangements, the President of the United States will consent that General Robertson be considered as temporary agent tor the Chickasaws, with an appointment at the rate of four hundred dollars per annum; you will therefore please to administer to him the oath of office which you yourself have taken. It is to be observed, that the law authorizing such appointments has not yet passed; and that, therefore, this appointment can only, at present, have a temporary aspect. He will, in future, distribute such things, and perform such duties, for the conciliation of the Choctaws, Chickasaws, and others, as you shall, from time to time, direct. The business of the proposed conference will be interesting to the United States, I am happy it will be managed by you in person, as I ani satisfied the Government may rest with great confidence in your exertions, as well as abilities, to execute its wishes. The great object in managing Indians, or indeed any other men, however enlightened, is to obtain their confidence. This cannot be done but by convincing them of an attention to their interests. Deeply convinced of this general disposition of their protectors, they will be yielding in smaller matters. The Indians have constantly had their jealousies and hatred excited by the attempts to obtain their lands. I /, . hope in God that all such designs are suspended for a long period. We may therefore now speak to them with the confidence of men conscious of the fairest motives towards their happiness and interest in all respects. A little perseverance in such a system, will teach the Indians to love and reverence the power which protects and cherishes them. The reproach w hich our country has sustained w ill be obliterated, and the protection of the helpless ignorant Indians, while they demean themselves peaceably, w ill adorn the character of the United States. It is the special direction of the President of the United States, that there be a full representation of the Chickasaws and Choctaws; and that all who shall be assembled shall hav e impressed on their minds, clearly and strongly, the dispositions of the General Government, towards the hostile tribes, particularly, as well as to all the tribes, generally. You will find, in the letter to General Pickens, that it is the desire of the President, that the total of the Indians to be employed, should not exceed five hundred warriors; and. if the arrangement could be so made, that these should he taken in such proportions from the Creeks, Cherokees, Choctaws, and Chickasaws, as you shall judge proper. The number, so  constituted, would induce them to consider the war as a common cause, as well among one another as with the United States. It must be understood, however, that the number of five hundred is not to be considered as an ultimatum, but only as a general idea to govern the number to be employed. It w ill be necessary that you should intimate to General Pickens, that you are, in confidence, made acquainted with the letter to him, and that you should also know the tenor of his answer. If the Indians should object to joining our troops, on account of not being well armed, you may assure them they shall be well supplied at fort Washington with smooth-bored muskets, but they cannot be promised rifles. Any subordinate arrangement of characters, which you shall judge proper to accompany them, will be confided to your discretion; and, also, the nature of the rewards for their services, which, however, must not exceed the pay of the troops. With rations they will be abundantly provided. I am, Stc. N. 15. In the duplicate transmitted by Mr. Allison, the blanks were filled as above inserted, and the fullowiug added after closing the letter: Instead of the sum of seven hundred and fifty dollars, mentioned in this letter, for contingencies of the treaty, a warrant has been issued for this consideration for one thousand dollars. The sum of two thousand dollars is now advanced for the provisions at the treaty. Any excess of this sum will be paid on the final adjustment of the accounts. The Secretary of JJ'ar to James Seagrove, Esq.—29th «.flpril, 1792. Sue I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your several letters, of the 14th of January, the 20th February, the 27th of March, and the 12th of April; all of which have been duly submitted to, and have been considered by, the President of the United States. Rut, previously to replying particularly to your several favors, it is necessary that I should state, summarily, the following general ideas relatively to the management of the Indians, throughout the limits of the United States, to wit: That it is the most ardent desire of the President of the United States, and the General Government, that not only a firm peace should be established with the several nations and tribes, upon such true principles of justice and moderation as w ill enforce the approbation of this dispassionate and enlightened part of mankind, but to introduce among them, gradually, such judicious measures as will lead them to the blessings of civilized life. That it is the intention of the President of the United States, that an adherence to this desire, as to a well-founded maxim, shall be the prominent feature in the administration of Indian affairs, while he is at the head of the Government. That he shall exceedingly lament all events which shall suspend or impede the operations of this design, which he considers as essential to the reputation and dignity of the republic. That, in pursuance of these ideas, he endeavored, at an early period of the establishment of the present General Government, to carry home to the minds of the hostile Indians the humane dispositions of the United States towards them. These intimations preceded, without effect, any attempts at coercion. That, notwithstanding the ill success of former pacific overtures, attempts are still making to convince the hostile Indians of their errors, and that the United States require nothing of them but peace, and a line of conduct tending to their own happiness. That the hostile Indians will be informed, that wre require none of their lands, nor of any other tribe’s, but such lands as have been ceded by fair treaties. That the Uniled States are not sensible that the hostile Indians have any just claims to the lands heretofore ceded, but, if the said Indians shall make any such claims apparent, they shall be amply compensated for the same. It is presumed, that, if these sentiments could be fairly impressed on the Indians northwest of the Ohio, that the re-establishment of peace would be the probable consequence. Rut if the hostile Indians should, after having these sentiments fully displayed to them, still persist in their depredations on the frontiers, it will then he considered as Ihe dictates of humanity, to endeavor to punish, with exemplary severity, so incorrigible a race of men, in order to deter other tribes, in future, from alike conduct. 33 * I have been thus particular in this detail, for two reasons, to-wit: First, That you may impress these sentiments on General McGillivray, and the other chiefs of the Creeks with whom you may converse; and, secondly, that you may thereby perceive that'the intentions of the Government are to employ the Southern Indians only in case of the pertinacious obstinacy of the hostile Indians. ... Being on the point of the employment of the Southern Indians, it will be proper, at this place, to call your attention to that object, in order that you may regulate your conduct by the directions now given.. , _ 'The desire of the employment of the Southern Indians has not arisen so much from the actual aid to be derived from them, as from an apprehension that, if there be not, at this critical period, a mode provided for the employment of their active young men, possessing strong passions for war, on our side, they will, seduced by the entreaties of the hostile Indians, take up the hatchet against us. and thereby involve us in a general Indian war. __ ■ But you will please to understand., most explicitly, that it is the direction of the President of the United States, that no greater number be engaged, conditionally on the progress of the war, than will answer the purpose before mentioned—which is, to engage all the Southern tribes in our favor, in order to prevent their acting against us. In my instructions to.you of the 20th of February, which you received, the idea was held up, as well as to Gen. McGillivray, by the letter which passed through your hands, that the Creeks should iurnish three hundred warriors. Upon further reflection, it is the desire of the President of the United States, that the whole, number to be furnished by all the Southern tribes, to wit: the Creeks, the Cherokees, the Choctaws, and'Chickasaws, should not exceed five, hun'dred. . , A conference is to be held by Governor Blount, at Nashville, on Ibis and other business; with the Chickasaws and Choctaws, about the beginning of June. These sentiments, therefore; have been fully expressed to him. And General Pickens, on the frontiers of South Carolina, has been written to, to command those, combinedly, who may be employed. But the actual employment of them must depend upon the orders of the commander-in-chief of the troops at fort Washington, on the Ohio.   ' . He will be instructed, that, if the overtures of peace should fail, and the measure of war should be constrained' by necessity, to send expresses to Governor Blount,who will communicate with General McGillivray, and the other Southern tribes, upon this point. It is necessary, therefore, that the commanding general should be made the Source from which (he ultimate orders should issue, and that Governor Blount should be the channel of communication. Hence you will perceive that the Government do not eventually require many Creeks. One or two hundred at most will be sufficient. Your idea of one thousand would be too many, and would be attended with expensive and ruinous consequences. We cannot promise the Lancaster rifles you mention. We cannot procure -a sufficiency for the troops. Muskets and bayonets may be promised them at fort Washington, as may be ammunition. The rewards to be promised them must not exceed, besides some small matters,'the pay of three dollars per month, excepting the leaders, who shall have the pay of the officers. Rations they shall be abundantly supplied with. Governor Blount will furnish them trom his government to fort Washington, and you will furnish them fo him. The pack horses cannot be allowed—each man may take his own provisions to Governor Blount. Having finished this subject of the employment of die Indians, 1 pray your attention thereto as a matter of moment, and requiring a strict adherence. It, is on this point, more than any other, that the express is now despatched, not but that the matters hereinafter mentioned, arc also of considerable weight. You will communicate to Governor Blount, and request General McGillivray to do the same, relatively to the employment of the Indians. The first object of my former instructions of the 20th of February, has been happily effected by other means, to wit: the capture of Bowles. . _ The second, to wit: the running the lines agreeably to thedreaty of New York, Stijl remains as an object, to accomplish which, in a manner consistently with the feelings of General McGillivray and the Creeks, will require the employment of your talents. If the time for running the line agreeably to treaty shall be fixed, yon are hereby directed.instantly to inform the Governor of the State of Georgia thereof, in order that he may direct the attendance of the commissioners as mentioned in the Creek treaty.   ■ The third object of your former instructions, to wit, the employment of Indians, has been herein amply discussed. Your idea of distributing the goods impartially, is certainly well founded. But it is difficult to perceive any advantageous mode of distribution independent of Mr. McGillivray. You will please to understand that the goods and money delivered you by Captain Mills, were designed, at the time they were sent, to be the means to enable Mr. McGillivray to counteract and overthrow Bowles. The estimate of goods you have forwarded, far exceeds any provision made by Government. The United States, besides the money allowed annually to Mr. McGillivray, twelve hundred dollars, and six hundred dollars to six principal chiefs, each one hundred, have agreed to pajqthe nation, generally, fifteen hundred dollars, annually, and also two hundred dollars each to two interpreter's. . . To these fixed sums, the United States will add occasional gratuities, as the public interest may require. But it never has been in contemplation, nor can it be carried into execution, to give,’ in any considerable degree, goods to the amount of your estimate. It is to be hoped, therefore, that no promises on your part will be made of the presents you propose. Such promises are not conceived necessary, and would tend exceedingly to embarrass Government. As to the opinion of Mr. Bryant, or any other person employed under the British Government, ,of the presents necessary, it cannot be made the foundation of a system by the United States. Bowles’ appearance, and his conduct, excited an apprehension that the peace between the United States and the Creeks might be disturbed by his machinations. But, independent of him, it is conceived, the peace was not endangered, and Mr. McGillivray’s letter to yon seems to confirm this opinion, i . The reasons of your drawing so great a number of Indians to the Rock Landing,.are not apparent. Mr. McGillivray does not seem to approve it. It is to be apprehended that his jealousy may be excited by the measure. You will therefore endeavor to  conciliate him to the measure. The treaty of New York is to be carried into execution by the impressions of its propriety which shall be made at the respective meetings which the Indians usually have within their own nation. The assembling of. them in large numbers, without their own country, excites their avaricious appetites, which, if not gratified in proportion to their expectations, issues in disgust. _ .... It is by residents in the nation that the influence of the United States is to be silently and permanently established, not by withdrawing them from their usual modes of subsistence to a great distance. The expense and injurious consequences of which to the United States are certain, but the advantages not readily conceived. Another probable and pernicious consequence attends a meeting upon the frontiers; the disorderly whites assemble there in great numbers, feuds ensue, and the peace is thereby greatly endangered. Finally, upon this point, although it is apprehended that you have gone too far now to recede, yet it is the order of the President that in future no great assembling of the Creeks be made, but in consequence of a previous statement of the causes thereof, and his express approbation obtained. The mode you have taken to furnish the provisions, appears judicious and economical. The account of the expenses which shall accrue upon this subject, or others of your mission, you will transmit to me as soon as ascertained, together with the vouchers accompanying the same, and the sums necessary to complete the payments will be. furnished instantly by the treasury, on passing the accounts. ■_ _ You are hereby instructed, on every occasion which shall occur, to evince the most cordial attention to the Spanish Government and interest on the Southern frontiers of the United States. In case you should know of any intentions of any desperado similar to Bowles, or any designs of the Indians injurious to the interest or peace of the Spanish Government, you will eoninninieate the same to the nearest Spanish officers, so that the evil apprehended may be avoided or repelled. The communications you have been pleased to make, are cordially received by the President of the United States, who desires that you will continue them as amply as may be. I have enclosed letters lor General McGillivray, the eommanding'offieer, and also for Mr. Ellieot, the surveyor. I shall be anxious to receive your further communications in answer to this letter. I am, sir, &e. The Secretary of JVur to Brigadier General Alexander McGillivray.—29th April, 1792. Sir: I have heard with pleasure of your return to Little Tallassee. Although it is satisfactory to hear from you, even through a third person, yet it is much "to he desired that you would fully and frequently communicate to me from time to time. The treaty made at New York, between the United States and you and the other Creek chiefs, happily laid the foundation, if properly used, of much happiness to your nation. But the tire then enkindled requires a renewal of fuel from time to time, in order to render it perpetual. The interference of the impostor Bowles, and your absence, supposed to be in consequence thereof, occasioned some uneasiness. But his capture has happily removed that evil. 1 sincerely hope that you will enter into immediate arrangements with Mr. Seagrove, for running the lines agreeably to the treaty of New York. You possess too much knowledge of human nature not to know, that any further unnecessary delay will excite unpleasant sensations, and that, therefore, it is the interest of all parties to remove, and prevent all causes of misunderstanding. The system whieh the President of the United States and the General Government have adopted, relatively to Indian affairs, is so replete with kindness to them, that all good men ought to delight in forwarding the views of the Government. They require no lands from the Indians; they require nothing of them but what shall tend to their own happiness. Mr. Seagrove, to whom I have written largely, will explain every disposition of the Government to your satisfaction. Every proper measure is using to induce, the Indians, northwest of the Ohio, to peace, and it is much tube desired that they may be effectual. But. if the Indians, alter being fully convinced of the humane intentions of the United States, should continue their depredations upon the defenceless frontiers, humanity, itself, will dictate a severe punishment. In this event, anil this only, some of your warriors, say one or two hundred at most, would be advantageously employed with our army. . You will please to understand, on this point, that it is apprehended, that, unless they join us, they will join the hostile Indians; but I pray God there may be no use for them on either side. Mr. Seagrove is particularly instructed upon this subject, which he will show you. I have the pleasure to inform you, that your nephew is well, that.his growth is great, that he learns as expeditiously as could be desired, that he is contented, and that his morals are irreproachable; as a specimen of his learning,- he writes you the enclosed. 1 am, sir, txc. The Secretary of War to Mr. Joseph Ellieot, surveyor.—29th April, 1792. Rnt: I have received your letter of the 27th of March. The objects still remaining the same, I must request your staying where you are, until they are brought to conclusion, or until further orders. I am, sir, &e. The Secretary of U'ar to the Governor of Virginia.—I bill May, 1792. Sir: . In order that you may possess all the information in my power to give, upon the subject of disturbances on the southwestern frontiers of Virginia, I enclose you the copy of a letter of Governor Blount, which was received two days ago. It is most probable, that, upon the arrival of the Cherokees, who were at this city, among their own people, the apprehensions of hostilities from that tribe may subside. Besides, Governor Blount has appointed to have a conference with the Chickasaws and Choctaws, at Nashville, early iij June, at which the principal Cherokees will be invited. ’The capture of Bowles, by the .Spaniards, and the arrangements making at the Rock Landing,by Mr. Seagrove, in behalf of the United States, with Mr. McGillivray and the Creeks, will probably restore entire tranquillity in that quarter. Judging from the information in my possession, it would appear that the United States have much to hope, and but little to apprehend, from the disposition of the Southern nationljif lndiaE.1 It would appear, that if, by necessity, the war with the- Indians, northwest of the Ohio, must progress, that we could obtain live or six hundred Southern Indians to join our army. It. is true that some of the ChickamagaU and others of the Cherokees, who have had considerable intercourse with the Shawanese, for some years past, nave, at times, manifested bad symptoms. But the death of the Dragging-canoe, and the probable election of John Watts, a bold, sensible, and friendly half breed, to the chief direction of the said towns, would probably settle the remnants of the war on the Southern frontier. From the information contained in Governor Blount’s letter, together with such information as you possess by other channels, and this statement, your Excellency will be able to judge of the necessity of your presence upon the southwestern (rentiers of the Commonwealth over which you preside. In case, however, you should think proper to make the journey, I beg leave to repeat, what I have before mentioned to you frequently, by the express direction of the President of the United States, that he will concur in every reasonable measure, for the defensive protection of the southern frontier of Virginia, which your Excellency may think proper to establish, as far as lie is or shall be authorized by law. lie is impressed with the conviction, that all parts of the Union ought to be defended at the general expense,and he will, therefore, most readily impart that defence, according to the authority vested in him. The President of the United States, actuated by sincere desires of terminating the Indian war without the further effusion of blood, has directed that overtures of peace should be made, by explaining the designs of the United States relative to Indian lands, on which point there were grounds to believe the Indians had been grossly deceived. Accordingly, these pacific overtures are in train, through various channels, and, it is to be hoped, they will be attended with good effects. In the mean time, offensive operations are, of course, restrained, and the Indians have been desired to call in their war parties. I have the honor, &c. L 6 u The Secretary of JFar to the Governor of Virginia.—30th June, 1792. Sir: Governor Blount, in a letter of the 2d instant, gives such information of. the pacific dispositions of the great mass of the Cherokees, that hopes arc entertained of the entire re-establishment of tranquillity with that tribe. On the 23d of May, he met with a great number of chiefs, and people of all descriptions, at one of the Indian towns, called Coyatte, and received from them great satisfaction as to the sincerity of their dispositions for peace. They had appointed a still more general assembly, to be held at Estanaula, the 23d of June, at which it was expected that every point in dispute would be amicably adjusted. Upon receiving the result of this meeting, it shall be communicated to your Excellency. I have the Honor to be, &c. The Secretary of War to the Governor of Virginia.—11 th July, 1792. Sir: . _ Your Excellency's letter, of the 4th instant, was received yesterday, and submitted to the President of the United States. While it is to be hoped the troops stationed on the Southwestern frontiers, may intercept every party of hostile N Indians, it is the desire of the President of the United States, that no expedition be made against the Indian towns atpresent. . , If Governor Blount be not greatly deceived, the proposed general assembling of the Cherokees, at Estanaula,-Vthe 23d of last month, (of which I informed you in mine of the 30th) will probably have decided the conduct of the 'Cherokees. I have the honor to be, &c 'The. Secretary of War to the Governor of Georgia.—1 Ith July, 1792. Sir: Yesterday I had the honor to receive your Excellency’s letter of the 22d May, containing eight enclosures, and to submit it to the. President of the United States. The unfortunate murder of James Yarborough, and son, would not appear, by the enclosed papers, No. 1, and 2, to have been committed by the Creeks. The information of Mr. Seagrove, who is acting agent to the Creeks, would lead to the belief, that the dispositions of the chiefs and influential men are pacific. lie was to have a meeting with a considerable number of the Cowetas and Cussetahs, at the Rock Landing, the latter end of the last month. At the time, it appears from his information, that the confusion excited by Bowles had not subsided, and that some further interference in the Creek councils had arisen from another quarter, and that it was probable this combination of events would retard the running of the boundary agreeably to the treaty. . It is, however, to be hoped, that, by a system of moderation and perseverance, the whole body of the Creeks may be convinced that their true interest depends on an attachment to the United States, and that they will manifest this disposition, not only by abstaining from all acts of "violence, but by complying with all just requisitions. It is to be deeply regretted, that there are many whites on the frontiers, whose resentments are so keen against all persons bearing the name of Indians, that they have adopted an opinion that it is meritorious to kill them on all occasions. The Indians, again, conceive themselves bound to retaliate every death by an indiscriminate murder. With such dispositions on both sides, it is difficult, if not utterly impracticable, to prevent, or even to punish, every irregularity. It will be necessary to do it, in all cases where it is practicable, and to urge the Indians to deliver up the aggressors who have taken their own vengeance. But, it is very questionable, while we are unable, in many cases, .to execute our own laws, whether we ought, in justice, to. levy a general war upon the Creeks, for the criminality of an individual. ' 'The citizens ofthe United States are, generally, extremely adverse to an Indian war, almost in any event. Of this disposition, the Executive of the United States have had ample proof, in reference to the Indians northwest of the. Ohio. ' . Although, perhaps, sufficient causes exist, upon an abstract view of the subject, to justify extreme rigorous measures with the Northwestern Indians, yet, the principles of policy, and the general opinion of the community upon this subject, have induced the President of the United States to endeavor, by pacific expedients, to terminate the war; and measures are accordingly in operation for this purpose; but, whether they will be successful, cannot yet be determined. 'The same disposition will lead to endeavor to adjust, amicably, all difference with the Creeks, and to Wait the issue, of time and events, to bring them to a cordial acquiescence in the treaty of New York. Major Gaither will soon set out for Georgia', in order to take the command of the troops. His orders will be discretionary as to the mode of the disposition of the troops for the defence of the frontiers, and, therefore, I have no doubt, but he will establish the desired post at the Big Shoals of the Oconee. . - In case of a serious war with the Creeks, the number of troops to be employed will require an officer of a superior grade to a major. In such an unfortunate event, the President of the United States will make, a due provision. But, as it is not perceived there is any just cause to expect that the Creeks will make -fin irruption, it is conceived that a major, atpresent, will be adequate to the occasion. 1 have the honor to be, Sic. The Secretary of War to Joseph Ellicot, Esq. surveyor.—1 l//t August, 1792. Sir; _ ■■ t. The running the line, agreeably to the treaty, seems to be placed at a very uncertain period. You are, therefore, hereby instructed to consult Mr. Seagrove upon this point, and, if it shall appear to him that your services will not be soon required for that object, you will return to this city. I am, sir, &c. 'The Secretary of War to Brigadier. General Alexander McGHlivray.—11 th August, 1792. Sir: I have received your letter of the 18th of May last, which has been submitted to the President of the United States. It is painful to reflect, that, after the capture of the impostor Bowles, any of his pernicious influence should remain. But the information communicated by you and others, of the interference of your neighbors in your internal affairs, and in your affairs with the United States,, is still as extraordinary and more unaccountable. I .pray you, as early as possible, to unravel this mystery, and inform me precisely of the nature and extentof this interference. It is to lie hoped, that you will use your influence that the boundary line be run according to the treaty, at as early a period as may be. ' . . ■ if that line concerns principally the Cussetahs and Cowetas, and they are willing to abide thereby, it would Follow, that other towns, who have no right to the lands, ought not to persist in upholding the only obstacle to our close union. Let the situation of the Creeks and the United States be fairly estimated, is there any connexion so natural and proper? Or, in case of a rupture between the United States and the Creeks, (which God forbid) is there any Power which can permanently interpose and prevent the United States from exercising such conduct towards the Creeks as they shall think proper? This is not meant in the least as a threat, but, as the cool deliberate result of things. The President of the United States, upon his first coming into office to the present time, has been desirous of an universal peace with all the Indian tribes: nay, more, of promoting such measures as would lead them toa better state of civilization. We have-indulged, and still indulge the hope, that you will actively concur in every measure which will blend more intimately the interests of the Creeks and the United States. Some allowance ought to be made for the state of society in which the Creeks are; their ignorance is made subservient to the interest of such bad men as Bowles. Exert yourself greatly, sir. to restrain all parts of the Creeks from committing hostilites upon any parts of the   United States. A banditti are perpetually committing depredations upon the settlements on Cumberland river; this is an old grievance, and requires an instant remedy. The factis but too Well ascertained, that parties of Creeks go to the Tennessee, under pretence of hunting, but in reality, to murder aiid rob. For God’s sake take some decisive measures to prevent this horrid conduct, or all the ground work of peace, whicli has been so well and deeply laid, will be in vain. Governor Blount has written you on this subject, and let you be where you may, upon receiving this letter, pray attend to this request, and take thereon the necessary measures. Your request, that the money allowed to the Creeks, should be withheld entirely, is rather singular. Perhaps, as it relates to the nation and individual chiefs, it had better be_given in goods. It the allowance be too small for the nation generally, I do not doubt, but that, upon a full compliance with the treaty, the United States would reasonably enlarge it. Under the idea, that goods would be better than money, I shall direct a quantity to be placed at the Rock Landing, in order to be delivered to'the nation by Mr. Seagrove, on or before the first day ot November next. . Permit me to urge, that you be as frequent as possible in your communications with me, and that you appoint times and places to meet Mr. Seagrove, in order to devise ways'and means for adjusting, amicably, the mutual interests of the United States and the Creeks. 1 have the honor to be, &c. Fhc Secretary of JVar to James Seagrove, Esc/.—11 th .Jitgust, IT92. Sir: Your letters of the 24th-of-May and ldtlrof 'Juue, with their respective enclosures, have been received, and submitted to the President of the United States. The suspicions you entertain of Mr. McGillivray *s integrity may perhaps be well founded. It will therefore be an important part of your duty, that, while you appear to have full faith in his attachment, you use every rational expedient to search out his mind and inclinations towards iis. I have information from Governor Blount, relative to a Spanish officer endeavoring to prevent the boundary line being run agreeably to the treaty. Can this officer he a pretended character, set up by Mr. McGillivray, or is he really an officer of the Spanish Government, thwarting the interest of the United States? It is of considerable moment t'o ascertain this business. To develop Mr.- McGillivray. will be a work of considerable delicacy. Hitherto the General Government has had scarcely any other avenue than him to the minds.of the Creeks. We must not, therefore, appear to distrust or make him jealous of us. We must use him as far as practicable, and devise as many other means as possible. But, to a jealous mind like his, perhaps the most indirect attempts to conciliate the Creeks otherwise than through him, will alarm his suspicions; and beget his enmity. Indeed, all modes of acquiring an influence with the Creeks, excepting by an actual residence with them, seems precarious and temporary in their effects. Were an agent, of respectable talents, present with them at their general meetings, administering to their convenience on all occasions, by means of artificers, husbandmen, anil physicians, and always evincing himself their impartial friend and protector, with adequate means .to their end, such an arrangement appears to me would be attended with more efficacy than all external applications, through bad interpreters and doubtful friends. It is highly probable that some attempts will be made, in the next session of Congress, fora respectable establishment, generally, for the Indian department, op a conciliatory system. If it shall be adopted, an experiment will at least be made of its wisdom; if rejected, things will be pretty much left to regulate themselves. If so, hostilities will probably ensue, and be continued until the Indians are driven beyond the Mississippi, which may require a period of twenty-five or thirty years. But in case of corrosive measures, not a single particle of benefit will result to the-United States generally, either in a pecuniary or moral view; but instead thereof, a black cloud of injustice and-inhumanity will impend over our national character during the above period, and for many years after the extirpation of the Indians shall beeft’ected. I trust, however that every thing wd I be embraced, on the part of the United States, which will be required for their interest or dignity. Your explanations relatively to the estimates presented for goods, are satisfactory to the President cf the United States, who considers your zeal and exertions as important to the public. I have net heard from you since meeting the Indians at the Rock Landing in the month of June or July, as mentioned in your letters of the 10th of June. I enclose you an open letter for General Me Gillivray, which you will please to copy and transmit. I send by Major Gaither twelve pair of silver arm-bands, four silver medals, and one hundred and thirty-two pair of nose ami ear jewels. These articles you will deliver to Mr. Jack Kinnard, and others of your friends, as an earnest of further rewards. I shall soon have forwarded a respectable quantity of Indian goods, comfonnably to the intention expressed in Mr. McGillivray’s letter. His expression to me is, “ The money allowed us by the treaty is another subject for dispute among the Indians; ’tis too much for the few that pretend to it, and too little for the many, therefore I must desire that it be withheld entirely. The six chiefs are worthy men, and they get theirs in a way that others know nothing of.” But I believe the payment of the nation ought not to be suspended, however it might be with his own salary. But in order that you shall be properly provided, I shall remit you shortly, his allowance, and also to the chiefs and interpreters. Major Gaither is ordered to command the troops in Georgia, and Major Call to join the main army. You will find Major Gaither an amiable, discreet, sober gentleman, and a good officer, and who will cordially co-operate with you in all things for the public service. Congress did not make any establishment for the Indian Department, therefore your salary has not been fixed; but I have transmitted you one thousand dollars, on account of the department, which you may appropriate to your private use. I am, Sir, &c. The Secretary of !Tar to Brigadier General Andrew Pickens.—15th August, 1792. Sir: VourfaVor of the 15th May was received on the 20th of June, and submitted to the President of the United States. Your ideas of the difficulty of establishing a'peace with the hostile Indians, without further conflict, it is to be apprehended'are too well founded. Rut it is an object of high importance, to- make every reasonable eftbrt for that purpose, in order to convince a considerable proportion of the citizens of the United States, that the tiling is impracticable.- The cordial zeal with which you have left your private affairs in order to endeavor to beifefit the pnblic, is highly satisfactory and gratifying to the President of the United States. It is probable that the service of the Indians may not be required this year, owing’to the long protracted councils of the Northern Indians, who are to repair to the assembled hostile Indians, in'order to endeavor to make a peace. At the time that the result of diese pacific overtures shall be known, it will probably be too late to undertake any offensive operations of importance, and more particularly to engage any Indians for the purpose of their remaining idle. ' But, if our pacific overtures fail, the tvar will be pushed with great vigor early in the spring, Avhen our troops-will be completed and disciplined for the nature of the service. In this event, auxiliary Indians may be required, and I am persuaded your taking a considerable command of them and other light troopsj -would be particularly acceptable to the President of the United States. Will y.oti have the goodness to impart to me your dispositions on the case here stated, in order to be submitted to the President? The Secretary of I Tar to Governor Blount.—15th August, 1792.'Sir: __ . . . ' . Your several letters, hereinafter mentioned, tvere received at the periods stated, to wit: yours of the 22d and 25th of April, on the.4di of June; -of the -5th and l6th-of May, on the 5th of June; of the 31st of May, and 2d„of June, on the 28th of June; of the 4th of July, on the 23d of the same month; all of which tvere duly submitted to the President of the United States, excepting the one of the 4th July, which arrived after his departure for Virginia, but the purport of which was transmitted to him. As the above letters were information consequent on my ample letters of the23d and 25th of April, and the state of affairs; and as your departure for Nashville was expected, no particular acknowledgment has been made until the present time; and it is to be hoped this may find you at Holston, after having made satisfactory arrangements with all the Chickasaws and Choctaws. ' ■ By letters from Colonel Arthur Campbell, of Washington, to the Governor of Virginia and myself, it would seem that all the conferences at Coyatte and Estananla amounted to nothing; and that* parties of the Lower towns had set oft', not only to attack the boats under the charge of Mr. Allison with the goods, but also to attack you and General Pickens. These ideas are said to have arisen from the information of a friendly chief of the Upper Urn-ns. I am very much inclined to believe, and I sincerely hope, from -your letter of the 4th of July, that these fears will prove groundless. And I am the more encouraged in this, as I have been informed verbally, that Mr. Chisholm had brought in some prisoners, avIio had lately been taken .near the Cumberland settlements, at a place called Bledsoe’s Station. If my information, given by Mr. Vego of Post Vincennes, lately from Kentucky, be true, the above mentioned station was attacked by a banditti, formed of Shawanese, Cherokees, and Creeks, partly of the very men avIio attacked Major Doughty in 1790. But although my hopes and belief unite for your safety and the tranquillity of the'Southwestern frontiers, yet an anxiety will still remain until further information shall be received from you. The five companies of infantry and one of horse, you have Ordered into service,.if the companies are nearly full, would amount to a pretty formidable force. If sufficiently aleVt and active, it would seem to be a reasonable expectation that they tvould intercept and chastise some of the banditti that have lately given your government so much trouble, and the southwestern frontiers of Virginia such serious alarms. It is really painful to reflect, after all our efforts for peace with the Southern Indians, that affairs in that quarter are so critical. It would seem, from representations, that a few more sparks would light up a pretty general.flame. If this should be the case, it would be considered by the General Government as a very great, and by the mass of the citizens of the Middle and Eastern States as an insupportable evil. Every thing depends upon your exertions to avert the'event of a war, that will be reluctantly entered info, and at best but illy supported. _ . Every just pretence of grieA ances on the part of the Indians, if any such exist, must be removed, and if a war must inevitably ensue, it ought to be made appear to all the Avorld, that the Government or citizens of the'United States have not been the cause of bringing it on. Understanding, as you do, the Avishes of the President of the United States, a full persuasion lhust be entertained that you aa ill leave no reasonable expedient unatteinpted, to effect a’ general tranquillity. Indeed, your efforts to preserve peace must, and I flatter myself will, be rendered conspicuous.. General Wayne seems at a loss Avhat step to take, relative to any of the Chickasaws or Choctatvs joining the army this campaign. I have Avritten him, intimating that the bad season Avould be so far advanced before the result of our pacific overtures should be knoAvn, as to preclude any important offensive operations. That therefore it avouId be best not to engage any Indians for the present year. This point Avill be left to his judgment—his orders are to be obeyed. But it Avould appear that it Avould be the preferable arrangement to calling any Indians this year to an ineffectual campaign, to make an agreement Avith them that they should hold themselves in readiness at an early period of the next year, to obey our call if necessary. I shall expect that you will, at the earliest moment, give me an ample narrative'of every thing proper for me to knoAV. I have the honor to be, sir, Sac. The Secretary of War to the Governor of Georgia.—31 st August, 1792. 'Sir: I am instructed by the President of the United States to address your Excellency on the subject of certain intelligence, Avhich he has lately received from the western frontier ot Georgia. The purport of it has already been communicated to you by the Southern agent of Indian Affairs, in his letter on the 18th ultimo; and must doubtless have impressed your mind Avith an anticipation of the most serious consequences. Your Excellency will recollect, that it is stated upon authority entitled to respect, that some of the western \ settlers meditate, il not to oppose, at least to impede the completion of the line, stipulated by the treaty of New York, between the United States and the Creeks; that instead of cultivating friendship with those tribes, every opportunity is sought to provoke war, and threats have been denounced against the persons of those who shall attempt to run the line. From your Excellency, riot only as a public officer, bound by oath to support the'constitution of the United States, nor merely.as a citizen, interested in the general welfare, but also as a man, feeling for the distresses to which almost your own neighborhood will be exposed from the fury of an unrelenting enemy, a‘co-operation to defeat these wicked schemes may well be expected. Indeed..sir. the situation of the United States strongly demands that this co-operation be immediate, zealous, and firm. An Indian war is so adverse to strict economy, and the due order of the finances, that it cannot be too warmly .deprecated by the United States: and any new and considerable source of expense, as it w ould tend to protract the extinguishment of the public debt, would be. particularly unfortunate. Nor can it have escaped vour Excellency, that other nations have acquired a solid and profitable confidence with the Indians, by giving steady proofs of a sincere and friendly temper towards them. With these nations, long known to them, we have to maintain a competition: having no professions of ancient'habits in our favor, and beginning only to establish a reputation with them. We are, therefore, liable to constant misrepresentation, even w ith the purest* conduct, and surely we ought not to afford cause of complaint by acting unjustly. These sentiments call for the attention <>i no State more forcibly than of Georgia; upon w hich the foreign power in her vicinity might, by gaining an ascendency over the Southern tribes, lot them loose with all the horrors oi' their warfare. In the spirit of these considerations was the treaty of New York made. -Among the means of perpetuating harmony, a permanent boundary was the primary and most obvious. Nothing was left undone to obtain the most advantageous line: and your Excellency may be assured, that the one which has been obtained is more advantageous than any other which the United States could then accomplish, or can by any possible effort be now effected. It is greatly to he feared, that the Creeks w ill accede even to it with extreme reluctance. Rut it will be disgraceful and perfidious in the United States to sutler it to be obstructed by the evil machinations of any turbulent men whatsoever. Under these circumstances, your Excellency w ill easily discover what is the duty of the federal and your own Government. The constitution has been freely adopted: the regulation of our Indian connexion is submitted to Congress; and the treaties are parts of the supreme law of the land. It would be a criminal negligence in the federal administration to passover the gross infraction of public tranquillity, and the insult to the public honor, which are said to be in contemplation. 1 am authorized to declare to you. sir. in order to testily the determination to uphold you in the most vigorous exertions under the laws of your State, that those of the United States will be strictly enforced and executed upon the offenders, without distinction. To invite your Excellency to the strenuous exercise of the power which your office confers upon you. no arguments can be necessary. It cannot be believed that any State would assume upon itself a responsibility for the waste of blood and treasure, which the want, of a timely interposition, on this occasion, must produce. It cannot be believed that any State would countenance, even by indifference, those individuals, who shall presume to set the constitution and the law at defiance. While every usurpation of power will he avoided, no legal power ought to he abandoned. Permit me, then, to exhort you, as you regard the Union, and love order, to suppress those violent and unwarrantable prooceedings, of which you have been apprised. The affections of the enlightened citizens must be with you in such a contest: for those who may be compelled to step forward with energy in this exigency, can have no interest, distinct from theirs, nor any wish to gratify, but that of preventing the public authority from being trampled under foot. - I have the honor to be. &c. The Secretary of I far to James Seagrove, Esquire.—fils/ October. 1792. Sir: I wrote you pretty amply, on the 11th instant, by Major Gaither, on such subjects as arose from your communications. to the 14th June last, a duplicate of which is herein enclosed. I have now to reply to yours of the 5th and 27-th of July, to the President of the United States, per express; yours to me, of the same dates: and, also, to acknowledge the receipt of yours of the 4th of the present month, introducing Mr. James Leonard. Your information of the interference of the person styling himself Captain Olivar, in the affairs of the Creek ■nation, apd his attempts to prevent-the fulfilment of the treaty of New York, i.s also corroborated and confirmed, by similar evidence, received from Governor Blount. To watch closely the further movements and designs of (he said Captain Olivar. and to have them attested by* undeniable evidence, on oath, are circumstances of considerable moment, and on which you will please to bestow   your highest attention. But, in the pursuit of this business, or in any measures you may adopt to obviate or counteract his impressions, you will observe an entire delicacy as it shall relate to the Spani-h Government, rather holding up the idea that "Captain Olivar may be acting w ithout due authority from the said Government. For, however important it may he to ascertain the designs ol the Spaniards, yet it ought to be effected in such a manner as shall not commit the United States unnecessarily, by the conduct of their officers. M bile, therefore, your measures are calculated to give you perfect information of the measures pursuing in East and W est Florida, you w ill appear always to hold openly, a cordial language towards Spain, and at the same time to be extremely cautious in making any communications to its officers, excepting those for which you shall have special directions, or arising out of the state of things specified in my letter to you of the 29th of April last. However Mr. McGillivray's influence may appear at present to be diminished, yet it was all powerful a very short period prior to Bowles" appearance? perhaps his apparent shrinking from a contest with Bowles, may* have been the consequence of a defect of nerves, or an artifice to accomplish some end of the sort you have mentioned. Although his.attachment to the United States may be justly questioned, yet it may be a pretty dangerous experiment to proceed as if lie had lost all authority or influence in the nation, or to endeavor avowedly to contribute to his degradation. His ow n and his Wife's relations are numerous, and of considerable importance, and w ould, in this event, in conjunction w ith his own exertions, have the power of exciting hostilities against the United States. Until, therefore, he shall throw oft’ the mask entirely, we ought apparently to treat him as our firm friend: but at the same time, to keep an eagle's eye .upon all his conduct. His temper is naturally suspicious, and if lie finds his fidelity is actually suspected, his open endeavors may be used to our injury, l am persuaded his prejudices are too deeply rooted ever to he cordial to Spain, and in any estimate he may make of assistance to be derived either from that Power or the United States, he would give us the preference. But as he is indolent, and hates trouble, and as they may have made him great pecuniary offers, although lie does not appear to he avaricious, it is probable that he may have temporarily given his concurrence to some designs of the Spanish officers. The point is too well established, as to his duplicity both to you and me, relatively to the Spanish officer, in his letter of the ISth May:' and. in order that you may possess all, the clews in my power, to unravel his conduct. I have enclosed you a copy of that letter. It is not only extremely difficult, but hazardous, to act in the dark. Hitherto, our approaches to the Creeks x have been external only; our measures have been taken in consequence of imperfect information, arising from the ignorance or designs of the informants, or, perhaps, through the medium of bad interpreters. The more the subject is considered, the more the idea stated in my former letters, of the actual residence of agents within the most populous parts of the nation, is confirmed. “W ere men, of respectable characters for talents and integrity, once established among the Indians, they would possess the opportunity, and most probably the power, of regulating events as they should arise. They would acquire a knowledge of the characters of the most influential chiefs, and of the proper modes of managing them. Occasions would frequently occur of administering to their wants, and of fixing their gratitude. In snort, such agents, so stationed, and acting purely for the mutual interests of the United States and Indians, would soon attain a respectable and pre-eminent influence. Rut the exterior impulse, or calls which are given .now and then, attract principally the idle and worthless, hold outmotives for diversion from their ordinary pursuits, and one gratification of a present of goods begets another. It will therefore become expedient, in future, that .you should, or some other person or persons, in behalf of the United States, take up an actual residence within the Creek nation, at least for a considerable portion of the year, and it is to be hoped the Congress will make an adequate allowance as a salary. 'From the abilities you have exhibited upon the subject of Indian affairs, ahd the favorable opinion entertained and expressed thereof, by the President of the United States, I am authorized to say, that he considers you as the suitable character to direct the affairs of the Creeks, having under you one or two subordinate agents; but at the same time, to say, that lie considers an actual residence within the heart of the nation, as indispensably necessary for the* affairs of the United States: and, as it is necessary to be explicit on this head, I request your immediate information, whether such residence would be agreeable to you, and where you would fix your residence. It appears to me, that one person, at least, ought to reside with the Lover Creeks, making his headquarters with the Cussetahs, and another with the Upper Creeks, at Tuckabatchie or the Oakfuskee, on the Tallapoosa river, whichever shall be the residence of the white Lieutenant, whose character renders his entire friendship of importance. And you, as principal, to reside sometimes with one and sometimes with the other. I have not tlje least doubt that you would soon be able, to bring back General McGillivray to a sense of his duty, and to fix him decidedly in our interests. If you know suitable characters, who would willingly resitle among the Creeks, as before stated, whose abilities and integrity would afford due confidence, you will please to recommend them to the President of the United States, but without giving, at present, any encouragement whatever to such persons. They'inust neither trade or endeavor to obtain lands, excepting for their immediate cultivation. Although I am not able to say the probable amount of their salaries, I conceive it may be from five hundred to seven hundred and fifty dollars each, besides assistance of cattle, implements of husbandry, &c. to commence an establishment of the kind mentioned in the Creek treaty. 'Although the foregoing reasons are considered as conclusive in favor of an internal, instead of an external communication, yet present circumstances may, in some degree, render the latter expedient. The meeting, therefore, which you propose on the first of November next, with the Lower Creeks, has been approved by the President of the United States, on the expectation that it will, as far-as possible, be restricted to the chiefs only, agreeably to your proposal; as you have conditionally agreed to this meeting, it might have ill effects, were it not complied with. The Indians will bat imperfectly conceive the distinction between a conditional and an actual promise, and therefore it must take place. Rut, in future, you will carefully attend to the injunction contained in my letter to you of the 29th of April, to wit: That there be no great assembling of the C.reeks, but in consequence of a previous statement of the causes thereof, and the express approbation of the President of the United States is obtained. . ... . . ’ Goods, corn, and money of the sort, and for objects and amount specified iii the enclosed estimate, will be transported from this city to St. Mary’s, in due season, and for which you will be timely informed. [Amount of the above estimate, thirteen thousand three hundred and fourteen dollars and sixty-one cents.] It will be confided to you to make such distribution of the goods and corn to the Lower towns as your judgment shall direct, making always a precise statement of the deliveries and evidences thereof, in the same manner as those transmitted by you on the 27th ultimo. You will please to ascertain the extent of the loss of the Indian crops of corn, and whether it has equally, and in what degree, affected the Lower Creeks, and you will, as soon as possible, transmit the result, and ah .estimate of the amount of the quantity which would he an effectual relief to the parts oppressed.. If the real necessities of the Lower Creeks require a larger quantity than the five thousand bushels intended to be transported to St. Mary’s, you may intimate to them that the President of the United States, actuated by his humanity and regard for them, will order a further quantity, provided-they exhibit, on their parts, similar dispositions of kindness and attachment to the Utiited States. The advantages of removing the troops Jo the head of St Mary’s, are not readily perceived, were the position undoubtedly within the limits of the State of Georgia, the inhabitants being very few in number. But, according to the map in my possession, it would appear that the old line strikes the St. Mary’s considerally below the head of the river. 'I'lie change of officers has rendered die detachment at'St. Mary’s without an officer of the line. ' But Major Call sent Captain McLane lienee, to inspect that post, and to enjoin Doctor Hayward, a surgeon in service, of merit, to remain in command until Lieutenant Nicoll, of the artillery, should return there. The extremely reprehensible conduct of some lawless white.. inhabitants of the frontiers of Georgia, has been noticed in a letter to the Governor of that State, a copy of which is enclosed. '   . . It may be expedient, and you are hereby requested to obtain well attested evidences of all irregularities tending to excite hostilities with the Creeks, in order that sqcli measures may be taken thereon as the nature of the case and the posture of public affairs may require, . The sketches of accounts you transmitted are very proper, and will, I presume, serve to exonerate you at the treasury, where your accounts will be adjusted. I mean, however, to except your account for expense. It is probable a sum will be allowed you to embrace all your contingent charges; what that sum will be, must be left to the judgment of the Legislature, but I flatter myself it will be satisfactory. The goods which remain at the Rock Landing will be disposed'of hereafter, at that post, to the friendly Upper Creeks. To remove them would not only be expensive, but prevent the exercise of that public generosity, which, on the present occasion, seems in a considerable degree to be necessary in Indian affairs. It would have been satisfactory had you specified the quantity remaining on hand: for, although the accounts transmitted will show'the deliveries at the time mentioned, yet it is not improbable, that, at other times, you have been constrained to, make presents in a subordinate degree. ' . The Creek treaty points out the manner in which passports are to be given. It is presumed the Governor of Georgia, the commanding officer of the troops, and yourself, only, have this authority. Some copperplates shall be devised, in order to prevent counterfeit passes. The licences for traders to go into the Creek country cannot at present.be granted, consistently with what'is understood upon the subject between the parties. You will, therefore, not give any such licences, and you will please to inform me whether such licences are, or have been, given by any other person. Trading houses may be set up, upon the line within the State of Georgia, to which Indians may, as any other persons, resort, to purchase goods. I transmit you herein, certain regulations in the Indian department, formed by the President of the United States, on the twenty eighth day of August, 1790, in pursuance of the law's regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes; and also, a copy of said laws, by both of which your conduct must be governed. I am, &c. The Secretary of War to James Seagrove, Esq.—24th September, 1792. SiR; . / I have the honor to enclose you an invoice of the articles ladened on board the Sloop Polly, Captain John " Smith, and Schooner Oak, Captain William Mason. The remainder of the corn, about four hundred and fifty bushels, will be ladened on board another vessel. [The amount of the aforesaid invoice, seven thousand three hundred and thirty-six dollars and eighty-one cents. ] You will please to transmit duplicate receipts for those articles upon your receiving them. I have transmitted you duplicates of my letter of 31st ultimo; one by your express, and the other by the way of Charleston; since which I have not received any of your favors. I hope these goods will arrive safe and in good condition, and that the happiest consequences may be effected by your judicious distribution of them. I pray you to continue your frequent and minute communications. 1 am, sir, &c. The Secretary of War to Governor Blount.—9th October, 1792. Sih; It is with infinite regret I have perused your letter of the 11th ultimo, which I have this day received, containing information of the declaration of war by the five Lower Cherokee towns, against the United States. From the train of negotiations with the Cherokees, the causes of such a conduct on their parts is involved in obscurity, and the affair is still rendered more perplexed by their being headed by John Watts, Iront whom you have heretofore expected such assistance. I beg leave to request as early as possible a statement of the alleged and actual causes of their violent conduct, in order that it may be explained to Congress. As you have ample powers to call for such portions of the militia of your Government for its defensive protection as you shall juike occasions to require, no further steps can be taken at this moment. The Congress, which possess the powers of declaring war, will assemble on the 5 th of next month; until their judgments shall be made known, it seems essentia] to confine all your operations to defensive measures. This is intended to restrain any expedition against the Indian towns, but all incursive parties against your frontiers are to be punished with the greatest severity. It will be of a high degree of importance on your part to confirm all the well disposed part of the Cherokee nation, and to'quiet their apprehensions against our attacks. Were it possible to make them the instruments to punish the revolted towns, it would seem to be just, as well as good policy. Will it not be possible for you to send a faithful and intelligent agent to the Upper towns of the Creeks, to restrain the expedition of their banditti? Such a measure is indispensable. Mr. Seagrove's communications are, it seems, more with the Lower than Upper Creeks—the depredations upon , Cumberland seem to be confined to the latter. The President of the United States will arrive here on Saturday next, being the 13th instant; any further measures which he shall direct to be taken, shall be communicated to you by the post, who will commence his operations on the 15th instant. I have the honor to be, &c. The Secretary of IVar to the Governor of Virginia.—9th October, 1792. Sir; I have this day received a letter by express from Governor Blount, dated at Knoxville, the 11th ultimo. He states, that the five Lower towns on the Tennessee, headed by John Watts, have formally declared war against the United States, and that the warriors hail set out upon some expedition against the frontiers, probably against the Cumberland settlements. The numbers of the warriors who had set out, are stated variously from three to six hundred, including one hundred banditti Creeks. Governor Blount had ordered one regiment of the militia of Washington district into service, and had also despatched an express to Miro district, on Cumberland river, with orders to Brigadier General Robertson to put his brigade in the best possible state of defence. Although the details transmitted do not admit of the least doubt of the authenticity of the information as to the disposition of the live Lower towns, yet, as the express has been so long on the road, and no further information having been received, some hopes may be entertained that there has not been any sudden or successful stroke on the part of the Indians. It is observed by Governor Blount, that the Cherokees have not complained to him, in a single instance, of the infraction of the treaty of Ilolston. That the Little Turkey, and the greater part of the nation, nave now given the strongest assurances of their attachment to the United States, and their desire for peace. Governor Blount has long been invested with ample discretionary powers to call into service such portions of the militia of his government as he should judge necessary for its defensive protection. The nearness of the time at which Congress isto meet, who only are invested with the powers of war, will render it essential to wait the result of their deliberations, before offensive measures can be directed, supposing the information transmitted by Governor Blount to be authentic. In the mean time, your Excellency will be the judge, whether any future pleasures should be necessary for the defence of the southwestern parts of Virginia, at the expense of the Union, of the nature and in addition to those before taken. I have the honor to be, &c. The Secretary of JVar to the Governor of Virginia.—1 Uh October, 1792. Sir: 1 have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency’s favor of the 4th instant, and it shall be submitted to the President of the United States on his arrival, and the result transmitted to you. I have the pleasure to enclose an extract of a letter just received from Governor Blount, containing information of a contrary tendency to that which I communicated on the 9th instant. I have the honor to be, &c. The Secretary of JVar to the Governor of Hrg ini a.—l4//i October, 1792. Sir: The President of the United States, to whom I have submitted your Excellency’s letter of the 4th instant, has directed me to inform you, that he does not, from his present view of the subject, conceive any measures, on the part of the Legislature of Virginia, necessary for the defence of the frontiers, during the ensuing year. That he Hatters himself, the respectable force authorized by Congress, during their late session, together with the militia, which the law's authorize him to call into the service, will prove adequate to the occasions which may arise. He has further desired me to tender you his thanks for your ideas relatively to the block-houses, for the purpose of cutting the communication between the Northern and Southern Indians, which he will take into his consideration; and he requests that you will be pleased, from time to time, to transmit such further ideas as may occur to you to be important, either respecting a defensive or offensive war with the Indians. I have the honor to be, &e. 34 77;e Secretary of War to the Governor of South Carolina.—27th October, 1792. Sir: The President of the United States has directed me to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's letter, of the 30th ultimo, with .the enclosures therein contained, from General Pickens and Colonel Anderson, dated the 12th, 13th, and 20th of the same .month. Governor Mount, of the territory of the United States, south of the Ohio, has also transmitted similar information to that contained in your enclosures, relatively to the hostile designs of the five Lower Cherokee or Chickamaga towns, on the Tennessee river. It would appear, that the five Cherokee towns, containing- perhaps from three to five hundred warriors, and abetted by a number of individuals of the Upper Creeks, chiefly young men, arc disposed for war; and their principal object appears to be the settlements on Cumberland river. A summary of this information is contained in the papers No. 1, 2, 3, and 4. this day received from Governor Blount. The information from Mr. Seagrove, agent to the Creek nation, dated at St. Mary’s, on the 13th ultimo, appears to encourage the hope, that the Lower towns of the Creeks are favorably disposed for peace. The United States have existing treaties of peace and friendship with the four Southern tribes of Indians: no complaints have been made of the infraction of those treaties, nor does it appear that any of the Southern tribes have any just cause of war against the United States. Valuable presents have been given to all the said tribes, in the course of the present year, and the Creeks and Cherokees have, each of them, an annual allowance of one thousand live hundred dollars. ■ The Chickasaws and Choctaws are friendly, and, it would appear, so are the mass of the Cherokees and Creeks, the five towns of the former, and certain individuals of the latter, excepted; for it has not yet been made to appear that the conduct of the Creeks is the result of any deliberation of any assembly of chiefs, or of any particular towns. It has been said, that the sudden turn that the Indians have taken for War, has been dictated by the interference of a neighboring European Power; but the evidence on this head may be questioned. As Congress will be in session in a few days, the information on this subject will be submitted to them. The constitution has invested them with the right of declaring war. . Until, therefore, tli'eir decision shall be made known, the Executive cannot authorize offensive measures; although, in the mean time, it may be necessary to make the most vigorous preparations for defensive, and pventually for offensive measures, by providing abundance of arms and ammunition. The President of the United States has commanded me to express his entire approbation of your Excellency’s sentiments and orders on this head. * 'The agent appointed by you. to provide six hundred arms in this city, being unable to purchase any that were suitable, the President of the United States directed that he should be furnished from the public arsenal, at the prices mentioned in the within schedule. I have the honor to be. &c. The Secretary of I Car to the Governor of Georgia.—0.7 th October, 1792. Sir: . ■ , I have the honor to inform your Excellency, that it appears, by information from Governor Blount, dated the 7th instant, that the five Lower towns of the Cherokees, on the Tennessee river, commonly known as the Chicka-maga towns, containing perhaps from three to five hundred warriors, have decided upon hostility against the United States: that they are aided by a number of banditti Upper Creeks, and that their, first object is probably the Cumberland settlements. . . ' . . . 'As Congress is on the eve of their session, the information upon the subject will be submitted to them. The constitution having invested that body with the powers of war, no offensive operations can be taken, until they shall be pleased to authorize the same. But, as the evils existing and apprehended from some of the Southern Indians, may be greatly extended, it is submitted to your Excellency whether it would not be highly expedient that the militia should be well armed, and furnished with ammunition as soon as possible, so as to be ready for any events. At present, the information docs not warrant the conclusion that.more of the Cherokees than the five towns and the Creeks beforementioned, are for hostilities; but when the flames of war are once lighted up, it will be difficult effectually to restrain them within narrow limits. If the information which you may receive shall substantiate clearly any hostile designs of the Creeks, against the frontiers of Georgia, you will be pleased to take the most effectual measures for the defence thereof that may be in your power, and which the occasion may require. In such an unfortunate event, however, I w ill thank you for the earliest information, by express, of the circumstances of the invasion, and the force called into activity to repel the same. _ . I have written by this conveyance to Major Gaither, and have directed him. to use-the highest vigilance against any accident; but, at the same time, to avoid every measure which might tend to bring on the evil wre anxiously desire to avoid. , r I have the honor to be, &c. The Secretary of War to Major Henry Gaither, commanding officer of the troops of the United States in Georgia. 27th October, 1792. Sin: ..... The information contained in your letter, relative to the hostile disposition of the live Lower Cherokee towns, on the Tennessee, in confirmed by Governor Blount. Affairs wearing such an aspect, it will be highly incumbent upon you to be on your guard, and observe, together with all the troops under your orders, the most soldierly vigilance. ‘ Constant patrols secure against surprise, and habituate the men to that sort of discipline indispensable to an Indian warfare. - / _ , But. while you take every precautionary measure against being surprised, you must also endeavor to avoid an air of suspicion to any friendly Indians; always treating them with frankness and kindness, and assuring them of the friendship of the United States. I am, sir, &c.. The Secretary of War to Jumes Seagrove, Esquire.—27th October, 1792. ■ Sir: Since my last to you, of the 31st of August, triplicates of which were transmitted, I have received your letters of the Stffand 13th of September. ___. The information which you therein convey, of,the pacific disposition of the Lower towns, is highly satisfactory; and you cannot render a more acceptable service than to confirm it. The five Lower towns on the Tennessee, commonly called the Chickamagas, have probably decided for hostilities against the frontiers in that vicinity. The said towns contain.probably from three to five hundred warriors, and are aided by a number of banditti of the Upper Creeks, chiefly young men. It does not appear in evidence, that the conduct of the said Creeks is influenced by .the result of any deliberations of any assembly of chiefs, or even of towns. It is of the highest importance that yon strain every nerve, and make use of every possible expedient, by impressing the chieis who will be at your conference; or otherwise to restrain the rash young men from joining in any hostilities against the United States. Were you to make a journey into the nation, to the Upper Creeks, protected by your friend Jack Kinnard, the White-bird-tail king,the Tallassee king, or any others of our friends, yon might be the means of preventing a war. I believe Mr. McGillivray has returned to his house, at Little Tallassee: an interview with him would have a good effect. Every effort must be made to avert a war; and if you should be able to make it appear, that you had been die mean of effecting so good an end, it would at once enhance your political consequence, and entitle you to the warmest approbation of the President of the United States. Pray continue to write frequently and fully, upon the subject of your charge. f am, sir. Sic. No. IV. Information received relatively to the dispositions of the Southern Indians, and the causes of the hostilities of part of the Cherokees and Creeks. Governor Blount to the Secretary of War. Knoxville, March doth, 1792. Sir: Enclosed are copies of letters from Colonel Robertson, of Davidson County, Richard Justice, and the Glass, two Cherokee chiefs, a description of the five Lower Cherokee towns: and a report of Major Craig, respecting the alteration of the sentiments and conduct of the Cherokees in the within described live Lower towns of that nation. I rely fully on the information contained in them severally. Mr. Craig is the person I engaged to bear my letter to the Little Turkey and other chiefs, of the 12th of February, a copy of which i forwarded by Sir. Allison to you; is considered a man of veracity, quite well acquainted with the Cherokee chiefs, generally, and their affairs, as well as with the white people traders, and others residing among them, having for years been a froutier man, on Nine-mile creek, within twelve miles of Chofa.nwl generally viewed by the w hites as too great a friend to Indians. This!/' alteration of sentiment and conduct in the five Lower towns,‘and which I have no reason even to suspect, has extended-— to any other part of the nation, is to be accounted for by their intercourse with, the Creeks and Slunvanese, since the defeat of General St. Clair, and the arrival of Bowles from England, and perhaps to the death of the Dragging Canoe, who, under the Little Turkey, was their head; and, as a warrior, stood second to none in the nation, except .John Watts, and well attached to the United States, as had appeared by his friendly treatment of Mrs. Starke,and others, immediately after the late treaty. The purposes for which Watts is invited to those towns, as mentioned in Mr. Craig’s report, is to offer him the place of Dragging Canoe, of which it supposed he will not accept, as it is known he has a dislike to living in that part of the nation, and a sirong desire for peace: but there is no doubt but he will use his influence, while among, them, to induce them to desist from murdering and horse-stealing; and I have hopes that it will be so great as temporarily to lessen those evils. The Glass’s own letter affords proof of a violation of the. late treaty: and i consider the report of Mr. Craig equally as authentic. It is no loss certain, (iti my opinion) when.satisfaction shall be demanded, that it will be refused by the nation; and thus impressed with the certaintiy of a refusal, it appears to me most prudent to decline making a demand, until I shall be honored with instructions how to act on such an event. In the mean time I shall say nothing to the nation on the subject; but use all possible means, by agents, public or secret, in the nation, to keep them from committing hostilities, and to protect, the frontiers by calling into Sendee a part of the militia. One reason for declining the demand of satisfaction, as before stated, is, that (in my opinion) the Indians of the five Lower towns would consider a refusal as an open declaration of war, and act accordingly: and, by declining it, it is probable they may hope the offence will be looked over, as murders and horse-stealing, upon and from the Cumberland and Kentucky people and others, have, ever and repeatedly been before the late treaty; and under that, hope they may not so immediately join the Shawanese and Creeks. Judging from the talk of the Little Turkey, as quoted in Mr. Craig's report, and every other information I have obtained, I believe the Cherokee nation lying on (he southeast of Chatamiga mountain will remain neuter, if any attempt should be made to punish or destroy the live Lower towns; but if those towns receive timely information of such intention, they will, very probably, obtain auxiliaries from the Creeks, but what number I am not able even to conjecture. The depredations mentioned in Colonel Robertson's letter clearly point out the necessity of protection, in the quarter where they have been committed; and the information contained in Mr. Craig’s report warrants apprehensions that the next conveyance will bring accounts of much greater. I am sorry to inform you that therevdoes not appear any hope that the attempts u> raise a company of Cherokees, to oppose the .Shawanese, will be attended with success. I have the. honor to be. sir, See. [enclosures.] Colonel Elijah Robertson to Governor Blount. Nashville, 28th February. 1792. 1K ^ I this moment received information that the Indians, a few hours ago, killed James Thompson, and family; also Peter Caffey’s family, within about five miles ofNa.diville, It appears that, in the evening, they killed Mr.Thompson in the yard, ami jumped into the house and killed all the women and children, except two small ones, who they spoke to in English, and told them to grow up, and then they would come and kill them. I am raising a party to pursue them. 1 am, &c. Richard Justice and TImnas Glass to Governor Blount. Friend and Brother: Lookout Mountain, March 5th. 1792. We received yours by Major Craig, but as be can inform you of the Little Turkey being gone up to Major Craig’s,or to your house, without knowing any thing of these letters coming Ibis way; but we expect you’ll see each other, and talk matters over, and whatever you and lie agrees upon, we shall be satisfied Math, as we leave it entirely to him, as lie is gone your way. As he is not here,-we cannot send you an answer such as we M-ouhl have done had the Little Turkey been at borne. But, when he returns, we shall expect to hear from you, and, whatever you and he agree upon, we shall abide by. These from your honor’s sincere friends and brothers, THO. GLASS, RICHARD JUSTICE. P. S.—The Glass this fall went out a hunting, without thinking of any thing but to mind bis hunting, and made his bunt in peace and quietness; but some young fellows coming from the nonvard, meeting with some of his young fellows, and telling them that all the people here was at war, the meeting some wdiite people in the woods did some mischief unknown to the Glass. I think your people are <o blame to be going through the hunting grounds, although ours are not blameless. You may think that (lie Glass and his people are bad, but what I tell you is the truth; for, when it was in his power to have killed Colonel Hubbard and his party last spring, he, as it were, lifted them up and told them to go in peace. As we now think of nothing but keeping peace with you and all other white people. These from your Excellency’s friend and brother. RICHARD JUSTICE. Description of the Five Cherokee towns, lying northwest of Chatcmuga Mountain, to tvit: Running Water lies on the south bank of the Tennessee, except five or six huts which are on the north side, three miles above Niekajack,aiul twelve below the Suck; here some Shawanese are settled, containing one hundred huts in 1790, and is a common crossing place for the Creeks. Nickajack lies on the south bank of the Tennessee, five miles above the Long Island village, and fifteen miles below the Suck, contained about forty huts in 1790; some Shawanese settled here in 1789 and 1790; here the Creeks and Northwards cross. Long Island Village, which comprehends an island called the Long Island in the Tennessee, and a number of huts on the south side, is twenty miles below the Suck, and ten above Crowtown, contained ten or twelve huts in 1790; here the Creeks and Northwards cross. Crow Town lies on the north side of the Tennessee, half a mile from the river, up. Crow creek; 30 miles below the Suck, is the lowest town in the Cherokee nation, contained about 30 huts in 1790; the' Creeks and northward tribes cross here. Look-out Mountain town,on Look-out Mountain creek, lies between two mountains, 15.miles from the mouth of the creek, about 15 miles to the southward of the running water; contains 80 huts. A valley leads from the mouth of this creek, three or four miles wide, to this town. The warriors of these five towns are now computed at from two hundred and fifty to three hundred, and are, generally, that part of the Cherokees distinguished as Chickamagas. The Running Water, the upper of the four on the river, is about one hundred and fifty miles from this place, and the river may be passed in large canoes at all seasons. Chatanuga mountain, which lies to the southeast of these towns, can be passed at several places, either by cavalry or infantry, with but very little difficulty, if not opposed. The base of■ it is said not to exceed two miles, and the height not very great. It was in attempting to pass this mountain that General Martin was repulsed in the year 1790. t ‘ The Report of David Craig to' TFUliam Blount, Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Southern district, made at Knoxville, March 15th, 1792. With your letters' of the 12th day of February, to the Little Turkey, and Richard Justice and the Glass chiefs, of the Cherokees, I soon after proceeded to the Look-out Mountain town, the residence of the two latter^ and delivered your letters to them on the 57th: their answers thereto you have herewith. At this town I stayed several days, as did Mr. McKee, who accompanied me, before we proceeded for the Turkey’s town. During our stay, I was informed tliat-a brother to the Dragging Canoe had, about a month before, brought in a white boy 10 or 12years of age, to the Running Water, which he said he had bought from the Northward Indians. Whether it is true that this boy was bought or obtained from the Northward Indians, is uncertain; but, certain it is, such a boy is(brought in a prisoner. On the 22d, the Glass, of the Look-out mountain, as before mentioned, and the Turtle-at-home, (his Indian name not remembered) the head man of the Running Water, arrived at their respective towns, the Glass with a white girl, aged about eight years; a prisoner, and two scalps. The girl says, the party of which she was, consisted of her father, and two other men. and her mother and. several children, on their way from the Natchez, to Nashville, and that her mother arid One child were killed and scalped; and this, with the Indian account, agrees so far as that the scalps by the Glass brought in, were taken from a woman and child, and that the men of the party escaped: and the “ Turtle-at-home,” with a white boy, a prisoner, and one scalp, taken on the barrens between Cumberland and Kentucky; the party consisted of his father, himself, and others, on their way to Cumberland, with salt, and his father was killed and scalped. On the 26th of February, the scalps of this man, woman, and child, were collected at the Look-out Mountain town, (the day previous to the arrival of Mr. M‘Kee and myself at that place) and at night a scalp-dance was there held, and Richard Justice and the Glass took the scalp of the man and tore it with their hands and teeth, with great ferocity, as did, also, the warriors generally, with all the forms, gestures, exultations, and declarations, of a war-dance. The scalp of the woman and child were not treated in the same manner, because warriors do not exult in the killing of women and children. On the 29th of February, (during the stay of Mr. McKee and myself, at the house of a friend near Look-out riioun-tain) an Eagle-tail-dance was held, to which came warriors from the Running Water, which,was also danced with all the forms of a war-dance, exulting over the scalps, &c. as on the 26th, at the scalp-dance. Notwithstanding this conduct, Mr. McKee and myself were treated with great attention and care, (not friendship, as heretofore) by Richard Justice and the Glass, instructing us to keep close, not permitting us to catch our horses, though near at hand, lest some mischief might be done us, as there were many bad Indians about. This appeared to proceed from their considering us as public messengers. At the house of Richard Justice i$ a painting of Bowles, and two Cherokee chiefs, one each side of him, under which is written, “ General Bowles, commander-in-chief of the Creek and Cherokee nations.” There are, also, at his house, a number of dining cards, (copper-plate) addressed to Bowles while in England, styling him “ com-mander-in-chief of the Creek nation.” This trivial circumstance is mentioned, to show, among others that could be added, that Richard Justice, heretofore one of.the warmest friends of the United States, now listens, in preference, to Bowles, and adheres to his counsels. Near this town (the Look-out Mountain) lives Moses Price, a sensible half breed, who can read and write, and who was in England with Bowles. He speaks of Bowles as a \ery great man; that he can actually procure for the Southern tribes, from England, men and arms to defend them against the United States: and that he can obtain a free port in East Florida to extend trade to them directly from England. He says, while he was in England, he was informed that England, by treaty of peace, did not cede the lands claimed by the Creeks and Cherokees, to the United States, and, consequently, the United States could have nothing to do with the government of them, or their trade. In further conversation with Price, he informed me that the Shawanese, in their invitation to the Cherokees to join them against the United States, made since the last battle with General St. Clair, had added a declaration that they shoula consider all Indians their enemies who did not join them,and treat them accordingly, when there should be peace between them and the United States, and applauded the justice of it, adding, that it had been McGilli-vray’s wish that a general confederacy should take place among the Indians, and that, for that purpose, he had caused the Dragging Canoe to be despatched to the Chickasaws, to try to bring the mountain leader, and his party, into such a measure; that such a thing ought to take place, and'he hoped would. I repeatedly saw the Glass upon a large, handsome, black gelding, which he took at the time he captured the girl and killed her mother. About the 20th of February, eighty Creeks passed the Tennessee, saying they were for war against Cumberland, and that they expected-to be joined by many others on the way; and it appeared to be a general opinion at the Look-out Mountain town, both of whites (traders) and Indians, that neither the Creeks, nor Lower totvn Cherokees would ever be at peace with Cumberland, because it was so immediately in the way of the intercourse between them and the Northern tribes,and that, if it was permitted to grow, it would be attended with bad consequences to them. As Colonel Hunter’s and the other boats passed by the Running Water, the Indians hailed them, and requested them to come on shore, which they declined; the Indians.then commenced a heavy firing, which was returned by the boats, but, as the distance was great, it is believed no injury was sustained on either side. Previ- ous to Mr. McKee and myself leaving the Look-out mountain, 1 understood that a talk had arrived from the Little Turkey, addressed to the chiefs of that and the other four towns, lying northwest of Chatanuga mountain, namely, the Running Water, Nickajack, Long-Island villages, and Crow town, the particulars of which I could not exactly collect, but understood, generally, that it was expressive of his disapprobation of their late conduct, and that lie himself had sat out from his own town, with a determination to pay you a visit at Knoxville. Nevertheless, as this was not quite authentic. I thought it my duty, under your instructions, to proceed for his town, and did, until I received certain information that he had been three days on his journey? 1 then returned, and, at Hiwassee, was again informed that the Little Turkey had declined his visit to you, and was gone home. Twice disappointed in attempts to deliver your letter myself, "I thought it best to forward* it bv a safe conveyance, and to proceed myself to report to you the state of affairs. On my arrival at Chota, I found the Path Killer, a particular friend of the Little Turkey’s, who lives in the same town with him. and who had set out with him on his intended visit, sent forward, on the return of the Turkey, to the Hanging Maw and John Watts, at Chota, with the talk that he had sent to the towns lying northwest of Chatanuga mountain, which he gave tome, in the following words: "That he (the Little Turkey) was tired of talking to them; that he had heard what they had lately done; that he did not intend to travel the path to them any more, to hold talks; if they wanted to go to war, go, and he would sit still and look at them; that they must stay on their own side of the mountain, (Chatanuga) and not mix with the other parts of the nation. That he would go and inform Governor Mount where they lived, and that they were for war; that he was done talking to them, and the Governor and they might settle matters as they would. lie asked them where they would get ammunition; would they get it from the people they were going to kill, those of the United States, or would their conjuror, Richard Justice, find it for them in caves in the earth”—with a request that I would repeat it to you. The Path Killer also informed me, that the Little Turkey had given out this talk in his own town, and in such others as he had passed before his return home, and that he had commanded him to deliver it out in such as he should pass, and at Chota, to the Hanging Maw, and John Watts, which he had done, and that it had been generally approved. He said the Turkey desired that the Hanging Maw and John Watts should send his talk to the governor, if they thought well of it: but as he had a good opportunity by me, he thought it best that be himself should send it. The Hanging Maw acknowledged to me. that he and M atts had receiveil this talk from the Turkey, by the Path-Killer, (he was present.when the Path-Killer delivered it to me. as before stated) but thought it best that M atts should first go down to the Running Mater, from whence he had been twice sent for since the death of the Dragging Canoe (which happened immediately after his return from the Chickasaws) and if he could not alter their determination for war, then they would forward the talk of the Turkey to you: and M'atts accordingly sat out from Chota on the loth instant. I have omitted, in the course of this narrative, to inform you. that while air. McKee and myself were absent from the Look-out Mountain town, on the intended visit to the Turkey's town, a council was held on the subject of the Turkey’s talk, in which it was agitated whether they should deliver up the late murderers, in case you should demand them, and it was determined they would not. To conclude, it is my opinion, that the present prospects and information warrants a belief, and hardly leaves a doubt, that many of the Creeks and the Cherokees, generally of the five Lower towns, will join the Shawanese in war. and that they will murder, and steal horses on the frontiers, and from all weak parties, wherever found, if they do not engage in a general national war. (Governor /Ifonnt to the Secretary of Jf'ar. Knoxvii.i.e, May 5th. 1792. Sir: ■ Enclosed are copies of my letters to the chiefs ofthe Chickasaws and Choctaws, of the 27 th of April, by a person who will certainly overtake Messrs. Robertson and Foster before their departure from Nashville. I shall again write them in such terms as shall appear to me proper, under the change of circumstances that have taken place, and shall invite them to meet me at as early a day as the information I have received will warrant an expectation of the arrival of the goods. I beg you to assure the President, that I never shall order any part of the militia into service, only in cases of imminent danger; and I beg leave to remark in the present, I did not order them out until many murders had been committed, although Virginia, our next neighbor, with a Rss exposed frontier, and without a single murder committed since the 27th of August, had called out two full companies. I have not heard of any murders committed on our frontiers, since that of the 5th of April, on the wife and children of Harper Ratcliff', mentioned in my letter of the 22d of that month, and the information of the Lower towns is, that they generally are determined to desist from the commission of further hostilities. The proposed meeting at Coyatee, of the chiefs, to hear the report of the Bloody Fellow and associates, from Philadelphia, has not yet taken place; but I am informed it is now intended to be held in twelve days. There are two recent proofs that the Creeks still continue to steal horses. One is Mr. John Sevier, the younger, who you know was in the month of April in the Lower Cherokee towns (Look-out Mountain and Running M’ater) for several days, where he saw in different parties as many as sixty Creeks, returning from the north of the Tennessee, all well mounted on good horses, mostly large and fat. besides smaller ones, for pack horses for their skins and furs, the whole of which appeared to have lately been in the hands of white people. Perhaps it is necessary here to inform you, that people who are accustomed to see horses raised bv the Indians, can distinguish them generally from those raised and fed by the whites, as readily as they can an Indian from a white man. These horses must have been stolen from Cumberland and Kentucky. The other is, on the 29th of April a party of Creeks stole twenty horses from Crooked creek, a branch of Little river, within fifteen miles of this place. The owners immediately pursued upon the trail, and with the assistance of some Cherokee guides, overtook them about sixty miles in the Cherokee country, as they were passing a river, fired on them, and regained all the horses but one, on which the Creek who rode him made his escape. It is supposed someof the Creeks were wounded, if not killed. These appear to be positive proofs against the Creeks? but besides these, there are great numbers of horses stolen every week from different parts of the frontiers, by somebody unknown, no doubt by Indians, Creeks or Cherokees. To particularize, as many as eleven were taken last week from a neighborhood within twelve miles of this place. Horse stealing is a subject of complaint (almost continual) to me, without my being able to give any redress. The only thing I can do, is to give passports to the sufferers to go into the nation in search of their horses, and letters to the chiefs, which, as yet, has never been attended with recovery. This business is carried on by white people and Indians in combination, and as soon as a horse is stolen, be is conveyed through the Indian nation to North or South Carolina, or Georgia, and in a short time, to the principal towns on the sea board, for sale, so as to effectually prevent a recovery. Horse stealing is the grand source of hostility between the white and red people in this district, and I fear will actually produce it, if not desisted from. It is a subject on which the whites are very sore, and with difficulty restrain themselves from taking what they call satisfaction, that is, from killing some of the Indians; and I can venture to assert, in positive terms, would, if they were not lully impressed with the importance ol observing the treaty, not doubting but all violators of it will be punished, whether white or red, iti due time. The Cherokee who was wounded on the 5th of April, on French Broad, as mentioned in my letter of the 22d of that month, has been with me, and received satisfaction in goods. I have the honor, &c. William Blount, Governor in and over the territory of the United States of America south of the river Ohio, and Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Southern district, to Piamingo, the great chief and warrior of the Chichasaws. Friend and Brother; This will be delivered to you by Mr. James Randolph Robertson, the son of yourgood friend General Robertson, and Mr. Anthony Foster. They will also deliver to you a letter from Henry Knox, Esq. Secretary.of War, written to you by the order of the illustrious President of the United States, which you are to attend to as written by the President himself. You will see by this letter, that it was intended to have been delivered to you by a Mr. Shaw; but when he arrived here, he found that his business in the Cherokee nation, would not permit him to come immediately do you. To these gentlemen I commit the medals and clothing mentioned in the letter of the Secretary of War, to deliver to you, and three pounds of vermillion as a present from myself to you. I would have sent you the rifle I promised you, and other presents, if these gentlemen, or your people, could have brought them to you. But. I expect the pleasure of seeing you next'year, on your way to Philadelphia to see the President, when that promise shall be fulfilled. Your friend and confident, Tathola Thompson, and Tom, arrived here fifteen days ago, expressing.^ strong desire to proceed as you had ordered, to Philadelphia, to which I had no objection, but wisned them to stay until Mr. Shaw should arrive, who I daily expected, and who, I believed, would bring a letter for you from the President. Mr. Shaw arriving, and-having a letter, as was expected, for you, I caused it to be explained to them, upon which they agreed to return to you with Mr. Robertson and Mr. Foster, and it was my opinion that it was best for them so to do. At Cumberland, they wpre well treated by your old friend General Robertson, and supplied with horses, saddles, and bridles, to come to me. While with me, for your sake, for that of your nation, as well as their own, I have treated them with all possible attention and civility, and return them to you with many valuable presents; and they might have had more, if they could have carried them to their own country;.but they'could not. When.you go to visit the President, I beg you to call at this place to stay and rest yourself, and to accept of the necessary supplies for the journey of yourself and friends. It gives me pain to hear the manner in which Governor St. Clair neglected you; but I hope this will not prevent you from following your inclinations to turn out again, and join our troops the ensuing campaign, on which event, be assured you will experience a very different treatment. From the representations of yourgood friend General Robertson, and your conduct last campaign, I am impressed with the great worth of yourself and your people, and shall always be happy in opportunities of manifesting to you the friendship of the United States, under whose authority I act. And whatever Mr. Foster and Mr. Robertson shall say to you respecting my personal regard for you and your people, I beg you to believe, and that I am . Your friend and brother. William Blount, Governor in and over the territory of the United States of America South of the river Ohio, and Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Southern district, to the chiefs and warriors of the Choctaw nation. Friends and Brothers: To Mr.'Anthony Foster, and Mr. James Randolph Robertson, with this letter, I commit also a letter addressed to you by Henry Knox, Esquire, Secretary of War, written by order of the illustrious General Washington, President of the United States of America, and with it the medals, arm-bands, and clothes, therein mentioned, with instructions to deliver them to you. i You will see that the letter of the Secretary of War, and the articles therein mentioned, were originally intended to have been delivered to you by Mr. Shaw; but, on his arrival 'at this place, his business in the Cherokee nation would not permit him to come shortly to you. and conceiving it important that you should have the letter as early as possible, I have sent it by them. They are citizens of the United States, residenton Cumberland, who I recommend to your particular notice and attention, and whatever they shall say to you, respecting the friendship of the illustrious President for your nation, you are to pay sfull faith and credit to. For myself, and I act by appointment from the President, I saw your people at the treaty of Hopewell. I saw Toboco at Philadelphia, with John "Woods, and have a love for them, and shall be always happy in showing you and your nation proofs of the friendship of the United States and of myself. If any of your young warriors have a thirst for military fame, I beg you to indulge them in joining-the troops of the United States at fort Washington, as mentioned in the letter of the Secretary of War, and you may have the fullest confidence that such as go will be well fed and well paid, and it will afford a pleasing proof of your strong friendship for the United States. The Chicknsaws, your neighbors, are very good people; take care and keep friendship with thorn as well as with the United States. But there are many red people, not "Chickasaws, who tell lies to you. Take care and don’t believe them. With every wish for your future happiness, I am your friend and brother. . Governor Blount to the Secretary of War, (Extract.)—May 16, 1792. Sir; , 'I am truly glad of the objections you offer against attempting to obtain a post.at the mouth of the Duck, in exchange for Bear creek, as it now appears to me the attempt would probably have the consequences you state, and with you I sincerely hope all designs that would rouse the jealousy or suspicions of the Indians, will long be suspended. When the goods will arrive at Nashville is uncertain; but it is very certain that the Indians will not be there before the 15tn June, if so soon, and I fear not until towards the last of that month, so that I do not count on the business with them being completed before the 10th July. . I had hopes of closing this letter without troubling you with further accounts of murders or horse stealing; but this moment a letter is handed to me, express, in the following words: , . “ Campbell’s Station, May 16, 1792. “S'r: “Just now, Mr. Cole, one of the guard, came to this place, and informs that the Indians killed two boys this day, about 10 o’clock, at Mr. Wells’, in Hinds’s valley, about three miles from this place. Mr. Cole, on his scout, went there shortly after the mischief was done. “I thought it might be right to give you immediate notice. The settlements seem much alarmed. I intend to go and follow the track. I am, sir, yours &c. “DAVID CAMPBELL. ‘ ‘ Governor Blount. ” Campbell’s station, where this note is dated, is on the north side of Holston, fifteen miles below this place, and the place where the boys were killed is not far distant. They were of the name of Wells; one about eight, the other ten years of age; they, were picking strawberries near their father’s door, in his view, when the Indians, six iii 1792.] GENERAL VIEW. 2G7 number, came up to them, tomahawked, and scalped them, and went off* without making further attempts on the family. Judging iiom the place where these boys were killed, suspicion falls on the Cherokees or Creeks. There is no instance of the Northern tribes having killed so low down, nor within less than eighty miles. Having again entered on this disagreeable subject, I add an extract of a letter from General Pickens to me: “ Hopewell. 28tli April, 1792. ‘'1 trust the inhabitants of this State will observe the late treaty. It has ever been my wish to observe treaties, though the Cherokees have stole more horses from the frontiers of this State, these six months past, than they have done for years before. If there is not a stop put to it, 1 know not what the frontier inhabitants may be provoked to do. While a part, and diat the ostensible ruling part of a nation, atfect to be at, and I believe really are for peace, and the more active young men are frequently killing people and  stealing horses, it is extremely difficult how to act. “The people, even the most exposed, would prefer an open war to such a situation. The reason is obvious: ;t man would then know, when lie saw an Indian he saw an enemy, and be prepared and act accordingly. “ I have the honor to be. with very great respect and esteem, your obedient humble servant.” Governor Bipunt to the Secretary of I Tar. Knoxville, June 2d. 1792. Sir: For the present state of affairs with the Cherokees, I refer you to the enclosed minute? of the conference at Coyatee, believing it the way in which I can best communicate it fully to you. To me the appearing change is a very pleasing one, and I am sure it will be so to you. Enclosed also is a duplicate of a letter by me written to General McGillivray, which will show you on what grounds the Creeks may be charged with a part of the depredations committed at Cumberland. Those lately committed in that quarter, meaning those in the past month, have compelled me to order into actual service two more companies of militia from the district of Washington, for a three months' tour from the time they arrive at Cumberland river. These make, in the whole, tir e companies by me ordered into actual service, and will, I hope, be quite sufficient to give protection to the frontiers. No contractor can be had, at this scarce season ofthe year, to supply these troops for the price to which I am limited, eight cents. As yet. each man has furnished himself, under an assurance that lie shall therefor receive eight cents per day in addition to his pay. Rut this has been done with great difficulty and grumbling, and the necessity for a contractor is such that I shall be obliged to give such price as will engage one, relying that the necessity will justify the measure. Mr. Allison arrived here the day before yesterday, by whom I had the honor of receiving a duplicate of your letter to me of the 22d April, and of that of the same date to General Pickens. The Indian goods will be here in a few days, and probably at Nashville by the 20th. They will be escorted down the Tennessee by a part of the two companies last ordered into service—a mode of getting them to Cumberland quite as cheap as marching them over the Cumberland mountain. Yesterday, as a man was riding the public road that leads down the north side of Iiolston, about forty miles above this place, he was fired on by four Indians, and struck in his clothes and powder horn by as many balls, but received no further injury. This attempt to kill was made twelve miles south of Clinch, that is, so many miles within the boundary, and most probably by the Bench and his party. John Thompson, the interpreter at the late treaty, was here yesterday, directly from the Little Turkey. He informs me that McGillivray did not meet Mr. Seagrove at the Rock Landing in Georgia, as had been proposed, giving for reason that Mr. Bowles’s party still continued to believe in him. to expect his return, and were too strong for McGillivray to manage. This information, I believe, may be depended upon. I have the honor, &c. Minutes of the conference at Coyatee with the chiefs and warriors of the Cherokees, in May, 1792, with the incidental circumstances relative thereto. The killing of the two bays on the 16fh, and of Mr. Clack on the Cumberland trace on the 17th. as he was coming to this place with Judge Campbell from Miro district court, induced to postpone my v isit to Coyatee until the chiefs at that place had repeated their invitation to me, which they did in a very pressing manner, by two messengers. On Sunday, the 20th, 1 sat out, and, as I approached Coyatee, 1 sent a person to give them notice thereof. They had requested that I would, giving for reason that they wished to pay me all possible honors. Upon receiving the information, the chiefs immediately dressed themselves, and commanded all the Indians-of every description to appear on a field adjacent to the house prepared for my reception, and at which they had erected the standard of the Lnited States, upon a pole nearly of the height and size of a liberty pole. At the Tennessee, about half a mile from the ground on which they were paraded. I met a well dressed young fellowr on horseback, with a request from the chiefs that I wouId there halt until they should be quite ready to receive me in the way they wished, of which they would give me notice. In a short time information was given; I advanced, and found their whole number, chiefs and others, (supposed to be two thousand) divided into two lines, extending about three hundred yards each, leaving an open space between for myself and honorary escort to pass. As soon as I entered the space, a firing was commenced in the manner of a feu de joie, and handsomely kept up until I had fassed through. Shouts of joy instantly followed, and immediately after I had alighted, under the standard of the lnited States, I was surrounded by the whole number, with countenances demonstrative of more joy than I had heretofore been a witness of. The evening was spent in eating, drinking, and cheerful conversation with Eskaqua, John Watts, the Hanging Maw, Richard Justice of the Look-out, the Breath of Nickajack, Will of the Running \\ ater, and others. On Monday, early in the day, Eskaqua waited on me, and said lie thought it best to postpone public business until Tuesday,*offering for reason, “ that, to devote that day to happiness unalloyed with public cares, would the better prepare us.” It was spent in eating, seasonable drinking of whiskey, and in holding many private talks with the chiefs, and in a ball play, where great activity was displayed. Eskaqua was on the losing side, and having staked much, bore it not quite well. On Tuesday Eskaqua again waited on me, and said he had been drinking too much whisky to be capable of public business; that it was an accident might have happened to any man; that he hoped I would agree to its being postponed to Wednesday;, he would let every body know the fault was his, not mine. Tuesday was spent as Monday had been, in eating, drinking, and a ball play, on which the stakes vvere very large; even chiefs staked their clothes, saving only their flaps. Eskaqua recovered his losses. His getting drunk on Monday night was supposed to be a manoeuvre to get some of the best players of the adverse party in the same situation, which he effected. He did not play himself, and none of his players drank to excess. On Wednesday the chiefs assembled at an appointed shade, and Eskaqua waited on me, and requested my attendance. and, having seated me, addressed me. saying, he rvas happy to see me in their country, and offered an apologv for having detained me a day longer than was necessary, which he hoped I would excuse. To this I replied, returning thanks for the friendly reception they had given me, &c. and proceeded to deliver to them an address, which I had previously written, as follows: The address of Governor Blount to the chiefs and others of the Cherolcees, assembled at Coyatee, on Wednesday, the 23 d May, 1792, to divide the goods by them received for the first annual payment, agreeably to-the treaty of Holst on, at tvhich were present the following chiefs: General Eskaqua, Nontualca, the Breath of Nickajack, Richard Justice of the Look-out, Charley of the Running-water, the Hanging Maw, Kittagiska, the Broom, the Cabin, the Head-man qf Hiwassee, Tuskigatahce, and other chiefs—the whole number of chiefs, warriors, and others, completed at two thousand. Brothers, Chiefs, and Warriors, of the Cherokeks: It is now near a year since I hail first the pleasure to meet you in council, and to form a treaty with you on the part of the United States, the object of which was the benefit of both parties. > Since that event, your nation, in a giand council, held at thebeloved town of Estanaula, appointed deputies, namely: the Bloody Fellow, Nontuaka, the Old Prince, the Jobber’s Son, Captain.George, and other good men, to wait on the President, himself, and to ask him whether he has authorized me to form a treaty with you, and, if he had, to solicit him, on your part, to give you one thousand five hundred dollars per annum, the same the Creeks receive for their lands, instead of one thousand, as stipulated by the treaty. The President answered you, that he had authorized me to make a treaty with you; that he had approved and ratified it; that he had instructed me not to stipulate for the payment of more than one thousand dollars per annum; but that he himself would give you one thousand five hundred dollars per annum for your lands, which sum you are in future to receive. This at once proves to you, what I before told you is all true—the President's goodness and his love for you and your nation. The President has also informed you, that, whatever shall be said by me on his part, you are to attend to as if said by himself. Thus you see you are no more to doubt the truth of what I have said, or shall say to you. I was pleased that you did send deputies to visit the President, and with the persons you sent;, with their conduct there, and their report since their return to you. Here, brothers, I think it proper to inform you, that the President has been pleased to direct that the Bloody Fellow shall, in future, be known and distinguished by the more honorable name of General Eskaqua. When first you invited me to come down, and be present at this meeting of yours, I hoped and believed, the great book, which the Secretary of War has given to your nation, containing the talks of your deputies, and the answers of the President and the. Secretary of War, would here have been opened, read, and explained, but that I now find is to be done at the beloved Estanaula, in a grand national council. Then, my brothers, at Estanaula, it must be read and explained by James Carey, whom the President, at the request of your deputies, has appointed interpreter. The choice has been very agreeable to me, as I am told he well understands your language, and I know he does English, and I believe him to be an honest man, who will tell you truth only—a man in whom you may fully depend. You are to have another interpreter, of your own chioce, and when you have made it, you will please inform me on whom it has fallen. These interpreters are to explain all public letters and talks, and no other person must be permitted to do it. You must not permit other persons even to read your public letters: then there will be no more misunderstanding of letters and talks. 1 1 shall now speak about the objects of the present meeting: it is to divide the goods of the first annual payment lor your lands, to talk about the proceedings at Philadelphia, (not to open the book) and about what.has happened since the treaty. The division of the goods is with yourselves; I have nothing to do with it; but I am glad to hear that you have determined, that the four Lower Towns shall have a large share of them, and that so many of the people of the Lower Towns are here ready to receive them. If they had as generally attended the treaty, they would have had a lull share of the goods they paid the nation. That they did not get a full share, the fault was their own. Thanks and credit are due to the Badger for his talk, respecting the division of these goods. I have already spoken of the proceedings at Philadelphia, and what I have said will appear to be fully proved to you, when the book is opened and explained, at Estanaula, by Mr. Carey. AY hat has happened since the treaty, has appeared in a very bad light to the white people. AVith difficulty I have restrained those whose relations have been killed and scalped, or made prisoners, and those whose horses have been stolen, from falling on the Indians, without regard to age or sex, and taking, instantly, what they termed satisfaction. Since the treaty, have been killed, wounded, or made prisoners, the persons described as follows: Oliver AVilliains and Jasen Thompson, two peaceable well disposed men, on the 28th January, at night, encamped on the road which leads from Bledsoe's station to the ford of Cumberland, that is, on the north side ofCumberland river, where they were fired on by Indians, and both wounded, and their horses, one gun, and other articles, taken from them; they both go,,back to the settlements much injured by the frost, as there was snow on the ground. Early in March a party of Indians attacked the house of Mr. Thompson, within seven miles of Nashville, killed and scalped the old man, and others of the family, and made prisoners a Mr. Cafl’rey, and Miss Thompson, a child. On the 5th March, twenty-five Indians attacked Brown’s station, eight miles from Nashville, and killed four boys. On the 6tli. they burned Dunham’s station; that is, houses, corn, ike. On the 12th, they killed Mr. McMurray, on his own plantation, near the. mouth of Stone’s river. On the 5th April, killed Mrs. Radclift'and three children. On the 8th instant, killed Benjamin AA’illiams, and family, consisting of eight persons, in the heart of the Cumberland settlement, on station Camp creek; a boy wounded with three balls, near the same place. And on the 16th, two boys killed, within twelve miles of Knoxville. On the 17th, a man within thirty miles, as he was passing the road from Cumberland with Judge Campbell, and five other unarmed men; and, besides these, within these three months, a man was killed on the road from Kentucky to Cumberland, and a woman and bby made prisoners. Another party, on their way from the Natchez, of which several were killed, and a girl made prisoner; and two boats taken, coming up the Cumberland river, in which four people were killed, namely: three of the young Seviers, and a Mr. Rice, and, since that time, upwards of two hundred horses have been stolen from Cumberland, and the district of AVashington, besides a great number from the frontiers of North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. I tlo not say. Brothers, your people have done all these murders, and stole all these horses, because I do not positively know. But, from a variety of circumstances, suspicion falls on the people of your Lower towns, and the Creeks. I write General McGillivray, and make the same complaints. I am well aware, that the chiefs of both nations are fully determined to preserve the_ treaties they have made, inviolable; but that is not enough; it will be expected of them to inform who did commit these depredations, ami that they make restitution of sjucli of the prisoners and horses as are, or have been, in the possession of your nation; and that such acts shall not be committed in future. The President of the United States, your father, loves you, and undoubtedly wishes you to be happy, but he equally loves the white people, and it is equally his duty to protect them, and he cannot see your people kill the white people, and compel them to bear it in peace. My Brothers, you must exert yourselves to restrain your young people, as well as all others, from such acts. Attend to what General Eskaqua, and his associate deputies, shall tell you: they will tell you how much the President loves you, and how earnestly he wishes you to do well and be happy. Already I have told you, that w ith difficulty I have restrained the people, whose relations have been killed, from falling on the Indians and taking satisfaction, without regard to age or sex. Now, my Brothers, I have to inform you, that, to secure the white people of the frontiers against the further depredations of your bad people, I have been forced to order out a part of the militia upon the frontiers, from Hols ton to Clynch.' and up Clynch, and upon the frontiers of Cumberland. These militia are not ordered on duty to come to your country to injure you or your people, but to stay in their own, and to take care that your bad people do not come and hurt the white people. If any of your people come into the settlement, (and I shall always be glad to see the chiefs at niv house) they had best come in b> way of Major Craig's, for nobody has been killed in that quarter, and the people there are not so sore as on the other side of Holston, and on the frontiers of Cumberland. Speaking of frontiers, it may occur to you that I should say something oh the subject of extending and marking the land, agreeably to the treaty. 1 shall write you on that head, so that you shall have my letter before you in council at Estanaula. With respect to prisoners taken before the late treaty, 1 have one in my possession, who has been treated well: and I have been at all times ready to deliver him at the place appointed: amt you have some which I wish restored p> their friends, and I expect you will deliver them to me immediately after the council at Estanaula. The Breath of Nickajack then rose and said. That man (pointing to Eskaqua) lias induced me to come here. The people of the Lower towns have been very deaf to your talks, but now we will hear them: (he then presented a string of white beads, the usual token of peace and friendship.) 1 have heard your charge of the murders and horse stealings, and I tell you truly. 1 do not know who committed the whole of them: but from the great council at Estanaula you shall be informed of whatever has been done by our nation, and there the prisoners in our possession, taken since the treaty, shall be delivered to any body you shall appoint. Thf. Hanging Maw then gave public notice, that the council was to meet at Estanaula, in thirty nights, (23d June) to hear the report of the Eskaqua, and the other agents, and for all the chiefs to attend,and not to be absent, under any pretence whatever. John Watts said. " You shall hear all the talks from Estanaula,and that he wished Capt. Chisolm to attend, and bring them up as soon as the council should finish their business. In a private talk with Dick Justice, of the Look-out. he expressed great concern lor what had happened since tin-treaty, as did several others, and said. *  they hoped they should be able to restrain their young people after the council at Estanaula. I had privately intimated to the chiefs that I wished they should reply to what I should say from Estanaula, in preference of doing it at Coyatee. They would otherwise have confessed their nation guilty of several of the murders, &c. and there were sundry frontier people present, and the answer from Estanaula will be more a national one than could have been at Coyatee; and I have no doubt but they will answer fully from Estanaula. The chiefsand warriors of the Lower towns arrived at Coyatee on the Saturday previous to my going down. They inarched in, painted black, and sprinkled over with flour, meaning to show they had been at war, but were then for peace. Eskaqua, John Watts, and the other chiefs, received them under the standard of the United States. The former, who appears to have entered fully into the views of the United States, and the latter, as fully determined to second him. rejoiced much on this auspicious event. They may he said to be the champions of peace. Finding the nation, in general, so apparently disposed for peace, and Eskaqua, ami other chiefs, soliciting me very earnestly to give apart of the goods in my possession, in addition to those they had received at Philadelphia. I agreed to it, believing they never could be disposed of more to the advantage of the United States. Governor Blount to General McGUlivray. Knoxville, May ITth. 1792. Silt; I am already informed than the murders and horse stealings lately committed by the Creeks, may, in a great degree, be charged to the attention they paid to the pernicious counsels of Mr. Bow les. Nevertheless, I conceive it essential, they should be known to you; they areas follow: Oliver Williams and Jason Thompson, two peaceable, well disposed men, oil the 23th January, at night, encamped on the road w hich leads from Bledsoe's station to the lord of Cumberland river, w here they w ere fired on by the Indians, and both wounded, and their horse, one gun, and other articles, taken from them. They both gotback to the settlements much injured by the frost, as there was snow on the ground. Their horses were, one an iron grey, branded on the rising shoulder I 1), ami lately put on, about three years old; and the other a bay. branded with Spanish brands. In the latter part of February, eight Creeks w ere met in the Cherokee country, on their return from north of the Tennessee, by a young Cherokee of veracity, well known to you. with two such horses as above described, and a gun, which they' acknowledged they had taken from people they had attacked on the Cumberland road, in the snow. The young Cherokee was particular in describing to me the horses, before I had a description from the owners, and lie did it with such exactness, that no doubt remains on my mind but the eight Creeks whom he saw. were the Indians who fired on Thompson and Williams, and stole their horses, gun, &c. Their own acknow ledgment is a sufficient etidence of the fact. Early in March, a party of Indians attacked the house of Mr. Thompson, within seven miles of Nashville: killed and scalped the old man and others of the family, and made prisoners Mrs. Caftrayand Miss Thompson, and a child. A few- days since, some Cherokee chiefs were here with me, from the Little Turkey's quarter of the country, who informed me, as they were returning from the Chickasaw country, about the last of March, they came to a camp of the Creeks, on the trace that leads from the Cherokees to the Creeks, where they had prisoners two women and a child about twro years of age. My informants add. that there were with them two white men that had come with them from the Cliickasaws, and going to Georgia, w ho the Creeks could with difficulty be restrained from killing, giving for reason, that they suspected them to be citizens of the United States; and my informants saved them, by declaring they lived in the Cliickasaws, and were not citizens. The description of the prisoners taken, and those seen by the Cherokee chiefs, and the time when taken and when seen, afford a violent presumption that it was Mrs. Cafiray, Miss Thompson, and the child taken with them, w hich the Cherokees saw prisoner in the possession of the Creeks, as above described. 1 have premised that the disorders of the Creeks have flowed from the villany of Mr. Bowles; permit me to add. that I am sure you are as much opposed to the commission of such horrid acts as I can be, and that I have no doubt but you will take every measure in your power to have these unhappy people returned to their country and friends. And to receive and bring them to me is the business on which I send the bearer, Captain John Chisolm, to you. I believe he has heretofore been know-n to you, and I beg leave to recommend him to your attention and civilities. I have yet to trouble you on the disagreeable subject of horse stealing. In the course of this spring, from Cumberland and this quarter of the country, more than two hundred have been taken, stolen by the Indians; and lam informed by a gentleman of veracity, who wras among the Cherokees in March and April, that he saw sixty of them in the hands of the Creeks, returning to their ow n country from north of the Tennessee, and the Cherokees assure me, that the whole of them have been taken by the Creeks; which, by the by. 1 do not credit, as I well know some of them got a part. What, my good sir, can be done to put a stop to this evil? The white people are daily making the heaviest complaints to me of their losses, and to their credit it can with truth be said, they are strict observers of the Creek and Cherokee treaties. I pray you, my good sir, now to interpose your influence and authority to put a stop to it. Bowles, I hope, is no more of consequence enough to prevent you from so doing. 35 * In September last, I found myself compelled to address you on this painful subject of complaint, and I have been informed you wrote me an answer, but it never reached my hands. I shall, at all times, be happy to hear from you, to cultivate a friendly correspondence with you, and to use my efforts with your's, to keep order on the frontiers, so essential to the happiness of all parties. But I cannot conclude without informing you, that besides Thompson’s family, the persons whose names follow have been killed by the'Indians, by what particular ones, not exactly known, but there is violent presumption that it has been done by the Creeks, and the Cherokees of the Lower towns: namely, on the 5th March, twenty-five Indians attacked Brown’s station, eight miles from Nashville, and killed four boys; on the 6th, burnt Dunham’s station—that is, houses, corn. See.; on the 12th, killed Mr. McMurray on his own plantation, near the mouth of Stone’s river: on the 5th April, killed Mrs. Radciift’ and three children; on the 8th instant, killed Benjamin Williams and family, consisting of eight, in the heart of the Cumberland settlement, in Station Camp creek; a boy wounded with three balls near the same place; yesterday, two boys killed within twelve miles of this place, and to-day a man within thirty, as he was passing the road from Cumberland, with Judge Campbell, and five other unarmed men; and besides those, within three months, a man was killed on the trace from Kentucky to Cumberland, and a woman and a boy made prisoners; another party, on their way from the Natchez, of which several were killed, and a girl made prisoner; and two boats taken coming up Cumberland, in which four people were killed, namely, three of the youn" Seviers and a Mr. Rose, but of these, the Creeks, 1 believe, are clear, there being good proof against the Cherokees of the Lower towns. I sincerely lament that the necessity exists for detaining you so long on so disagreeable a subject, but I trust that necessity is a sufficient apology. I have the honor, &,c. May 31st, 1792. P. S. I am since informed that the Creeks who had two women and the child prisoners, belonged to the Oak joys. One of the white men with the Cherokee chiefs was Francis Willis, another of the name of Thompson, and the name of the other I have not heard. They also saw the women and child, and one of them conversed with one of the women on the fatigue she suffered in w alking, and would have offered his horse to ride, had he not feared it would offend their captors, and render his own safety more precarious. They mention that they heard one of the women complain to one of the Indians that she was tired of walking, and the Indian answered, that he would get briars and scratch her thighs, and that would make her walk fast. The reason given by these men why they did not inquire of these women who they were, and where taken by the Creeks, were the same that prevented the offer of the horse. It was the second night that the Creeks and Cherokees had encamped contiguous to each other, that the former insisted on killing the three white men, as stated in the above letter. 'These circumstances are mentioned, the better to convince you that Mrs. Caffrey, Miss Thompson, and the child, have been made prisoners by a party of the Creeks; and prove, that they also killed Miss Thompson’s father, and the rest of the family. Governor Bloiint to the Secretary of War. Knoxville, July 4th, 1792. Sir: I make no doubt but you will be a little surprised at’receiving from me a letter of this date, from this place, but so it is that I could not leave it sooner, consistent with the good of the service I am engaged in. The last of the goods, for the conference with the Chickasaws and Choctaws, did not arrive more than eight days past, owing to the weight, compared with the strength of the teams; and the boats could not be got in readiness to proceed with them down the river before yesterday. The boats are under the command of Alexander Moore, the most experienced waterman in all this country, who has been four times down the river, and the goods in the care of David Allison. An uncommon drought prevails at this time, consequently, the waters were neVer low’er; and some difficulties as to water may be expected, but none, it is hoped, but what may readily be surmounted by the activity of the crews, who are, in my opinion, uncommonly good. > My delay here will in no wise affect the object of the intended conference, as I am informed the Chickasaws and Choctaws will not be at Nashville before the 25th day of this mouth. General Pickens has been with me since the day he appointed, the tenth of June, and we.set out for Nashville to-morrow morning. By the enclosed journal of the council at Estanaula, you will sec that a Cherokee escort will meet the boats, at my request, at Tuskega, to guard them against Indian depredations; it contains, also, the whole of the proceedings ot that body, at that place. As you have the whole journal, and a copy of my letters of the 4th of June, respecting the running of the line, and the exchange of prisoners, any comments appear unnecessary; but I can’t help observing, that the speech of the Little Turkey’s, on the subject of the line, is very different from what might have been expected from any part of the nation, but especially from him. The ostensible reason given for the absence of Eskaqua horn the council, is, that some distant relation was sick, and he stayed at home to attend them; the real one is supposed to be, that he foresaw, or strongly suspected, the business would not be conducted to his wishes, therefore did not choose to be present. That given for the absence of John Watts, was, that he was gone to Pensacola, at the invitation of Mr. Panton, on mercantile business, a place to which he had not heretofore been since the war. This Mr. Panton, of Pensacola, has lately, that is, in the latter part of May and first of June, been in the Lower Cherokee towns, and some others, under the pretence of collecting old debts, and extending his trade; but there are reasons to suspect that his real business was to invite some principal characters to attend a treaty which the Spaniards are about to hold with the Creeks, at Pensacola, in the latterr part of August, or early in September. Enclosed is the deposition of James Ore, a man of observation and veracity which will give information on that head. Believing it essential to the interests of the United States, that a perfect account should be obtained of the proceedings and objects of the Spaniards and others, at the meetings mentioned in that deposition, I have engaged a man, qualified in all respects, to be present at them for that purpose. On the eighth of June General Robertson and his son were wounded by Indians on his own plantation, himself shot through both arms, one broke, and his son through the thigh; but both are on the recovery. Besides the parties mentioned in Ore’s deposition, I have other information of parties of Creeks, and Cherokees too, having gone to Cumberland with declared intentions of hostility, particularly a fellow called the Pumpkin Boy, of the Look-out mountain, a brother of Double Head, a rising popular character among the young warriors. And. since I wrote you last, two Indians have been wounded in the settlements of this district, by whites in pursuit of stolen horses; one of them was shot as he was sitting on a stolen horse, and the other was in possession of a stolen horse, and fired first on the whites, who were pursuing of him and his accomplices. Tnese continued depredations, and the militia infantry turning out into actual service with great tardiness and reluctance, have induced me to order out a troop of cavalry for the protection of the frontiers, for a three months’ tour, unless sooner discharged, which also serves as an escort to General Pickens and myself through the wilderness. I have not heard any thing lately which warrants an assurance that the. Chickasaws or Choctaws will turn out and join the arms of the United States, or the contrary; but I am informed that John Thompson, the late interpreter to the Cherokees, who will be at the conference, is instructed by his great friend, the Little Turkey, to oppose it. I have, the honor, &c. [enclosures.] Journal of the Grand Cherokee National Council. Estanaula. Tuesday, 2.6th June, 1792. Present, the Little Turkey, great beloveil man of the whole nation: the. Badger, the beloved man of the Southern division: the Hanging Maw, beloved man of the Northern division: the Boot, the Black Fox, the Cabin. Path Killer. &c. head-men of the Little Turkey’s town; Keatchiskie, and Sour Mush, of Hightower; Nontuaka. of Cheestie; Teakakiskie, of Hivvassee; Richard Justice, and The Glass, of the Look-out Mountain town: the Thigh of Celicrn. the Big Bear, and the Kingfisher, of Estanaula; Charley, of Alljoy; Nanotey, of Kautokey: the Terrapin, of Kiukee; the Breath, and his nephew, of Nickajack; Chiekasautehe, of Big Savannah, and warriors: Chinna-bee, ambassador from the Natchez anil the Creeks; Leonard I). Shaw, Esquire, agent, resident in the Cherokee nation, and James Carey, interpreter. Nontuaka gave a history of his tour to Philadelphia; enjoining his people to listen to the talks which he and his fellow-travellers had brought back. The Little Turkey.—This is not the first time I have spoke respecting Mr. Jack Thompson and Mr. Carey; the former is one of my own people, and has growp to the age of a man. I always expected he would be serviceable to his country when grown up; he shall be at all public meetings, as well as Mr. Carey, who, though a white man, I consider as one of my own people, for I have raised him from a boy; together, they are to be consulted, and their words taken upon all public business. Mr. Thompson shall be considered as a speaker in all national councils, and the head-men are to attend to his talks. Mr. Shaw.—Friends and Brothers: As I am sensible you must have heard, from your own ambassadors, that I am sent by our Father, the President of the United States, to be your friend, your counsellor, and protector, I think it necessary to express, on this occasion, my own feelings. I thank the Great Spirit who has brought me in safety to your country, and who has brought you all here to listen to the talks of peace and friendship; lie knows my heart, how straight it is toward your nation—how anxious to promote your welfare. As the Great Spirit delights in the works of peace, he. I hope, will incline your hearts to receive me favorably, whilst I read the good things your Father, the President, has committed to my charge to say to you. And now, in token of cordial friendship, I shall take your beloved chief by the arm, and, 1 hope, his warriors will receive me with the same friendship. Mr. Shaw then took the Little Turkey, and the other chiefs, by the arm, and stood before them, whilst some of the young men came forward and took him by the hand; he then took out a large belt of white vyampum, which he observed to the chiel's was a token of friendship from the President, and, placing it over his right shoulder, proceeded to read the book. He read as far as the President’s speech, which he wished not to read till to-morrow, observing, that he had gone through most of their business at Philadelphia. Nontuaka.—AVhat you have heard is only what was said by our people: to-morrow you will hear the answers to these requests. Adjourned till to-inorrow. Wednesday, 27th June, 1792. The council met pursuant to adjournment. Present, (he Little Turkey. &c. as before. Nontuaka desired the warriors, &c. to come forward, that they might hear attentively, whilst Mr. Shaw proceeded to read the President’s speech. The Glass moved to hear that article of the treaty at Holston, which describes the boundary of the nation, read from the book, to know if the President had altered the lines. Mr. Carey informed him that lie had not. The Glass, however, repeated his anxiety to hear it read. Mr. Shaw then read it. The chiefs murmured somewhat about the line striking Cumberland, forty miles above Nashville. Nontuaka commanded silence, till the book should be read through, that then they might deliberate on the. line. Mr. Shaw then proceeded to read the remaining part of the book. After finishing, he walked up to the Little Turkey, and. in the name of the United States, presented him with a belt, observing, that he would readily attend them, and communicate any thing for them to the President. Some observation was made concerning the’proper person to keep the book; when Mr. Shaw observed, that lie had been sworn, when he was appointed agent for the nation, to do justice to the United States, and that, in order to do that, it was necessary he should have the book to record their answers to the President. The Little Turkey told him to keep the book until the answers were made, when it must be closed till the next meeting. The Kingfisher, or Jobbers Son, moved, that Captain Chisolm's papers should be brought forward, who sent immediately for them. 'Fhe Black Fox desired the audience to sit still; that Governor Blount’s letters were to be read immediately: and to-morrow they would have nothing to do but make their answers. Captain Chisolm then presented to the Little Turkey a letter from Governor Blount, accompanied with his Excellency’s address, at Covatee. The Little Turkey gave the letter to Mr. Shaw, requesting him to read it, which he did. The Glass observed, that, as the Governor had mentioned in his letter that no person, except those appointed, should interpret their letters, it was, therefore, proper that he should send his letter to Estanaula and the Turkey’s town, and not send so many over to the Big River. With respect to the prisoners mentioned in the letter, it was observed by Dick Justice, the Glass, and the Breath, that but two had been brought into the nation since the treaty, and one before. Captain Chisolm then, in the name of the United States, delivered a prisoner boy. named Jibe, into the hand of the Little Turkey. Adjourned till to-morrow. Thursday, 28th June. 1792. The council met, pursuant to adjournment. Present, the Little. Turkey, &c.. as before. Nontuaka.—We are all gathered together here, and there seems to be a little variance; 1 wish, therefore, to explain myself. My warriors, 1 have been to Philadelphia to see the great beloved white man. When I left our father, the President, and General Knox, tny heart was easy. I came here and brought Mr. Shaw. When we left Congress, you, Mr. Shaw, were appointed to come with us here. Governor Blount was also appointed; and you, as well as w e, were to attend to him. I hope there will be no disturbances, but that the President may hear there is no jarring amongst you. Governor Blount, and you under him, were appointed to do justice, both to the reds and whites. (To the chiefs.) Your are my people, and I am one of yours. I hope you will pay attention to inv talks. The young warriors went out, the day before yesterday, to counsel amongst themselves, but one young fellow came in and disturbed the business. [The young fellow denied that he had interrupted the business. A young warrior came forward and justified Nontuaka. The fellow continued to deny, and said he was glad to hear good talks.] A young warrior, Comasuliskie. came forward, holding the pipe to each of the head men, assured them lie had let go the hatchet, that he would always attend to their talks, and that the quarter of the nation where he lives should do the same. ’ ■ The Black Fox.—The Dragging Canoe has left the world. He was a man of consequence in his country. He was a triend both to his own and the white people. But his brother is still in place; and I mention now in public, that I intend presenting him with his deceased brother’s medal: for he promises fair to possess sentiments similar to those of his brother, both with regard to the red and white. It is mentioned here publicly, that both whites and reds may know it, and pay attention to him. Another person I also nominate as a head-man, 7'aloteeskie, who is to be considered in the place of the Corn Tassel Though some of the young fellows of the nation, and the white people together, occasioned the Tassel to fall under a flag of truce, his talks shall not be forgot. We have, therefore, appointed this man to support his talks, and'we hope that both whites and reds will attend to him. The young warriors then withdrew from their beloved seat, to consult in private—after some time, sent for the beloved men, and with' them remained in private consultation for some time—when the Glass got up, and, taking the head men and warriors by the hand, said: “I have now left the business in your hands. As long as I live I will stick by you and your talks. I am now come to take'you by the hand, as I am going home.” He then, with Richard Justice, departed. The head-men and warriors then came forward, and TheLiTTi.E Nephew then delivered the sentiments of the whole, in the following words: The warriors of my nation went ambassadors to Congress. They have returned; but every thing is not to our satisfaction. The warriors from this part of the nation said but little. Eskatpia, trom the other river, took the business off their hands. I came from the Running Water to Iliwassee, and from that to the Hanging Maw’s. I mentioned to the nation that I had sent five beloved fires, of five towns, and their talks. At that time, I put on my belt and tied up my things, to start from here to Seneca. I desired them to think of that place, the Little Turkey’s old town, and the coals of fire which are yet to be seen there; and that I expected an answer to my talk, but have got none. I desired Nontuaka to mention that the white people were.on our land, and that I hoped they would be removed, and give our young fellows more room to hunt. 1 desired them to go to the great beloved white house, and I hoped they would bring good talks. I am rejoiced at their return. Nontuaka returned when Hal lew was with him. I thought he would have done something then, but he did not. I was glad to see him. The President maj easily see the present situation of this nation: for, though we have raised the whites, they have become so numerous that I must consider myself speaking to my elders. When our ambassadors got to the beloved white house, they spoke with the President : for, though we are red, you must know one person made us both. The red people were made first. I also told them: Tell the President, though we were red people, to take notice of us, and take pity on us, with regard to our land: for red people were the first owners of it;, that he would let us know his sentiments, respecting our land, whether he intended taking or restoring it, or what he intended doing with it, and send an answer back. I told them to tell him, if he would only sweep our lands, and send an answer back, we would be satisfied. But no answer came. We are all struck very much to think nothing is done to remove the people oft' our lands. Yet,if the President will take pity on us, and remove them oft', we will be much better satisfied. We are beloved men, and speak once more to the President, and hope he will look to us, and consider our young war1 riots, who are now in council with us: for, I declare to you, they have not hunting ground to maintain their families; and, if you will but open our ground for us once more, we will be satisfied, and rejoice at the news. I hope the President will take pity on its, both old and young of the nation, if he but fully knew our present situation. We are bound up all round with white people, that we have not room to hunt.' I speak once more, and hope and request that he will take pity on us, and do something in this matter. Upon his doing this, and sending an answer, it will make us all rejoice. ■ Our father, who lives in Philadelphia, says he will take pity on us. It is now in his Eower to do so, if he will: for, if it is not in Ms power, in whose is it? And, on his answer to this, 1 hope we will e all happy. Our great father above made us both; and, if lie was to take it into his head that the whites had injured the reds, he would certainly punish them for it: because he made both red and white, and it is his wish that they should live together under a white cloud, without darkness. It is our desire to live in peace and friendship with oldest brother. Our warriors, old and young, are here, and have consulted, and say they love their lands, and cannot think of parting from them, as they have no other way to inake a living. I make not the least, doubt but some of the whites are the cause of the President’s wishing to purchase our land; this we are sensible of: for we have proven it. The whites settle on our land, and improve till he is obliged to purchase: for we are not of force to drive them off. We apprehend lie is ignorant of the proceedings of the trontiers, who impose on us. We will stop till to-morrow, and consult. We will then meet again. Do not leave the ground, untif we have finished what we have to say in answer to the President's speeches. Adjourned till to-morrow. Friday, 29//i June, 1792. The council met, pursuant to adjournment. Present, the Little Turkey, &c. as above, except the Glass and Richard Justice. Mr. .Shaw.—Brothers: When I first set off to come to your country, I flattered myself that I might prove the happy instrument of peace and harmony. The Secretary of War, General Knox, enumerated to me, with pleasure, the good things which our father, the President, had done for you, and what he yet intended to do; and he gave it to me particularly in charge, to inform you of these kind intentions. I was very much rejoiced to hear these things; and I came to your nation, with the greatest wishes to render you services: Though the President of the United States only promised you fifteen hundred dollars per year, he actually sent you seventeen hundred and fifty dollars’ worth of goods, by your ambassadors; he paid, likewise, for the transportation of these goods, which amounted to something considerable; he sent besides, one thousand dollars’ worth of clothes by me, to be presented to the beloved men of your nation, with many other valuable articles in medals and other things, all which I have nearly distributed according to direction and advice. He has, likewise, ordered me, (should you think fitl to instruct your children, to teach you whatever useful arts you' may be desirous of knowing, and he has oftered to supply you with every thing necessary to cultivate your farms, at his own expense. Thus you see that, by acts, and not by words only, he is a kind and attentive parent. I hope I shall be able to inform him, that, on your parts, you will pay attention to his words. Your young warriors seem to harbor some uneasiness about the line, for which, 1 am extremely sorry. Your father, the President, would be much grieved to hear it. 1 shall only observe, that the part of the line Jof which you so much complain, was formed by commissioners, before General Washington became President, by a treaty held at Hopewell, on the Kcowee.- That same part was again ratified when Governor Blount, on the part of the United States, held a treaty with you. So that. Brothers, you see, that, by two separate treaties, the line has been confirmed. I know that every thing your father, the President, can do with propriety, he will be always'ready and willing to perform. For my part, I consider myself as one of your people, and that my interest will hereafter be inseparably connected with your own. What, therefore, I can do'for your interest, I shall readily perform; and I shall think nothing too much. I hope, therefore, you'will put confidence in me, and esteem me as your friend and brother. Should you think proper to call on me for advice, I shall deliver it with sincerity and truth. As the Great Spirit has called me from amongst my own people to reside amongst you, and has created me for the express purpose of being your friend, in compliance with lus will, I shall forget ail my former connexions, and attach myself to you. If I can only preserve peace, and see your children grow up in safety, and sec you every day increase in happiness, I shall have accomplished my business; and if you will only follow the advice of your father, the President, he will lead you to happiness, and all that lie asks in return, is, that you will be friends with the United States. But it will be necessary, that you let me know fully your mind, in order that I may inform him what your wishes are; and as he has empowered me to see his business, in these respects, carried into execution, you shall never find any remissness on my part. The Little Turkey.—You, Mr. Shaw, are my brother; you were directed here, which makes me very happy. This is not the first time, nor do I wish to be considered the first time, that I have spoke of Mr. Thompson as a person from whom I anticipated much good to his country when growing up; he is now a man, and I wish his talks to reach throughout the nation. Likewise Mr. Carey, whom I have raised from a boy; lie is our interpreter, and is to aid, assist, and consult with the head-men. _ Last spring was a year since I heard of Governor Blount’s arrival in tire territory, bringing peace talks, and to hold a treaty. I desired some of my beloved men to go and sec him. and requested that he would take notice of them; that I would respect him for it. I mentioned that I would send my young warriors to see him, as I heard he was a beloved man from Congress; that I lioped the dark cloud would be removed, and a white one restored, with peace and friendship once more. I heard ot his powers, and hoped he would do something for us; instead of that, they were there seven days with their eyes full of tears, and he did nothing to dry them. At their return from the Governor, I expected to heargood news, but was disappointed. 1 found there had been a deficiency, which disturbs our minds to this day; I found by their answers, that, not only they, but the Four Nations differed: that their hunting ground was gone, and they had no support without it. 1 remember the talk respecting the line; I wish it to be opened a little further down the river once more, as we are so bound up, that we, as well as the other three nations, have not room to hunt. I wish the line to run from Campbell’s line to the crossing of Cumberland river, on the Kentucky road; from thence to strike the edge of a big savannah, called the Barrens of Cumberland, to continue on the edge of the said savannah, on the dividing ridge betwixt the waters of Greene and Cumberland rivers, a middle course, till it strikes the Ohio. I speak this ireely from my heart; if this can be done, it will be a great happiness, and establish a permanent peace. I wish the President to take this into consideration, and take pity on us. The big island of Holston liasnever been given up yet; it was objected to last summer, at the treaty; it is still ours; and our ambassadors mentioned it to the President and General Knox in Philadelphia. If we can have this line, we will relinquish our title to the island, which is a just one; it was justified by General Martin to Governor Blount, at the Holston treaty. Governor Blount is appointed by Congress, and has sent me many talks, but I have never bad the happiness of seeing him yet. I am always glad to hear front him.' Likewise, you, Mr. Shaw, arc appointed from the same place: you are but a stranger to me yet, but any thing you have to say, 1 am willing to hear. As all men should be proved, i wish to do the same with you. 1 have heard the President’s good talks, which give me great satisfaction; he desires us to abide by the treaty; I mean nothing else, than to keep it and have it kept. I say nothing about any part of the line, except that part which I mentioned above; if lie will open a door lor us that way, 1 will be satisfied, i wish to inform the President, that I have consulted my whole nation; the passing of boats up and down the Tennessee, is disagreeable, and, a settlement at the Muscle Shoals, we cannot agree to, as it is the common hunting ground of the Four Nations. A station at the mouth of Bear creek, is also objected to for the same reason. You, Mr. Shaw, say you are willing to assist us; 1 am happy to hear it; you must not let crooked talks disturb you, l>ut continue your assistance. You will observe, that Governor Blount is here in place; I wish you to he of one way of thinking; you are to correspond with him, and if any partial disturbances should take place, I wish you to lay your heads together to keep peace, and I will assist. Mr. Thomas Gegg. who has long resided in the nation as a magistrate, he has always attended our public meetings, during the time when there was no officer appointed by the United States, at our request. We hope the President will make him some allowance for his services, rendered both to the United States and our nation; we would do it, lout we are poor red people, and can scarcely clothe ourselves. We wish, therefore, that it may be taken into consideration, and that he may receive a reward as well for the services lie has rendered, as those he may hereafter render. Mr. Benjamin Hawkins, who is a member of your Senate, is well acquainted writh Mr. Gegg, and to bis recommendation we refer. Captain Chisolm then observed, that lie was sorry his duty required him to put them in mind of Governor Blount’s requests'to them, per him, that he would name, and expect their answers. One was. the running the line, appointing commissioners, and the time ami place of their meeting. The second was, the delivery of the prisoners in the nation, which is an important one; he told them to observe, that he had delivered lip one without reserve. The last request is, recording the address at Coyatee, and waited the result. The Breath.—When at Coyatee, 1 had (lie pleasure of seeing Governor Blount, who then mentioned the subject of prisoners; I told him \ did not wish to say any thing from myself, that we would have a meeting at this place, and I would consult my head-men. The Little Turkey.—1 have the happiness of being acquainted with Captain Chisolm, who is here from Governor Blount, who is a good faithful honest man, and I have dependence in him; 1 am going to send the Breath :ind a man from this town, to try to get the prisoners—a woman has purchased one of them, for how much I do not know'; 1 hope, however, the Governor will not forget her lie then addressed the head-men of the different towns, desiring them to attend to Mr. Shaw, to put a stop to horse stealing, and to treat every white man well who might come amongst them, as ill treatment made even bad people worse. Capt. Chisolm then handed to the Little Turkey a copy of the address at Coyatee, which had been before returned, the burry of other business not giving time to have it read. The Little Turkey desired it to be read, which was done accordingly. The Badger.—I have heard my oldest brother Governor Blount’s talks. He sent my flesh and blood to me by Captain Chisolm, and now we undertake to send my nephew the Black Fox of Estanaula. with the Breath, to go and get the prisoner which one of my family has got. The Governor speaks so clever to us, I think it is for the benefit of our country to get the prisoners; as one of them is in my family, (the Paint) I consider it my duty to have her given up. The murders the Governor tnenlions, and requests information of the perpetrators of, I shall give every notice in my power. I tell you it is the Usauleys, a town in the Creeks; every person knows the loose Creeks frequently pass through our towns and do these mischiefs, and it is impossible for us to prevent them. Now'1 give this information, and hope it will have weight, as I wish to raise up our young men in peace and unity with the whites. I desire Captain Chisolm to wait five or six days, till I send lor the prisoners. We arc determined, in a council of the whole nation, to hold the white people fast by the hand hereafter. Adjourned till to-morrow. Saturday, 30Ih June, 1792. Council met pursuant to adjournment. Present, the Little Turkey, &.c. as before. A letter per despatch from Governor Blount was read, containing a request of the Little Turkey, and bis headmen, to despatcli some of his people to Tnskeege, there to meet certain boats and canoes on their way to Cumberland. with goods for the'Chickasaws and Choctaw s, and to escort them through the muscle shoals: they readily complied with the request; and accordingly appointed Mr. Jack Thompson, Gotten toy, Nontuaka, Cheelageeskie, the Cabin, and Keatekiskie, for that purpose the three latter are to go with the boats through the Muscle Shoals; and then return. The other three are to continue on to Cumberland. Captain Chisolm is also requested to go with them to Cumberland; they are to start from this place to-morrow. The Little Turkey says he has despatched with orders to have the prisoners delivered to Captain Chisolm on his way to Cumberland. Skeuka is to go to Teeskege and return with any despatches from thence to the Little Turkey. Kealekiskie, in behalf of the Council, requested Mr. Shaw to furnish them with an English yard-measure, and that he would compel the traders to sell at eight pounds of leather per garment or leave the nation. The Little Nephew said, they intended to procure, by force or otherwise, all the stolen horses that are now- in the nation, without making any allowance to the possessors, and deliver them to the owners, in order to prevent horsestealing in future; and they have appointed persons to go throughout the nation on that business. The council wish that Governor Biount will assist the Kingfisher and John Walker in recovering two horses w hich were stolen from them at the treaty, or their value. Adjourned sine die. Estanaula, 1st July, 1792. 1 do certify, that I have examined the foregoing journal, and find it a literal one, as near as the idioms of the lan- Witness my hand. JAMES CAREY. Interpreter. guages will admit Deposition of James Ore. Territory of the United States, South of the river Ohio, Knox county, ss: . Personally appeared James Ore, before me, David Campbell, Esq. one of the Judges of the territory aforesaid, who, being sworn, deposeth and saith, that he was at the house of General M’Gillivray, on the 13th and 14th of May last; that he saw in company with McGillivray, a man called Captain Oliver, whom this deponent heard? was an agent from the King of Spain, in character of superintendent of the Creek nation, under the pay of one hundred dollars per month, and had there with him a Spanish interpreter by the name of Antonio; that onthe second day, the deponent being in company with General McGillivray and Oliver, for two hours, during which time, he heard General McGnlivray asked when he went to New Orleans; McGillivrayanswered, four nights; Oliver then observed that he would be glad if McGillivray would stay until the public talk was over, meaning one which he, said Oliver, had appointed to hold with the Creek nation, within eight nights from that time, which he, McGillivray did; this deponent saith, that Oliver lived in a new house of McGillivray’s, and had for some months, and that he and McGillivray appeared in habits of perfect intimacy. This deponent further saith, that he remained in the nation to hear the extent of the talk, and was informed by a white man, who understood the Creek language, and one in whom this deponent had entire confidence, that the purport of Oliver’s talk with the chiefs of the Creeks was, “ That the Spanish talk, the French talk, and the British, were all one; when was the day they asked them for land? But the Americans were still wanting their lands; and if they wanted ammunition and arms to defend their lands, come to them, meaning the Spaniards, and they should have them, lletoldthem not to be crazy, to listen to every body’s talk; to mind their hunting and mind their lands.” He then invited them to a talk, to be held at Pensacola, where the Governor of Orleans would meet them, and to which the Cherokees were ajso to be invited; at which time he said they would hear a great deal more. This deponent further saith, that he heard among the Creeks, that Oliver was to hold talks with the Chickasaws and Choctaws, at the Natchez old fields, immediately after this talk with the Creeks at Pensacola. This deponent further saith, that he was at Kialiages, a Creek town on the waters of the Tallapoosa river, on the night of the sixteenth of May last, where he was informed, by a trader living in that town, John Oriley and Sarah Fletcher, a white prisoner, that the people of that town had brought in two women and a child, prisoners, from Cumberland, and that one of them was called Elsey Thompson, the others names they did not know; that Oriley offered to purchase them at the price of a negro, each, for'their ransom; which the Indians refused, saying, they did not bring the prisoners there to let them go back to the Virginia people, but had brought them to punish and make victuals and work for them, the Indians, and said they did not think lie had so great love for the Virginia people; adding, that if he w'as not so great a friend of theirs, they would knock him in the head for the proposal, and requesteil him never to talk so to them any more. This deponent further saith. that he was informed that the Indians had put Miss Thompson and the other woman into the fields to work. Miss Thompson cried, and they put her into the house again to pound meal; and that the child was taken from the mother by one of the captors, and carried to another town, where he committed it to a Mrs. Williams, who has been a prisoner with the Creeks for some years, and treated with the greatest degree of barbarity, and with much severity, having been often beat until she was black and blue. This deponent saith, that the reasons why he did not converse with the prisoners, and know their names and situation, were, that he was told, and has reason to believe, such proceedings would, in all probability, have been attended with bad consequences to himself. He further saith, that he saw one party, consisting of five, and was informed there were several other parties on their way to Cumberland, with an express intention to take hair or scalps, and to steal horses; that he also saw several large and new encampments, which had signs of war about them, and appeared as though the parties were going out on some war design. This deponent further saith, that, during his residence in the Creek nation, which was about six weeks, there were four fresh scalps brought there, said to be from Cumberland, and that the general talk in the Creek nation was, that they would never be at peace with Cumberland, for it was their particular hunting ground, and that appearances in the nation well warrant a belief of this declaration. Sworn to, and subscribed, this sixteenth day of June, 1792. JAS. ORE. DAVID CAMPBELL. The deposition of Ezekiel Mel. This deponent saith, that the-day of February last, on his passage down the Tennessee river, in company with Colonel Harry Hunter, their boat lodged on the Muscle Shoals; that this deponent, in company with one Mr. Wilson, (who had a pass from his Excellency William Blount, Esq. in his care, granted Colonel Hunter) went to shore in a canoe, to a party of Indians, in order to get assistance over the shoals; that five Indians went into the canoe, apparently very friendly, but, after going some distance up the river, one of the Indians, who stood behind this deponent, gave him (the deponent) a blow on the neck, aimed, as he supposes, at his head, with a tomahawk, which the said Indian had concealed under his watch coat; by. the force of which blow the deponent fell into the water; the other Indians, or a part of them, fell on Mr. Wilson with tomahawks, which they had concealed in the same manner as above. This deponent saith, that the canoe oversat in the time of the engagement; that Wilson was, after repeated blows given him while in the water, killed, scalped, and stripped, but that he (the deponent) made his escape, after receiving several blows. This deponent further saith, that the Indians, at all the towns the boats passed, fired heavily on them, and that a number of balls struck heavily in the boats: he also saith. that every part of the Indians’ conduct to them, during their passage, seemed inimical. And, finally, this deponent saith, that he is well convinced that one of the Indians who killed Wilson, was a Cherokee, as he had last summer seen him at the treaty, and knows him by a remarkable scar on one of his thighs. And further saith not. EZEKIEL ABEL. Taken before me, this 16th April, 1792. Test: JOEL RICE. J. P. The deposition of Daniel Thornbury. This deponent, being first sworn, saith, that he was at the place called I’Alice la Grace, now New Madrid, on the Mississippi, last winter, on his own private business. That, about the 11th March last, he left the said place in company with a Doctor Waters, and one Bryant, to proceed up to Cumberland settlement; that, about fifteen miles above New Madrid, at an island in the Mississippi, they met five canoes of Cherokees, which had on board nine or ten Cherokee men, and several women and children, w hich Indians had a chief with them called Double-head, who related to Doctor Waters and this deponent, as follows: That, last fall, they sat out from their nation to hunt, low down on the Tennessee river; that, while they were hunting, (their whole number at camp being twenty-eight men, besides women and children) a party of seven men, the Double-head being their chief, went to the Cumberland river, near the mouth thereof, and took one boat laden with salt, fired on some other boats, killed several men in the Cumberland river, and stripped some of them. Their clothes the said deponent saw; particularly a hat, coat, and pair of boots, which, on coming to Cumberland, he was informed belonged to one Curtis, who had such clothing on when he was killed. They also related, that three ot’ their party had fired on a house in Clarksville, at the mouth of Red river; and, in short, related that they had done all the mischief which, on coming to Cumberland, he was informed had been done in the river. That his (the deponent’s) two companions, and himself, had hired one Barcelo, a French trader, who had been trading great part of last winter on the Tennessee with the Cherokees, to go with them up to the mouth of Cumberland; that Barcelo told them lie had seen several guns, and other articles, taken from the boatmen in Cumberland, by these Indians, and scalps also, when trading with them on Tennessee. This deponent further saith, that, while at New Madrid, he saw twelve Creek Indians, who came there and related they had been watching the Tennessee river great part of last winter, to take American boats; that none came along while they were watching it; that they intended, from New Madrid, to go home through the Chickasaw and Choctaw nations, to engage them to join the Creeks in a war against the Americans, which, if they could not do, the Creeks would then attack these two nations. The deponent saith, he could not speak the Creek tongue himself, but sundry people, whom these Creeks spoke with, related these circumstances; that, when they met the Cherokee party on the island, Barcelo could speak Cherokee and English, and, by his means, they principally conversed, although some of the Indians could speak a little English. Indeed, he thinks the Indians supposed his two companions and himself lived at New Madrid, as Barcelo was with them, who doubtless contributed to their safety. DANIEL THORNBERRY. Taken before me, this 10th April, 1792. at Nashville. JAS. ROBERTSON. Postscript.—This deponent further saith, that, besides their trading business at New Madrid, he heard Doublehead say, he intended to try to get the Indians in the neighborhood of New Madrid to join him, and the Creeks also, as they had declared open war, with a fixed purpose to cut oft’the Cumberland settlement. And further saith not. DANIEL TIIORNBERRY. This Double-head, or Tucalatague, is a signer to the treaty of Ilolston, and. at the close of that treaty, begged, and I granted him, a written permit to hunt on the waters of Cumberland. WM. BLOUNT. Jit/ij 4th. 1792. From Governor Blount to the Little Turkey and other chiefs of the Cherokees. Knoxville, 4th June. 1792. Brothers: Enclosed is a copy of my address to you at Coyatfee (as I promised) which I request you to have recorded in your book. By the bearer, your friend Captain Chisolm, I send you the prisoner boy, Abe; he is all I have, and to Captain Chisolm I request you to deliver such prisoners as you may have in your possession, as well those taken before the treaty as since. Captain Chisolm is a man in whom I have great dependence, and he will have them conveyed safe to me. Brothers: The running of the left line is a thing I know you want done, and so do I, but I can't attend to it before I have finished my business with the Chiekasaws and Choctaws at Nashv ille, and rested myself a little alter my return home, which will not be before some time in August. I propose to you that the commissioners to run the line shall nutetat Major Craig's, on Nine-mile creek, on the second Monday in October. The commissioners on the part of the United States are people of high character and distinction, namely. Brigadier General Smith, Colonel Landou Carter, and Judge Campbell, and I beg that three of your principal chiefs may be appointed on your part. The running a line between nations is a great business, and none but head-men are proper to do it. James Carey being appointed interpreter, it will be his duty to attend, and interpret what shall be said on both sides. I keep in remembrance that no persons are to be with the commissioners when they run the lines, except a few people to mark it. Hut if a few of your principal chiefs, besides those appointed to run the line, should wish to attend, 1 shall be glad to see them. For head-men to see and know each other, ever contributes to the happiness of both parties. Brothers: I have engaged Mr. McKee, who writes a good fair hand, to attend your council, to make, for me a correct journal of what you shall do and say in council at Estanaula, and to forward it to me by Captain Chisolm. Mr. McKee, as well as Captain Chisolm, is a friend of mine, and I request yon to receive ami treat them both as such. When your council rises I shall-be at Cumberland about business with the Chiekasaws and Choctaws, and it is my wish that Captain Chisolm should come to me there with the journal of your proceedings, provided some of you will come with him; and I again request General Eskaqua and Captain Watts to meet me there, to be present and hear the talks I shall hold with those nations; and if any other chiefs will come I shall be glad to see them, and I will be glad also to see a few of the young warriors. Brothers: 1 have to repeat to you that nobody must read or explain your letters but the interpreters; they are appointed for that purpose. 1 am your Brother, Ne. Governor Blount's Instructions to Captain John Chisolm. Knoxville, 5th June, t792. Sir: Herewith you will receive, Abe, a Cherokee boy, a prisoner, who you will please to deliver to the chief's of th.it nation, in council at Estanaula, which is to meet on the 24th instant, anil urge them to deliver to you all the prisoners they have. By the treaty, the exchange wasto havebeen made some time past, atthis place, and I have always been ready on the part of the United Sates. You will also use your endeavor to recover Mrs. Catt'rey and child, and Miss Thompson, taken by the Creeks, and carried captives into their nation. I am, Mr, tkc. Governor Blount to the Secretary of War. Knoxville, August 31 st, 1792. On the 10th instant the conference with the Chiekasaws and Choctaws ended; there was a very full representation of the former, but not of the latter, owing, there is reason to believe, to the Spanish influence; the minutes of which will be forwarded to you by Mr. Allison, who leaves this, in tenor fifteen days, for Philadelphia. During the conference, General Pickens and myself received the strongest assurances of peace and friendship for the United States, from both nations, and I believe they were made with great sincerity. The Cherokees, as well as the Creeks, commit depredations, and deserve to be punished; that is, the young and unruly part of them: for the chiefs, to a man, except Double Head, who was a signer of the treaty, I have great reason to believe, most earnestly wish for peace and friendship: but, to punish them, with a view to giving peace to the frontiers, would be like lopping off a bough from a tree, for the purpose of killing .it. The root of the evil is the numerous and insolent Creeks, and it is they who encourage and lead forward the too willing young Cherokees to murder and rob. By Mr. Allison I shall forward you a report upon the state of the four Southern nations, in which I shall be as particular as the information I am in possession of will allow me. Annexed is a list of the killed and wounded in this territory, since the date of my last letter to you; and by Mr. Allison I will forward a list, containing the whole number killed, wounded, and made prisoners,■ since January, 1791. June 26, M Zcigler’s Station, near Bledsoe’s Lick, on the North side of Cumberland River. 4 killed, 4 wounded and escaped, 3 escaped unhurt, 13 made prisoners. Note.—Of these prisoners, nine have been regained by purchase, made by their parents and friends, from the Cherokees, Shawanese, and Creeks, at the Running Water; of the four which remain, one is a MissWilson, now with the Creeks, the other three are negroes. ■ July 15, On the road that leads from Nashville to Kentucky. Isaac Pennington and Milligen, killed, and McFarland, wounded. July 31, .'It Greenfields near Bledsoe’s Lick, in a Peach Orchard. John Berkley, Junior, killed and scalped; John Berkley wounded: who, after lie was wounded, killed an Indian in the act of scalping his son. In July, On Cumberland River, two persons, unknown, killed, near Clarksville. Governor Blount to the Secretary of War.—September 11, 1792. Sir: Enclosed are copies of letters I received this morning, at three o’clock, express from the Little Turkey, the chief of the Cherokees, the Boot, who was his immediate representative at the treaty of Holston, and the two interpreters of the United States, James Carey and John Thompson, by which you will he informed, that the live Lower towns of the Cherokees have declared war against the-United States; you will observe, James Carey estimates the number who were to leave the towns on the 7th instant, to make an attack on the settlements, at three hundred. ’ These letters were delivered to me by Mr. Ore, who received them yesterday at Cliota, at the green corn dance, where there were a great number of Indians, as well as white people, from the settlements. He was there informed by Nontuaka, and others, that the party was estimated at five hundred, of whom one hundred were Creek's, the whole commanded by John Watts; and from the best, information he could collect, it appears their destination is against Cumberland, or the frontiers of Knox county. Since writing the above, 1 have received a letter of yesterday’s date from Brigadier General Sevier, a copy of which is also enclosed, containing the same information, with the addition of three hundred more than mentioned by Mr. Carey, a part of whom are mounted on horses, supposed to the number of one hundred; and I also enclose copies of three letters from Mr. Shaw, all of which serve to show the designs of those Indians against the United States. ' . I have ordered the regiment of the county of Knox into actual service for its defence, for a few days, until the destination of John Watts and his party is certainly' known, and have despatched an express to General Robertson, giving him the necessary information, with orders to put the brigade of that district in the best possible state of defence. 1 have also given orders to the colonels of the several counties of Washington district, to be in readiness to march on the shortest notice. This declaration of war was very unexpected, and has given great alarm to the frontiers. Indeed, I do not find that any tiling of the kind has before been done by Indians in so formal a manner. It is my opinion the stroke will fall on Cumberland, and I fear will be very heavy. The settlements of that district are very extensive, and the guards stationed for the protection thereof no ways equal to the weight of so unexpected an attack. Enclosed is a copy of my orders to Major Sharpe, of the 10th ultimo, which will shew the force and destination of those guards. ’   _ I am apprehensive the numbers may be thought too few, but it was with great difficulty so many were turned out—'difficult with myself, Iestl should be charged with extravagance, and equally difficult to get so many from the district of Washington to the district of Miro. _ _ ■ I hope for the honor of your immediate orders, and in the mean time shall act on the defensive, so as in my judgment best to secure the frontiers. . 1 have to observe, that the Cherokees have never complained to me of a single infraction of the treaty of Holston, nor do I ki.ow that one has been committed by any citizen ot the United States. 1 have the honor to be, &c. No. 1. Turkeytown, September 2;/, 1792. Friend and Brother: Your good talk I have received, and am glad to find that you are pleased with the conduct of Mr. Thompson, and the rest of my people that was in company with him. It was my earnest request to them to do the best for your people in the boats, which I am glad to near they did. Now, my good friend and brother, you wrote me to tell you what I thought and knew of the people that lives on the Big river. Now I will let you know, and tell you the truth, which I am sorry and ashamed for to tell you, of their proceedings and bad conduct; you may be assured it is not lies. I now tell you (as you wrote me never to write or send you word about any thing but the truth I the eighth day of this month they are determined to go off to war, all the five lower towns on the Big river; they have and will make war by themselves; you may be assured and believe me, it is not the consent of the whole nation, nor no part of it only them five towns—they agreed amongst themselves. Now you may know where the bad people lives; both you and your people mav now know where the good and bad lives. Now, I desire you and all your people not to come to war against no other towns but them five towns on the Big river, that has made war against you. The Spaniards has gave them ammunition and guns, hatchets, knives, &c. and told them it was not to gu to war, but to keep_ it a reserve by them; you may blame no body for all this, only the Spaniards. Now as I look on you to be my friend and brother, all we good people that lives oft’ in other towns, and especially the towns on this river, that you will not molest or trouble us, for myself and all the headmen in the nation have talked and done all in our power to have them stopped, and all our young men sentmessen- gers to them to have them leave oft*, ami think about nothing but peace, and not to bring war on themselves; but they would not hear them; they are determined to do mischief every way to try to bring the white people against the towns that is for peace, and threatens us all, both white or red, that if we write or send any news, to strip us of every thing, and perhaps kill us; but I shall always acquaint you with their proceedings at all events, for you may depend, I never will be deceitful to you, nor no man, especially my friendsand brothers the white people. - Now niy good friend and brother, write me, and let me hear good from you, and let me know whether all we that is for peace, may stay at home in our towns. I shall be always looking your way until I get your answer, and my ears ppen to hear your talk, let it be good or bad. 1 want you to send me an express back immediately, that I may know it I am obliged to run away, or to stay at home in my town. 1 am,-and ever shall be, your.friend and brother. THE TURKEY. Friend and Brother: No. 2. Thrkevstown, September 2d, 1792. We are sorry to acquaint yon of bad news, but we can’t help it; we done all that lay in our power to lrinder them. The Little Turkey will acquaint you all about it; but you know I myself, and others, are at peace, ami gives outgooil talks to our young men. Last summer, I went with.Mr. Hath to the Creeks, and he promised me that I should be paid; and I would be glad if you would take it into consideration, and send me a gun, as I am without a gun, as I want to go out soon to make iny winter’s hunt. . I shall always remember you, and never forget your goodness, as I am in need of one. All the good men intends to go out a hunting—soon as you send the answer back, then we shall go out. Send the gun by Mr. Carey. 1 am, your friend and brother, THE BOOTS OR CHUTCOE. No. 3. Dear Sir: Turkeystown, September 2d, 1792. I am sorry to acquaint your Excellency of the bad conduct and proceedings of the Indians on the Big river, or you may call them the fire Lower towns. On the 8th day of this month, they intend to start out for war; but what part on the settlements they will fall on, we can’t tell. The 11th day of this month, I got to the Turkey’s town, and there the news was; that the Indians was making readiness for war. I made all haste I could back to send you this news. - You told me to tell you nothing but what was the truth, and you may believe this to be the truth; and I am in hopes you will do the same by me as agreed. Those Indians will kill people every where to bring on the whites upon them that is for peace; they have said it, that they intend to do so; but when mischief is done, you will know where they come from; a'nd you may depend the Creeks will do their part. Your Excellency has got to blame the Spaniards for all this; ihey. have give them ammunition, guns, hatchets, knives, &c. but not to make war with, but to keep it as a reserve. These Indians that is for peace, wants to know if they can stay m their towns; you may depend these Indians will be at peace, if the whites will not come against them. Please, sir, write me and let me know whether we shall stay in our towns or not ; as I have been as good as iny word, I expect you will do the same by me, and send, the express oft* as soon as possible. Don’t make my letter known to the people, or even to your friends, but commit it to the tire. I will always write when an opportunity aftbrds that way, and I hope you will do the same, and let me know how things is going, and I will do the same. Please, sir, excuse haste, for I have had hardly time to write these lines to you. I am, dear sir, with great regard and esteem, Your Excellency’s most obedient humble servant, JNO. THOMPSON. Sir: No. A. Estaxaula, 7th September, 1792. This dav Mr. Thompson arrived,here with the express from the Little Turkey, directed to you, and likewise for me to be the bearer of it to you; but it is out of my power to go with it to you: for death is my portion if I go that way; but I hope you will not think hard of mynot coming: bull have got an Indian to carry it to the Hanging Maw’s, and there he is to wait i’or the answer from you; I hope you will send him two blankets for his trouble, as it will be the means of getting another to go another time. Sir, the five towns on the river has declared war against the United States, and this day they set oft* from their towns for the settlement, wherefor I do not know, but be on your guard for them; there will be about three hundred of them. Mr. Shaw went from here yesterday for Seneca: for the Creeks were determined to kill him. Sir, if you want tne to come on, write me. by the bearer; and, if you want me, I will come, let the consequences be what it will. This quaiter of the nation is entirely for peace, I can assure you, and wishes for nothing else. From your most humble servant, JAMES CAREY, Linguister of the United States. No. 5. Little III ver, \?ith September, 1792. Dear Sir: I am this moment arrived from the Cherokee nation, and have the following disagreeable intelligence to communicate to your Excellency, viz: The Hanging Maw, Notowego, the Long-fellow, Tichagiska, and a number of their chiefs, and a great number of their young warriors, was this day assembled in their beloved town Chota; they informed me they had a matter of great importance to communicate, and desired I would attend at their council or town house; to which place I immediately repaired, where they informed me that part of their nation, to wit: the five Lower towns, had actually declared war against the United States, and, in consequence of which, six hundred had set out, several days since, with a determination to give a severe blow to some part of our frontiers, the particular spot I cannot be informed of; but it is not likely that Knoxville is their object; they say one hundred is well mounted, our friend Watts at their head; they are also joined by the Creeks, and one hundred of the party consists of that nation; you will readily perceive that this declaration of war is announced in a very formal manner, more so than any thing of the kind has heretofore happened, anil the truth of which, you will permit me to observe, is not to be doubted; they assure me that every other part of the nation is entirely of a tranquil disposition, and well disposed towards the people of the United States. I shall be at Knoxville in a day or two, at farthest, when I can communicate to you further particulars relative to the subject. You will please to observe, that the five Lower towns spoken of, is composed of the twelve lower towns on the Tennessee and its vicinity. I am. your obedient servant, JOHN SEVIER, Brigadier General of Uashinglon District. Note.—General Sevier, when he says, “ observe that the five lower towns spoken of is composed of the twelve lower towns on the Tennessee,” must mean that the Indians, first called Chiekamagns, originally settled in twelve small towns on the Tennessee, arc the same who now live in the five lower towns; the (act is, the Chickamagas 3G * abandoned the first towns they settled .in, and have how settled in.five towns: it is also true that many Indians, front other parts of the nation, have also settled in these five towns. I have heretofore informed you that the Lookout Mountain town, Running Water, Nickaj,ack,and Crow town, including Long-island village, were the four towns; the fifth, now mentioned, isWellstown, where John Watts lives, as does the Bloody Fellow. Injustice to the latter, I add. that he has made use of every exertion in his power to restrain the unruly part of his nation, and to attach them to the United States; and the whole party, who were with him at Philadelphia, remain firm. (Nontuaka is now with him, not to be surpassed either in honesty or good nature.) _ ”. It is also due to the Glass, and Captain Charley, of the Running Water, the Breath of Nickajack, and Dick Justice, of Look-out Mountain, four principal’ chiefs of those towns, that I inform you of their attachment to the United States, and opposition to the measures taken by their towns; they have removed themselves, and sundry of their adherents, to other parts of the nation. The names of three of these chiefs are among those to whom clothing, &c. was sent by Eskaqua, he having pointed them out as principal chiefs; and the fourth, Captain Charley, I found of sucli consequence that it was essential to give him a suit also, .fearing, if I did not, he might feel the neglect so sensibly as to alienate his attachment to the United States'. [The aforegoing note subjoined by Governor Blount.]   . ,. , No. 6. Estanaula, 13/A August, 1792. ■ Sir: . . . Though I have not yet heard now soon your return is expected, I shall make use of the present opportunity to inform you of the situation of the nation. On the first instant I received a message from Wiperne, a young warrior, who promises at the talk to be peaceable; he informs me, at a meeting of twenty-two towns, it was unaniifiously agreed to quit all horse stealing; and that he will bring at the public meeting all the horse thieves, and make them publicly declare their future good intentions. From the Lower towns I have had advice of their rejecting the Northern talk, and their determination to be peaceable. But a new source of uneasiness has lately presented itself; the Creeks have spread themselves in small parties throughout the nation, and do just as they please. After their attack upon Mr. Wallace, (which, no doubt, you will fully hear) two of the party pursued him to Estanaula itself, and would certainly have overtaken him, had not a Cherokee, who met them by accident, designedly detained them. They, that night, stole Mr. Gagg’s horse out of the middle of the town, and they have stole thirty horses', in ten days, from Hightower; and two Creeks, a few days since, were discovered way-laying some person in this town. It is even dangerous for a white man to travel from one town to another, without an escort. The intrigues of the Spaniards (seem to me) to be immediately directed against the United States. The Indians consider them in a serious light, and conceive that a rupture is not far distant. They have certainly offered .to supply the Indians with ammunition: for every account I receive agrees in that point, and in sucli quantities that it is obvious their intentions are hostile. I should have visited the Lower towns before this, but I received information .that fnost of (he young warriors are absent on a short hunting excursion. When I vftit the.Lower towns. I propose taking a jaunt to the Creeks, with an intention of examining into .the affairs of that nation, and of picking tip some intelligence respecting Bowles and the Spaniards. ^ As matters now stand, it will be impossible to preserve peace long here. The Indians robbed of their horses will supply themselves again from the settlements; besides, the Creeks are daily stealing from the frontiers through this nation. Before my departure, I should .wish to receive your Excellency’s advice and instructions, should you think proper to communicate any. I am, with respect and esteem, your Excellency’s verv humble servant, '   ‘ LEONARD D. SHAW. 'J Sir: No. 7. . August 29th, 1792. In my last letter I informed you of the frequent incursions of the Creeks, and the reason I had to apprehend some daring attempts from them. Since that time they have^killed Mr. RamSay, and a person who had lately arrived■ from Charleston; this happened on the 24th instant. They were very nigh killing Moses Price, the preceding day, notwithstanding he was accompanied by tl^e' Kingfisher and his wife, and they had formerly been intimate with him. Mr. Ramsay was not above thirty yards from his own house when lie was killed, and scalped on the spot; the other person reached the house, but instantly expired. The open and avowed intentiou of the Creeks is, to kill every whiteman they meet, and they declare that such is their orders. The great quantify of ammunition given to the Indians by the Spaniards persuades me that we are indebted to the former for these visitations. I am apprehensive that they have iormed a coalition with Bowles. Since I first sat down to write, I have been informed of a party that is now lurking about this place. I am unsafe fifty yards from the house, unless towards the town. The day before yesterday I received the first intelligence of your Excellency’s return, and , from some hints, I expect everything terminated'as you could have, wished. -Every idea of my travelling, must; for awhile, be laid aside, until matters come to some final determination. The Indians have sent a very spirited letter to the Little Turkey; " and as a few days since I received a letter by Captain Fail she from Captain Roberts, commandant of fort Matthews, I took that opportunity to write to Mr. Seagrove, who, I understand, is superintendent of the Creek nationT The Cherokees are exceedingly irritated at the Creeks, and nothing but a consciousness of their inferiority restrains them from seeking satisfaction; I think it necessary to give you this information,as the facts will, doubtless, be canvassed in the first national council, which, I understand, will be soon. I have the honor to be, with great respect, your Excellency?s humble servant, LEONARD I). SHAM'. . No. 8. Estanaula, 2d September, 1792. Sir: - ■ ' As Notewego informs me he intends to visit you immediately after his departure from this place, I shall make use of him to convey to you this letter. On the thirtieth of August, six Creeks left this town, and, as I afterwards learned, proceeded immediately for tlie settlements; no doubt they are determined on mischief, and, unless the good fortune or the vigilance of the inhabitants defeats their purpose, they may do some essential injury. Every thing carries so much the appearance of a Creek war, that, were I to deliver my judgment, it would be, that it is unavoidable. As Mr. Thompson did not pass through this place, I have not yet heard any thing material respecting the present state of things. Whenever I see the Creeks bending their course towards the settlements, I feel, distressed lest they might Jail on the frontiers undiscovered, and, after committing some pitiful act of barbarity, escape. And yet, to send, on every occasion, an express, would be too expensive. I should be happy to know your opinion respecting conveying intelligence. I expect the Nettle-carrier here to-night from the Lower towns. When I was, by theadviceof some ot the head-men, induced to defer my jaunt to the Lower towns, I thought proper to despatch him to collect intelligence, and in a particular manner, to learn the talk John Watts brought from the Spaniards. In ray next, I hope I shall be able to say something on the Spanish manoeuvres, as the Nettle-carrier is a person entrusted with all the state secrets. Notewego has mentioned to me a circumstance that he wishes me to communicate; it seems that Jack Thompson promised him, on your Excellency’s behalf, a gun; but that he has never received any. His chief business, therefore, (I suppose) vail be toinquire into the matter. On the 29th of August, I sent John Christy with letters, which I hope by this time have arrived safe. I have the honor to be, &c. LEONARD D. SHAM’. No. 9. t . ' . Governor Blount's orders to Major Sharpe. 'Major Sharpe, of Summer county, who commands all the troops in service, for the protection of the frontiers, is to be considered as subject to the orders of no superior militia officer not in actual service. Rut in case of any militia being turned out from either of the counties,_ by the commanding officer5 to chastise Indians for recent depredations, he will cordially co-operate with such part of his command as may be in that particular county. No. pursuit to be continued beyond the ridge dividing the waters of Cumberland and Duck rivers. Patrols and recon-noitering parties to be kept out from the stations, in search of,-and to prevent any further depredations by, the Indians, and in case any Indians should be found skulking or lurking about to the northward of the ridge aforesaid, in the woods, off any path, or Heeing, to be considered and treated as enemies, save only, Chickasaws and Choctaws, women and children. Annexed are the names of the stations, and the number of men at each; but in case Major Sharpe should conceive it essential lor tire better protection of the frontiers, he will increase the number at any or either, and lessen them at any other, cither the cavalry or infantry or both, but erect no new ones, until his command shall receive an augmentation of troops: and on that,event, he will either augment the number at the present stations, or erect new ones, so as best to effect the object of protection. .Such men of Tennessee county on duty, as are draughts, to be discharged on the arrival of the men under the command of Captain Lusk, and their places to be supplied by a part of his men. Major Sharpe will call militia officers, not in actual service, into court martial for the trial of offenders, in cases where he cannot collect a sufficient number who are in actual service. Major Sharp is to be considered in service from the first day-of July. The present militia in actual service", to leave their posts on the first day of October next, (meaning those from the district of Washington,) and to march immediately, in a body, to Knoxville, under the command oi Captain Heard, of the cavalry, there to receive their discharge. Those of Davidson and Summer, to be dischaged on 1st October, at their respective posts, and also those of Tennessee. Treaty Ground, near Nashville, j Kith August. 1792. 3 Cornet Milligan, with twenty of Captain Beard's troop of cavalry, will escort the Governor to Knoxville, and there be discharged on,the 20th instant. * Stations and Numbers. 161 Taylor’s spring, near Bledsoe’s. Spencer's lick. ■Jj} jSconer's lick. 15 Brown's spring. 21 Kilpatrick’s. 13 " Gower’s cabin. 20 Edmondson’s. 18 Near the------of Sycamore. 12 Cave spring, near the mouth of red river. 190 Governor Blount to the. Secretary of JVar, 15th September, 1792. Sir: . Enclosed are copies of letters from Eskaqua, otherwise the Bloody Fellow, and the Glass, dated on the 10th instant, at the Look-out Mountain town, informing, that they, with the assistance of John "Watts, and other head-men, had prevailed with the party that were collected for war, to disperse, and go peaceably to their hunting, with copies of my answers thereto, and ol my answer to the letter of the Little Turkey, The information contained in these letters has induced me to discharge the regiment of Knox, and to despatch an express to general Robertson of Miro district, with orders to discharge such of his brigade as may be in service under my order of the 11th instant, forwarded express on the receipt of the letters from the" Little Turkey, Brigadier General Sevier, Cary, and Thompson. Enclosed, also, is information given through Major Craig, by the Red Bird, which seems verified, in part, by the firing upon William" Cockran, as appears by his deposition, forwarded herewith, and by the killing of the two young Gillaspies, on the evening of the 12th instant, at tlieir father’s house, on the south side, of Ilolston, about eighteen miles below this place. Such information, attended with such circumstances, very much alarmed the frontier inhabitants, much more than can be conceived, or scarcely believed, but by such as have either seen or heard the particulars upon the spot; but they are now recovering themselves, and will, 1 hope, be able to profit by their folly, when an attack may really be made. . Although I have paid such credit to the information given by the Bloody Fellow and the Glass, as to discharge the militia called into‘service by my order of the 11th instant, in consequence of the letters from the Little Turkey, and others, yet, I have my apprehensions, that smaller parties of Cherokees will join the Creeks in committing depredations on the frontiers; and to protect them, 1 shall order additional numbers of militia into service, for a three months’ tour of duty: respecting which, 1 shall report to you particularly, by Mr. Allison, who will leave this in eight flays at the farthest, for Philadelphia, and would before tins, but for this unexpected alarm of wars. As Ins arrival will be so immediately after this reaches you, and the information by him, respecting this country, more full, permit ‘me to suggest whether it would not be best to postpone the forwarding to me any orders, until his arrival. The gentleman who, I informed you in a former letter, I had engaged to attend the treaty or conference the Spaniards were about to hold with the Southern Indians, to collect information, has not vet returned; his name is "James Alexander Douglass, a Scotchman by birth, (he will get ready access to Panton, anti all the Scotch, of course) has been bred a Jesuit, and understands the Spanish language; has lived several years among the Indians; introduced to me through General Pickens, with whom lie had lived as a teacher of his children several years. The general thinks well of him, and I have the fullest expectations he will answer the object of his mission. I am yet without the honor of any advices from you, since the 22d April, But have that of being, with very great respect and esteem, your obedient humble servant. No. 1. Cavalry—a Sergeant and 13. Infantry—an Ensign and 15, 2. Cavalry—Sergeant and 13, . Infantry—Lieutenant, Ensign, and.15, - 37 Cavalry—Lieutenant and 13, - - ___ Infantry—Sergeant and 15, - 4. Cavalry and infantry, officers inclusive, .5 Cavalry and infantry, officers inclusive, 6. Cavalry and infantry j officers inclusive, 7. Cavalry and infantry, officers inclusive, 8. Infantry, officers inclusive, 9. Infantry, officers inclusive, ■   T No. 1. * A talk from the Bloody Fellow to his Excellency Governor I Gilliam Blount, dated at the Look-out Mountain, September 10 th, 1792. Fiuend and Brother: At this time I am in abad state of health, and my brother the Glass has told you the reason of ouryoung warriors being assembled together at this time, from different parts. I overtook them at this place; and it was a long time before I or the other head-men could put a stop to their intended proceedings, as we much pitied theinno-' cent people that must have suffered on both sides. It is but a short time since I came from seeing the President of the United States; my tracks are. scarce yet blotr ted out. The talks we had, was, that we should not war with one another, and that his people should not encroach upon our lands; but in place of that, thay are daily encroaching, and building houses ori our lands; , this is not what we agreed upon. . I let all my people know what I agreed upon with the President; he was to let the different Governors know, so as they might not let the people settle on our lands, as they have formerly done. I hear you are displeased with us for holding talks with the Spaniards, or any other neighboring Power; why should w e not hold talks with our neighbors, as we do riot want to be at war with any body, if we can avoid it? What I tell you is the truth; it has given me a great deal of trouble; but I am glad it was in our power to put a stop to the effusion of blood. If you was to consider well, you would see it was more your people’s fault than mine, by daily encroaching on our lands, and sending threatening talks. If there is any, bad people in your land that wants to hurt us, I hope you will likewise stop them, as I have done mine, and that we may live in peace one with another, and hear no more of war. You will, likewise, please to send to Cumberland, and let them know that it is not our people that may do them any.harm for the future, as we wish to be at peace with them. _ The friends of the White Man-killer, of this town, think very hard of his losing his horses at your place, and the other fellow that was with him; if his creature was proven away, he did not steal it, but bought it of the Creeks; therefore, I think the owner'ought to pay one half the value; if they are found, pray have them sent to the Hanging Maw’s. This is all at present, From your friend and brother, THE BLOODY FELLOW. No. 2. .1 talk from the Glass to his Excellency. Governor- Blount, dated at the Look-out Mountain, September 10 th, 1792. Friend and Brother:   . It is but a few days since I sent a talk to Captain John Chisolm. I suppose you have seen it; remember it well, as I never tell you any thing but the truth. At that time, I let youi know the minds of the people, and now I am about to let you know what, had like to have happened since I wrote to Captain Chisolm. . Codeatoy returned here from the treaty at Nashville, and tells us that Colonel Robertson said that there had been a great deal of blood spilt in his settlement, and that he would come and sweep it clean with our blood. This caused our young warriors to assemble together, in order to meet him, as he told Codeatoy that the first mis--chief that should be done, that he would come, and we knew, of course, it would not be long before something might happen, as there is Creeks daily going to that settlement; and as they expected to suffer for the doings of others, they resolved they would meet him, or go to the settlements and do mischief, as they were to be sufferers, do it who would; but, with the assistance of the Bloody Fellow, John Watts, and some other head-men, we have sent them to their different homes, to mind their bufiting, in hopes you will not suffer any of your people to send in any more threatening talks. We took pity upon the innocent that might suffer on both sides, which undoubtedly would have been the case. As I have always listened to your talks, I hope you will listen to mine, and have peace. I mentioned to you several times concerning your people coming in here; pray do not let them come unless it be upon public' business, then let them come to Estanaula. . If our people has any beaver, or any other thing that suits to trade, in your settlement, let them come in with it. There was a friend of mine, the White Man-killer, that was in your settlement some time since; he lives in the Turkey’s town; your people threatened to shoot him, and beat him in a dreadful manner. This I never suffered to be done to any of your people. I hope we will hear no more bad talks from each other, but that peace and brotherly love'may continue. These from your friend and brother, THE GLASS. 'No. 3. Governor Blount to the Little Turkey, Chief of the Cherokees.—September 15th, 1792. My Good Friend and Brother: ' Your letter of the 2d September, was handed to me on the 11th instant, and affords a strong and pleasing proof of the sincerity of your friendship for the United States, and of your desire for peace with them, which, I assure you, they most earnestly wish. 1 _ You ask me to let you hear good, “ whether you that are for peace, may stay at homer” by which, I understand you mean to ask, if none of the Indians of the other towns'of the Cherokees join the five Lower towns in war against the United States, will they, the other towns, be permitted to stay at home in peace? To which I answer yes. The United States do not wish to punish the innocent for the guilty. I should have supposed, the five Lower towns, before they had went out for war, would have made the causes for so doing known to me; such is the custom among nations; perhaps they thought to steal a march upon me, but in that they will be mistaken; I shall be ready for them. ' i For this proof of your friendship, be pleased to accept my hearty and sincere, thanks, and to present them to my friends Chulcoah, Kitagiska, Cabin, and Skiuka, for the information they gave. Tell Chuleoan I cannot now get a gun to send him; the white people, since the Lower towns have declared war, cannot part with one; assure him it is not that I am afraid he would use it against the United States; I have the utmost reliance in his friendship, and a great esteem for him. I am, your friend and brother, WILLIAM BLOUNT. No. 4. . , Sepetmber 14 th, 1792. Since writing the above, I have received letters from the Glass and the Bloody Fellow, informing ine that they and John Watts, with the assistance of some other head men, had stopped the party from going out, and that now, all the five Lower towns are for peace; I wish they may continue so;jthe United States prefer peace to war. I beg you, my good brother, to inform your people, that I have, and shall erect, a number of block houses on the frontiers, both of tins district, and of Cumberland, and put at them a number of men, both foot and horse; for the protection of the frontiers. These houses will be built on the lands of the United States, and not on those of the Cherokees. I beg you to order your good people not to coine near them, for they, by mistake, may .be taken for bad ones, and I should be very sorry for it. Should you, or any of your chiefs, wish to come to this place, I would advise the coming by Major Craig’s, along the public road.'Whenever you have occasion for sending an express to me. send an Indian, I will pay him: and I beg you to continue to give me the earliest intelligence of what is doing, or intended to be done, against the United States. . ■ lam. your friend and brother. WILLIAM BLOUNT. The Little Turkey, Chief of the Cherokees. No. 5. Governor Blount to the Glass, a chief of the Cherokees—September 15th. 1792. Friend and Brother: ■ Your letter of the 10th instant is just handed to me. I had, several days before, heard that a party of the young warriors were collecting in the five Lower towns, for war against the United States, and I was getting mine together to meet them; but I am glad to hear that you, the,Bloody Fellow, John Watts, and other heau-men, have sent them home. I will send mine home, except a few who I shall station on the frontiers in blockhouses, to pro-’ tect the frontier people from the Creeks, who, you and your people tell me, are daily passing through your nation, with a determination to do mischief to the citizens of the United States. I shall , not build these blockhouses on the lands of the Cherokees. but on the lands of the United States. I advise you to tell your good people not to come upon the lands of the United States, because they may be taken for bad ones, and I shall be very sorry for it: but' if any of your people want to come here, let them come openly and fearless along the path, by ‘Major Craig’si then nobody mil hurt them, and I will be glad to see them. I did not hear the talk General Robertson gave to Codeatoy, but General Pickens did, and, I believe, be spoke to Codeatoy, as well as General Robertson; and, I think, as they are both good men. and known to be friends to red people, as well as white, that neither of them would send a talk.that could justly have given your young people such offence. Codeatoy must not have understood what was said, or'must have forgotten it before lie reached your towns. 1 do not believe he would tell a lie; I am sure he is an.honest man. But, suppose General Robertson had sent you a bad talk, he is only a warrior under me, and your people ought not to be so offended at it, as to make war against the United States. It is my talks you ought to attend to, aim not to those of any body else, except to those of the President, or the Secretary ol War; it is us, and nobody else, the United States have authorized to talk to you, anil transact business with you, on their part. The making war, he the offence what it will, is a very serious thing with all nations, and never should be entered into without being first well considered; the consequences are always dreadful, not only to the warriors, but to the innocent and helpless women and children, and old men. I did, as you supposed, see your letter to Captain Chisolm, and was well pleased with it, and I saw Jack Sevills, who brought it. He gave a very good report of you; and I read Captain Chisolm's answer, of which I approved. I have inquired into the beating which you complain your friend, the White Man-killer, received at. this place. It happened, as you know, while I was at Cumberland. It appears the White Man-killer was drinking with some white people, in a tavern at this place, among whom was a Mr. White; that the White Man-killer, having drank too much, insulted Mr. Jehu White, who had also drank to great excess, which provoked Mr. White to strike him, but not with an intention to kill. It was a drinking affair only, and I understood was so settled when the parties got sober. I shall be glad to see you, and take you by tbe hand to my house, whenever you will please to come. 1 am, your friend and brother. WILLIAM BLOUNT. No. G Governor Blount to the Bloody Felloiv, a chief of the Cherokees—September 13, 1792. Friend and Brother: Before your letter came, I had heard every thing that was doing in the five Lower towns, and I am glad to hear that, you, and the other head-men, have stopped the party; if you had not, the consequences would have been dreadful. The President has not been unmindful of the promises he made you, that settlers should not encroach on your lands, and I am surprised you should write me. "That the citizens of the United States are daily encroaching and building on your lands.’’ I deny, positively, that a single house, or settlement, of any kind, lias been made, since the treaty by me entered into on the part of the United States, with your nation, on the lands of the Cherokees. I have, my good brother, considered well, and cannot agree with you that the white people are as much to blame, as the Cherokees. The white people have not killed any Cherokees, except in defence of their persons and horses; and I well know bow many white people the Cherokees of the Lower towns have killed, and made prisoners; many of them helpless women and children, and that they have stolen a great many horses. I have a long written account of these things, and I know well who have been killed and captured by the Cherokees, and who by the Creeks: and I shall send this account to your father, the President, and he will judge who of us is the most to blame. Keep your people from going to Cumberland, and I will answer that you will receive no disturbance from that quarter, neither in words nor in acts; those people have been always observers of treaties, and never intruders on your, lands; and I shall inform them, that your young people have desisted from their determination of invading them for the present, but I shall direct them to keep strong guards in the blockhouses, which I have ordered to be erected on their frontiers, not to offend any good people, hut to protect the citizens of the United States against bad ones, Creeks, and others. The people of Cumberland are citizens of the United States, and as much the care of the President as the people of Philadelphia are ; and he is equally desirous that your people should treat them well, and will not suiter them to be treated ill by any body. . The friends of the White Man-killer have no cause of complaint about his losing his horses at my house. It does not appear that they were stolen by white people; all that is known of them, is, that he turned them in the woods, and, after a week’s search, and inquiry, by my servants, and others, they could not be recovered, nor heard of. I then informed him that he should he paid for his horses, and before he went away paid him apart, and would have paid him the whole, if he had not declined receiving it. He hoped, and so did 1, that when he went away his horses would be recovered, but they are not yet heard of. ■ The other man who was with him also turned his horses out, and they for several days came up; but, for his want of care, at length went down the river to the house of a man from whom one of them had been stolen; he took possession of her, brought her up to me, and proved her before a justice ol" the peace, by the oath of several disinterested evidences, to be his property; and, by the law of the white people, he is entitled to keep her, without paying any thing. The man, when he bought her from a Creek, must have known she had been raised by the white people, and was stolen. Does not all your nation agree in informing me that the Creeks are daily stealing horses from the white people? Then why do they purchase horses from them? I have not told any body that I was displeased that your people had talks with the Spaniards; but I have expected that you, from your friendship for the United States, would liave made me acquainted with what was there, done. At the treaty of Nashville I invited you and Watts to be present, and see and know what I did with theChickasaws and Choctaws: and as Watts chose to go to the Spaniards in preference, to be sure I expected he also Would have informed me what was there clone.   . Now, my good friend and brother, I have answered your letter, let me tell you I have a great love for you, and will be ever happy to see you and take you by the hand, and I shall be ever happy in seeing John Watts. I am, your friend and brother, WILLIAM BLOUNT. No.' 7. Information given by Red Bird, a Cherokee, respecting his nation.—September 15th, 1792. K . , ♦ Information from the Red Bird, a Cherokee, who came to Nine-miles, on the 4th September, to the house of Major Craig, and told him that six. or seven Indians were out, in order to do mischief on the frontiers, and, he believed, in the south of Holston; that part of the. men were Shawanese, and part Cherokees, from Running Water, or Nickajack. A few days afterwards, to wit: a day or two after Cockran was shot at, lie came back and told Major Craig, that the Indians had heard that lie had given the information, and were much dissatisfied with him, and that lie was threatened with the law, referring to one that had been made Sopie time before: “That any Indian, a native-of the Cherokees, who should give intelligence to the whites of any orders which the nation took in council, or otherwise, he should forfeit his property, and be banished the country.” lie then told him that John Watts nad been to Pensacola; that he brought home seven horse loads of ammunition, and as many accoutrements as were sufficient to equip two hundred horsemen, to wit, swords, &c. and that Watts was appointed to command the Creeks and the Cherokees who should be called into the field, and be for war, and that the Creek nation had met in council, and agreed to the appointment. That the determination of the War Department was, provided the Upper towns of the Cherokees.would not come into the measures of war, that they would send out a party, and fall on the frontiers next the Upper townSj and so harass them, that the whites would be irritated to kill some of the Indians of those towns, which woula induce them to consider the war general. He yesterday told Major Craig, that he might, rely thirty Creeks had crossed the Tennessee, near Nive, about eight miles above the junction with the Holston, and supposed them out for the purpose he before told him, and that the whites ought to be on their guard. That the party from the five towns, who were gathered together to declare war against the United States, and .to commit depredations on . the ___frontiers, were not so much stopped by the Glass, the Bloody Fellow, and Wafts, as by Unanecata, who returned from Knoxville just as they had assembled. That the head-men of the other towns sent talks to the five Lower towns, not to go so soon to war; their corn was not yet ripe; that the white people would come and destroy it and their towns, and they would not be able to stand hunger and cold both at the same time. The Red Bird adds, he does not know whether it was policy of the head-men to stop the party from going to war, or whether they meant that they were willing for war after the corn was hard and gathered, but he should soon know, and inform Major Craig. Note. This information was delivered to Governor Blount by Major Craig, on the 13th September, 1792. The Red Bird is a fellow of understanding, and has heretofore been considered a great enemy to the white people, and is as likely to be in the councils of those who machinate mischief, as any other man. No. 8. The deposition of William Cockran, son of John Cockran. Being duly sworn, deposeth and saith, that his father, with whom he usually dwells, lives on the waters of Holston, about one mile north of the ridge which divides the wafers of little river from the waters of the Tennessee, and hath there resided for two years past,; that yesterday, as the deponent was travelling along a path about one quarter of a mile from his father’s, he heard a person halloo, on which he halted, looked about, and saw nobody; in a few seconds after, the halloo was repeated; he again stopped, and then saw a than approaching on horseback in a gallop, about one hundred and fifty yards distance from him, who continued to approach until he came within ten paces; he appeared to be a half breed Indian, dressed in the Indian garb, except his hair, which was tied behind; he stopped, and asked the deponent .where he was going: who answered', home; and then asked the Indian where he was going: to which he made no answer; but, after a pause, observed, by saying, “I’ll be damned friend if there will not be some body killed in these settlements;”-at that instant this deponent saw three persons, whom he believes to have been Indians from their garb and color, rise and fire at him about forty yards distance from him; they rose immediately in the rear of the man on horseback; one ball passed through the hat of this deponent, and another through his jacket; whereupon the deponent ran towards his father’s house, about two hundred paces, when stopping and turning round, he perceived that he was pursued by one Indian, and at the same, time he saw the horseman galloping from him. The deponent then ran to his father’s house, and saw no more of them. . x . . Sworn before me, David Campbell, Esq. 6ne of the judges of the territory South of the Ohio, at Knoxville, this seventh day of September, 1792. WILLIAM COCKRAN. Attest, DAVID CAMPBELL. , Governor Blount to the Secretary of War. \ , Knoxville, September 20, 1792. Sir: 'Herewith I enclose you the minutes of.the conference held at Nashville, with the Chickasaws and Choctaws; of the Former, there was a. very full representation, both of chiefs, and others; but, of the latter^ there were only one hundred and ten chiefs, and others; what part of them were chiefs will appear by the minutes. I do not know better how to explain to you the cause of there being only so few Choctaws, than by enclosing to you the report of Mr. Forster, one of the gentlemen who carried my letter of invitation to them to attend. You will observe that he supposes one cause to have been the conduct of one of his colleagues, meaning Captain David Smith, who I engaged to accompany him, and Mr. James Randolph Robertson, from a belief that lie, David Smith, as he had frequently been in the nation and spoke the tongue, was the most proper man in the territory in all respects to be engaged in such business; in fact I added him to those gentlemen who I first employed, fearing, if I did not, and any failure should take place, that it might be imputable to me for not having sent him. It seems, on tlie arrival of Mr. Forster and Captain Smith, they found this Mr. Brassheart, who Mr. Forster mentions in his report, there residing, a trader much attached to the Spanish interest; and that Captain Smith and he had been old acquaintances, and not friends; that on meeting, they presently fell into warm disputes concerning the American and Spanish Governments, and their respective consequence and influence in the Choctaw nation: at length each agreed that he would be determined by the number that should accompany Smith to the conference, or that Brassheart should prevent. This Brassheart was the only man who had any taffia in the town where the council assembled, and it was no doubt he who made the party drunk, and inducted them to break up the council and tear the belts, so that the insult which appeared to be offered to the L'nited States, is justly to be attributed to him and his taffia, and not to the nation. Captain Smith is a warm zealous man, who I have no doubt conceived he was acting for the interest of the business he was engaged in, but it gives me pain that the failure of a fuller representation should be imputable in .any shape to his imprudence. Another artifice made use of by Mr. Brassheart was to inform the chiefs that there was something in the letters which had not been explained in council, written in red ink. by which he foresaw the Choctaws, if they went, would be put to death/and as the letters were in his care, it is highly probable he might have inserted some words with redink. 'Many are the artifices of this kind made use of by the white people living among the Indians, to the injury of the best concerted measures of Government, and cannot be counteracted until they have had the p'erni-cious'eftects intended by their authors. The Spanish interest must unquestionably have had its weight, and in that may justly be included the conduct of Mr. Brassheart. With the Choctaws that did come to the conference came Mr. Pitchlyn. who was tlie interpreter of the treaty of Hopewell, a warm active man. and friend to the United States, who seemed to have great command over them, and could, as lie believed, have led the greater part of them to the aid of the United States, northwest of the Ohio, or elsewhere; and it was his opinion, given in decided tterms, that he could and would, upon having a supply of arms and ammunition, lead a great part of the nation to war against their old enemies the Creeks, but said they could do nothing without both, for they had neither, and were very poor: Pitchlyn added, the Choctaws, from their dependent situation, were obliged to keep up the appearance of friendship for the Spaniards, but that a very great part of the nation had a dislike to them, and would be very glad to have their trade and supplies from the United States. * A letter from Ben James, a man of the first property and probity in the nation, also speaks the same language: a copy of which is enclosed. 1 questioned Pitchlyn touching die particulars of the treaty which the Spaniards held at die Natchez, by Governor Gayoso and the Choctaws, from w hich the chiefs had returned but a few days previous to the arrival of Mr. Forster and Smith in the nation: he said it had.not been a lull representation; that it consisted only of the Spanish party, and (hat the chiefs .said they liad given permission only to the Spaniards to continue their hew fort at the Walnut Hills, near the mouth of the Yazoo, but had sold them no lands, and even this displeased the younger part of the nation so much that they frequently threatened to kill the chiefs who had been at the treaty. But from information I have since received. I believe there is no doubt but Governor Gayoso obtained a relinquishment of a large tract of country, beginning at the mouth of the Yazoo; thence ten miles up it: thence southeast to a river which empties into lake Pontchartrain, (i believe called Midway) and down that river. Both nations arrived at the treaty many days before die goods got round, which run the expenses much higher than they otherwise would have been, and there were several contingent charges not foreseen nor enumerated in the estimate, particularly one for mending a great number of old guns, which appeared essential to the interest of the United States. ' . . During the conference, by which I would be understood to mean not only the time of the public formal meetings at the Arbour, but also, the many private conferences which General Pickens and myself held, both nations gave, the strongest assurances of friendship for the United States, and of their-perfect satisfaction at the treatment they received, and appeared to he gratefully impressed with the value of the presents they had received. That part of the Chickasaw nation called Piamiimo's. which is .much the stronger party, repeatedly assured us. in case of a war with the.Creeks ami Cherokeijs, that the Chickasaws would be a party, and they as repeatedly saitf they were sure these .two nations shortly intended war with the United States,, and that the Spaniards were urging them to it. General Pickens and myself having already given the reasons, in former letters, why no attempts were made to induce a party to join the arms of the United States Northwest of the river Ohio, I conceive it unnecessary to repeat them here. I have the honor to be, &.c. [enclosure. ] Anthony Forster to Governor Blount. « Nashville, 29th July, 1792. Sir: . , _ In consequence of your commands. I feel a sensible pleasure in throwing together some observations which I made on the manners and conduct of the Chickasaw and Choctaw tribes of Indians, whilst in the execution of the commission which I had the honor to receive from your Excellency. I have taken the liberty to communicate the information of which I am possessed, in an epistolary manner, this being the only mode to wjiich I have been accustomed, and in which I Hatter myself I can express myself with a greater degree of precision. On the sixth of June last, I left Nashville, on my way to the Chickasaws. and arrived there on the eleventh. The village in which the Hair-lipped king lived, was the first that I came to. ■ I had not then an opportunity of seeing the king, but passed on to tire Mountain-Leader, who livesabout three miles from the first village. We were cordially received by Piamingo, who appeared to listen with attention and complacency, to such explanatory remarks as we made, relative to the objects of our mission. A convention of the chiefs of the Chickasaw nation was.called on the third day after our arrival, which was on the fourteenth of June, at which appeared all the chiefs of the nation, (together with a number of others) of whom I acquired my information, except the Wolffs Friend. In this convention, or council, the Mountain-Leader was exceedingly active; appeared to embrace the views of the United States, and exhibit unequivocal marks of his attachment and fidelity to its citizens. Upon this occasion, the dispositions of the whole assembly appeared to be friendly and candid, except the Hair-lipped kins, whose conduct indicated an aversion to the views and measures of the ’council; upon which I was induced to inquire into the principles and reasons ofhis behavior, which was so eccentric, that he retired from the council apparently much disgusted and chagrined; the reason of which was, that the address of the letter manifested a pre-eminence of the Mountain-Leader, inasmuch as it did not expressly mention the king by name. In order to reconcile him, and remove, if possible, the cause of his disgust, I informed him that the reason'of his not being addressed by name by the Secretary of War and your Excellency, was, that lie had not been to see them, as the Mountain-Leader had; the great officers of the United States had not the same opportunity to know his power and authority in the nation, that they had with respect to the Mountain-Leader, nor had they a complete opportunity to be acquainted with the full extent of his authority til! now; that, hereafter, if lie would go and see the white people, that every respect and attention due to his dignity and character, would be paid him. In consequence of this talk, he appeared to be better satisfied; returned and took his seat, and wrote a letter to the Choctaws, in which he endeavored to enforce the propriety of the measures held out by the Federal Government, and recommended the care and protection of our persons. A similar letter was also written by the Mountain-Leader. In this convention, Pdiscovered a general disposition for war, excited, as I supposed, by the letters from the Secretary of War and your Excellency; which I informed them would be pleasing to the United States—not that the great power and strength of the United States could avail itself of their services, but that it would afford an additional proof of their affection, make them better acquainted, and as one people. This ardor for military fame, so generally prevalent at that time, was much abated at the close of a council at Duck river, on their way to this country. Having your Excellency's commands always in view, I inquired into the reason why their martial spirit had so much subsided. 1 received but little information. A Captain George, with whom I suppose your Excellency is acquainted, argued strenuously against the propriety of the measure, saying, as I was informed, that it was only the wish of the United States to getthe Indians to war against themselves, and it was said, enforced his arguments with some examples. - *  . * Having afforded your Excellency such information as I am possessed of, I shall now resume my journey from the Chickasaw to the Choctaw' nation. On the 15th same instant, we left the Chickasaw nation, and arrived at the Choctaw nation on the 19th, and proceeded to the Yazoo towns, in company with Mr. Pitchlyn, a linguist; on the 23d, a general assembly of the chiefs of the nation, held at the opening of the convention, a triendly disposition seemed to prevail, and a general desire to gratify the wishes of the United States; after the council had sat two or three hours at a time, w'hen the clashing of opinions of the different chiefs were urging to one uniform point of decision, a mob of drunken Indians (three of whom appeared to be most active) broke up the assembly by threats of violence, and also tore the peace belt in pieces, and manifested marks ofTlisapprobation. As your Excellency must necessarily conclude that there were some existing causes for this faction, t conceive it incumbent on me to give you all tlie information of which I am master; but as they are tedious and complicated, involve a number of conjectural opinions, as well as references to the conduct of one of my colleagues, whose conduct previous to that occasion, in the Choctaw nation, was not entirely consistent with my opinion of the measure to be pursued, relative to the attainment of the objects of our mission, I think your Excellency will excuse me from committing it to paper, and be of opinion, that a personal interview, if required, would be better. After the dissolution of the council, we talked with several of the chiefs, as we.could, find them, who appeared desirous-to come on to this country;.and I believe a number more wmuld have come on, had it not been for a continuance of the same causes which operated at the time of the faction; one of which, I. may venture to say, w'as the Spanish influence. We left the town in w hich the council was held, on the same evening, on our return to Pitchlyn’s, where I continued several days, for the purpose of conducting such as should assemble to come to this country, and Captain Smith continued on his return to the Chickasaw nation. About four days after I arrived at Pitchlyn’s, messengers arrived, who informed me.that the greater part of the Choctaw nation had declined coming on, in consequence of a talk given them by one Brass-heart; however, I was determined to make a vigorous exertion, to assemblers many of the chiefs and warriors as I possibly could, and immediately despatched messengers to the most inconvenient towns, and w'ent in person to others, by which means, I assembled the number your Excellency has seen. Your excellency expressed a desire to know something of the disposition of the Indians. It was impracticable to.acquire any positive and authentic information. but it wras the opinion of the white people in the nation, that they would go to war with cheerfulness, upon hostilities being commenced by the whites against cither the Creeks or Spaniards, and then receiving a supply of ammunition, &c. I was further confirmed in this opinion, by some expressions of astonishment by them, relative to the conduct of the United States and the Creeks, as .well as the habits of enmity against that nation. Agreeably to your Excellency’s request, I inquired if the talk communicated to the President" by the Bloody Fellow, was authorized by the chiefs of their nation; to which they answered, that the talk was not official, nor authorized by them, but that some of their people might have assumed such a power, arid given a talk to the Bloody Fellow, for ought they knew to the contrary.   - Having given your Excellency every material information relative to the trust reposed in me, I must beg your Excellency’s indulgence, with respect to faults in diction, not having been accustomed to arrange my ideas on paper. - ‘ 1 am, with.the highest respect. Ben James to Governor Blount. Sir: Choctaw Nation, June 30, 1792. I take the liberty to inform you, that I had the opportunity of seeing your letter to this nation, and I think you must be sensible tlfat every white man in this nation must be dependent to Spanish government. If you are not sensible of it, you must liave heard that the Spaniards are a jealous people, and I have always been pointed out as an American. But I have always been true to that pow'er wrho protected me; but . the wdiole is, I am protected at my own expense. My reason of speaking to yon in this manner is, that I have received several insults from the Creeks, and obliged to put up with it. For what reason? Because I am not able to help myself. I would apply to the Spanish Government for protection, but I am so sensible that they must encourage the Creeks, that I cannot. Now, sir, look at my situation; weigh the matter in your own breast; to be censured without meddling. I have passed through all the difficulties of the war, without the least blemish on my character, and have gathered a small property together, and now' lies at stake, in case you do not support us, and that shortly. My life I disregard, for I am partly past being of service to king or country; the Creeks have threatened in'* ever since peace took place between America and Great Britain, but I am alive yet, if you pay any regard to my lines. I saw your letter; you want the Indians to pitch on a place for you to send your goods; no place suits as well as the Chickasaw Bluff, or say the mouth of Wolf river. If you will furnish for this nation 2,000 pounds of powder, and 4,000 pounds of lead, and deliver it there, and; other things   equivalent, such as flints, knives, and arms, at a certain time, and let me know it by a private letter, I will meet it there to receive it;-if the matter is published,.it will be apt to be intercepted. These lines I send you by a young Choctaw that is worthy of notice; if you do not approve of these lilies, after reading of them, please to commit them to the flames, and I will work mv hie as well as I can. Mr. Alexander M’GiJlivray is now' at New Orleans, and it is not for the good of the States of America that he is there, nor yet for the nation. . Mr. John "Pitchlyn is your interpreter, very capable, and a worthy young man, but has been unfortunate enough to have no learning, being raised partly in this nation. Nothing more, but I am, with regard, unknown, BEN JAMES. Mr. James must have been mistaken, in saying in the fifth section of his letter, that I wrote to the Chickasaws that I wanted them to pitch upon a place, to which I would send them goods. I wrote them no letter but the one of which I sent a copv to the. War Office, and it contained no such passage. WM. BLOUNT. i ■ t Conference Ground, near Nashville, Tuesday, August 7th, 1792. Present, on the part of the United States, William Blount, Governor in and over the territory of the United States of America south of the river Ohio, and Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Southern district, and Brigadier-General Andrew Pickens. Chenambe,-king of the Chickasaws, Lootematlah, Mookleshamingo, Mooles-nawskek or Wolf’s friend, Piamingo, Choosheniataha or Billy Colbert, Tooteinastubbeor George Colbert, Piahatche, Mookleshappye, Hodlatoopich, Tatholah, Piamoko, Chickasaw Holatekapich, Piamentlah, Pianatehe, Ustabemingo, John Brown, Thomas Brown, Moocklasliaunapah, on the part of the Chickasaws.* lleepoenautlau, or Shot in the Mouth, Itlehoomastubbe or Redwood, Piamustubbe. great medal chiefs; Tunnathoemah, Chillashoomastubbe or Red Shoes, Hooletenali, Piahoomah, small medal chiefs; Nootooleinastubbe, Taskaastubbe, Oaklateloemastoiinastubbe, Only three chiefs of the Chickasaws were absent, namely Tuscoopoye, Hoolatoliyee or Glover, and Piahatche. GENERAL VIEW. 285 Ohephamby. Emaalubby, Tootehoomah, Tassunacooboge, Ooakoah, Fannemecastubbe, Shephahoomak, Kooshehoo-mahleader, George James, Son of Ben, Oshapoiah, Uskenasopoiab, Oloaquetiay, Uskonoapoiah, the old chief, gorget captains on the part of the Choctaws. John Thompson, Nontuaka, Skinka, agents from the Cherokees, and about twenty other Cherokees; and Malcolm M’Ghee and John Pitchlyn, interpreters. Governor Blount to the Head-men and Chiefs of the Chickasaws and Choctaws. Friends and Brothers: The first thing necessary is, that I inform you who I am, and who General Pickens is. I am Governor of the territory of the United States south of the river Ohio, and Superintendent of Indian Affairs, for the Southern district; General Pickens was a great warrior against the British and against the red people, in the late war; he is a beloved man of the President, and attends here at his request; whatever is said to you by either, you are to consider as said by both. Governor Blount then proceeded to address them: Friends and Brothers: It is now seven years since General Pickens and myself had the pleasure of seeing your nations in council at Hopewell, in South Carolina, when you formed treaties with the United States. Here is a copy, (holding it up.) The object of the present meeting is not to alter these treaties, but to strengthen and keep alive that friendship of which those treaties are the basis, and to beg your acceptance of a quantity of valuable goods, as a proof of the sincere friendship of the United States. Another object is, publicly to present Piamingo, the Colberts, and their followers, who joined the arms of the United States last year, and fought against their enemies, hearty and sincere thanks for their services, and to preseni them each with a rifle. You have been told that we want, and will a^k you for land: we shall not; we wish you to enjoy your lands and be as happy as we ourselves are ; nor do we want the land of any red people; the United States have land enough. At the treaty of Hopewell, you requested that a trading post should be established at the mouth of Bear creek. The reason it was not immediately done after that treaty was. that the United States were not in a situation to do it: but they are now grown strong and rich, and have for their President the illustrious General 'Washington, the greatest of all men: and we inform vou that lie will shortly afford you a trade from that place, as agreed by that treaty. Friends and Brothers: We have reason to believe that a chiefcalled Double-head, of the Cherokees, a signer to the treaty at Holston, with some other Cherokees, and some Northwards and Creeks, in all about forty, have settled on the south side of the Tennessee, near the mouth, on your lands, as we suppose; this Double- head, otherwise Tusca-lateague, and his party, have killed a number of the citizens of the United States; and as your nations and the United States are friends, and we hope ever will be, it will be well for you to drive these people off your lands, or give us leave to destroy them if we please; and to the end that it may in future be known on whose land the people reside, who commit depredations on the citizens of the United States, it is essential that the bounds which divide your lands from those of other red people, should be marked out and made known to us. We will say no more to day, but we request, when you come to reply, that you will speak freely, and tell us every thing that is in your minds; friends ought to keep nothing from each other; to speak freely is a proof of friendship. Wednesday, 8th .dugust. 1792. Wolf’s Friend, in reply.—I call you friends and brothers: we have met about half way between our nations' where we each of us have our warriors. 1 have not been here before to talk myself; the Mountain Leader is here, who is a great warrior under me; whatever he has done on the part of the nation, is binding on the whole. Iam glad to hear your talks, and that your talks are so good; they please me very well. It is a custom among us, when we speak, to give a token of friendship; 1 will give you this; there is not a speck in my Heart but what is good, (giving to Governor Blount a string of white beads, and desiring that it might be Kept clean and unstained that the day never should come that he would let it slip.) I must explain the truth; I was somewhat suspicious you wanted land; I am glad you did not; and if ever the President calls us together again, I request that land may never more be mentioned to us. I always look on the whites and ourselves as one people; I love to use them well, and as brothers. We are naked, and have no doubt that the United States have great feeling for us: but I think it is not so far from the nation, but that trade can be carried on from this place, and we hope it will not be brought nearer to us than the line agreed upon at Hopewell. \ [Wolf’s Friend meant thus to give his dissent to the establishing of a post at the mouth of Bear creek, as agreed by the treaty of Hopewell. Since his arrival on the conference ground, he had repeatedly told his people and the Choctaws, that the Americans had hard shoes, and if they permitted them to establish that post, they would tread upon their toes. Knowing that he had made use of these arguments, was the inducement for speaking in such positive terms, that trade would shortly be afforded from that place, hoping that would lie an inducement sufficient for him to agree to it. Wolf’s Friend is a great man; in council ranks among the first of his nation; has a considerable property, is a large man, of a dignified appearance; he appeared at the conference in scarlet and silver lace, and in the heat of the day with a large crimson silk umbrella over him.] I think short talks are the best; I like yours the better for being so; when a man talks long, it is a proof his heart is not straight. Ilepooenaatla, alias Shot in the Mouth.—I came from the Choctaw nation, a stranger, but hope the longer we are acquainted, the better we shall both like each other, and have our talks renewed by treaties hereafter. I am here, have smoked the pipe of friendship, and do give my talk and nation into your care. I wish to explain my friendship in a short way; we have met in the middle ground, where we hope to meet often. I am sorry I have no token of friendship to rive, but I hope my talk will be received as well as though I had. Governor Blount.—It will. Tunnahthoomaii, or Red Enemy.—I.am from the Choctaws, to this mid-land. I believe the whites have great troubles and fatigues in getting here, but we have got here to iny great joy, and speak in friendship; in my own country, I never dreamed of finding such a people as I here find, for which I may thank my elder brothers the Chickasaws. Whenever the red people have long talks, it may be they say more than they remember; mine are short, and I will always hold you by the hand. My brothers are here in hearing; I want not to say any thing disagreeable to them, but I speak in public, and wish to be understood and remembered. The whites, I am told, are very powerful; hereafter, I want to have peace and good talks at this middle ground. I am told you have a different way of fighting—can make ditches for your defence, and it may be, yon can make it reach my country. It is good for a younger brother to be advised by an older; what our elder brothers the Chickasaws do, I will abide by, and am happy we have so good talks. Red Wood the 2d, Man holding several Strings of Beads.—I pull these out in public, though I do notown them: a great man of my nation received them from the United States; when he died, I kept them as a token of friendship; this is the way I got them. This great, man and the United States used to have good talks together; these talks I am come to renew; when that man was alive, I never thought it would come to me to talk in his place with my brothers and friends as I now do. It is not every brother who thinks one way, but I am of the. same way of thinking with the man of whom I got them, and hope our young people on both sides will grow up in happiness and peace. My talk is short. You see I take the beaus, and will keep them, leaving to my superiors to make longer ones. Red Breath.—I was at the treaty of Hopewell; to convince you I have held it fast. I have come to see you a“ain; that has been several years past, but I find you remember it as well as I do, which makes me happy. We are here, know one another’s talks, and take each other by the hand; our elder brothers see and hear us likewise. The talks we have had are very pleasing, and hope they wall always continue. -Short talks between friends may be always better remembered; we have met in the centre between our nations, and hope we shall, each of us, return safe to our proper homes. . Piamingo rising.—I haye nothing to talk, only I wish to have boundaries settled; [then addressed theChickasaws in a speech of some minutes, when, turning to GovernorBlount and General Pickens, and taking them by the hand, said,] It is no new thing for me to take the whites by the hand, but I am glad to do it, if I am absent only one night. I nave no long talks to give; it is all peace, and every thing is good, and firm; [then handed a letter from the' President; which he had received by Major Doughty, and,a map of the country, made at Hopewell, showing the line established by that treaty.] The map being opened on the table, and explained, Wolf’sFriend said the line between the Cliickasaws and the United States was right; and the Governor replied, die United States would never want to pass it. Piamingo.—This map is old, I want to have a new one. General Pickens.—We will try to have a new one made like it. Piamingo. —I will describe the boundaries of our lands; It begins on the Ohio, at the ridge which divides the waters of Tennessee and Cumberland, and extends with that ridge, eastwardly, as far as the most eastern waters of Elk river; thence to the Tennesee, at an old field, where a part of the Chickasaws formerly lived, this line to be so run as to include all the waters of Elk river, thence, across the Tennessee, and a neck of land, to Tenchacunda creek, a southern branch of the Tennessee, and up the same to its source; then to the waters of Tombigby, that is, to the west fork of long leaf Pine creek, and down it to the line of the Chickasaws and Choctaws, a little below the trading road. , At the treaty offlolston, I am told, the Cherokees claimed all Duck river. I want to know if it is so. Nontuaka.—It is true. I told the President so, and coining from him I told my nation so. I never knew, before the present, that our people divided land and made lines like.white people. < Piamingo.—I am the man Avho laid of!' the boundary on that map; and to save my own land, I made it plain: 1 knew the fondness of the Cherokees to sell land. ^Nontuaka.—As to the boundary, I do not look to it. The President advised us to let one line serve for the Four Nations: he would never ask for any land south of it, nor suffer others; all the hunting ground within said boundary should be for the Four Nations. Piamingo.—By marking my boundary I did not mean to exclude other nations from the benefit of hunting on my lands. I knew the Cherokees had often pretended to take the whites by the hand, but instead of doing it in good faith, they are always sharpening their knives against them. I feared the whites, in retaliation, would tall on the Cherokees, and that they might.take my land, supposing it belonged to the Cherokees: for this reason I have marked it. 'Nontuaka.—This is not right; I want but one line between the-Four Nations and the whites: it is true the Cherokees have disposed of their best hunting grounds. Piamingo.—I never understood this matter in this light, nor did I, as before said, intend to bar the Cherokees from hunting on our lands; 1 only meant to preserve them. Governor Blount to Nontuaka.—I was not at Philadelphia to hear what you said respecting your claim to land; but when you returned, you brought me a great book, said to contain all the talks held there. In that book, it was written that it would be proper for the Four Nations to explain their boundaries between themselves; this is one of the reasons I asked the Chickasaws how far the bounds of their claim extended. It is not meant that one nation should restrain another from hunting on their lands, but allow it, like good neighbors. There is another reason: if any red people should come and settle in any of your countries, and do mischief to the whites, when their different boundaries are known, it would be easy to know to whom to apply to have the injuries redressed. Nontuaka.—I know very well that Governor Blount was not there to hear what the President said. I was, and heard the words drop out of his mouth; the, words were, there ought to be one line between the Four Nations and the whites, but not lines between the Four Nations; that they must not sell it; but, if they would sell it, it was he only who should buy. Piamingo.—I want no long talk on the subject: the Cherokees are blood thirsty; they never go out but they bloody their weapons in the white people, and I knew the whites, in retaliation, would take their land; this I have before said, and for fear they should take mine, supposing it to be the Cherokees’, is my reason for explaining the boundary. Wolf’s Friend.—What I say is, that we are friends, and that the meaning of this line is not to hinder the Cherokees from hunting on our lands, but we wish to keep bad people from settling on it. Nontuaka.—Here is the map belonging to the Chickasaws; my own people are jealous; let me carry this map and show it to the head-men; the whites can make another like it for Piamingo. Piamingo.—l am satisfied with the Cherokees having a copy. When my uncle,'the Little Turkey, sees it, and is informed that it is not intended to prevent’the Cherokees from hunting on our land, he will be pleased. John Thompson.—We do not find fault with the line between the white people and the Chickasaws, nor with the place where the Chickasaws’ line crosses the Tennessee; but I have not before been so fully informed of the claim of the Chickasaws. Piamiogo.—I have made endeavors to preserve the land, and have ever refused to part with it. Wolf’s Friend.—The map is plain; I know not what objection they can make to it, since we have,explained our motive. It is right to mark our boundaries on the map; some red people are good, others have sharp hearts. I came here to hear good talks, and have heard them. Be not uneasy that every one does not speak: the King, myself, and Piamingo, were appointed to do the business; what we say is binding on the nation. 1 speak for the king and myself. , General Pickens.—It gives me much pleasure to accompany Governor Blount to this place, to meet the Chickasaws and Choctaws, and delivering the good talks from our Great Father^ who has appointed Governor Blount to receive your good talks, and to deliver his: you maybe assured his talk is the same as though you heard it from the mouth of our Great Father, General Washington; his heart glows with love both to the Chickasaws and Choctaws. Since the time you took us by the hand at Seneca, it has never been known that a Chickasaw or Choctaw has spilled the blood of an American; we have nowr come here, if possible, to strengthen that friendship, and make it last between us, while the sun shines. It is the wish of our Great Father General Washington, as well as all your brothers here, to make you a great and happy people. We will always look upon it that your enemies are our enemies, and ours, yours. ’We know you have been told that, when you were invited here, you would be asked for land; you- are now convinced to the contrary, and you will now be able to give the lie to such reports. What makes the President and ourselves unhappy is, that it is with difficulty trade can be extended by the United States to your country. ■ These presents, sent you by your Great Father the President, were brought here with great danger and difficulty. Wolf’s Friend has expressed his objections to having it brought nearer to you than this place, but he is wrong, because the path to and from this place, and which your people and the traders would have to pass, is often bloodied by the enemy; to remove that difficulty, we wish, for the good of both parties, to have trade established'at the mouth of Bear Creek, the place agreed upon by the treaty of Hopewell. I am apprehensive bad people Mill say, we mean not only to establish a post, but form settlements; but that is not true. Trade at that place will be most advantageous to you, where, beside clothing and other necessaries, arms and ammunition shall be kept in plenty. The people living south of you supply you very sparingly; the President wishes you to have all things in plenty, and be nappy, and that you should be in a situation to defend yourselves against your enemies. Piamingo.—You have spoke a second time, therefore I conceive I have a right so to do. Governor Blount.—It is our wish that you should ; we will hear you with pleasure, and wish you to speak freely. Piamingo.—There is the man (pointing to Mingatuska) who was the first occasion of this mark, (pointing to the post as marked down at the mouth of Bear Creek and as agreed on by the treaty of Hopewell) but I do not now want a post established there, because it would occasion blood to be spilled. We arc, as you say, both one people; if a post is settled there, it will bring on an open war. I know how it would be, and so may you, by seeing how your people are killed or wounded even at this place. Governor Blount.—We have heard that you complained that that article of the treaty, which respected the post at Bear Creek, was not complied with; and the President would not wish you to have complaints against the United States. Piamingo.—All people are not alike; to prevent shedding of blood we object, that good men may not be lost. If all things were on a right footing, I should have no objection; but it seems as though I had reached overthe heads of enemies, to take hold of you. Could I once see the day that whites and reds were all friends, it would be like gettting new eye-sight. Governor Blount.—To-morrow I will meet you again; 1 have a little more tosay to you, and close our business. Thursday, August 9th, 1792. Governor Blount.—I make no doubt but the Indians northwest of the Ohio, with whom the United States are at war, have informed you that the cause of the war is, that the United States want to take rheir lands from them. Piamingo.—They have. Governor Blount.—It is not true; the United States have taken no lands from them: all they have sold or settled, they have bought from the red people who claimed them: but, if these people, when at war with the United States, could show that they have even a color of right, such is the justice of the United States, they would purchase it. The United States do not want to take land from any red people; they have land enough. The true cause of the war with these people Northwest of the Ohio is, that they have killed more than one thousand citizens of the United States; took many boats on the Ohio, loaded with valuable goods, and stole a v ery great number of our horses; and even yet, if these people would give proof of their wishes for peace, and assurances of future good conduct, the United States would forget and forgive what is past; but if they uo not, a large army is raising, and the war will fall on them heavier than ever. I have mentioned these, things to you, to show you at once the justice and moderation of the United States, and the causes of the war. Respecting the post at Bear Creek, at the treaty of Hopewell you requested trade to be carried to that place; you have complained that it was not heretofore done; now you have beer, informed it was shortly to be done, you object, and say it will be attended with bad consequences. 1 shall conclude for the present on that subject by informing you, the President will put it off for a time. These Cumberland people, as well those who surround us as all the other inhabitants, have ever been good people, and strict observers of treaties; and I hope you will continue that love and friendship to them which you nave heretofore shown them, in particular as they are your nearest neighbors. 1 beg you to give them the earliest information of any hostile designs you may know to be formed against them. The map you yesterday requested to be drawn anew, is done, and here it is, and with it a copy of the treaty of Hopewell, (presenting them to Piamingo.) 'Phis treaty is not altered. Wolf’s Friend.—I give this to you, (presenting one end of a string of white beads to the Governor;) hold it fast; I will, as a token of peace and friendship. I hope peace and friendship will be perpetual; that our children may be raised up in all possible happiness. Piamingo and myself are one; he is my father. 1 have no great deal to say: those who mean truth, can express it in a few words: I speak nothing else. Piamingo caused me to come here. Hold this talk fast, (delivering the other end of the white beads to the Governor.) Governor Blount.—I receive it with great pleasure, and will preserve it as an evidence of the friendship you profess. We are truly sensible of the great service Piamingo lias done his nation and the United States, and there is no doubt that he will lead his nation to happiness and glory, if they continue to follow him. I am equally anxious with you, that our children should grow up in all possible happiness, and that peace and friendship should be perpetual, and, I assure you, on the part of the United States, that they will do every tiling to contribute to these blessings. Piamingo.—I have something more to say; it is concerning useful implements of husbandry,'such as I hear our Great Father gives the Creeks and the Cherokees. We want a great many axes and hoes, hut not so many ploughs, and we hope he will give them to us also. Governor Blount.—Uo you think your people will use them? Piamingo.—They know how to use the axes and hoes, and some to plough. Governor.—I cannot promise them to you, but I will make your request known to your lather, the President, who would be happy in seeing you live like white men, by cultivating the earth, in preference to hunting. I have to ask you, the Cliickasaws, to whom I am to address my public letters? _ Answer. To Chenumbe, the king. Who shall be your interpreter in the nation? Answer. Malcolm McGee. Who do the Choctaws want for their interpreter? Answer. John Pitchlyn. By the letters you received from the Secretary of War, it appeared, the President wished to see some ot your chiefs at Philadelphia: the letters mention the number. It is not lor me to say when you shall go, or whether you shall go at all; but, if you do go, the President would not wish to see more than he has invited, and General Robertson, the deputy superintendent, will be glad to sec them on their way at his house, and so will I at mine; and will give, them the necessary assistance: let me know, in the course of this day, whether you go or not. and it you do go, when.. To-morrow morning the goods will be given out: apply, one town at a time, and determine the order in which they shall apply. The guns, for those who went with Piamingo and the Colberts, will be delivered to-day; they arc requested to collect together, and march to the store to receive them. The chiefs will to-day also receive their clothing. Friday, 10th August, 1792. The goods having been previously divided into as many shares as there were Indians, were delivered, to each his share. The inhabitants of Long Town first marched up, with Piamingoat their head; and after, the other towns, according to their order, headed by their chiefs; atid after the Chickasaws, the Choctaws according to their order. Saturday, 11 th August, 1792. Tom Brown, addressing himself to Governor Blount and General Pickens, presenting a string of white beads; Piamingo requests this string of beads to be forwarded to the President, as a token that ne is coming to visit him. He will commence his journey early next spring for Philadelphia. Governor Blount to the Secretary of War. * - Knoxville, September 26th, 1792. Sir: Herewith I enclose the. information of Joseph Deraque, given on oath before Robert Hays, a justice of the peace of Davidson county, Miro district; and of Richard Finnelson, penned by myself at this place, together with their passport from the Baron de Carondelet, Governor of Louisiana, to which I pay full faith ana credit; and I send forward Richard Finnelson himself, with the bearer, that he may be examined by you, believing that you will be better satisfied and informed by so doing, than you can any otherwise. . . I do not found my faith on the credit due to Finnelson, so much as on the consistency and corroborating circumstances contained in his narrative, and on the clear manner in which he has delivered it to me: and I make no doubt will to you, which must afford additional proof, enforcing conviction, which cannot be so fully expressed on paper. I also enclose you information respecting the conduct of the chiefs whose names are mentioned in Finnelson’s narrative, the better to shew to what cause this sudden change of conduct, and general disposition for war, is to be attributed. If a war with the Southern Indians is by you viewed as inevitable, as it is by me, it will no doubt become a question, where are men to be immediately raised? It is my opinion, that many valuable men can readily be raised for that service in the district of Washington, in Virginia, in those of Salisbury and Morgan, in North Carolina, and that of Ninety-Six, in South Carolina; I mean, to serve as militia: and, if, as a commander, my commendation was necessary, or would have any weight, I would most heartily give it in favor of General Pickens, to head those of the Carolinas: he unquestionably is a brave, prudent, experienced officer in Indian w arfare. Translation of the passport of the Baron de Carondelet. The Baron de Carondelet, Knight of the order of St. John, Colonel of the Royal Troops,’Governor, Intendant General of the Provinces of Louisiana and West Florida, and Inspector of the Troops: I grant free and safe passport to the Cherokee Indian, called Richard, to go to his nation, with a person of the name of Deraque; from whence they may return by such ways as they may find most convenient. I order the commandants of posts, by which they may pass, not to molest them, but, on the contrary, to give them what assistance they may stand in need of. r-j -I Signed with my hand, and sealed with my seal, and countersigned by the underwritten Secretary for his Majesty, in this Government and Intendancy. In New Orleans. 28th July, 1792. BARON I)E CARONDELET. Andres Lopez Armesto. Information by Richard Finnelson. That he was at L’Ance la Grace in May last, came from thence with letters from the Governor of that post, to Gen. Robertson; that he arrived at Clarksville early in June, at the mouth of Red river, and from thence, on the 16th June, took a passage in a boat belonging to a Mr. Fagot, who was himself on board, and returned to L’Ance la Grace in fifteen days; Mr. Fagot stayed five days at L’Ance la Grace; on the day after his arrival, the Governor of that post met Finnelson at the gate of the fort, and asked him if he had been at Cumberland; he answered he had been as high as the mouth of Red river; the Governor then asked him if he had any news: he answered, the Cumberland people were for peace with the Indians, knowing that was the subject of the letter he had carried for General Robertson: the Governor added, Mr. Fagot had informed him that the people of Cumberland and Kentucky intended to come and take L’Ance la Grace, and all the Spanish posts above, on the river. On the fourth day of the stay of Mr. Fagot at L’Ance la Grace, the Governor delivered him a large packet of letters for the Governor at New Orleans. On the fifth day he proceeded, with Mr. Fagot, down the Mississippi to the Natchez, where they arrived and stayed, three days; during which time, Governor Gayoso asked Finnelson how were the Indians with the people of Cumberland; he answered, they were very troublesome, and had killed many of the Cumberland people. The Governor replied, that is a thing well enough, for the lands belong to them. There was a young man on board Mr. F'agot’s boat, of the name of Sam Oz.borne, who had sundry letters from the people of Cumberland to others residing at the Natchez, settlements, which Mr. Fagot took from him, by order, as he said, of Governor Gayoso, that no private letters were to be delivered before read by the Governor. On the third day Mr. Fagot pushed oft’ down the river for Orleans, and arrived in four days. Mr. Fagot immediately went up to wait on the Governor; and returning to the boat, said to Finnelson, that he must gouptothe Governor the next day, at 8 o’clock. The next day; (for distinction say the first day of Finnelson’s conference with the Governor) Mr. Fagot and Finnelson waited on die Governor, who told the latter that he wanted him to do some business for him, tor which he would give him four hundred dollars. Finnelson answered, he would do it if he could, he was willing to serve the Governor. He then desired F. to come the next day at 8 o’clock, and he should be informed what it was. On the second day,- Finnelson went at 8 o’clock, and found the Governor and his Secretary in his study, with many papers before them. lie informed F. that he had engaged Joseph Deraque to go with him to the Chickasaws, Choctaws, Creeks, and Chero-kees, withletters; that he was to tell the heads of these nations to come to him to receive arms, ammunition, hatchets, knives, clothes, and paint, of which he had a plenty for them all, directed him to go to the store, and be an eye-witness that he had these articles in plenty, and to witness it to the nations to which he was sending him. Finnelson was accordingly conducted to a large store, by the Governor’s Secretary, in which were all the articles the Governor had mentioned, in abundance, and sundry others, proper for (Indians. On his return, the Governor asked him if he thought there were goods enough; he answered, yes. The Governor replied,you shall see as many more to-morrow. ‘‘ These goods,” adds the Governor, “ are for your people, not to buy lands, but to give to them out of good friendship; ana this is not all, they will, ever hereafter, have plenty at this place, Pensacola, and L’Ance la Grace; at the latter, a store shall be settled, in which there will be a very large quantity of guns, ammunition, hatchets, and other goods for Indians.” The Governor asked F. if he knew McGillivray; he answered, very well; he replied, if you had been here a few days ago you would have seen him, he has turned to be a new man; has resigned up the commission he received from Congress, and that for so doing, he, the Governor, allowed him 1,500 dollars a year. The Governor expressed his sorrow that any of the Indians made treaties with the United States; they only deceive the Indians with the appearance of friendship, until they can conquer,the Shawanese, and then fall on the Southern Indians^ You are always quarrelling about your lands; the lands belong to the Indians, and they must have them; the King has so ordered; showing a large written paper, saying, it contained his instructions to that effect; .that he. the Governor, had plenty of arms and ammunition, the Indians should never want them; and that if they could not themselves regain their lands, he would assist them with men, as well as arms and ammunition? that they must go to war and regain their lands, and that directly; that one of the letters he should give F. was for Sir. McGillivray; and Governor O’Neal, on F's arrival at Pensacola, would give him a letter for John Watts; that O'Neal had already given Watts his orders, but he would write him again by F., lest Watts should forget the instructions he had received. On the third day F. went to the Governor's, as requested, and found him and his Secretary in his study, as the day before; he expressed his wish to have the business F. was going on, with the Chickasaws, Choctaws, Creeks, and Cherokees, quickly completed, and that F. should bring down to him, at New Orleans, three or four of the heads of the Cherokees; that he wanted to see them; this, he says, must be done immediately, or as quick as possible. At this time, Mr. Panton passing by, saw Mr. F.in the study, and said, how do you do, Mr. Finnelson? I little thought to have seen you here. F. stepped towards him, and the Governor followed, and asked Panton to walk into the parlor, and the Secretary conducted F. to the office, where they drank wine for an hour, conversing on slight uninteresting subjects. The Governor then sent for them to the study, where he and Panton were sitting. Panton then informed F. he had lately been in the Cherokee country, and that he expected John Watts, the Young Dragging Canoe, and the Little Turkey were then at his bouse, in Pensacola, and that they would wait his return home. Dinner coining on, and while at it, Mr. Panton asked F. if he intended going to the Chickasaws and Choctaws from this place? He answered, he should, the Governor wanted him so to do. Panton then informed the Governor that he himself would go to the Chickasaws and Choctaws, and that it would be best for F. to go with him to Pensacola, and directly on to the Creeks and Cherokees; to which the Governor agreed, and said, Governor O'Neal would supply F. with a gun, ammunition and provision, horses, saddles ami bridles. The Governor then sent an officer with F., to show him another store with Indian goods, in which he saw a very great abundance of such articles as seen and described in the store he had visited the day before. On the fourth day after arriving at Orleans, F. went, at 11 o’clock, to the Governor. He expressed Lis gladness to see him; informed him Panton’s vessel would be in the river the succeeding evening; that he must hold himself in readiness, with Jo. Deraque, to go on board when Panton should send for them. After dining with the Governor, as on the second and third days, and being requested to call in the evening for the letters, he took his leave. In the evening he called on the Governor, who told him that the wind blew too hard for the vessel to sail, that he must call in the morning of the next day. On the sixth day, Finnelson and Jo. Deraque, called early in the morning, and received a letter for McGillivray and a passport. The Governor asked F. how long he would be gone; he answered from two to two months and a half, drank and took leave, and embarked on board Pan ton’s vessel for Pensacola. On the second day after leaving the Bis, was met by a schooner I’roib Pensacola, by which Panton- received a letter, and after reading it, turned to F. and said, John Watts, and two other young warriors, had been at Pensacola, but were returned home; expressed his sorrow at not being at home to see them, and said, had he been there, be would have made half the horses that carried goods, carry ammunition in preference, and said no more, but seemed much concerned. The fourth day after leaving Orleans, arrived at Mobile, when F. waited on the Governor by Panton’s advice. The Governor told him he was glad to see him, Mr. Panton had been there already; then asked for the passport, read and returned it, and desired him to proceed without delay to Governor O’Neal, at Pensacola, and to make no delay, except that of waiting for Governor O'Neal's despatches. On the third day after the arrival at Mobile, sailed for Pensacola, and being over the bar, Mr. Panton told F. that the Governor at Orleans was a good man, to attend to what he had said, to delay no time in executing what he had directed, and that it would be better for him and his country; that he (Panton) had been in the Cherokees, and could have told them a great deal, but did not want his name brought in question. On the third day after leaving Mobile, arrived at Pensacola. Finnelson, with Jo. Deraque, waited on Governor O'Neal, and shewed him their passport; the Governor said it was very well, he would see Mr. Panton, and told F. to call on him next day. F. then returned to Mr. Panton, and informed him what the Governor had said, upon which Panton immediately took his umbrella and walked to the Governor's, where be stayed about three hours. Finnelson next day called on Governor O'Neal again, who assured him, that on the succeeding day, he anil J. Deraque should have horses, saddles, bridles, a gun, ammunition, and provisions; but said, if lie would wait a day or two, the Creeks would be down for their arms and ammunition, and he would hare their company on his journey. The Governor informed F. that he had told John Watts to go to war. together with the Creeks and Choctaws, against Cumberland; that be had also already talked to the Creeks, concerning their land on the Oconee; that he lnd ordered them to go and demand it, and if the whites would not go oft-civilly, to fall on them and cut them off’; and desired F. to tell all the Creeks he saw. to join the Choctaws and Cherokees in war, and to go quickly, for now was their time to strike, or never, as the United States were engaged in a war with the Shawanese. The Governor said he had already told John Watts these things, but he. F. must repeat them to him. On the third day after arriving at ‘Pensacola, Governor O’Neal delivered F. and J. Deraque the horses in his yard, and a gun and ammunition from the King's store, and a letter lrom John Watts, and gave an order on Panton for the saddles anil bridles, which were delivered. Upon Finnelson returning to Panton*s house with the letter, Panton said, if there was any thing the Governor had been deficient in, to inform him (Panton) and it should be supplied. Upon F. being about to leave Pensacola, Panton said lie should shortly set out for the Choctaws and Chickasaws, and expected to be with them as soon as F. could be in the Cherokees. Governor O’Neal, in his conversation with F. this day, said. Governor Blount, who was a cunning artful man, was sent to hold treaties with the Southern Indians, and to keep them in peace until the United States had conquered the Shawanese, and then they would have nothing to do but to fall on them and cut them oft', and that now, or never, was the time to strike. Governor O’Neal also told F. to tell John Watts, to make no delay, but send down immediately for bis arms and ammunition; to call on the Spanish commissary, who lives at McGillivray"s town, at the Hickory Ground, and get tickets as to the , number of the warriors in the respective towns. On the fourth day alter arriving at Pensacola, Finnelson and J. Deraque sat out for the Creeks and Cherokees; they met on the path, going to Pensacola, in different parties, about three hundred Creeks, who said they were going for their ammunition and guns, and that on their return, they would go to war against Cumberland. On the third day. in the evening, alter leaving Pensacola, Finnelson and Deraque, arrived at the Savannah town (of the Creeks) and hearing McGillivray was not at home, but sick at his sisters, F. left the letter he received from the Governor at Orleans, with one of McGillivray V traders. They stayed at the Savannah town one night, there they saw the Black Dog, the chief of the town: he said, as soon as Ins people returned from Pensacola, we shall turn out. to war against Cumberland, in conjunction with the Cherokees; this he said F. might depend upon, as the two nations were friends. aruTThe Cherokees may expect to see us at the beginning of the next new moon, and requested F. to tell his friends, the Cherokees, to remember his talk—that he would be with them with his warriors. The Black Dog named the Creek towns that were for war, namely: the Savannah, the Eufaulies, Tuckaubatchees, M ackakoy, the Cow Towns, the Little Eufanly, the White Ground, the Hickory Ground, the Oakbusky, Tuskegee. The Black Dog and the Standing Turkey informed F. that McGillivray had resigned his commission from Congress, and taken the Spaniards by the hand, and expressed their gladness on the occasion. Stayed one night at the Savannah town, and started forward for the Cherokees, and arrived at Red-headed Will’s town, commonly called Will's town, the residence of John Watts, about ten o'clock the fourth day, who had then returned from Pensacola, three day’s before, together with Tafimteeskee (commonly called Watts’ uncle) and the Young Dragging Canoe, where were assembled a great number of Cherokees in council, at the square. Finnelson and J. Deraque halted, and listened fifteen minutes—John Watts was speaking; he said the young fellows were always wanting war; now the time was come, when they might try themselves; there are enough of us, and if there are not, we have friends enough to back us of Creeks and Choctaws, likewise our old brothers the Spaniards. This is what I have been told by Governor O’Neal. This is the truth, and you may depend upon it. I have seen him and talked to him myself; you now must show yourselves. All you young men who like war, go with me to-morrow; we will liave a great many more men, mid we will settle matters better when we all get together. Watts sat down, and F. turned off and went to Red-headed Will’s, and turned out his horses, as did also J. Deraque, and stayed there until the afternoon, and returned to the square, where the Bloody Fellow was up sneaking in the centre of the council. He told them not to go to war; it was a bad step they were taking; that he had been to hunt lor the brothers they thought were dead, and that he found them; they were good people, the same as ever; they did not wish to hurt them (the Che-rokees) nor their children. Look here at the things I fetched for myself, likewise for you warriors! When was the day that ever you went to your father and fetched as much as I have? I did not go by myself, others went with me. If I had gone by myself, perhaps you might have thought that I had made it myself. You had better take my talk and stay at home, and mind your women and children. The.Bloody Fellow still standing, Talohtisky rose ana said, “ I too have been to Pensacola, and seen the Governor as well as Watts, and heard his talk. I think a great deal of his talk, for it is good. I shall try to do as he directed me;” and sat down. TheBloody Fellow proceeded: “ Look,” says he, “at that flag; don’t you see the stars in it? They are not towns, they are nations; there are thirteen of them. These arc people who are very strong, and are the same as one man; and if you know when you are well, you had better stay at home and mind your women and children.” The Bloody Fellow still standing, John Watts again got up and came forward, said, “ the day is come when I must bloody my hands again. To-morrow I shall send offa runner to the Creek nation to fetch my friends in. Then I shall nave people enough to go with me to Cumberland or any place that I want to go to.” All then dispersed forabouthalf an hour, then returned stripped all to their flaps, painted black? dancing the war dance in the square around the flag of the United States, and continuing to dance until the evening. At night they went to the town house, and continued the war dance all night. On the second day after arriving at Will’s town, Finnelson returned from Iied-headed Will’s again to the square, met the Bloody Fellow, who took him by the hand, and asked him where he had been so long? F. answered, travelling through the Spanish country. John Watts sitting near, and hearing the conversation, called F. to sit down by him, and asked the news from the Governor at Orleans. F. answered, not much, but he wanted to see some of the Cherokees, for to deliver to them their guns and ammunition. Watts asked F. if there was no other news. He answered no, not choosing to give him any other answer. Watts said, you have a letter; Little John saw it falling out of your clothes at Ited-headed Will’s. I J in a lulling F. answered he had a paper, but it was not for him. Watts desired him to go and bring that paper. F. went and took the letter Governor O’Neal had given him, for Watts, tore it and flung it into a creek, and brought the passport from the Governor at Orleans, which having the Spanish arms on it, satisfied Watts, Little John declaring those were the arms he saw on the paper that dropped. The Bloody Fellow standing by and hearing this, spoke and said: “I have been and found my lost brothers; see how well they have used me! 1 mean no war with them,” taking hold of his medal; “this is silver, and surely must have cost a good deal of money,” and his coat with silver epaulettes, and his scarlet match coat, with broad silver lace, “ when was the day that ever you went to see your old brother (meaning Stuart, the British superintendent) and that you brought home the like of this? I have brought a good deal of good rich clothes to many of you as well as myself. I would wish none of you to go to war, but lay at peace, as I intend to do myself. I can go over the mountains and live in peace.” John Watts, upon the Bloody Fellow mentioning the medal, pulled his oft'and laid it on the ground. The Bloody Fellow still standing on the block, the son of the White Owl rose and said: “My father was a man, and I am as good as he was. To war I will go, and spill blood in spite of what you can say. From this day out I will do as I please.” John Watts then got up and took him by the hand, and leading him forward, said to him, “ You are a man, and I like your talk; to war we will go together.” The Bloody Fellow proceeded, “ lTou had better not go, for you know nothing about what you are going to do.” The Bloody Fellow continuing to stand, the Shawanee warrior (who has for years past lived in the Running Water with about thirty other Shawanese) rose, and advancing said, stretching out his hands, “ With these hands I have taken the life of three hundred men, and now the time is come when they shall take the life of three hundred more; then I will be satisfied, and sit down in peace. I will now drink my fill of blood.” The Bloody Fellow having sat down, rose and spoke, “If you will goto war you must go; 1 shall not,” and sat down, appearing much dejected and dissatisfied. John Halts. To morrow you must repair to the Look-out Mountain town, where we will assemble together and lay off how we will attack the frontiers of Holston; upon which the council generally rose, declaring they would join with Watts in war, and dispersed for about an hour and a half, then from four to five Hundred returned to the squares, stripped to their flaps, painted black, with their guns and hatchets, and commenced the war dance round the flag of the United States, which they continued till night. During their dancing, many of them fired balls through the flag, upon which the Bloody Fellow ordered them to desist, or he should do as he had before done, (meaning kill some of them.) The firing at if ceased. At night the war dance was removed to the town house, and kept up till next morning. On the third day after arriving at Will’s town, the whole party assembled at the Look-out Mountain town, to the number of 600, and 200 were picked out for horsemen, and John Taylor appointed to command them. There were at least two hundred good horses on the ground, which had certainly been stolen from the citizens of the United States. In the afternoon the place of attack was taken up, and it was determined to attack the Holston settlements in four divisions of two hundred in each division, and to sweep the settlements as far as the Long Island of Holston, then to divide into smaller parties up French Broad, and sweep it to the head. The council then adjourned, and went to the war dance, which they continued until next morning, painted black as before. On the fourth day after arriving at Will’s town, the party met again at the Look-out Mountain town, and determined to attack Cumberland in four divisions, and clear that, county of all living people. Orders were given by Watts, Taylor, The Glass, Talohtiske, Fool Charles, (by some called Captain Charley) and The Breath, to provide provision on the next day, and be ready to start lor war on the succeeding day. About an hour and a half after issuing these orders, information was received that the White Man-killer had arrived in a canoe from Knoxville, with a quantity of whiskey,[at themouth of the Look-outMountain creek, distant from the Look-out Mountain town about fifteen miles. Men were immediately despatched to bring it up to the town, and, on its arrival, all hands turned in to drinking, neglecting the order for providing lor war. On the fifth day after arriving at Will’s town, the party generally lay drunk and stupified, and no public talk was held. Jo. Deraque spoke English as well as Finnelson. He had been at Cumberland several months previous to his « going down the river with Mr. Fagot, and felt for the people there. He observed to Finnelson it was a pity they should be murdered there, without having notice to defend themselves, and proposed to F. that they should contrive some mode to do it. F. told him it would be a hard matter to get there, but it he would leave it to him, he would manage it: for he also having been there, and well treated, felt for the people of that country, and in order to pei . themselves in a situation to get oft’ on the fourth day after arriving at Will’s town, they went to Nickajack, tw to get ___________|        ivelvc miles from the Look-out Mountain town, and they concluded they would tell the Indians who were for war, that the Governor at Orleans had a friend, a spy, living at Cumberland"; that they were sent to this spy friend, (Mr. I). Mombreun) to collect intelligence as to the number of men, and in what manner the place could be best attacked, to ensure success with the least loss. On the sixth day, in the morning, that is, after arriving at Will’s town, J. Deraque was sent for from Nickajack to the Look-out Mountain town, to be examined touching his instructions from the Governor at Orleans, to his friend M. 1). Mombreun, at Cumberland, who so satisfied the council and warriors of the truth of what he said, that they agreed that he, with Finnelson, should go on to Cumberland, to Mr. 1). Mombreun, and gave him ten days precisely to return; and that they would desist from war until that time; and that, if he did not arrive in that time, they were to be sure he was dead. Immediately after the return of J. Deraque to Finnelson, at Nickajack, they started for Cumberland, that is, on the sixth day, two hours before sunset, fearing, if they stayed till morning, that they would not be permitted to go on. Whilst J. Deraque was gone to the council at the Look-out Mountain town, a woman informed F. that Shaw and Carey had informed Governor Blount of what the Lower towns were about, and that the warriors were determined to kill them and the Indian who should have been the carrier of the letters, and persuaded F. to go and give them notice, that they might escape. The Breath arrived at Nickajack a little before J. Deraque returned to F., and informed him that the council had agreed to then-going to Cumberland, and added that the council had also determined to write to Governor Bloijnt, and inform him that the rumor of war in the lower towns arose from a few drunken young fellows, and that the heads, who were for peace, had stopped them. This, he said, would prevent any bad consequences from the information given by i Shaw and Carey, and put the Governor oft' his guard. On the fifth day after leaving Nickajack, they arrived at Cumberland, about eleven o'clock, and made the whole matter known. On their way, they pushed so hard, lest they should be pursued by the Cherokees, that Joseph Deraque killed his horse, and then pushed forward on foot. Finnelson adds, that Governor O’Neal told him he had silver hiked swords making for the Cherokee chiefs, to distinguish them in battle. RICHARD FINNELSON. his + mark. (The Bird Tribe.) United States, ^towif District of Pennsylvania, 5 On the first day of November, in the year of our Lord 1792. before me. Richard Peters, Judge of the district court of the United States in and for the Pennsylvania district, came Richard Finnelson, a Cherokee Indian of the half blood, and being sworn on the holy evangels of Almighty God, (after having the nature of an oath explained, and declaring that he believed in the doctrines contained in the New Testament, audits divine authority) doth depose and say, that he is perfectly well acquainted with the contents of the foregoing papers, which were written from information given by him, and that the said papers contain a just and true account ot the several matters and things therein set forth. The deponent speaks the English language well, and says that lie could read and write in that language, but has not now the same facility, either in reading or writing, he formerly had. Given under rav nand and seal, at Philadelphia, the dav and vear aforesaid. RICHARD PETERS. information by Governor Blount, respecting the Cherokee Chiefs whose names are mentioned in the narrative given by Richard Finnelson. Knoxville, September 26, 1792. John Watts was a signer to the treaty of Holston; was in February with Governor Blount several days at Knoxville, received several valuable presents from him, and expressed die strongest friendship for the United States, and his great personal attachment for the Governor. He again met the Governor at the conference at Coyatee, was the immediate author of the honor there paid the United States and the Governor, and during the stay ot the Governor at Coyatee several days, he appeared the warm and open friend of the Government and the Governor. When the Governor was about to leave Coyatee, and return home, Watts assured him he would be with him in ten nights at Knoxville, spend some days with him, and that he would then determine where he would meet the Governor, to accompany him through die wilderness to Nashville, where die Governor had invited him to attend, and be present at the conference with the Chickasaws and Choctaws. Thus, at parting with Watts at Coyatee, the Governor considered him as the great friend of the United States and himself, nor does the Governor yet doubt that was surely the fact. But there is great reason to believe that Watts received a runner at Coyatee, a few hours after the Governor left it, from Panton. It is beyond all doubt Panton induced him to go to Pensacola. The information given by Deraque and Finnelson, may account for his conduct since his return. Tolottiske is also a signer to the treaty of Holston: is the nephew' of the old Tassel, has ever breathed resentment for his death; that lie probably was readily induced to adopt the measures recommended by Governor O’Neal. Watts is also the nephew of the Tassel; but after the treaty, he declared he would no more think of revenge; that lie had already sought and obtained it. Panton is well acquainted with the Cherokees, as well as the other three nations: must have known these things, and selected them as proper instruments lor that reason. John Taylor, to w hom the command of the cavalry was given, was the first Indian who appeared on the ground at the treaty of Ilolston; was very instrumental, on his return to Chota, in setting the chiefs ot the nation forward to treat; returned to the ground with them, lived with Governor Blount as one of Ins family during the continuance oi the treaty, ate and drank at his table as one of his family, and slept by his side, and received particular marks of his favor. He did not sign the treaty, because he was not, by the nation, considered a chief. He again visited the Governor in February, at Knoxville, with Watts, stayed with him as long, was treated as he had been at the treaty of the Governor, and again received particular marks of his favor. During his stay with the Governor, he assured him that lie had a wish to raise a company of Cherokees, in which he wanted a lieutenant’s command, to fight against the Shawanese, and proposed that John McKee should be the captain. So well did he express his friendship that the Governor believed, anu often said, that, in case even of a general war with the Chero-kces, he was sure of a friend in John Taylor, under every contingency. The Breath of Nickajack was at the conference at Coyatee. Besides his public talks, he made repeated professions of his attachment to the United States, and his determinations to adhere to the treaty of Holston. Hemet the boats w ith the goods for the Chickasaw and Choctaw conference, at.Tuskegee; went on board one of them with Mr. Allison, and proceeded down to Nickajack; giving undoubted and strong proofs of his friendship for the United States, declared, if the boats should be attacked as they passed the Running Water, w hich there wras great reason to expect, by the Shawanese warrior and his party, that he would assist in the defence of them, and Mr. Allison believes he woulcl. Fool Charles, or Captain Charley, a chief of the Running Water, was at the conference at Coyatee; there gave assurances of his determination to adhere to the treaty of Holston, and proof of his attachment to the person ot the Governor. On his return from the conference to the Running Water, he gave such proofs of his attachment to the United States, that the Shawanese living in that town took otfence, fell on him, and much injured him; he met the boats at Tuskcgee with the goods for the Chickasaw and Choctaw conference, went on board as an escort, until he arrived near the Running Water, then advised the sending forward a quantity of whiskey to the Shaw'anese warrior and his [tarty, at the Running Water, in order to draw their attention from the boats, which it was feared they would attack; took a canoe and went with it himself, in order to assist in carrying his plan into execution. Mr. Allison then considered him as one of the firmest friends the United States had. The Glass, of the Look-out Mountain town, Governor Blount has never seen, but has received repeated written and verbal assurances of peace and friendship, since March last, in which the Governor had full faith. Such was the conduct of these chiefs but a short time previous to the return of John Watts from Pensacola, and such was his own previous to his going to Pensacola. To the Spanish Government is this change of conduct justly to be charged. WM. BLOUNT. 77ic information of Joseph Deraque. I am a native of Canada, and came first to Cumberland in the employ of a Mr. Fagot. On the 16th June Mr. Fagot left Red river and proceeded down the Cumberland. In his boat I embarked for New Orleans, as a laborer to row. On coming near L’Ance la Grace, Mr. Fagot told me and all his men to tell the same story to the commandant which he should, which was, that the people of the United States from Cumberland and Kentucky were preparing to attack the Spanish settlements. The commandant,at L’Ance la Grace gave Mr. Fagot a large packet to Governor Carondelet, at New Orleans, which, when Mr. Fagot delivered, he told the same tale, as to the hostile intentions of the United States, that he had to the commandant of L’Ance la Grace, as I have everyreaspn tobelieve: for.the ollicers and others at Orleans told me «o, and asked me if it was true. To this I answered, 1 had no reason INDIAN AFFAIRS. [1792. to question the veracity of Mr. Fagot, but I was not informed of the intentions of the Americans. Governor Caron-delet then told me he had sent by MeGillivray to inform the Creeks, Cherokees, and Choctaws, they must come to him to get arms and ammunition, but he wanted me to go again on the same errand, which I agreed to. One Richard Finnelson, a Cherokee half breed, who came down in the boat from Cumberland, he sent with me, and gave us a passport. He told us to invite the Creeks, Cherokees, and Choctaws, but more particularly the two first, to come ~-jto him and get guns and ammunition, and go to war against the people of Cumberland and Holston; that the lands were theirs, and the property of no other people, and he would furnish them with means to defend it; and to be active and unanimous m going to war quickly. We came by water to Mobile, and, from thence, to Pensacola, then to the Creeks, by land. Between these two last places we met, in several different parties? about three hundred Creek Indians, going to Pensacola for arms and ammunition, as they said, to go to war against the United States, and that by the directions of the Spanish officers. Indeed Governor O’Neal, commandant at Pensacola, told me himself he had orders to excite the Creeks, Cherokees, Choctaws, and Chiekasaws, to war against the United States, though he doubted whether the last would join. On arriving among the Creeks, we found them generally preparing for war against the United States, and they said they would set out as soon as their ammunition should arrive. Wilfstown was the first Cherokee settlement I came to, which was about the 2d instant. There I found them assembled, to the number of at least six hundred, debating whether they should come to war against the people of Cumberland or not. The White Owl’s son said, among the first, that he would not be restrained from goingto war; Tahlontiske was the next; they were followed by Watts, John Taylor, Young Dragging-canoe, the Glass, and others. They seemed very unanimous to go to war immediately against the people of Cumberland and Holston. This was vehemently opposed by the Bloody Fellow, who spoke two days against it, to no purpose. Finding they were determined to set off for war, and I being very desirous they should not, in order to circumvent them, I told them I was sent from Governor Carondelet to one de Mombre, at Cumberland, who would inform him' of the situation of that country, and point out the most proper places to be attacked. By showing them the Governor’s passport, they were deceived, and suffered us to go on. They agreed they would wait ten days for our return, and no more. The letters which de Mombre should write to Governor Carondelet I was to show them. On the way from the Cherokees to Cumberland, I came by a camp of four Creeks, who were hunting for moc-cason skins and provision, to enable them to come to war against Cumberland. These Indians told me, as many of the Creeks when in their nation had done, that, as soon as their ammunition should arrive from Pensacola, upwards of a thousand of them would turn out to war against Cumberland and Holston, and that they certainly wmuld be at Cumberland this moon. When I was among the Cherokees, they told me a Mr. Shaw had given to Governor Blount information, by letter, of their intentions to go to war; but that Watts, the Glass, and some others of the hostile chiefs, would write another letter to Governor Blount, feigning their friendship, to take off the bad effect of Mr. Shaw’s, and deceive Governor Blount. When I came away from Orleans, Mr. Fagot could not pay me my wages, because he had not sold his cargo. The Governor promised me five hundred dollars to do his business, and deliver the forementioned message to the four nations, and to Richard Finnelson he promised four hundred. Nashville, September 15, 1792. This day Joseph Deraque, who has signed the within, personally came before me, a justice of the peace for the county of Davidson, and made oath, on the holy Evangelists, that the facts related in the within narrative, where mentioned to be of his own knowledge, are true, and where not to his own knowledge, he believes them to be true; in short, that it is a true narrative. JOSEPH DERATTE,his + mark. ROBERT HAYS, Justice of the Peace. Nashville, September 15, 1792. I I was the whole of Joseph Deraque’s journey from Nashville to Orleans, and back by land to this place in his company, and do aver that the within is a true narrative. RICHARD FINNELSON, his + mark. Knoxville, September 25, 1792. Upon inquiry, 1 find that Joseph Ileratte, otherwise Deraque, had lived at Nashville about six months previous to his going down the river with Mr. Fagot, and that he was and is there considered a man of veracity. He was well known to M.De Mombray, of Nashville, as was also Mr. Fagot; M. De Mombray is a man of undoubted veracity and character, and he fully believes the foregoing information is true. It is supposed that Mr. Fagot’s motives for giving the information he did, was to obtain favor with the Spanish Government, to the end that he might get his tobacco into the King’s stores, and obtain the price there given, and the influence of Government to save him from die arrest of his Spanish creditors, who were numerous. AVILL1AM BLOUNT. Governor Blount to the Secretary of TVar. Knoxville, September 27, 1792. I have determined to call into the field, for the protection and defence of the territory, as quick as possible, in addition to the troops enumerated in my letter of yesterday’s date, seven companies, from the different counties: one for three months and the other for six weeks; and the Greene county troop of cavalry, making in the whole (all of the district of Washington, besides Sharp’s battalion, whose times, as I have before informed you, will expire on the 11th of October) fourteen companies of Infantry, and the Greene troop of cavalry, with the necessary field officers, and to be commanded by Brigadier General Sevier, whose high character in Indian warfare, and the necessity for his service, will, I hope, justify his being called to the command of so few troops. I have the honor to be, &c. WILLIAM BLOUNT. Governor Blount to the Secretary of War. Knoxville, Sunday, October 7, 1792. Sir: The enclosed papers contain all the information I have received, worth communicating, from the Cherokees, since writing you by Mr. Allison on the 26th September. For many days past I have hourly been in expectation of an express from Cumberland: nor have I heard ot the Creeks and Cherokees, since they passed the Tennessee, as mentioned in the letter of the Breath and Charley, and by John Boggs on the 17th of September. The militia are turning out with unusual alacrity; some of them have made their appearance from the upper counties, and the whole number called for, will be here by Saturday night. I hope for the honor of your orders as speedily as possible, ana have that of being, with very great respect, yours, &e- 1792.] GENERAL VIEW. °293 [enclosures. ] Look-out Mountain, September 15, 1792. Friend and Brother: We have heard your letter you sent to I he Glass and the Bloody Fellow: the Bloody Fellow is at home, and the Glass is gone to the Little Turkey; we are very glad to see it; we are likewise glad to see it is in our power to stop the young fellows from going to war with the whites, our elder brothers, as our people and your people are living as it were together, you and them is so near each other; you mention that we ought to consider matters well, before beginning a war; it is -very true; war is very bad, and I hope you nor us shall see no more of it, but live in peace. But we are sorry to inform you—you may think it a lie, but we assure you it is the truth—that we are very sorry that, four days after our people had dispersed to their different homes, there was a great number of Creeks passed by here for several days; it was out of our power to stop them; they said there was several hundreds crossed the river low down, and had with them 500 lbs. of powder and lead accordingly; they said they were going to Cumberland; it is not the principal head-men of the Creek nation, but young fellows, and indeed a great number of them boys. They said, that Colonel Robertson and General Pickens bad told Ccdeatoy what we before told you. that they would go and see Colonel Robertson at his home. We are much obliged to you for your advice in telling us take care, as the innocent would undoubtedly suffer. We have told you of the Creeks always going, and we hope you will not let any of our people sillier tor the bad doings of the Creeks, for we tell you they are gong; the exact number we do not know. We heard that John Sevier says it will not be long before he sets out for war; that he is to come to this place, and all about here, and that there is another warrior to come, with an army from Tugulo, in order to destroy the nation; such talks makes our young people very uneasy; we could wish that your warriors would not send such talks, unless you intend to do so. These from Your friends and brothers. THE BREATH and CHARLES. His Excellency William Blount. Note.—There must be a mistake in the date of this letter; from the information collected from Boggs, it must have been written on the 23d September, 1792. On Friday the 28th September, 1792, John Boggs returned to Knoxville, from the five Lower tow ns, where he had been to carry the letters of the 14th instant, from Governor Blount to the Glass and the Bloody Fellow, in answer to theirs of the 10th September, and delivered to Governor Blount the letter of The Breath of Nickajack. and Charley of the Running Water, dated September 15th, 1792. [There must have been a mistake in the date of this letter, it was probably written on the 23d September.] Boggs continued with Governor Blount, from Friday the 28th. to Sunday the 30th, and with him the Hanging Maw, Unaeata, the brother of John Watts, and three other Indians. During this time. Governor Blount extracted all the information he. possibly could, respecting the Indians, and both Boggs and the Maw appeared to be quite candid and communicative. The amount of the information given by John Boggs, was, that from the 15th to the 17th instant, the Creeks were passing the Tennessee at the Running Water, Nickajack, and at a place called the Creek-crossing-place, about thirty miles below Nickajack, on their way to invade the district of Miro, (Cumberland settlement) and that they were joined by from 100 to 200 Cherokees, among whom was John Watts, and that the Creeks had with them a great quantity of powder and lead, which they had received from the Spaniards; that the whole were to rendezvous at the place where the different paths came together on their way towanls-Nashville, and concert their measures of attack upon the Cumberland settlements. That while he was at the Look-out Mountain, he was informed that Richard Finnelson and a Frenchman had passed on from Pensacola to Cumberland, to obtain information of the true situation of that country, and were to return in ten nights, and report such as they could collect. That he found it generally understood in the Lower towns, as well as the other parts of the nation through which he passed, that such of the inhabitants of the five Lower towns as did not want war, had best leave them; and that such of the other tir.vns as did want war had best move to them, and that someof both parties were moving, so as to take the situation which best suited their wishes and disposition for war or peace. Boggs is a half breed, well known to many white people, and by all parties viewed as a man of veracity. The Hanging Maw said he and the Little Turkey, and all the chiefs of the Cherokees, except of the five Lower towns, were for peace; and that the five Lower towns were for war; that they expected to be attacked and destroyed, and were providing against that event: some intended moving nearer the Creeks: others to go west of the Mississippi, near L'Ance la Grace, and others, among whom was the Shawanese warrior, and his party of the Running Water, to form a settlement at the Creek crossing place of the Tennessee, a small distance above the Shoals, at the mouth of a creek on the south side, there to be joined and supported in a perpetual war against the United States, by a party of Shawanese, who are expected shortly to arrive at that place by water, by way of the Ohio and Tennessee. Unaeata the brother of John Watts, a good natured pleasant fellow, on Saturday, having drank freely of whiskey, ami conversing with the Maw, Boggs, and the other Indians, told several stories, with much humor, of the attention that Governor Blount and the white people had always paid to Watts, whenever became among them: now he said Watts was for war with the whites, and had sent for him to join him; and he had given Watts for answer that the whites had given him (Watts) a great many fine clothes; and that he had grown saucy: all the clothes he (Unaeata) had, he had earned and paid for; and that if he (Watts) went to war and fell, lie might lie there, he (Unaeata) would not pick him up; meaning he would not revenge his death, according to their law. This conversation was overheard by Captain Chisolm and Mr. McKee, who understood what he said. Governor Blount asking the Hanging Maw about another Unaeata, who, with his wife, had been with the Governor in the latter part of August, ten or twelve days, been well treated, and made great professions of friendship, was answered, that he, too, had thought him a good man; but Watts had carried him to war, and he supposed he must be killed. Knoxville, September 30//;, 1792. A message from Kenoteta, or rising Fawn, of Hiwassee, to Governor Blount, received at Hiwassee on the 1st, and delivered at Knoxville on the 5th of October, 1792, by John Christian. [Kenoteta is an old head-man, and was a signer to the treaty of Hopewell.] “ The mountains near you have many Indians in them for war; take care of your people; don’t let them go out by twos or tlirees even to their fields. The Lower towns are all together, and so are the Creeks; make haste and come and destroy them. Come by Hiwassee, and I will find you provisions as you pass. Talahtiske was here the other day from the Lower towns, saying that he had thrown away his war talks, and was now for peace: don’t you believe him, he is still for war, and means to raise a party and join his brother. The Bench and another brother of his, the Tail, passed here yesterday with three other Cherokees of Will’s town, and five Creeks, declaring they were going to kill Jo. Sevier. Take care of them, they will do some mischief before thev return. “ A number of Shawanese have already settled down on the Big river,* at the mouth of a creek; and many more are coming: those who have arrived, have with them manv goods—blankets, and stronds, and other goods; where they got them I do not know; but they must have destroyed a good many people, to get them either by water or land.” 38 * The Cherokees call the Tennessee the Big river. Information by John Christian, who lives at Estanaula, with James Carey, and who brought up Gallaspie’’s son from thence to his father, and arrived at Knoxville the 5th October, 1792. That as he came through the Cherokee nation with Gallaspie’s son, Moyatoy, a Cherokee at Springs tores place,* came up to them, and said to him, you are an old man, go along, but this boy and his horse I will have. Christian replied to him he was joking: no, lie said, he was not, he would have boy and horse. Upon which the warrior’s son of Estanaula, who had been selected by the head-men of that place to accompany Christian, and ensure safety to young Gallaspie, stepped up, and said he would protect him at the risk of his life. Moyatoy desisted, and Christian proceeded in safety with the warrior’s son to Hiwassee, and there Culsetahe, the son-in-law of the Rising Fawn, joined the party, the better to ensure safety to young Gallaspie, and came with them to Craig’s station on Nine-mile creek. Christian adds, that the chiefs, without exception, of all the Cherokee towns, except the five Lower, were for peace; but, that many of the young men of every part of the nation, discovered an inclination to join the war party of the Lower towns. On the 2d of October, 1792, Black’s blockhouse, on the head of Crooked creek, a branch of Little river, at which there was a sergeant’s command from Captain Crawford’s company, was atacked by surprise about an hour and a half in night, by a party of Indians,'commanded by a Cherokee of Will’s town, called the Tail, a brother of the Bench and Talotiske, consisting of three other Cherokees and five Creeks. James Paul was killed in the house, and George Moss and Robert Sharpe sitting out by a tire, and John Shankland wounded, and three horses were killed and seven earned off. Governor Blount to the Secretary of War. Sir: Knoxville, October 10th, 1792. Yesterday I received an express from General Robertson, by which I have the enclosed account of the attack upon Buchanan’s station on the 30th September: his letter was dated on the 3d instant, on the Indian Trail, four miles from Buchanan’s station, where lie was encamped with three hundred men, waiting the return of the recon-noitering party._ The express informs me, after he left the General, lie (the express) received information of twenty-four Indians being seen on that morning at Fletcher’s Lick, eight miles southwest of Nashville, and seven on the north side of the river, about as many miles distant from the town: the first mentioned fired upon Mr. Joselin, and the latter upon Mr. McRory; but neither received any wound. This is all I have yet heard of the large body of the Creeks and Cherokees that passed the Tennessee, from the 15th to the 17th September, as mentioned by the Breath, Charley, and John Boggs. Fourteen days elapsed from the passing of the Tennessee to the attack upon Buchanan’s station, when the distance between could have been marched in from four to six days. Difference in opinion, as to the mode and place of attack, at the rendezvous after they passed at the Tennessee, probably was the cause of the delay; 1 have no other way to account for it; and it is a rock on which large parties of Indians have generally split, especially when consisting of more than one nation. It,is to be hoped the repulsed party will return with their wounded, and it is to be feared, from the firing of the parties upon Joselin and McRory, that such small parties will continue on the frontiers, and commit depredations, but not such as were justly apprehended, when it was known so large a party hud passed the Tennessee. General Robertson received my order of the 14th to discharge the militia in service, under my order of the 11th, on the 20th of September, but hesitated to execute it, because he had been previously informed by Jo. Deraqne and Richard Finnelson, that"the chiefs of the Lower towns would write me as they did, (alluding to the letters of the Galss and the Bloody Fellow) with an intention to deceive me; the event has proved the truth of the information, and justified the General’s conduct. The express further informs me that the Cumberland people are in good spirits; and employ every hour, when they are not embodied for the common defence, in erecting block-houses and stockades, the better to ensure safety to their families. I am without information worth communicating, both from the Upper and Lower Cherokees, since that received by John Bogs and the Hanging Maw. Since the 11th of September, the day on which I received the letter from the Turkey and the other chiefs of the Upper towns, giving me notice of the determination of the five Lower for war, and of theirs to continue in peace and friendship, I have omitted no occasion of impressing the people under my government with the necessity of considering the Upper towns as much friends as if the Lower had not declared for war; and I have the pleasure to assure you that their conduct, notonly in observing the treaty, but in their treatment of the friendly Indians, deserves the highest commendation; and ~ ” at Swatmano, had proper to forward : inlormation on which I fully depend, that several young men of the Upper have joined the Lower towns; and there is no doubt but more will; and even suppose they ultimately all should, (which I do not suspect) I trust it will be thought good policy in me to keep the friendship of as many as I can, until I have the honor of your orders on that head. , Only part of two companies have arrived here since the return made to your office of Major Sawyer’s battalion; but in the course of ten days I expect nearly the whole number called*for by my order of the 27th September, of which I gave you information in my letter of that date by Mr. Allison. ' . The Captain de Mombray, of Nashville, whose name is mentioned in the information of Jo. Deraque and Richard Finnelson, is the bearer of this letter, an old resident of Kaskaskias. where he served as a Captain under General George Rogers Clark, last war, with reputation, and is now a valuable and respectable citizen. I have the honor to be, &c. Jin account of the attack, by the Creeks and Cherokees, upon Buchanan'’s Station, on the 30th September, 1792. On the 30th September, about midnight, John Buchanan’s Station, four miles south of Nashville, (at'which sundry families had collected, and fifteen gun-men) was attacked by a party of Creeks and Lower Cherokees, supposed to consist of three or four hundred. Their approach was suspected by the running of cattle, that hail taken fright at them, and, upon examination, they were found rapidly advancing within ten yards of the gate; from this place and distance they received the first fire from the man who discovered them, (John Me. Rory.") They immediately returned the fire, and continued a very heavy and constant firing upon the station, (blockhouses, surrounded with a stockade) for an hour, and were repulsed with considerable loss, without injuring man, woman, or child, in the station. During the whole time of attack, the Indians were not more distant than ten yards from the blockhouse, and often in large numbers round the lower walls, attempting to put fire to it. One ascended the roof with a torch, where he was shot, and, falling to the ground, renewed his attempts to fire the bottom logs, and was killed. The Indians fired 30 balls through a port-hole of the overjutting, which lodged in the roof in the circumference of a hat, and those sticking in the walls, on the outside, were very numerous. Upon viewing the ground next morning, it appeared that the fellow who was shotfrom the roof, was a Cherokee half-breed of the Running Water, known by the whites by the name of Tom Tunbridge’s step-son, the son of a French woman,by an Indian, and there was much blood, and signs that many dead had been dragged off, and litters having been made to carry their wounded to their horses, which they had left a mile from the station. Near the blockhouse were Forty ip'des from Cliota. found several swords, hatchets, pipes, kettles, and budgets of different Indian articles; one of the swords was a fine Spanish blade, and richly mounted in the Spanish fashion. In the morning previous to the attack, Jonathan Gee, and -------Clayton were sent out as spies, and on the ground, among other articles left by the Indians, were found a handkerchief and a moccason, known one to belong to Gee, and the other to Clayton, hence it is supposed they are killed. Address of Governor Blount, of the 2d October, 1792, to the frontier inhabitants of the State of North Carolina. William Blount, Governor in and over the territory of the United States of America South of the river Ohio, to the frontier inhabitants of the State of North Carolina: Gentlemen: No doubt, you-who are so immediately interested in the event of a Cherokee and Creek war, are anxious to be informed of the conduct and intentions of those two nations. On the 11th September the Little Turkey, and the other principal Chiefs of the Upper Cherokee towns, gave me information, in writing, that the five Lower towns of the Cherokees were for war against the United States, and that every other part of the nation was for peace; and three days past the Hanging Maw,-and other Chiefs of the Upper towns, were with me at this place, and gave assurances to the same purport. Good policy, as well as my own feelings, have induced me to recommend to the frontier inhabitants of this territory! to treat that part of the Cherokee nation which have declared for peace, in the same friendly manner as if no part had declared for war; and permit me, gentlemen, to extend that recommendation to you also, and to request you to continue that friendly intercourse with that part of the nation, which is adjacent to you, in the manner you have heretofore done, so long as that pail shall continue their friendship for the United States. I have now, gentlemen, to inform you, that, twelve days past, about 500 Creeks passed the Tennessee, at or near the five Lower towns, on their way to Cumberland; that from 100 to 200 warriors of those, towns joined the party. Cumberland was forewarned of their intended invasion, and, it is hoped, will meet and repulse them before they reach the settlements. It is uncertain in what part they will next attack; if it is this, I am prepared for them; and if I should receive information that it is against your quarter, I shall give you notice. I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant, . WILLIAM BLOUNT. Knoxville, October 2d, 1792. APPENDIX TO NO. IV. James Seagrove, Esq. to the Secretary of IVar. Rock Landing, on the Oconee, 2lst April, 1792. Sir: , My last letter to you was from Savannah, under date of the 12th instant. Agreeable to what I then wrote, I have returned to this place, where I found my interpreter just got back from General M'Gillivray, with a letter in reply to mine of the 25th ultimo. For your information, I now enclose you extracts from his two last letters to me; by them you will be informed of his intention of coming down to meet me; he seems in good humor with me, and I hope to keep him so. My interpreter tells me that there remains much confusion in the nation. It seems some of Bowles’ associates or partners have sent large packets of letters directed to General Bowles, which they say are from his friends on the other side of the great water, and that all that Bowles promised them was on the point of being realized; and that, though Bowles is now in the hands of the Spaniards, yet, in forty days, he will return to them again. There is a villain of the name of Willbanks, who came with Bowles, who spread those stories, and. I believe, fabricates those letters. I hope General M’GiUivray will be able to lay hands on him and his letters, and will make an example of him to the Indians and all future adventurers. It is reported, (and I believe with truth) that two men were lately killed by the Indians about fifty miles above this place. This is said to be done by a party of the Cowetas in revenge for two of their people who were murdered by the Georgians some months past. Frequent application having been made by the Indians to the Government of this State for redress, by punishing the perpetrators, but not being able to get satisfaction in that way, they gave notice that they should retaliate, which I believe they have done, as I have advice from the kings of the Cowetas and Cussetahs, that the relations of the deceased Indians were out to take revenge, which they could not longer prevent. These are unpleasant matters, but we may look for such events taking place frequently, whilst there is not energy in the Government of this State to punish such wretches, as those who wantonly killed the Indians, and thereby occasioned the death of the two innocent persons alluded to above. Martin Johnston, the principal in murdering a Coweta Indian, some time past, near this place, now lives near the shoals of Great Ogeechee, about thirty miles from hence, undisturbed. Whilst the people of this country shelter such wretches as Johnston among them, they ought not to wonder at the Indians revenging themselves on the innocent, whilst they protect the guilty. When General M’GiUivray and the chiefs come here, I shall do all in my power to please them, and get our business forwarded. I am sorry to find so great a number of the valuable officers about to leave this place at so critical a juncture, when great discretion and strict discipline ipay become more necessary. [enclosure.] The following are extracts from General M’Gillivray to James Seagrove. Little Tallassee, 25th March, 1792. Dear Sir: Last evening I had the pleasure of your letter 7th ultimo, by Randall. By my letter to you, by Akins, you will find that I had just arrived from Tensa, Pensacola, and Mobile. The extreme bad Weather I had on the road made me apprehensive of an attack of the rheumatism, and a few days after he left this, I was unfortunately laid up till now. My indisposition prevented me from going, in person, after that vagabond Bowles; however, I sent positive orders to the Cowetas and Cussetahs to go, and either to take him or put him to death. A considerable party accordingly set out for that purpose, but before they reached St. Marks. I am informed, that the Spanish com mandant seized him a prisoner. That the principal obstacle to my leaving the nation at present being removed, I am determined to comply with your requisition to meet you at the Rock Landing as soon as convenient. The lower towns have agreed to time, and have sent me notice. Cornel has my orders to lie up in the first w eek of next month when I shall have the chiefs of these two rivers assembled, to explain to them the contents of your letter, and we can be with you about the latter end of the month. Expecting to have the pleasure of taking you by the hand at the time mentioned, I remain, &c. INDIAN AFFAIRS. [1792. Littlf. Tallassee, 8th April, 1792. I)f.ar Sir: The day before yesterday I had the pleasure of your despatch by Mr. Bryant. I am surprised to find that Jamy Randall has not proceeded with my letter to you. We have exceeding high waters here. Bryant will meet some trouble in returning from this. I find myself mending fast; the mild weather has relieved me from the rheumatism, and how soon I can get ready, will set out for your place. Its impossible, as yet,-to get a horse across our rivers. Bowles is, ere now, securely lodged in New Orleans; he was taken by statagem at last; repeated attempts to take him in that way by the Spaniards he had evaded, but, on the arrival of Panton’s ship, (Captain Forrest) Bowles had a design to take her, and he forgot himself so far as to accept an invitation to dine on board with some others'. A Spanish guard had been previously put on board the ship, and, after dinner, Bowles was at length obliged to give up his arms, and surrender a prisoner, and was put on board an armed vessel, and sent to New Orleans; and this moment I have a letter from the Governor Baron Carondelet, who informs me he has sent Bowles to the Havana. Many of the lower people are not certain as to my intentions of going to the Rock Landing. On Akins’ return, 1 sent them a message that I would take no steps in affairs until they satisfied me in restoring matters to their original train. Bowles’ partisans are some violent fellows, who have lost friends in the British cause in the late war, and who eagerly listen to any vagabonds that will call themselves'Englishmen, and will set them on to mischief against the Americans, or encourage them to commit outrages of any kind against any people. , I shall say nothing at present of the nature of the Secretary’s despatch, and will answer them from the Rock Landing. I do hereby certify that Mr. Langley Bryant delivered a packet of letters to me from the Hon. James Seagrove, enclosing one from the Hon. the Secretary of War, dated 20th February, 1792. ALEX. M’GILLIVRAY. \ Extract of a letter from Mr. James Seagrove, addressed to Major General Henry Knox, Secretary of War. Rock Landing, on the Oconf.f. River, 9.4th May, 1792. Sir: When I invited the Indians to meet me here, I was well aware of the expense and danger of broils between them, and the more savage inhabitants of this frontier; butat that juncture there did not appear an alternative. My instructions pointed, in the first instance, to the suppression of Bowles, and restoring order in the nation. Unfortunately, that villain had been allowed to make so many friends to his cause in the Creek nation, that his influence would counteract any thing attempted in the towns; and as General M’Gillivray was then absent, and to every appearance his influence much lessened, there was not any principal head to which I could resort, or make use of, without danger of creating jealousy, and perhaps meet with censure from Mr. M’Gillivray, for raising a competitor or competitors with him in the nation. All these matters I weighed, but plainly saw that unless some method could be fallen on to convene the principal characters of the nation to a place where they would not be under the influence of Bowles, and then convey to their understanding, cooly and deliberately, the humane and friendly intention ot the Government of the United States toward them, and to point out the absurdity of their being led away by Bowles’ delusive tales, I- apprehended that a total subversion of Mr. M’Gillivray’s influence would shortly take place; unless some stir was made in his favor, that Bowles would rule the nation, and, on that being the case, we should see an attempt made to realise his threat of deluging our country in blood. How far I have been right in my opinion of the power of Bowles’ party, the convulsed state of the nation, ever since his capture and removal, which is kept up by some of his white partners and Indian converts, will determine. General McGillivray’s conduct in this business with Bowles, resembles that of Britain with America, during’the early part of the late war, by undervaluing the power of their adversaries. Although Bowles is removed, such is the baneful effect of what he has done, that the strength of his party (even —atthis moment) in the Creek nation, is such, that we find General McGillivray compelled to submit to their will. The enclosed testimony of John Onnsbay, a man of very good character and understanding, and who is well known to several of the officers now here, will explain matters. Ormsbay’s testimony is confirmed to me by every chief and head-man who have have been with me. The words of the Great Natchez warrior, when answering some of my talks made in favor of theGeneral, were: Bowles laid ourbeloved man, Gen. McGillivray, on the ground, and made him of no more consequence than a child, but we will raise him up again; and, from the talks we have now-heard, we are convinced he is right; we will therefore put his enemies under him. The enclosed letter from Timothy Barnard, a man of family and good repute, in Georgia, who has been settled, as a trader in the Creek country thirty years, and always a confidential man with their Government, will further show to you the state of confusion the natioh is in. ’ I never could scan the General’s motives in affecting to treat Bowles’ usurpation, and the confusion his country hath been in for near a year, with such indifference; there must be a hidden cause, but which cannot long lie dormant. I am again impelled to repeat my want of faith in this man’s integrity to our country; the whole tenor of his conduct is a flimsy appearance of friendship, but not one pointed or spirited exertion in favor of the United States. I wish I may be deceived, but I fear yon will not find him, in tire end, the man you wish him to be. A man, to preserve his reputation, ought not to serve many masters; the General has many, and I am convinced the United States are not the favorite. A Spaniard, or an Englishman, is respectable all through the Creek nation, but it is very dangerous for any person, known to belong to the United States, to travel, or be in that country; and, lam sorry to find, that no pains nave ever been taken to remove that unjust prejudice. I now enclose you a copy of my last communication to General McGillivray, which is under date of the 21st ^ instant, the contents of which anticipate what I have to say on Indian matters. From the present confusion in the nation, ami its.appearing the wish of those Indians that were with me, I did not press the running of the line immediately; and therefore consented to their returning home to settle their internal matters, which, when done, they have promised to meet me, and proceed on this business. In order to quiet the fears of the people of this country, I have written a letter to the Governor of Georgia, on the present state of Indian atfairs in this quarter, a copy of which-I now enclose you. 1 attend to your instructions, respecting the Spanish Government; my conduct shall be conformable to your desire. They now have a resident settled in the Creek Nation; he lives at the Little Tallassee, in one of General McGillivray’s houses; his name is Oliver; he has goods, and delivers presents to the Indians, and seems in high favor. . The Governor of New Orleans, the Baron Carondelet, hath sent an invitation to a number of the Creek chiefs to meet him as soon as possible at Orleans or Mobile, as they choose: but they have declined going, until they can settle their internal disputes. Mr. Panton (principal of the house ot Pan ton, Leslie, & Co.) arrived at McGillivray’s about the time he was to have set off for this place; unfortunately, this Mr. Panton hath more infiuenci over Mr. McGillivray, than any person living, and, it is said, directs all his movements. , Panton, from interest a well as inclination, is an inveterate enemy to the. United States. I find the Creeks have been killing some white people on their Western frontier. In my talks with the Indians I am led to believe that the people killed, belong to a settlement south of Cumberland river, and on lands that neve have been sold,or ceded by the Indians; that those.people have repeatedly been ordered off bv the Indians, h\ will not go; that, before Bowles was taken, he laid apian with his Indian adherents to strike at those people, whit they have (lone; and lives have been lost, and prisoners taken on both sides. ir92.] GENERAL VIEW. 297 [enclosures.] Letter from Timothy Barnard to James Seagrove, Esqr. Flint River, U)th May, 1/92. Dear Sir: 1 have been these ten days ready, prepared to start down to the Rock Landing, where i expected to have had the pleasure of seeing you. Jack Kinnard was likewise at my house, and ten of his people with him, so far on their way to the Rock Landing. They staid with me here nine days, waiting till they could hear that the Cussetah people were started, sent several expresses up to the Buzzard Roost, to bring their information on. The last news that came to them from there was, that the Cowetah people bad killed two white people, and that the Cussetah King had sent out word that he had done his endeavor to get Mr. McGillivray to come down, and set off down, but. that he had sent word that he was sick; and when lie heard that, he was determined lo have started without him; but on hearing that the Cowetas had done this mischief, it put him out of all hopes of having the line run this time, till matters are a little more settled. The '' bite Bird king. I hear, is on his way down to the Rock Landing, and several more. I have to acquaint you, sir. that, if it had not been for this villanous piece of business that Bowles has transacted, there would have been some of the head-men from almost every town in the Creek nation to the treaty, and matters would have been completed long ago; but, as somq of every town in the Lower Creeks, except the Cussetahs, have joined Bowles, ithasput the friends of the United States in this quarter to a great deal of trouble. The Cussetahs and Jack Kinnard, and Ins people, have left no stone unturned, striving to bring matters about to run the line,- and, when those rascals that had joined Bowles, found that it was near coming to the point, they thought there was no more effectual way to stop it than to go out and kill some one, for satisfaction for the man "they lost. The father to the fellow that was lost, is a head-man in the Cowetas, and one of Bowles’party. Though the Spaniards took him off before their faces, they still think lie w ill be back in a short time. What has given them another reason to expect him back is, that the Spaniards, since they took him to Orleans, have permitted him to write letters back to the nation, to one Willbanks, who is now in the nation, saying every thing lie can in Bowles’ favor; persuading the Indians that he will be back to the nation in a short time, with a number of goods. I cannot see into this manoeuvre of the Spaniards, giving him the privilege to write back, except it was that they thought it would be the means of pacifying the Indians, from committing violations on their territory, as I well know they are very much afraid of the Indians. As to Bowles ever coming back. I think it out of the question, after what he lias done to Messrs. Panton and Leslie, as two thousand pounds will not replace the damage those gentlemen have sustained. After the Indians find Bowles does not comeback, lam very sure they will draw in their horns, and matters maybe still settled. I have myself done every thing in my power to convince the Indians that Bowles is leading them on to their ruin, which lie has heard, and threatens my life Many of the head-men of the nation are of my opinion. Kinnard especially. Kinnard would not agree to go to the treaty, without I would go with him, which I should have done, as I knew his presence there was necessary. He desired me to mention that, if matters were made up, that he will still attend with pleasure; and is very sorry he has been obliged to return, through the bad conduct of the red people; but he says he still hopes matters will be made up. No more news this way arrives to me at present worth relating, therefore wish you health, and remain. Dear Sir. jour most obedient humble servant. Letter from James Seagrove, Esquire, to his Excellency Edward Telfair, Governor of the State of Georgia. Rock Landing, on the Oconee, 21 st May, 1792. Sir: I have the pleasure to inform your Excellency, that, at a respectable meeting of the kings, chiefs, and warriors, of the Creek nation, at this place, I delivered them a talk, the 18th instant, on the state of public affairs, which was well received by them; and I have assurance from them, of their disposition to preserve peace and good understanding between them and the United States. That, as soon as the internal feuds in their nation can be settled, for which purpose a general meeting is now ordered by General McGillivray, the)- will attend me, in order to carry into effect the treat)- made at New York, as well as all other matters depending. In the mean time, they will, by their example and advice to their countrymen, not only (Hit a stop to any outrage being committed by the people of their nation, on this country, but to banish from their land all such as have advised them to measures which could tend to disturb the peace of the United States or the Creek nation. The reason General McGillivray did not attend at this meeting, agreeably to promise, arose from the perturbed state of his nation, owing to internal matters. From the present appearance of matters, 1 am fully of opinion peace will be preserved with the Creeks. I have not been able to discover tiny disposition in them to the contrary, and I fondly hope we shall not give them cause to change their present temper toward ns. The Creek Indians who have been with me, deny, in the most positive and pointed terms, their people having murdered, as is said, a Mr. Yarborough and his son. There had been a party of Cowetas, relations to an Indian of that town, who was killed by whites, sometime past, on their frontier, (and for which they had rcpeaiedly required satisfaction, but without ellect) set out to take satisfaction, but were followed by the Cussetah chiefs, and sent home; and nothing since hath been attempted. Reports now circulate here, which are believed, that Yarborough and son were murdered by white people. I have reason to think, that, on investigation, your Excellency will find, that several late alarming accounts, which you have received from this frontier, have been very much exaggerated, if not totally without foundation. As a proof of the favorable opinion I have of the Creeks’ pacific disposition, I intend going into the nation as soon as I hear from General McGillivray. On my return, I intend doing myself the honor of calling on your Excellency; in the mean time, remain, with all possible respect. Your obedient, and very humble servant. . John Ormsbay. a native of Pittsburg, in Pennsylvania, who arrived at this place last evening, from the Creek nation, declares that he was in company with General McGillivray, at the Tuckaubatchees, on the last day of April, and that he went in company with the General from thence to his house, at the Hickory Ground; that the General was prepared to set off for this place, but was prevented by the Old Tallassee king, the big half breed of the Kialle-gees, and the Mad Dog, of Tuckaubatchees, all of whom told the General that he must not meet the Virginians, as they had talks from the English people, (meaning Bowles’ party) that England, France, and Spain, were all joined against America; that Bowles would return to them in a few days; that Colonel Brown (a great favorite with the Indians) was to come and join Bowles, and his party, from the Bahama Islands. That the Creek nation appeared in a most distracted state, from the stories circulated among them by some of Bowles’ partners, who remain, the head of whom is a man of the name of IVil/banks, a low, illiterate fellow, whom this informant saw in the Cowetalis’ town, as he came along. That General McGillivray had declined coming to the Rock Landing; that he told Mr. Ormsbay lie should despatch an express to Mr. Seagrove, in a day or two, with a full state of all matters. That Mr. Panton, of the house'of Panton, Leslie.- & Co. arrived at General McGillivray’s on the 30th ultimo; that there was a Spanish commissary, or agent, established at Little Tallassee, and lives in General McGillivray’s new house; he came from New Orleans; his name is Olivary that he has goods, and makes presents to the Indians. That the Governor of New Orleans had sent into the Creek nation, an invitation for a number of their chiefs to meet him. either at Orleans, Mobile, or Pensacola, as most convenient to them. That General McGillivray expressed his fears, that, unless matters could soon be accommodated, the Indians would be hostile against the United States; that he said the Indians were altogether regardless of his advice; that he was determined to quit them, and go to his place on the river Tensa; that several scalps and prisoners had lately been brought into the nation, from the settlements toward Cumberland river; that the Creeks were much displeased at the Chickasaws and Choctaws, in consequence of the latter having favored the Americans, and some of them acted with their army, to the northward, last campaign; that it was expected the Creeks would go to war with the Chickasaws and Choctaws. The tenor of General McGillivray’s conduct, whilst this informant remained in the nation, appeared friendly to the United States. That Mr. Cornell, the interpreter, at whose house Mr. Ormsby lodged, appeared very friendly to the Americans, and used what influence he had in their favor. That it is impossible for any person, known to belong to the United States, to travel in the Creek nation without insult, and danger of losing their lives; the names of Eng-i I lish. or Spanish, must be assumed, by way of protection. JOHN ORMSBAY. Rock Landing, on the Oconee, 11 th May, 1792. Delivered in presence of James Seagrove, James Jordan. ✓ Rock Landing, on the Oconee, 2Jst May, 1792. Dear General: I am not favored with a line from you since the 8th of last month, which induces me to believe that some misfortune hath befallen your letters on the way. My anxiety, on your account, for twenty days past, hath been extremely great, owing to the many extraordinary pieces of information brought from the nation. On the 11th instant, a man of the name of John Ormsbay, made declaration in writing, to me, that he was in your company on the last day of April, at the Tuckaubatchee town, and went from thence with you to your own house; that you were all prepared to come here, but were stopped by the old Tallassee king, the big half breed of the Kealeages, and the Mad Dog, of the Tuckanbatchees; that those chiefs were very peremptory in forbidding your coming here. The cause of this extraordinary conduct in those people, I am led to believe, arises from the internal commotion in the nation, which, I am told, is still kept up by Bowles’ party. I cannot, however, suppose? that they can be very formidable, now that their leader is removed, and that, by this time, the most simple, or obstinate, of your people, must now plainly discover that they have been dupes to the villanous impositions ot Bowles. It would have afforded me much satisfaction to have heard from you by Ormsbay, with an account of the real cause of your detention, and a full state of matters. My dear general, you must suppose the state of suspense I have been, and still am in, on your account, to be very unpleasant: for, when, at the moment I was to expect the happiness of seeing you, to receive such unfavorable accounts, really shocked me. I cannot promise myself any ease of mind, until I receive a full state of matters from your own hands. Your not coming forward as expected hath caused many conjectures, and some alarm in the minds ot the people of this country, lest something should be meditating by your people unfavorable to this frontier; but the assurance I give them ot your determination to preserve peace, together with the very orderly conduct of the Indians now with me, and their friendly talks, will, in a great measure, subside their fears, 1 am happy in informing you, that your good friend Chinabee, the great Natchez warrior, with thirty-five of the principal men, have been with me for ten days past. I think him a valuable friend to you and to the United States. I have paid him every attention in my power, and I believe he will return to you well pleased. I have had several private talks with him, and have communicated some matters which he will tell you. He promises me to use all his influence in restoring peace and good order, as does every Indian that has been, or are now here, give me the most solemn assurance of aiding your measures. _ . The Bird-tail king of the Cussetahs came here on the 15th instant, and informed me that I need not expect you; that the confusion in the towns was so great, that many of your people were openly opposed to your going any where, until there could be a general meeting of the nation, which lie says you have desired to be at the Tuckaubatchees. l am extremely sorry to find, from the Old King and the other chiefs that have been with me, that the removal of Bowles hath not lessened the feuds in your country, and that the unaccountable conduct of your people in favor of this villain and his associates, is but too conspicuous and daring. On this information, I thoughtit would be well to dismiss the Indians that were with me, as their presence might be necessary with you; but betore I sent them away, I conceived it would not be amiss to give them a talk, which I did on the 17th and 18th instant, a copy of which you have enclosed. It will make me happy indeed, if the contents of this, my first essay in Indian address, coincide with your opinion; if in any thing I have erred or fallen short of your wish, I hope you will attribute it to the real cause—my want of experience in matters of this kind; and also, to my not having your good counsel and assistance beforehand. If I may judge from the declarations of the Indians who were present at my talk, they are , fully convinced of the very improper conduct of that part of the nation who adhere to Bowles and his party, as well as to those who have delayed the business of the United States; and disapprove very much of the late murders of some white people on the Western waters, near Cumberland river, by soine of the Creeks. I hinted to the chiefs the idea of employing a certain number of their young men to act occasionally with our army to the Westward; they seemed to relish it very well, but I would make no engagements with them, and have referred them to you on that head. They are full of it, and will consult you thereon. If I am so fortunate as to hear from you in a few days, and that you encourage it, I will set off to see you at the intended meeting at the Tuckaubatchee. I had determined to go out in company with the great Natchez warrior and his people, but he and the other chiefs have dissuaded me from it at this time, not thinking it advisable. They recommend my waiting here for twenty days, and if, during that time, I do not hear from you, I shall return to the river St. Mary’s, and there wait to hear from you and them. The chiefs and warriors who have been with me, give strong assurance of their using every means in their power, to bring about good order in vour country, and to preserve peace with the United States: they have pledged themselves to me for the faithful performance, and I have great confidence in them. I think the Bird-tail King, the Old Head warrior of the Cussetahs, Halletemathle, Nethloe, or Second Man, and Chinabee, the great Natchez warrior, are your warm friends, and will shortly give you convincing proofs of it. You may rely, my friend, I have made use of every argument, in public and private, with them, and all tne Indians I have seen, to depreciate and degrade Bowles and his villanous party, and to exalt you and your friends.   I hope my endeavors will not be altogether, unsuccessful. Although my talk, which you have enclosed; is long, and touches on most of the necessary points, yet, I told them much more in different conversations, all tending to explain and set them right; but, in particular, dwelt on the unquestionable and effectual support you had at your call from the President ot the United States. I took much pains, and had explained to them the President’s ardent desire of being in peace and close friendship with every Indian on this continent, and that from motives of humanity and benevolence to his fellow creatures; that measures, were now pursuing for that purpose with the refractory Western tribes, which is actually the case, but that, if they   continue deaf to the calls ofreason, they will be brought to a sense of their duty by coercive measures, which are also preparing. Doubtless you have heard that some leading fellows from the hostile Western tribes have been among your people lately, using all their influence and address to get them to join them against the United States. I hope you have got notice of it in time to crush the evil in the bud. Chinabee,,the Natchez warrior, informs me, that he fell in with three of those fellow's who belonged to the Shawanese, who wrere out on this business; lie will give you a full and satis- factory account of them. I find that they have also been in the Choctaw, Chickasaw, and Cherokee nations, but I hope without success in either. It is, however, well to be watchful, and these things point out (in my opinion) the necessity there is of employing some of your young men in favor of the United States, as it will be fixing them to a side. I am of opinion it will be impossible to keep them entirely neuter. The enclosed letter from the Department of War, w hich came by express, and under cover to me, yesterday, will probably give you further light into matters. Should it be agreed on in the nation that the number of warriors required for service to the Westward shall go out, should any provisions be required to carry them on as far as to Governor Blount, at Nashville, I will furnish, on the shortest notice, from the stores at this place. From Governor Blount they will receive a further supply to carry them to their destination. i am exceeding sorry that I could not see you at this time, as there are many matters I wish to communicate with you on, which cannot so well be done by letter. We must meet by some means or other. Business cannot be so well done at a distance. Enclosed you have a list of the Indians who were present at my talk, as, also, a sketch of the presents which I gave them. I have reason to think that every man of them goes away contented, as well as possessing very different ideas to what they brought here: for they candidly told me. that they had been led to expect bad treatment and deception. The Great Natchez warrior tells me, that he and his people were forbid coming'(by Bowles’ party) as we had laid plans to detain them until we got their lands, or destroy them in case of refusal. The Choctaws also sent forbidding him to come, but he now says that he is happy; he aid not attend to them, as he will be able on his return to convince them that they are credulous fools. Should the feuds which distract your country unfortunately increase so as to endanger your remaining in the nation, and that you determine on a temporary removal, I would by all means advise its being to the Unitea States, for reasons which must be obvious to you. In such case I hope you will make my house your home as long as convenient to you. This letter I have given in charge to the Blue Giver of the Cussetas, whom I think a friendly trusty fellow; he promises to deliver you this or lose Lis life, and I have not a doubt but he will return (if yon choose) to me with your answer, for which I shall wait at this place twenty days from this date. 1 hope you see the necessity of my having regular, full, and minute advice from you; much depends upon it. _ 1 wish much to send you some of the good things that I provided, in expectation of your partaking of them here; but the bearer thinks he cannot get them along at this time. I can send you some choice Coniac brandy, Geneva, spirits, and wine; also, tea, sugar, and coffee. If you think they will reach you safe, let me know by return of the express, and send a trusty person for them, and they shall be sent on. Having much writing to do, and Long Tom pressing to get off, I must conclude this, with assurance of unalterable regard and esteem. ■. Dear General, yours, &c. JAMES SEAGROVE- General Alexander McGilltvray, Creek Nation. A talk delivered by James Seagrove, Esquire, Commissioner of Indian Affairs from the President of the United States. To the kings, chiefs, head men, and warriors of the Creek nation, assembled at the Rock Landing, on the Oconee river, in the State of Georgia, on Thursday, 18th day of May, 1792: Friends and Brothers: I having it in command, from the President of the United States, to repair to the Creek nation, and there to enter on different matters of business with General McGillivray, and the kings, chiefs, and warriors of thesame; but, finding on my arrival at this place, that the people of your towns were much divided and in great confusion, in consequence of the villanous imposition of a low adventurer, of the name of Bowles, I thought it would be best to call the wise men of your nation to meet me at this place, where we could deliberate, not being under any dread or influence from the spirit of the times. In consequence of this, 1 sent a talk into your nation, on the 25th March last, inviting the kings, chiefs, and warriors, to meet me, to which I received their answer, that they would attend by the 22d of last month; but, the time being elapsed, and the number now here comparatively small to what I was letl to believe from their promises, I am at a loss to account for so unexpected a change. From several letters I received from General McGillivray, I had not a doubt of his being present at this meeting, and I believe most of you were of the same opinion. This unaccountable delay and disappointment must remain to be explained at a future day. Although the number now assembled is not great, yet I am happy in observing among you several of the most respectable men of your nation; I therefore conceive it my duty to.make you acquainted with part of my business I have to lay before your nation, not having a doubt but you will pay every attention thereto yourselves, and, on your return to your nation, you will, as honest good men and friends, use alt your influence in impressing the necessity there is of your people’s conforming to the desire of the President of the United States, which alone can save them from destruction. In the first place, 1 have it in command, from the President of the United States, to make known to you the very great regard and friendship he hath for the Creek nation, and that it is his constant wish to promote your happiness in every instance in his power. Actuated by these friendly motives, he hath thought fit to appoint me to meet you, and, in conjunction with your beloved man. General McGillivray, to take such measures as will put all matters depending between your nation and the United States on a firm, peaceable, respectable, and permanent footing. Being now met on so desirable a business, 1 hope every man comes into this council as I do, with a heart prepared and determined to do all the good they can for their fellow men, whether white or red. Should this be the case, and I trust it is, there cannot be a doubt but we shall speedily arrange and settle matters happily for our respective countries. The first object, my brethren, that presents for our consideration, is, the state of confusion your nation hath lately been in; and, I must inform you, it gave your good friend, the President of the United States, great uneasiness, on your account, and made him sorry to hear that any body among you could be so deceived as to listen to the infamous falsehoods which the impostor, Bowles, told them, and which have been the cause of all your confusion and delay of business. The vile impostor, Bowles, being now removed from among you to where he doubtless will be properly punished for his crimes, makes it, in some measure, unnecessary to inform you, that I have it in command, from the President of the United States, to offer to your beloved man, General McGillivray, together with the kings and chiefs of your nation, any kind of assistance which he and you may require now, or at any future time, in order to punish such bad men as Bowles, or any other who shall dare to disturb the peace of your nation. Perhaps some of you who are now present are not acquainted with the true origin and character of this base impostor, Bowles; I shall, therefore, give you a sketch of the man, as well to expose him and his adherents, as to caution you in future not to be so ready in listening to what every idle vagabond who comes into your land may tell you, with a view to make you angry with your best friends, with one another, and involve you in trouble, and bring ruin on your nation, if you are so unwise as to take their talks. This Bowles is an American, of low, mean extraction, born in Maryland; he was obliged, on account of his vil-lany, to fly from home anti follow the British army, where he was despised and treated as a bad man and a coward. Finding he could not live there, he returned to America; but, being too lazy to workat his trade for a living, he renewed his bad acts, for which he was obliged to fly his native country, or be handed. Finding himself thus situated, he endeavored to impose on the King of England, by telling him that you had sent him there, and you wished to make him, Bowles, your bejoved man; that it was your desire to make war against the United States and Spain; but the King of England, finding him an impostor, drove him out of his land, but treated the Indians that were with him kindly, on their own account, and not on Bowles’s. He then went to Pro\ idence, where, we are told, he was taken by the hand by men whose characters in life have been nearly similar to his own. Those bad men encouraged him in his pursuit of coming among you and doing all the mischief he could to you and your friends. How far he has succeeded in these things, I call on your own knowledge of facts to determine. You must, now, all of you, be sensible of the lies lie ham told you: for, of all the promises he ever madeyou, or the many fine things he hath told you, have you ever found one word of truth in them? Instead of bringing you in goods, like an honest man, did he not rob the stores that have been supplying you for years, the owners of which are your friends? Has he not advised your young men to shed w hite blood? and have they not been so mad as to follow his advice, and killed some of our people on the Western waters; in consequence of which, I am told, some of your people are also killed, and others hurt? All this arises, my friends, from your listening to bad white men, whom you admit into your country. Many other acts of violence this wretch wished your young men to commit, but your old wise men prevented. The intention of Bowles, in all this, was, to make himself a great man. Without any regard to your happiness, his views were to advise your people to commit acts that would involve you in a war with the United States and Spain, and to give you a bad opinion of your beloved man. Sorry am I to think that so many believed his lies. I am certain they must now feel ashamed of themselves, who were dupes to this fellow. 1 hope all who have listened are now sensible of their error, and that, in future, they will only listen to what is told them by their beloved man, General McGillivray, and the beloved man from the President of the United States, which will always keep them in the right way. I must also inform you, that your good friend, the President of the United States, sent to the King of England about Bowdes, and the said King sent a beloved man to the President, who assures him, in the name ot his master, that Bowles hath no. assistance, countenance, or protection, from him or his nation; that Bow les is an impostor; and that he will punish any of his people who are known to harbor or countenance him in the smallest degree. Brothers: I could tell you much more about this bad man Bowles; but, as he is now gone, I will not fake up your time .further on this head, only to advise, that if any of his white associates, or assistants, yet remain in your land, (which I am informed there are) that you w ill immediately drive them out of it; but if they hesitate to depart, that you will punish them yourselves, or deliver them to me: for, w hilst any such vile wretches as Bowles, or his partners, are allowed to have rest in your nation, you cannot be a happy people. Allow ing strangers to come among you without proper authority, is a very dangerous thing. You may always be certain, that wdien you see white men come into your nation without a proper passport, they are bad men, who run away from their own country for their crimes, and that they will impose on you by telling lies, robbing you, and, if they can, make you angry with your friends, and breed disturbance in your towns, as you find Bowles'hath done. I hope, therefore, you will, in time to come, not allow'any white person w hatever, trader or others, to enter your tow ns without a proper passport, agreeable to treaty. This w ill save you much trouble, and keep you in peace and quiet. 'The President of the United States observes with concern the delay which hath taken, place in carrying into execution the treaty made with him at New York, by your beloved man General McGillivray, and a respectable number of your chiefs and warriors, in behalf of themselves and the whole Creek nation. Brothers: 1 hope and trust you are all well acquainted with the solemn nature and consequences of treaties formed between nations, and that, therefore, all due respect will be paid to the one now mentioned,as being of more importance to you than any you ever entered into. . The motives which gave rise to this treaty, were the disturbances which frequently took place between your nation and individual States,-which were often attended with very disagreeable consequences. In order to relieve you for ever from the imposition of any of the States, or of individuals, the President of the United States hath, by this treaty, not only guarantied to you all your lands and-possessions, but bound himself and the United States to support and defend you against the attempts of any power whatever to injure you or your property. 1 My friends, I must request that you will have every article of the treaty made at New York carefully explained to you by the interpreters, upon which you must see how- very favorable it is in all its parts to your nation, and how-much it is your real interest to have it strictly complied with. Permit me here to observe, that, in forming treaties between nations, it is not possible to suit the interest or inclination of every class of people; therefore, individual interest must in some instances give way to the general good. _Uam sensible there are men among us who do not like the treaty,_ and perhaps it is the same case with you. This, my brethren, we may expect, in business of this kind, and it is evident the formers of this treaty must have had this full in view: for? you w ill observe, that, in order to compensate those individuals on your side, who might be incommoded for the public good, the President, therefore, ordered valuable presents to be made to your people, which hath been done; and he hath also bound himself and his country to pay your nation one thousand five hundred dollars every year, which also hath been done, and will be continued agreeably to treaty. This is not all; your good friend the President, ever mindful of you, and having heard of the late confusion in your nation, and fearing that, in consequence thereof, you might have neglected your hunting, and not be able to get clothing, hath sent to me a quantity of valuable goods, which I shall distribute among you as soon as we shall have settled all our business, and you are ready to return home. _ ..."The delay in executing the business of the treaty, the President attributes to the imposition and falsehood which Bowles and his party have practised on you, and not to any disinclination in your nation to do what is just and right, agre eably[there to. You must all see the necessity there is, that you and the white people should know what is each of your own. This cannot be done until the boundary line between you and Georgia being first ascertained, and marked agreeably to the treaty of New York. To accomplish this, you will order three old men to attend, and I shall callfor the three old Georgians, who, with the surveyor appointed by the United States, will proceed on the business, attended by a part of the troops now here, who are to do the work of cutting dow n and marking the trees, so that this line may be seen and known as the boundary line betw een the w hites and red people, when all of us w ho are now here, are under ground, and for ages after we are no more. In accomplishing this business, I must recommend that a strict attention be paid on your parts, that no misunderstanding or disturbance take place between your and our people. I will give tlie most pointed orders to this effect, and I hope you will not fail to do the same. The next object of the treaty to be attended to, is the immediate delivery of all the prisoners belonging to the United States, which are in any part of the Creek nation. An immediate and unequivocal compliance with this part of the treaty is expected, and a further delay will undoubtedly lessen you in the good opinion of the President, and all the good people of the United States. You will, therefore, give me an accountof all theprisoners in your nation, and, at the same time, give orders that they be safely conveyed to this place, and delivered to me, or, in my absence, to the commanding officer of the federal troops. Suitable rewards for care and tenderness to prisoners, will be made to those who bring them in. lam to inform you, that, as soon as the boundary line is ascertained, and the treaty complied with, measures will be taken for establishing proper Indian trading houses along j'our frontier and ours, where you will find plentiful supplies of goods at all seasons, and on reasonable terms, ana a good market for what you may have to sell, all which will be registered in such way, as to prevent your being imposed on, which, as trade now stands, you are subject to. When the line is run, should any w'hite person be so impudent as to trespass on your lands, you may punish them, or not, as you please, without the President being offended. This the treaty of New York secures to you, as the line I i l will then be known, there wifi be no excuse lor offenders: mid examples will be made of all who shall dare to transgress the law of the land, be they who they may. From the whole of the proceedings, you will plainly discover how much your nation hath been imposed on by a set of villains, who have been persuading you that it was our intention to take a great part of your lands, even as far as the half-way house: but you now find that I ask nothing from you. but a compliance with the treaty made at New York, which hath been solemnly ratified by your nation and the United States. The treaty has pointed out all matters so clear and distinct, that I cannot conceive that any difficulty ean arise in carrying it into full and perfect effect. On the part of the President, all that the treaty stipulates hath been so far complied with: and the like good faith is now expected from your nation. Friends and Brothers: I cannot suppose that any of you are at a loss to know how much it isfor the interest of your nation, to be in close friendship with the President and the United States. You must know how much they have it in their power to befriend and assist you, beyond what any other nation or people on earth can. And I am fully empowered to assure you, that it is their wish so to do. and to live with you as friends and brothers to the end of time. There are several of you now in this assembly, who have seen a part of the United States, (though by no means the most populous) from* which you can form a judgment, and acquaint those of your friends who have not been there, Imw very dangerous it would be for any nation or people whatever to offend you, whilst the President of the United States is your warm friend and protector.: and this will ever be the ease, whilst you fulfil your engagements, and act uprightly towards him and his country. This line of conduct being observed by you, you will not have to fear from any quarter. I shall not take up your time by detailing to you the strength and power which the United States possess: what you may be at a loss for on this head, your beloved man General McGillivray can fully inform you. 1 am happy in informing you that presents w ill be made you from time to time, by the President, to every man in the Creek nation, who, by his decisive, active conduct, and actual service, proves himself a friend to the United States. It is with pain that I am again under the necessity of bringing to your view, the very alarming and bail conduct of some of your people, in shedding the blood of the citi'/.ens of the United States on your western frontier. This, you must allow, is very extraordinary in a people under a solemn treaty ol friendship with the nation whose people they are killing, a part of which you are now sitting with in friendship. Although the melancholy scene is distant from us. yet we feel for our brethren as we ought, and I now call on one and all of you now present, as you regard the peace and happiness of yourselves and your country, that you put ait immediate stop to these unprovoked and hornd outrages of some of your bad people: for, let me tell you, mv friend?, unless your peoplearechecked.and obliged to give satisfaction, that the consequences may be felt by your nation when too late for you to remedy. 1 must again desire that you use your inllttence to have all the prisoners sent to me. There is one matter more which I have to recommend to you, and that is the practice your people have of coming into the white people’s land anil stealing their horses and cattle; this you know to be the case; and that several lives have been lost m consequence. Indeed, there is scarce a dispute arises but on this account. Bv the laws of our land it is made death for a white man to steal a horse; you must, therefore, suppose that our people will not suffer yours to commit a similar crime with impunity: it, therefore, behooves you. my friends, to put a filial stop to this dangerous practice, which will redound much to your credit. 1 shall now conclude my address of this day, hoping that what I have now said will be received favorably by you, and the rest of your nation; that you will think seriously upon it to night; and to-morrow I shall expect a talk from you in answ'cr; by that time it is probable I may think of something further to acquaint you with, Rock Finding. Friday, ISlh J/oi/, 171)2. The following is a copy of a lalk delivered by .lame- Seagrove. Commissioner of Indian Affairs, to the kings, chiefs. and warriors, at this place: Friends and Brothers: I have heard with pleasure your different talks in reply to mine delivered you yesterday. It gives me singular satisfaction to find that it is your determination to put an end to the confusion which, for some time, hath pervaded your land: that you will stop the further effusion of blood by your people, deliver up the prisoners in your land, and, by every means in your power, preserve peace and good understanding between the United States and your nation; and that, as soon as the internal affairs of your towns will admit. 1 may expect to meet you to carry the treaty, made at New York, into full effect; all those matters are so desirable, and I cannot doubt of your sincerity, that I shall take the earliest opportunity of making them know n to your good friend tin* President of the United States. Brothers: Since addressing you yesterday, I received a letter from your nation, confirming the accounts several of yon gave me. of the very great confusion the people of your towns were in. I find that a general meeting of your nation is called, at w hich your presence will be necessary. 1 shall, therefore, not delay you longer than to-day. whilst the presents, which I have ordered for you, are getting ready. Before we part, I must again urge the necessity of your utmost exertions in bringing abouUgood order in your nation, and of preserving peace and good neighborhood between you and us. On your return to your nation, I have not a doubt but you will represent matters in a just light; that you will inform your beloved man General McGillivray, and the people of your nation, that the President of the United States recognises the said General McGillivray as your great chief and director, and, as such, will aid and support him in all his just pursuits. _ ... /- As soon as the time is fixed for your great meeting, you will send me notice, and, if agreeable .to you, I will attend. My place.of residence, during the summer. 1 intend on the liver St. Mary’s, where runners from your nation will find me. I shall now dismiss yon. and, after wishing you all safe home, remain your real friend and brother. ‘ James Seagrove, Esq. to the Secretary of War. St. Mary’s, (4th June, 1792. Sir: Having received accounts at the Rock Lauding that there were a great many hunting parties of Indians, in the settlements on the southwest frontier of this State, who were represented as being insolent to the inhabitants, and stealing their horses and cattle; dreading that bad consequences might ensue from this, I thought it would be advisable in me to investigate the business. 1, therefore, set off from the Rock Landing, with an Indian and my interpreter, from thence, traversing through the woods along the banks of the Oconee and Altamaha to Beard's bluff, and from thence across to the river. In my route, often days, I fell in with several camps of hunting Indians, to all of-whom I talked, and pointed out to them what I conceived right. I found the report of stealing horses and cattle but too just, which I did all in my power to remedy, by taking what I could find that had been stolen by the Indians, and restoring to the owners, forbidding the like in future, and advising the inhabitants not to use harsh measures on such occasions, lest they should involve their country in war. I am happy in saying fiat the inhabitants of this lower frontier behave with great moderation, although they are great sufferers by the daily plunders of the Indians. A stop must be put to this practice, or peace, cannot be preserved. 39 * I have, since being here, written to some of the leading chiefs of the lower towns, representing this mischief, requesting their exertions to put a stop thereto. I think my fatiguing journey lias, ami will be attended with good consequences, as those parties of Indians, who were out hunting, were uninformed of what the chiefs had been doing with me at the Rock Landing; and, I think it is probable, I have prevented some of them being killed, ns the settlers were getting out of all patience: but my interference hath quieted them. Having arranged those matters as well I can for the present, I intend setting oft' for the Rock Landing to-morrow. By an express, 1 received the enclosed letter irom General McGillivray, also the copy of one you will find herewith, which lie wrote me. I hope that to you contains more satisfactory matter than the one to me. _ By Mr. Duronzeaux’s letter you will observe that the General is gone to New Orleans; a short time will unriddle his mysterious conduct. The story of the Spanish officer I do not put faith in; it can hardly be possible that the Spanish nation would interfere in sucli business, especially as we seem to be on good terms with them. Since I have been here. I have, in conformity with your direction, communicated information to the Governor of St. Augustine, a copy of which you have herewith. ^ I do not agree with General McGillivray in opinion, that we are in danger of a war with the Creeks; I am persuaded that we are not, unless they are urged to it by those who ought not. I shall make it my first business to ascertain the story of the Spanish officer, which you shall have without delay. Jack Kinnard is hourly expected here. 1 wish much to see him; but, as the chiefs, mentioned in Durouzeaux’s letter, are by this at the Rock Landing, it will not do to delay. 1 have, however, given my brother instructions to obtain every information from him, and to forward it to me. Nothing further ottering on this frontier, worthy of communication, [conclude, remaining yours. [enclosures.] Alexander McGillivray to James Seagrove. Upper Creeks, Little Tallassee, 18th May, 1793. Dear Sir: 1 received your letter of the 1st instant. You have, no doubt, been expecting me some time: I had been waiting, this month past, to get our lower gentry into humor of attending to national matters, and to recover from the confusion they had been thrown into by the talks of the lying Captain. After he was secured by the Spaniards, I had some hopes of their soon forgetting him and his British fleets, when, to my surprise, some Indians, from Orleans, have given and spread reports that have made matters worse than ever; and a Spanish officer has actually arrived, and tells the Indians that lie has orders tcwprevent them from running the line, or doing any other business with the Americans, and invites them to a meeting, in September next, at Pensacola. This last stroke is too much: the Indians, at least a good many, are as mail as ever, and Bowles’ partisans are again getting loud about giving away land; it is no wonder the Indians are distracted, when they are tampered with on every side; and am myself in the situation of a keeper of Bedlam, and nearly fit for an inhabitant. Finding that the Cussetali chiefs are still at home, Randall carries a talk, desiring them, in the most pressing language, to go directly and have the line run. But, since Bowles had given hopes of British aid, a majority of the towns would agree to cede no more than the east side of Oconee, and now they are told to give none at all; and I wish that more may not be insisted on at present, to avoid disputes and its horrid consequences—a diabolical war, and in which they will be supported, and in which I will not have any hand. 1 am hastening to go and get an explanation from the proper persons, and their reasons for their interference. As yet, I cannot guess at their motives; you are no stranger to their dispositions. As I presume that you communicate with none but the honorable Secretary of War, it is almost unnecessary for me to express a wish, that no paragraph, from this letter, be copied for a newspaper. The Indians will report these Spanish talks of themselves. Please forward, as soon as convenient, the enclosed, by a safe hand. The good people of Augusta do not scruple to intercept and break open letters to and from General knox. One from him to me was treated so last year, of which I never complained to him. I am, dear sir, yours, &c. James Duroitzeaux to James Seagrove. Cowetas, 28th May, 1792. Sir: I am desired by the honorable king of this, and the Cussetali king,'to acquaint you, that the two men you mentioned in your last, being killed by the Cowetas, is wot so. It was done by the Cherokees—one as satisfaction for the man that was said to be nil led with John Galphin, which, by sending to theCnerokees,youcan be satisfied in, with their reasons for doing it. But I must acquaint you, that the Mad Dog of the Cowetas was gone out to take satisfaction Ibrtlie man killed last May, before your letter arrived. I immediately sent a runner after him, (not knowing that the murder had been committed by the Cherokees) to bring back, that satisfaction was taken, and that letters were come to me in consequence of it. Since that, I have not heard if Jie proceeded or not, nor the runner is not returned yet. I am also to acquaint you, that the head-mefi of Coweta and Cussetali, have been waiting for General McGillivray coming down, to accompany them to the Rock Landing, to take you by the hand and near your talks, and tell you theirs, and endeavor to settle all matters for the satisfaction of both parties, that we might hereafter live in peace and friendship with each other. But now, finding that he is not coming, but is gone to New Orleans, and sent to them to come down themselves with me, they are now determined to come down and see you; they would have been down long ago, but they have been confused in separate parties, by that Bowles, who had made himself a number of friends, bought with Mr. Panton’s property; that they are at a loss to determine on any tiling, by reason of the villains of Bowles’ party. And a Spanish agent lias lately arrived here from New Orleans; lie is to have a meeting in the Lower towns in a few days, after which, we are to set out for the Rock Landing. In answer to your last, they have sent this to acquaint you, and let you know, that they have not, nor did not, throw away your talks; but, that the distraction that these lower towns have been in for some time past, lias prevented them until now. Their crops, as well as other matters, has been the reason of our not coining sooner. ■ Doubtless, but General McGillivray lias acquainted you with reasons of not accompanying the Indians at this treaty. , The duels of the Cowetas and Cussetahs, are now determined, at last, to come down and take you by the hand, and smoke a pipe of tobacco in friendship, and talk over matters, if not agree in every point. For, without talk* ing to each other, matters never will be settled. If any tiling should unawarcdly happen, they hope it will not prevent our treat}-. 1 am, sir, yours, &c. P. S, It it supposed, some young fellows may steal horses; if they should, and be brought in these towns, they are determined to take them and bring them down with us. ire*] GENERAL VIEW. 303 James Durouzeau.v to James Sea grove. Cow etas. 2d June, 1792. Sir: I received yours of 23d May with the talk, but not having time to call a meeting, I have not explained it yet, and the Cussetah king and Hallowing king of the Cowetas being determined to come down and see you, before you left the place, I have sent my son with this, that you may be acquainted with our coming. lie had set out with the letters, two days, but meeting the Bird Tail king, returned to know if they were still determined to come down or not. But they are not altered from what! I mentioned in my last. We shall be out in about four or five days from this, but we shall travel slow, as the weather is very hot at present. The Slad Dog that I mentioned, who was gone out to take satisfaction for his son that was killed last May was twelve month, is"not returned, but proceeded on. He told the runner, that was sent on after him. that, what the Cherokees did, was nothing to him; .that, if they had done wrong, they must answer for themselves; that he had gone out. and would not return, until be had taken satisfaction for his son. The chiefs of these towns beg you will send to the Cherokees and be acquaint! with the truth of the matter. I am. sir. yours. &c. James Seagrove to the Governor of East Florida. St. Mart's, in Georgia, 13//; June. 1792. Sir: I have it in command, from the President of the United States, that, on every occasion that may occur, to evince the most cordial attention to the Spanish Government and interests on the Southern frontiers of the United States, and that, should any discovery be made by me. that might appear injurious to the interests©!- peace of the Spanish nation, that I should, without loss of time, communicate the same to the nearest Spanish officer. The intention of this, is to assure your Excellency, that theniost implicit obedience shall be paid by me fo this command, and that, on all occasions. I shall be watchful, and give early notice of any thing which may occur within the sphere of my department. I arrived at this place, on the 8th instant, from the Rock Landing, on the river Oconee, where I held a conference with about two hundred chiefs and warriors of the Creek nation. During my communication with them, I have not discovered any inimical design in that nation, either against Spain or the United States. 1 find that Bowles Lath occasioned great feuds among those unfortunate people, and that his designs were eventually hostile. But. as he is now removed. (1 hope never to return) I hope the nation will soon be restored to a state of tranquillity. There are. however, several of Bowles' white associate* still in the nation, endeavoring to mislead the Indians. Some of these white wretches have lately advised the sat ages to commit depredations on your government. , Although it may be the general wish of the Creek nation, to be in peace with you, yet there are dissolute characters among them, who listen to such advice. 1. therefore, think it my duty to mention this to your Excellency, that you may be on your guard. The principal agent ot Bowles that is now in the nation, is a man of the name of Willbanks. I shall set off from hence for the Rock Landing, on the 18th instant; should any thing of moment come to my knowledge whilst there, that is interesting to the Spanish Government, your Excellency shall know it by express. In the mean time. I shall be happy in a line from you. before my departure, with an account of Mr. Bowles's present situation and prospects, together with any other information you may sec lit. My best respects await your amiable family and self. Wishing you and them all possible happiness in life. I have the honor to be, &c. Translation of Governor Quesada's letter to James Seagrove. in answer to the preceding. St. Augustine, June 14//;. 1792. Sir: ' ... 1 I received, with the highest esteem, your letter of the 10th instant, in which you were pleased to insert the President of the United States' commands to you. to furnish me with every communication that may be important to die interests or peace of the Spanish nation. To which liberal mode of acting I shall endeavor, in conformity to the precepts of my court and my own wishes, to correspond, as far as iny faculties will reach. 1 am clear, that, since the late war, various white men, of desperate fortunes, remained in, or continue going to, and coming from, the Indian nation, who, without a real attachment to, or perhaps being authorized by.any Power, have dedicated themselves (and continue to do so for their ow n private views, or for pure mischiefs sake.) to work up the savages against Spaniards and Americans. It is very probable that Bowles aimed at something more, but he certainly assumed the character of principal in his projects. 1 have alw ays considered him to be a mere tool of other persons. All I know at present of this adventurer is. that lie was sent a prisoner from Apalaclia to New Orleans, ' from thence to the Havana, and from that lately to Spain. My family and I esteem, and return you. your attentive expressions. God preserve you many years. Your hands are kissed by Your humble servant. James Seagrove. Esq, to the Secretary of I Far. Rock Landing, on Oeonee, 5th July, 1792. Sir: Since I hail the honor of addressing you from St. Mary's, on the 14th ult. I returned to this place, where I found upwards of two hundred Creek Indians waiting forme. Those people came without invitation, and altogether unexpected. From.the communications we have had together, I find the design of the chiefs who came, and the intention of those friendly chiefs whom they left behind, was to consult with me on a plan of bringing to a meeting the disaffected leaders. This they think can be effected, but not at this place, as many of them have insuperable objections to this frontier, and think we have a design on them, by asking them to a place they so much dislike. Those who are now with us, are empowered by their countrymen to request that I will meet them at the head of the river St. Mary's, as soon as the weather gets a little cool._To w hich place, they engage they can bring all the disaffected chiefs, and have all matters happilv settled. I have given them a conditional promise, that, if agreeable to the President of the United States. I w ill meet them at the bead of the St. Alary’s, on the first day of November next , at which time and place they think every thing can be settled to our wish. They say it is impossible for any business being done in the nation, in the present state of confusion. Those who had been with me and received my talk, have behaved remarkably well since their return home. They are now working on the disaffected, and have already changed several. I have stipulated with those nowhere, that I should be allowed to meet them at St. Mary's, that not more than two or three chiefs be sent from each town, and not any of their common people; as it is very expensive maintaining I have, since being here, written to some of the leading chiefs of the lower towns, representing this mischief, requesting their exertions to put a stop thereto. " I think my fatiguing journey has, and will be attended with good consequences, as those parties of Indians, who were out hunting, were uninformed of what the chiefs had been doing with me at the Rock Landing; and, I think it is probable, I have prevented some of them being killed, as the settlers were'getting out of all patience; but my interference hath quieted them. _ ^ 'Having arranged those matters as well I can for the present, I intend setting off for the Rock Landing to-morrow. By an express, I received the enclosed letter from General McGillivray, also the copy of one you will find herewith. which he wrote me. I hope that to you contains more satisfactory matter than the one to me. By Mr. Durouzeaux’s letter you will observe that the General is gone to New Orleans; a short time will unriddle his mysterious conduct. The story of the Spanish oflicer I do not put faith in; it can hardly be possible that the Spanish nation would interfere in such business, especially as we seem to be on good terms with them. Since I have been here. I have, in conformity with your direction, communicated information to the Governor of St. Augustine, a copy of which you have herewith. - I do not agree with General McGillivray in opinion, that we are in danger of a war with the Creeks; I am persuaded that we are not, unless they are urged to it by those who ought not. I shall make it my first business to ascertain the story of the Spanish officer, which you shall have without delay. Jack Kinnard is hourly expected here. I wish much to see him; but, as the chiefs, mentioned in Durouzeaux’s letter, are by this at the Rock Landing, it will not do to delay. I have, however, given my brother instructions to obtain every information from him, and to forward it to me. Nothing further ottering on this frontier, worthy of communication, I conclude, remaining yours. [enclosures.] .Alexander McGillivray to James Seagrove. Uppeu Creeks, Little Tallassee, 18//j May. 1793. Dear Sir: I received your letter of the 1st instant. You have, no doubt, been expecting me some time: I had been waiting, this month past, to get our lower gentry into humor-of attending to national matters, and to recover from the confusion they had been thrown into by the talks of the lying Captain. After he was secured by the Spaniards, I had some hopes of their soon forgetting him and his British fleets, when, to my surprise, some Indians, from Orleans, have given and spread reports that have made matters worse than ever; and a Spanish officer has actually arrived, and tells the Indians that he has orders tcuprevent them from running the line, or doing any other business with the Americans, and invites them to a meeting, in September next, at Pensacola. This last stroke is too much: the Indians, at least a good many, are as mad as ever, and Bowles’partisans are again getting loud about givingaway land; it is no wonder the Indians are distracted, when they are‘tampered with on every side; and am myself in the situation of a keeper of Bedlam, and nearly fit for an inhabitant. Finding that the Cussetah chiefs are still at home, Randall carries a talk, desiring them, in the most pressing language, to go directly and have the line run. But, since Bowles had given hopes of British aid, a majority of the towns would agree to cede no more than the east side of Oconee, and now they are told to give none at all; and I wish that more may not be insisted on at present, to avoid disputes and its horrid consequences—a diabolical war, and in which they will be supported, and in which I will not have any hand. I am hastening to go and get an explanation from the proper persons, and their reasons for their interference. As yet, I cannot guess at their motives; you are no stranger to their dispositions. As I presume that you communicate with none but the honorable Secretary of War. it is almost unnecessary for me to express a wish, that no paragraph, from this letter, be copied for a newspaper. The Indians will report these Spanish talks of themselves. Please forward, as soon as convenient, the enclosed, by a safe hand. The good people of Augusta do not scruple to intercept and break open letters to and from General Knox. One from him to me was treated so last year, of which I never complained to him. I am, dear sir, yours, &c. James Durouzeaux to James Seagrove. Cowetas, 3.Sth May, 1792. Sin: I am desired by the honorable king of this, and the Cussetah king, to acquaint you. that the two men you mentioned in your last, being killed by the Cowetas, is Mot so. It was done by the Cherokees—one as satisfaction for the man that was said to be killed with John Galphin, which, by sending to the Cherokees, you can be satisfied in, with their reasons for doing it. But I must acquaint vou, that the Mad Dog of the Cowetas was gone out to take satisfaction for the man killed last May. before your letter arrived. I immediately sent a runner after him, (not knowing that the murder had been committed by the Cherokees) to bring back, that satisfaction was taken, and that letters were come to me in consequence of it. Since that, I have not heard if he proceeded or not, nor the runner is not returned yet. I am also to acquaint you, that the head-men of Coweta and Cussetah, have been waiting for General McGillivray coming down, to accompany them to the Rock Landing, to take you by the hand and near your talks, and tell you theirs, and endeavor to settle all matters for the satisfaction of both parties, that we might hereafter live in peace and friendship with each other. But now, finding that he is not coming, but is gone to New Orleans, and sent to them to come down themselves with me, they are now determined to come down and see you; they would hate been down long ago, but they have been confused in separate parties, by that Bowles, who had made himself a number of friends, bought with Mr. Panton’s property; that they are at a loss to determine on any tiling, by reason of the villains of Bowles’ part}'. And a Spanish agent has lately arrived here from New Orleans; he is to have a meeting in the Lower towns in a few days, after which, we are to set out for the Rock Landing. In answer to your last, they have sent this to acquaint you, and letyou know, that they have not, nor did not, throw away your talks; but, that the distraction that these lower towns have been in for some time past, has prevented them until now. Their crops, as well as other matters, has been the reason of our not coining sooner. ■ Doubtless, but General McGillivray has acquainted you with reasons of not accompanying the Indians at this treaty. The chiefs of the Cowetas and Cussetahs, are now determined, at last, to come down and take you by the hand, and smoke a pipe of tobacco in friendship, and talk over matters, if not agree in every point. For, without talking to each other, matters never will be settled. If any thing should unawaredly happen, they hope it will not prevent our treaty. ‘ 'I am, sir, yours, &c. P. S. It it supposed, some young fellows may steal horses; if they should, and be brought in these towns, they are determined to take them and bring them down with us. ~ ; -92.] GENERAL VIEW. 303 James Durouzcaux to James Seagrovc. Cowetas,-2d June, 1792. Sir: I received yours of 23d May with the talk, but not having time to call a meeting, I have not explained it yet, and the Cussetah king and Hallowing king of the Cowetas being determined to comedown and see you, before you left the place, I have sent my son with this, that you may bo acquainted with our coining. He had set out with the letters, two days, but meeting the Bird Tail king, returned to know if they were still determined to come, down or not. JBnt they are not altered from what I mentioned in my last. We shall be out in about four or five days from this, but we shall travel slow, as the weather is very hot at present. The Mad Dog that I mentioned, who was gone out to take satisfaction for his son that was killed last May was twelve month, is not returned, but proceeded on. He told, the runner, that was sent on after him. that, what the Cherokees did, was nothing to him; that, if they had done wrong, they must answer for themselves; that he had gone out, and would not return, until Ve had taken satisfaction for his son. The chiefs of these towns beg you will send to the Cherokees and be acquairie,i with the truth of the matter. I am. sir. yours. &c. James Seagrovc to the Governor of East Florida. Sr. M vry's, in Georgia, 13//; June. 1792. Sir: ■ I have it in command, from the President of the United States, that, on every occasion that may occur, to evince the most cordial attention to the Spanish Government and interests oil the Southern frontiers of the United States, and that, should any discovery be made by me, that might appear injurious to the interests or peace of the. Spanish nation, that I should, without loss of time, communicate the same to the nearest Spanish officer. The intention of this, is to assure your Excellency, that the most implicit obedience shall be paid by me to this command, and that, on all occasions, 1 shall he watchful, and give early notice of any thing which may occur within the sphere of my department. ■ I arrived at this place, on the 8th instant, from the Rock Landing, on the river Oconee, where I held a conference with about two hundred chiefs and warriors of the Greek nation. During my communication with them, 1 have not discovered any inimical design in that nation, either against Spain or the United States. I find that Bowles hath occasioned great feuds among those unfortunate people, and that his designs were eventually hostile. But, as he is now removed, (I hope never to return) I hope the nation will soon be restored to a state of tranquillity. There are, however, several of Bowles' white associates still in the nation, endeavoring to mislead the Indians. Some of these white wretches have lately advised the savages to commit depredations on your government. ■Although it may he the general w ish of the Greek nation, to be in peace with you,yet there are dissolute characters among them, who listen to such advice. 1. therefore, think it my duty to mention this to your Excellency, that you may be on your guard. The principal agent ot Bow les that is now in the nation, is a man of the name of Willbanks. I shall set oil'from hence for the Rock Landing, on the 18th instant; should any thing of moment come to my knowledge whilst there, that is interesting to the Spanish Government, your Excellency shall know it by express. In the mean time, I shall he happy in a line from you, before my departure, with an account of Mr. Bowles's present situation and prospects, together with any other information you may see lit. My best respects await your amiable family and self. Wishing you and them all possible happiness in life. I have the honor to be, &c. Translation of Governor Quesada's letter to James Seagrovc. in answer to the. preceding. St. Augustine, June 14//;, 1792. Sir: I received, with the highest esteem, your letter of the 1 Oth instant, in which you were pleased to insert the President of the Tinted States’ commands to you, to furnish me with every communication that may be important to the interests or peace of the Spanish, nation. To which liberal mode of acting I shall endeavor, in conformity to the precepts of my court and my own wishes, to correspond, as far as iny faculties will reach. I am clear, that, since the late war, various white men, of desperate fortunes, remained in, or continue going to, and coming from, the Indian nation, who, without a real attachment to, or perhaps being authorized by, any Power, have dedicated themselves (and continue to do so lor their own private views, or for pure mischief’s sake,) to work up the savages against Spaniards and Americans. St is very probable that Bowles aimed at something more, but he certainly assumed the character of principal in his projects. I have always considered him to be a mere tool of other _ persons. All I know at 'present of this adventurer is, that he was sent a prisoner from Apalacha to New Orleans, ’ .front thence to the Havana, and from that lately to Spain. My family and I esteem, and return you, your attentive expressions. God preserve you many years. Your hands are kissed by ‘ Your humble servant. James Seagrovc. Esq. to the Secretary of War. Rock Landing, on Oconee, 5th July, 1792. Sir: Since I had the honor of addressing you from St. Mary’s, on the' 14th tilt. I returned to this place, where I found upwards of two hundred Creek Indians waiting forme. Those people came without invitation, and altogether unexpected. 'From.the communications we have had together, 1 find the design of the chiefs who came, and the intention of those friendly chiefs whom they left behind, was to consult with me on a plan of bringing to a meeting the disaffected leaders. This they think can be effected, but not at this place, as many of them have insuperable objections to- this frontier, and think we have a design on them, by asking them toa place they so much dislike. Those who are now with us, are empowered by their countrymen to request that I will meet them at the head'of the river St. Mary’s, as soon as the weather gets a little cool.JTo which place, they engage they can bring all the disaffected chiefs, and have all matters happily settled. I have given them a conditional promise, that, if agreeable to the President of the United States, I will meet them at the head of the St. Mary’s, on the first (lay of November next, at which time and place they think every thing can be settled to our wish. They say it is impossible for any business being done in the nation, ill the present state ot confusion. Those who had been with me and received my talk, have behaved remarkably well since their return home. They are now working on the disaffected, and have already changed several. I have stipulated with those nowrnere, that I should be allowed to meet them at St. Mary's, that not more than two or three chiefs be sent from each town, and not any of their common people; as it is very expensive maintaining so many as they usually bring; besides, they retard business. I have used every argument with those Indians now here, to preserve peace with ns; and they assure me they will do all in their power to that effect. I am happy to find from them, that there does not appear a wish in the Lower towns to' be at variance with the United States. I am persuaded I shall be able to keep them quiet, by talking to them, and giving them presents occasionally; and, in my opinion, the most powerful arguments, delivered by the first orator on earth, would prove ineffectual without them: for, as I have mentioned to you in former letters, of their being accustomed thereto by the British and Spanish Governments, that ours will not be a favorite with them unless something is done for them in the same way; especially at this juncture, when every manoeuvre is practising on them by the latter of those nations, to give them an unfavorable opinion of the United States, and prevent them complying with their engagements. In my last I promised to inform you respecting the Spanish officer mentioned by General McGillivray. The result ot my discoveries on this head, as well as some other matters, I have made known to the President of the United States, by this opportunity. My reason for troubling the President, in.tire first instance, with this information. is, that it will reacii him sooner than you, as I find he is now at Mount Vmiion. Should the President approve of my meeting the Indians at St. Mary’s, etluli6t, I request you will give me as early advice thereof as possible, that I may take measures in consequence of w.. at ever may be determined on. If the place of meeting, and doing business, with the Indians, should be fixed at St. Mary’s, I wish to have your orders for removing the goods under my directions, from hence to that place, which may be done by boating them down the Oconee, or by sending them by land to Savannah, and from thence by water. The latter conveyance will be much the safest, but most expensive. I cannot find, from the Indians now with me, that they have a single word of recommendation from General McGillivray, as to carrying the treaty into effect, or any other desirable object. He is gone to New Orleans, ami it is altogether uncertain when he will return. I know not how far it may meet the President's and your approbation, but I judged it would be bad policy to send those Indians, that are now with me, away, without making them some presents. I find what I gave the others had a happy effect in the nation. A lew thousand dollars applied in this way may save a much greater, and more disagreeable expense. 1 shall put them off with as little as possibly I can; their consumption of provisions is very great, blit unavoidable at such times. I intend sending them oft' to-morrow. The great drought which bath been all this summer in the Creek nation, and also the upper part of this country, makes a famine much dreaded. I find I shall be obliged to give those Indians corn to carry home with them, to prevent their families Irom starving. From what I can find, unless assistance is given by the United States in this way, many of the unfortunate people of the Creek nation must perish, as their crops of corn are nearly destroyed by the drought. Permit me to suggest, whether it would not be policy, as well as great humanity, in our Government, to send a supply of corn from the Northward, to the St. Mary’s, to be given to them. It cannot be had in Georgia, at any price. Should a change of affairs make it necessary to assemble a force on this frontier, (at this time) they must be led from some other country than Georgia. There is an absolute necessity that the form of a licence should be provided for traders from the United States to the Creek nation; and also passes for any person going there. You will observe, the Indians complain of the run of people from our country. Peace and good order never can he kept until a restraint or stop is nut to this practice. The present mode of giving passes never will answer: for, whilst so many persons have the power of granting them, and who do not give themselves the trouble to examine who are proper objects, all good intention is frustrated. In my opinion, this ought to he vested in one person, and lie be furnished with proper printed, or engraved, forms of licence and passes for him to fill up. 1 think an engraving, w ith some emblematical figures, such as would he conspicuous to the Indians, and not easily counterfeited, would he best: If they could he done so as to give the Indians a check part, for them to keep, one in each of their town-houses, it would assist very much. I wish, as soon as you Jiave leisure, you would form something of the kind; or, if you approve, and give me directions, I will have it done. No application hath yet been made tome for provisions or any thing else, for the Indians going out' to the Westward. I do not find that General McGillivray lias ever hinted it to any of his nation, so that you need not expect any from the Creeks this year. Enclosed you have the heads of a talk which I delivered to the Indians now here, (two hundred and thirty-one in number) also, the minutes taken of their talk to me. I now send you the Indians’ answer to my talk of the 5th of May, which, in hurry, was omitted. Finding that I do not get my health at this place, (I now write with a hot fever on me) as soon as I can arrange all matters here, 1 shall remove.to St. Mary's, where I shall remain until further orders or business may require. I am, &c. James Sea grove to the President of the United States. ■ Rock Landing, on the River Oconee, in Georgia, 7 . July 5th,. 1792. 5 Sik: The information which I am about to give, appearing to me of importance to the United States, I nope will pl.ead my excuse for thus intruding on your moments of retirement. In my despatch of the 14t’n ultimo, to the Secretary of War, I promised to procure what information I could, respecting a Spanish officer, which General McGillivray mentions in his letter to me of the 18th of May, a copy of which you have herewith. I find on inquiry of the Indian chiefs now with me, that this Spanish officer is the same person that I have mentioned in my former letters, as a Spanish resident or agent, who had arrived from New-Orleans, and lived in a house of General McGillivray’s, at Little Tallassee. It remains' no longer a doubt who this person is, and his business in the Creek nation. His name is Olivar, a Frenchman born, a Captain in the Spanish army, wears the uniform of the regiment of Louisiana, sent by the immediate order of the de Baron Carondelet, Governor of New Orleans, as an agent (or perhaps something more) to conduct affairs in the Creek nation. It would appear by the style of General McGillivray’s letter to me, that this Spanish agent had just arrived, and that he was a stranger to him or his business; this was not the case, for it is well known, and I can produce unquestionable proofs, that fie had then been several months at Mr. McGillivray’s own house, at little Tallassee. The general also took much pains in sending for a number of the chiefs, and introduced this Spaniard to them, as their great friend; who was come to live among them, and to do great tilings for them. It can also be proven, that he was riding about the country with this Spaniard at the time when he had engaged to be with me. 1 have not a doubt but the arrival of this Spanish agent, was in consequence of preconcerted plans between McGillivray and the Spaniards, on his visit last winter to their possessions, and that Captain Olivar is to he his successor in the Creek land; for you must know the general is again gone, with nearly the whole of his property, into New Orleans, and I doubt whether he returns. Certain it is, that lie had engaged to attend the Spanish treaty with the Indians, at Pensacola, in September next. As soon as Mr. McGillivray quit the nation, Captain Olivar threw off all mask, by calling meetings in the towns, directing what the Indians should, and should not do; lie, in the most public and positive manner, forbids them parting with a foot of laud to the United .States; and forbids their running their boundary line between them and Georgia: and positively tells the Indians not to have any thing to do with the Americans. It is said by several persons (but I cannot vouch for the truth of it) that he has gone so far in the Upper towns, as to advise the Indians turning out against our peop e on the Western waters. I think this not improbable; for, about ten days past, he had the impu- dence to come into the Lower towns and give out public talks, and advised the Indians not to'come near me, and on no account to run the line. This I have Iroin persons who were present and heard him. 1 am happy in being able to inform you that he met but a very cool reception in the Lower towns. The Indians who have been with me were returned home, and influenced their people so much in our favor, that he found ii convenient to make a speedy retreat to Little Tallassee. A brother-in-law of General McGillivray is now here, (a white man) of the name Charles Weatherford, who confirms what I have related of this Spanish agent: and further says, that he has. at McGillivray’s house, a quantity of goods, which he distributes among the Indians. That he draws orders on Government in favor of all the Indians going to Orleans, where they receive goods and ammunition, which they bring up in boats, and that they have a constant intercourse in this wav. That this agent is busy in engaging the Indians to attend the treaty at Pensacola. That it was talked of in the nation, that one object of the Spanish treaty would be. to obtain leave to erect forts and establish garrisons on the Creek lands. . Those matters seem of such moment, come so direct, and I believe unquestionably true, that I have lost no time in giving you notice thereof. I cannot.account for this interference of the Spaniards. 1 sometimes think that Captain Qlivar cannot be supported by bis Government in such doings, and that he is exceeding his instructions. By the Secretary of War's letter to me of the 29th of April, it would appear that a good understanding existed between the United States and Spain. In consequence of the Secretary’s directions, in the despatch alluded to above. I wrote a line to the Governor of St. Augustine, in order to feel his pulse on the occasion, as well as to know from him, what they had done with Mr. Bowles: a copy of our correspondence you have herewith. My communication to the Secretary of War of the 24th of May. together with my letter to General McGillivray, of the 21st of the same month, and talks to the Indians. I must pray your perusal of. I find that the Spanish agent is on very friendly terms with Mi-. Bowles's successor in the nation, a man of the name of Willbanks. I cannot help expressing my fears to you. that the Spaniards are playing a double game with us, on the score ol Mr. Bowles. Sly opinion is, that they will make him useful to their views: their very kind treatment of him since he has been among them, cannot fail to create strong suspicions in the breast of anv one as well acquainted as I ant with Spanish want of lenity to actual prisoners, especially those who have oflendeil against their Government. Mr. Bowles hath not been confined by them, and it is a doubt with me but what appeared a capture of him to us, was, in fact, a concerted plan with him. lie is. sent to Spain, but not in confinement. Why send him there? Surelv the Governor of New Orleans, or the Captain General at the Havana, are possessed of powers equal to punishing or acquitting a man of Bowles’ character. 1 fear there is some dark and dangerous business in contemplation among those people. I fear General McGilli-vray is not faithful to the United States: and I have my suspicions, that, if any mischief is a brewing, lie is deeply engaged in it. I never expect lie will come forward as an active character in the field', lie wants spirit, and this is the reason for placing Olivar in his stead, and of his withdrawing to the Spaniards as an asylum. 01 ivar is represented to me as a man of good address, who speaks the French. Spanish, and English languages equally well. _ ^ - I think the reason of McGillivray‘s not meeting me. and his not forwarding the business ot the treaty of New York, as well as his evasive conduct to all the pressing arguments made use of to him by the Secretary ol War and myself, arose from preconcerted plans with liis Spanish and English lriends. and not irom any real opposition the Indians made thereto. Agreeably to my instructions, 1 have labored very hard to replace this ungrateful man in the confidence ol his countrymen, which he has lost from his duplicity and want of resolution. 1 fear I shall be censured by the I ndians, who are our friends, for my y.ea! in his behalf. I assure you that nine out of ten ol them now despise him. and seldom mention his name but with disrespect. I conceive it my duty to haveMajor Call, the commander of the Federal troops, and Mr. Ellicott. the surveyor, present at my communications with the Indians, in order that they might witness the situation of matters, and act accordingly. It is truly disagreeable, to me. but duty impel!s me to mention to you, that this once valuable officer hath resigned himself to so continual a state of intoxication with strong liquors, as to render him totally incapable ot acting, or even judging, of w hat is proper in the line of bis duly. I have already hinted this to the Secretary of War, and referred him to the officers that went from this, for further information. Notwithstanding the untoward state the Creek nation is represented to be in by General McGillivray, I think I can venture to assure you, that I can keep them from breaking with us, if not restore them to order, and get all matters settled w ith them. 1 hope you will see the necessity of my having it in my power to supply them occasionally. You are too well acquainted with the nature of Indians, for me to say more to you on tins head, as well as the precarious situation of those people at present. In the execution of these or any other matters you are pleased to commit to my care, 1 can only say, that fidelity ami industry in me shall not be wanting. _ I have left open my despatches to the Secretary of War for your perusal. Should any thing further offer of consequence, 1 shall forward it by express. I have the honor. &c. James Seugrove to the President of the United States. Rock Landing, on the Oconee, in Georgia, July 27, 1792. Siu: I herewith send you a copy of what I had the honor of communicating to you on the 5th instant, which I sent by express to Savannah,'to be forwarded from thence by Mr. Habersham, the collector; since that date, 1 am not so happy as to receive a line from any of the public departments, and, as tbe cloud in diis Southern country seems to thicken, with matter interesting to you ami the Union, 1 must again trouble you with w hat information I have been able to collect since the above period. In tbe first place, you will find enclosed die copy of a letter which I wrote Governor Telfair, of Georgia, and also the declaration of Charles Weatherford, against a Colonel Samuel Alexander, of the militia of Greene county, in this State, which will, in some degree, convey to you the licentious, ungovernable spirit of the people on this frontier, and on how precarious a tenure we hold peace with the Indians. The refractory conduct ol the frontier inhabitants of the upper part of this State is so notorious, and so apparently determined to bring on a war with the Indians, that all endeavors to preserve peace seems in vain. My motives for sending Governor Telfair the- deposition against Alexander, and writing him, as you.will please observe, was, that he should not plead ignorance at a future day of the conduct of his citizens, and at the same time to see what measures lie would take to check such doings. Was it necessary, or would it answer any purpose, I could have many, very many of such testimonies taken. Scarcely a day passes, but I have fresh instances of those frontier banditti’s opposition to pacific measures, and ot their flyin® in the face of the General Government. To such lengths have matters got among them, that they now consider the troops and servants of the,United States, who arc placed among them, nearly as great enemies as they do the Indians, and for no other reason than that they recommend moderation, and a compliance with the laws ol the land. It is truly distressing, that a few such vile characters should bring an odium on tbe State of Georgia; for they are few, comparatively speaking, to the good people in the State, who are as forward as any in the Union to support t federal measures.' But the misfortune is. that there is sufficient of those bad to involve the whole in great dislress, which will be the case, should there he an Indian war. _ _ Since my last to you, which was pretty full oil the subject of Spanish and Indian matters, I have received many pieces of information, all tending to confirm me in the opinion, that the Spaniards are acting as much to the injury of the United .States as they possibly can, and that General McGillivray hath verified my predictions of him. From every information which I can collect from white people and Indians, there does not remain a doubt with me, but that the Spaniards will, if they possibly can, involve the United States in a war with the four Southern nations of Indians,: every exertion is making by the Spaniard*, and undue measures taking with the savages to stir them up against us. The enclosed testimony on oath, of James Leonard, who appears to be a man of information, and respectable decent manners, will explain and open to you new matter of perfidy in Spain, as well as base conduct in General McGillivray. Mr. Leonard is a stranger to me, and in this country. Iiis appearance is much in his favor—he. is a modest man, of few words, and seems actuated in this information by no'other motive but to serve the United States, lie is a citizen of Massachusetts, and lived at Beverly. Mr. Leonard’s testimony being corroborated to me by a variety of accounts and circumstances within my own knowledge, I am the more readily led to p!ace_ confidence in it. He is now with me, and I have taken much pains in cross-examining and sounding him on this information, but cannot find him defective or any room lor suspicion as to his veracity. That General McGillivray has all along been acting a traitor’s part by the United States, I have long suspected and hinted to you. To him, alone, are the United States to charge all the delays, and confusions, and irregularities, which have taken place between them and the Creek nation. He it is, who hath impeded and prevented business being done with them. It is to him that Bowles, owes his consequence: for certain it is, that he was weak and wicked enough to believe (for several months after Bowles’s arrival in the nation) that he came under authority.from the British Government, and, therefore, understandingly favored him. Bowles had address enough to impose this belief on McGillivray’s director, Mr. Panton, and they carried on the deception, with a view, in the end, to injure Spain, as well as this country, and to re-establish the English with the Creeks. This I have from one of McGilli vray’s own family, who was let into the secret. McGillivray is now gone, and I hope, most -sincerely, never Mall return to the nation: for, so long as he has any thing to say in their councils, the United States never will succeed with the Indians. He is an enemy, in his heart, to our country and its measures, and is now so .totally under the influence and direction of Spain and Panton, that he cannot, or dare not, serve the United States, if he was so inclined. Upon the whole, I think it fortunate that he has thrdwn oft' the mask, and taken himself out of the nation. His name will soon be despised by the Indians, provided the agents of America are allowed to speak freely to them.- I ean with confidence and truth say, that, had not McGillivray been in the way, 1 should, ere this, have hail all. matters agreeably situated between.the United States and the Greeks. He has been a heavy clog on my endeavors: for, instead of opposing him in his perfidious t/ v ’ ads, I was using every argument to reinstate him with his country, who had penetration to see that lie was acting a double part, and therefore they despised him. I view and consider him as of very little consequence to the United States: there are men in the Creek nation who may be made much more useful, and of greater influence than ever he was. Should it be found that the Spaniards are acting as has been represented, and that you see fit to combat them in theirown way, that is, make use of the Indians, I will engage to turn the tables completely on them: for you may rely, that the Indians are disposed to be our friends, notwithstanding the underhand, unwarrantable doings of McGillivray and the Spaniards. The Spaniards, it is well known, they dislike, and would sooner join any nation than them. So that, if I am allowed to speak plainly to the'leading characters, and have it in my power to make them presents, I think I ean not only prevent them acting against us, but secure them to act as circumstances may require. 1 have already taken measures to have two or three trusty fellows at the treaty at Pensacola, from whom I shall hear what is done there. To-morrow I shall set off for the head of St. Mary's, where I expect to meet Kin-nard, the principal active man in the Lower towns, with some other chiefs, to give them their lesson before they go to Pensacola. Allow me to mention the naked, defenceless state of the Southwestern frontier—not more than fifteen men there, and those without even a sergeant to direct them. I have applied to Major Call, to send one of the companies, now here, to go to the head of St. Mary’s, but he does not find himself at liberty. In my opinion, a respectable force on that frontier is necessary at this time. Enclosed, I send you an anonymous letter, which came enclosed to me from the Creek nation—it is directed to tiie printer in Savanah. The writer of it I do not know, hut it contains the received opinion and belief of all the white people in the nation; and many matters stated in it are absolutely true. The situation of -affairs in this quarter seems so very interesting, tfiat I do not think it prudent to delay giving you information; and as the conveyances to me are uncertain, and the danger of despatches falling into improper hands, I have sent the bearer, James Jordan, a very trusty young man, who lives with me, and to whom you may commit the care of any commands you may have to me. He lias orders to wait your time tor that purpose. I have sent. also, a letter I received from Timothy Barnard: it may afford you some information, as Barnard is a man to be depended on. I have left my letter to the Secretary of War open for your perusal. I shall continue my endeavors to discover what is going forward in the nation, as well as among the Spaniards, and convey you notice. In hope of soon hearing from you with further power and instructions, I remain, your most obedient, most devoted, ' '. And very humble servant. JS. SEAGROVE. The President of the Vhited States. James Seagrove to the Governor of Georgia. Rock Landing, on the Oconee, in Georgia. July 18(h. 1792. Sir: I did myself the honor of writing you yesterday, and enclosed you the Brisish minister’s disavowal, on the part of his court, of Mr. Bowles or his projects. I now send, for your private inspection, the declaration, on oath, of Charles Weatherford, relative to the conduct of a Colonel Samuel Alexander, who lives in Greene county, in this State. From what I can understand, this Colonel Alexander eame to this place with intentions to create fears in the minds of the Indians, and others, so as to put a stop to any attempts to ascertain the boundary line. There being at that time, (5th instant) near three hundred Indians with me'on business, it is supposed the good people in the upper part of this State were alarmed, lest the line should be run, or any thing done to keep them in peace; for it appears by Mr. Alexander’s declaration, that there are many there of his sentiments. Colonel Alexander came to the fort at this place, on the 5th instant, and derired to see me. I being then at din-, ner with the Indian chiefs. I thought he would not be an agreeable visiter to those people, whose relations and friends' he had murdered in cool blood, and who was the principal cause (as your Excellency well knows) of involving the country in a long, bloody, and expensive war with the Creek Indians; from these motives, as well as my own dislike to all such men and their measures, 1 did not think it tit or right to see him; but sent him word by the sergeant on duty, that, if he had any businsss with me, it must be made known by writing. Upon this, Mr. Alexander went about this place, expressing himself to almost every person he talked with, much in the same style as he did to 'Weatherford. I need not point out to your Excellency the bad consequences of such declarations being known by the Indians; and doubtless pains are taken, by such men as Alexander, that they shall be known. If such men are allowed thus to act with impunity, it is in vain-that governments go to heavy expenses and much trouble, in order to preserve peace with the Indian tribes, when such men are determined it shall not be. And unfortunately. those pests to government and society, have it. in their power (any day) to involve us in a diabolical war, to answer their own wicked-purposes. This, 1 i'ear, will be the case ere long. Soitv am I to say that the temper and conduct of many of the settlers in the upper parts of this State,-strongly justify this opinion. 1 fear that your Excellency's as well as the General .Government’s wise and humane measures, to keep this country in peace with the savages, will prove ineffectual, unless a check can be given to the licentious spirit of some, w ho call themselves citizens of Georgia. The principal business of those Indians who have lately been with me, was to consult on measures for reclaiming the disaffected chiefs that are in the nation, to our Government: to fix on a time and place when the chiefs should meet me to arrange all matters; and to request thafthey should not be asked to meet on this frontier, giving as reason for this, that many of their chiefs disliked this frontier and its inhabitants, and that, they had reason to think it was the same on the part of the white people: that they always found them cross to Indians, and charged them with stealing horses, <Scc. w hen they did it themselves, and sold them to the red people, They, therefore, thought there was danger in being here, and requested I would meet them to the southward, so soon as the w eather grows a little cool. I gave them a conditional promise that I would meet them on the first of November, at the head of St. Mary’s, provided the President of the United States approved. 1 am happy in informing your Excellency, that those chiefs lately here, renewed and confirmed the assurances given me.by those who were with me in May last, of their determination to do all in their power to preserve peace with this country; to collect and bring in to me, (for the owners) all property stolen since the treaty of New' York. To prevent their people from stealing from the whites: to take up all white persons coming into the nation without passports agreeable to law, with any kind of property, and bring the w hole to me. This last step, 1 hope, will give a check to the shameful practice now in great vogue among our white villains, of stealing horses, cattle, and negroes; carrying them into the Indian nation, and there exchanging or selling them. This is no speculative opinion; 1 know it to be an absolute fact. ... I had four horses taken from me at this place by a man of the name of Harvey, a captain of militia, who went to an Indian (then in this camp) and offered to exchange on the south side of this river, my four large horses for four Indian jackies. The Indian informed me of this, and pointed out Harvey, who was taken up and confined in the guard house some days. The dread of his being punched, it is supposed, induced his accomplices to turn the horses loose, so as they were found, but much abused. This I have taken the liberty of mentioning, as one instance, amongst many, which have come to my knowledge. From every appearance at present, I think the people of Georgia have no cause to be alarmed that the Creek Indians will disturb them this summer, at least. . I shall use every exertion in my power to keep them on good terms with us, and, il my labors are not counteracted by bad white people in this country, I have Hot a doubt of preserving peace. The Indians who w ere lately here, behaved remarkably well, and went home, to all appearance, perfectly satisfied. and w ith dispositions to serve us. I hope your Excellency will excuse the freedom I have taken," in thus communicating. I should not have given you this trouble, but that I believed it right that you should be acquainted with the dispositions of some of the people of this upper country. I have the honor, &c. The following information delivered by Charles JUeatherford to James Seagrove, Agent of Indian Affairs, at the Rock Landing, on the Oconee, the 10th day of July. 1792. That, on the Gth day of this instant, this deponent fell in company with Colonel Samuel Alexander, of Greene county, who made inquiry when the boundary line between the Creeks and the State of Georgia was to be run, and how it was to be run? Upon which, this deponent answered, that he knew' nothing about the business. Said Alexander then made answer, ” We are determined it shall not be run, unless die first articles of the treaty shall be complied with beforehand, as he had no idea of beginning at the tail of the business; that they (meaning the people of tlie upper counties of Georgia) could, in seven days, raise one thousand men, who would, by force, prevent its being run, and break up the whole business.” lie continued to denounce threats against all who should attempt to run the said line, unless agreeable to the wish of himself and friends, as described above. This deponent intimated, that this conduct would be opposing the United States, as well as the Indians. His reply was. " lie did not care, heand his friends were determined it should be so.” Alexander also desired this deponent to acquaint the Indian agent with what he had told him, and said, ” that this was the business which brought him to this place; butas he could not have a personal interview with said agent, he wished his and his friends’ determination should be known.” CIIAS. WEATHERFORD. Washington' County, 7 State of Georgia, 56 Personally appeared before me, the above mentioned Charles Weatherford, w ho, being duly sworn, declares the whole of the preceding testimony to be just and true. JNO. M'KJNZIE, J. P. Rock Landing, on the Oconee, 10th July, 1792 I do certify the whole of the. preceding to be exact copies from the original in my possession. JAS. SEAGROVE, Agent of Indian Affairs. The following information delivered on oath, by James Leonard, a citizen of the United States, to James Seagrove, Agent of Indian Affairs, Southern Department.—Rock Landing, on the Oconee, in Georgia, 24th July, 1792. That this deponent, James Leonard, came to the province of Louisiana, March third, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, on mercantile business, by way of fort Pitt, anil down the Ohio to the Mississippi, and to New Orleans; that lie lived in said city of New Orleans about seven months, during w hich time, lie had an opportunity of conversing with the Governor, and almost all other ranks of people in that city; that he could discover that the French and English people who are settled in that province, are, to a man, ripe for revolt against the Spanish Government, and daily wished for the Americans to come and relieve them from the oppressive government which they were under. That, in September of the same year, he got permission from Governer Miro to remain in either East or West Florida for six months longer, to transact his business, during which time, this deponent removed from Orleans to the river Tensa, a Spanish settlement and post, distant from the town oj'Mobile about fifty miles, where he remained until June, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, in which month, all persons residing in that country, who had not taken the oath ol fidelity to Spain, were called on to do it, and they were sworn, amongst other things, to fight for the King of Spain when called on, from the sea to the head waters of the Alabama. That the deponent refused to take the said oath, upon which he w as ordered out of the country in three days, stripped of all the property Iie'had there, even to his horse* saddle, and bridlej which hath obliged him to travel from Tensa on foot to this frontier, which is computed about four hundred miles. That Governor O’Neal, of Pensacola, had issued orders that this deponent should not be permit'ed to go to the United States, but that he should be sent to the West Indies. At the same time, orders were given to all the commandants on that coast, and to Don Pedro Oliver, commandant of the Creek nation, not to let any person pass to the United States, but such as were in fidelity with Spain, and who could make it appear they were going for the purpose of getting property due them in the United States. That orders were given by Governor O’Neal to the said commandant in the Creek nation, (which* orders this deponent heard publicly read, at the Spanish post on Tensa) that, should any person attempt to go through the said Indian nation, contrary to orders, he should send the Indians alter them, and if found, to strip.and kill them. That, when this deponent came to the Creek nation, about the 20th ultimo,on his way to this place, he found that Captain Oliver had, by talks, been preparing the Indians to meet at Pensacola in August next, to treat with the Governor General from New Orleans. That he heard the Spanish commandant (Deyveral) of Tensa, speak of three things to be demanded of the Indians at the ensuing treaty, viz. “That the Spaniards shall have leave to repair the-old French fort in the fork between the Coosa and Tallapoosa rivers, and to place a garrison of Spanish troops '' there; that the whole trade of the Creek nation must be carried bn by the Spaniards; that, in order to do this, and all manner of public business among the Indians, three Spanish' agents shall reside in the nation, of which three, General McGillivray shall be one, and in chief.” . That, some time m the month of May last, Mr. Panton, of Pensacola, a partner in the house of Panton,' Leslie and Co. went from the Creek nation, with General McGillivray in company, to the Cherokee nation. This infor mation this deponent had from the said General when he saw him at Tensa. What Panton and McGillivray’s talks were to the Cherokees, this deponent only knows by information from a half-breed of that nation, which was, “that the said house of Panton and Co. at Pensacola, would lower the price of.goods to them; and that the Spanish Government would give them very great presents if they would come to Pensacola; on which invitation, he has reason to p believe, several will go; as this deponent met (bn his way here) four half-breeds of that country, and two white traders going to Pensacola, with about forty pack-horses, which seemed all well loaded.” -That, on Panton and McGillivray’s return to the Creek nation, from the Cherokees, McGillivray took his leave of Don Pedro Oliver, the Spanish commandant in the nation, who he left in full possession of his house at Little Tallassee, and committed the care of his fruit trees to said commandant; the said General not having any other property there. McGillivray then proceeded to Tensa, where this deponent met him; thence, to Mobile, where he look passage in the King’s schooner for new Orleans. That this deponent understood that General McGillivray was positively to attend the treaty at Pensacola, with the Governor of Orleans. That this deponent left Tensa the tenth of last month, or thereabouts; that, after McGillivray left the nation. Pan ton staid there until some time in the beginning of the present month, and returned to Pensacola by the,way of St. Marks. Panton’s talks in the nation were to the following purpose, viz. That he had orders from the Spanish Government to tell them that they must not, on any account, run the boundary line between them and Georgia; and not to have any trade or connexion with the Americans. That the Spanish Government would protect them and their lands, against any encroachments of the Americans; that the King of Spain had sent a great many soldiers into West Florida, for that purpose; and that, also, there was at Pensacola for them, arms and ammunition, with other presents, if they would only go and accept of them. That Panton and Oliver told the Indians that the Americans were poor, and could not give them any Indian goods, such as axes, blankets, hoes, strouds, &c.; that none of these things were made in that country; that the- Americans were forced to get those goods from England for their own use. Panton further told them, that they must rob any of the American traders who might come among them, or that they should meet; giving the Indians to understand, that the Spanish subjects only were allowed to trade with them. That a party of Shawanesc Indians, who were of the hostile tribes to the northward, had come down to Orleans, and were sent from thence to Pensacola, where they were received by Governor O’Neal, who gave them presents, and sent them into the Greek nation with the Spanish King’s interpreter. Those. Indians.declared they would be at war with the American States, as long as any of them should, live; that this declaration, alone, seemed to make them acceptable to the Spaniards. They are now in what is called the Savannah’s town, who are a part of the Shawanesc that settled with the Creeks some years past. That this deponent had frequent opportunities of conversing with General McGillivray, from some time in November to the 25th January last: that he often heard said McGillivray regret, that he, the said McGillivray, ever had formed any connexion with the United States, and has actually forbid this deponent, and many others, giving him the title of General; and that, whenever he went to any of the Spanish places, he forbid his being called General, conceiving it an injury to him with the Spaniards. That, some time in January last, the said McGillivray had all his negroes, and other property, taken from tlie Creek nation to the mouth of Little river, within fourteen miles of the Spanish commandant’s house at Tensa, and within the Spanish Government, where they now chiefly remain. That, last spring,- the said McGillivray was about to burn his new house at Tallassee, but was prevented by-Spanish commandant Captain Oliver, who told him he should not, as he, the commandant, should want it. That this deponent often saw Indians come to McGillivray and tell him, that Indians of other towns had stole horses, and were troublesome to the frontiers, from which conduct they were afraid that the Americans would come and burn their towns; but that McGillivray told the Indians, that they had nothing to fear from any such misconduct; that they need only say that the white people were saucy totheni,and he would free them, as he had assurance from General Washington, and General Knox, that the killing of a few people, and stealing of horses, even to the number of forty or fifty of either, from Georgia, would not cause them to send any force against them. This was the talks of Joseph Cornell, also, to the Indians. That, during the whole time of this deponent’s being acquainted with General Alexander McGillivray, there subsisted a perfect good understanding and friendly intercourse between them, so that this deponent hath not been influenced in the preceding declaration, from prejudice, malice, or resentment, against the said McGillivray; but merely from motives of justice, and the regard he has for the United States, hath induced him thus to come forward, of his own free act, and declare to the Indian agent, transactions which he conceives highly injurious to the peace and happiness of the said States. That it is the opinion of this deponent, from what he has seen, and came .to his knowledge in the Spanish country, that the Spaniards are doing every thing in their power to engage the Indians in a war with the United.States; not only the Creeks, but the other three nations, viz. the Choctaws, Chickasaws, and Cherokees. 'Chat the Spanish talks seemed to have great weight on the minds of the. Indians who live on the rivers of Coosa, Talapoosa, and Alabama; and that there was a very conspicuous inveteracy in the Spaniards, inhabiting the Floridas, as well soldiers as citizens, against every' person whom they believed to be friends to the United States. That this deponent received undoubted accounts, before his quitting Tensa, that five Spanish regiments, said to ------contain between five and six hundred men each, had actually arrived as a reinforcement to the posts on the Mississippi, since the beginning of May last; and that as many more regiments were expected from the Havana to that country'. That very large.quantities of artillery and stores had also arrived to the posts on said river. That there are many other matters of like tendency which is within the knowledge of this deponent, which will be communicated in future: at present, he concludes this-narrative. JAMES LEONARD. Washington County, State of Georgia: . Personally appeared before me, the subscribing deponent, to the preceding testimony, by him delivered to the agent of Indian affairs, containing six pages, who, being duly sworn on the Holy Evangelists of Almighty Gild, declares the whole of the contents of the said preceding six pages to be just and true, to the best of his knowdedge and belief, as by him stated. ... Rock Landing, on the Oconee river, in the State of Georgia, this twenty-sixth day of July, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two.   . ' JAMES LEONARD. . SAMUEL BECKCOM, J. P. An anonymous letter to the printer of the Savannah Gazette. This letter urns sent under cover to James Sea grove, Esq. echo opened it at the Hock Landing, the -25th July, 1792. Cheek Nation, June 29, 1792. Mu. Printer: Please to insert the enclosed intelligence, anil I make no doubt.you will oblige a number of friends to justice. It may be depended upon as perfectly the truth, which you will find, if you have an opportunity of conversing with any intelligent person, who was in the Indian country lor this month past; and it is no more than what ought to be made public, and all underhanded doings. Yours, Ac. A FRIEND TO JUSTICE. We have received the following intelligence from the Creek nation, which may be depended upon: Mr. Panton has lately made a tour through the Upper Creeks to the Cherokees, and returned through the Lower Creeks to St. Mark’s, lie encouraged the Indians every where to oppose the Americans, and not give up their land; he particularly told the Creeks not to run the line. ^ To back Mr. Panton, a Spanish officer has been sent into the Creeks; his talks are to the following purport, viz: Not to give up an inch of land nor run the line, and they should be protected in it; and that there was a large quantity ol arms, ammunition, Ac. for them at Pensacola, which he invited them to come and receive. He also told them, that, it any blood was spilled to let him know, and he would write to the King of Spain, who had soldiers enough, not far otf, to assist them. He further told them, that they had frequently heard that McGillivray had sold their lands, but that lie always denied it. and said it was the chiefs themselves; that now he had come into the nation and found it was McGillivray. and had wrote back so; and that, in consequence thereof, he was sent for to New Orleans to answer for his conduct. In short, his talks were encouraging the Indians to commit hostilities against the Americans, (in the Cussetahs excepted) assuring them of assistance from Spain/ Talks to the same effect have been sent to the Cherokees. Chickasaws. and Choctaws, but we are happy to hear that neither his nor Panton's talks will be taken by the Chickasaws nor Lower Creeks, but treated with the contempt they deserve. Some of the Upper Creeks, we understand, approve of them. Hy persons from Pensacola we find the arms they are to receive are trading guns, of English manufacture, and must, of course, come through Panton & Co. Some Indian factors, who were lately at Pardon's store, at St. Mark's, were told to fell the Indians to plunder all the American traders and send them back. The Spanish plan, we have strong reasons to believe, is to get the four nations to join them in opposing the Americans, who, we hear from undoubted authority, are preparing to attack their posts and settlements on the Mississippi. We sincerely hope they will improve this hint. It isalso confidently asserted by persons from Pensacola, that the Spaniards are sending cannon, Ac. from Pensacola up the river M issis-sippi, and Captain John Linden is raising horsemen on Tennisaw to act against the American States, at ten dollars per month, and find their own horses. Panton's plan is easy seen into: it is no more than what he has been pursuing several years past. Bowles, we are told, is gone to the court of Spain, to negotiate some business relative to a free port; he is allowed four dollars per day during his embassy; lie is treated with every mark of distinction, and not a prisoner, as has been industriously insinuated by Panton and his myrmidons. Timothy liarnurd to James Seagrovc. Dear Sir: Fi.int Rivf.r, July 13, 1792. 1 was honored yesterday with your letter by the Uehee king, and am exceedingly sorry that it is out ot my power to comply with your reqinJst with respect to coming down immediately to the Rock Landing, as nothing should have hindered me at this time but so insurmountable an accident as. about ten days ago. the distemper got amongst my horses, and I have lost nineteen head, the chief of them the best. I had. 1 had but. three valuable ruling horses that I kept purposely for my own riding, which are all three dead. I have not more than six or seven pack horses left, and they' have, but about ten days ago, come from Heard's 131 u rt' loaded with salt, and are none of them able to go twenty miles; therefore, 1 am sorry to be under (lie necessity ot informing yon that ! have not a horse in the world that would carry me in ten days to where you'aiv, at the Rock Landing. Had it not been for the misfortune of losing my horse.', 1 could have furnished you with an excellent one for Mrs. Seagrovc. and one for yourself to ride home upon, which I could have come down to you immediately with. If I can procure a horse that I think will suit a lady to ride, against I come down to St. Mary's, which will be in about two months from this, 1 will bring one down to you there. I am informed by the Uclioe king that you mean to have your next meeting at your brother's store, on St. Mary’s, which I think will answer a very good purpose, as it will he the means of getting the Chehawtiseche and Kitahecta people down there, and perhaps the means of settling matters with them, w hich there is a great necessity for at (his time, as that villain Bowles has put such notions in (heir heads that the devil seems to be in them ever since. The Cussetah king has been here with me these five days past, and w ent otf for the town yesterday', just before I received your letter. The chief of his business was, to inquire of me what I thought of the present sit uation ofaftiiirs in the nation, as they found what I had told them respecting Bowles had turned out nearly as I had told them, lie wished to know a little about the grounds of what this Spanish officer meant by the talks lie bail given them, which was, in the first place, not to run the line, but to come down to a meeting at Pensacola and Mobile, where the Spaniards, this officer told them, would call the Choctaws, Chickasaws, Cherokees, and Creeks, and give them all one talk, and, when they had all agreed to one talk, that they should all be furnished with arms and ammunition, and all other implements of war in their land; and then, they were to lay stil1. till they found that the subjects encroached on their lands, and, if they did. for them to defend their rights, and I hat they, (he Spaniards, would be at their backs. This, 1 told the Cussetah king, he might easily see into, as ! had lately heard that there were some disputes on the Mississippi, between the Spaniards and Americans, about the land: that the Spaniards were afraid of the Americans, and that they wanted to get the Indians to fight the Americans first, to save themselves. and get the Indians all destroyed, and then think: it. will be time enough for them’to begin, t told him many other things that I thought would take with him, which lie seemed to take great notice of. He says, that as matter's cannot be settled till towards the fall, w ith the State of Georgia, they have agreed to go and hear the Spaniards' talk,hand if they have any thing to give them they will take it: but that they are determined not to take any talks to do any mischief to their triends, the Americans; and if you call a meeting in the fall they will attend to it. and hopes hy that time matters will be settled agreeable to both parties. The Cussetah king says, that, if it should be so that any of the other parts of the nation should stand out and make a war with the United States, that they will single themselves oft' from those that want war, and let them abide by the consequences of it. The part of the nation that has taken Bowles’ part has.come into a resolution not one of them to go down to the Spaniards’ talk, as they are, I imagine, afraid of being taken to task about robbing Mr. Panton’s stores, which I think will be nothing against our country, that they do not go. The husk is now near on hand; if any thing particular should transpire at that time, I shall chi my endeavor to give you the earliest information. The Cussetah king informs me that they have, a few days ago, on a meeting of several of the towns, come to a resolution to take all the horses that may be stolen from the frontiers of Georgia, and send them immediately back, and if those that bring them in make any hesitation about delivering them up, to beat them severely. This I now write yon, goes by one Captain Harrison, that lives at Carr’s Bluff, who arrived here Yesterday in quest of six head of valuable horses, stolen from him hy the Uchees. The Cussetah king and Uchee king both nave promised him very faithfully to send the horses out to me, that I may send them down to .him earty in the Spring. The same Captain Harrison had a horse stolen and a cow killed, and other pruperfi robbed from him by the Uchees, to the amount of six pounds. Captain Harrison followed them and got his horse, after having a skirmish with them, as they fought, and were unwilling to give up the horse. As they were so rust}', ami would not give up the horse willingly, lie took back three of their guns, as be did not get any o) the rest of his things. After 40 * they came home, they gathered a gang and was going back by my house to do mischief on the settlements; I therefore thought proper to persuade some of them back, which I effected, and gave them a letter to Captain Harrison, and informed him with what I had done, and mentioned as you were now about bringing on a treaty with the Indians, at the Rock Landing, that I made no doubt but that you would, if lie gave up the guns, make him satisfaction for his losses, as you would not wish any irruption with the Indians at this time. Captain Harrison, on seeing my letter, readily complied, and gave up their guns, and they returned back in peace. All this happened while you was in the height of your business at the Rock Landing. Now, sir, as I did this with a view that nothing might interrupt your business, I shall take it kind in you to make Captain'Harrison retaliation for his losses, as I promised him that you would do it. He has promised to take or sendf this letter up to you. I shall endeavor to be at your treaty at St. Mary’s, if possible I can in the Fall, and should be glad to hear from you by the first opportunity. Nothing more, but wish you health, and remain, yours, &c. TIMOTHY BARNARD. Extract of a letter from James Seagrove to the Secretary of Jf'ar. Rock Landing, on the Oconee, 9.7th July, 1792. The quantity of provisions and liquors may seem great, but no person, who is not an eye witness to the enormous eating of Indians, can have an idea ol it. I made an attempt to weigh out their allowance of a pound of beef per man each day, but found it would not do; they got out of all temper with that mode, and threatened to leave me if I would not give them their bellies full. Upon reflecting on the situation of affairs, I thought it would be bad policy to fall out with those people, and let them go home discontented on that account. I have been obliged to give way to their craving dispositions, on account of our critical situation at this juncture. Should we ever be so happy as to see the Creeks restored to order, I should treat them in a very different style. What I have bestowed on those who have been with me, and the indulgent, kind treatment they have met with, is now working powerfully in our favor in the nation. Good treatment and administering to their wants, (as sparingly as we possibly can) will be the only way to make them our friends, and keep them so: for, let me assure you, there is no middle mail with those people. So soon as the United States decline purchasing their friendship as above, I would recommend by all means that they have a force ready to oppose them in the field. I hope you will excuse my giving an opinion on a matter of so much importance, and when unasked. But, as I have been honored with the confidence of the directors of the affairs of our country, I should conceive myself unworthy of the trust reposed, if I withheld either information or opinion, that I thought useful to the United States. For me to point out, or dwell on the ruinous consequences of a war with the Creeks to the State of Georgia, and the burthen it would be to the Union, would be altogether useless to you. Your experience in those matters will fully point it out. Situated as the United States are at present with the Western tribes, I should think it advisable to keep those Southern nations in friendship', even at a considerable expense, until matters can be brought to some favorable conclusion with those we are now at war with. I am of opinion that, before the Creeks become good subjects, they must undergo a severe correction: for they have been spoiled by the British, Spaniards, McGillivray, and others, and the United States are, unavoidably, adding thereto. But, of all evils, choose the least. I think I can venture to assure you, that, if I am supported with goods and provisions to give them, and allowed to act freely with them in gaining their friendship, that, notwithstanding every thing to the contrary, I will be able to keep the Creeks in peace with us, if not make them very useful. Hitherto, you well know, I have not been able to act as my judgment pointed out. McGillivray stood in the way of all our measures. His removal from the nation, I think a fortunate event for the United States. I think it probable he may be advised by the Spaniards, and others, to continue to deceive the United States. The Indians are very quiet, at present, in this quarter; and, if the villains on this upper frontier will let them alone, they will continue so. I remain, with much respect, your most obedient humble servant. Copy of a letter of James Seagrove to the Secretary of Jfar. *. * Savannah, in Georgia, August 4th, 1792. Sir: . I am thus far on my way for St. Mary’s. I have just seen a gentleman from St. Augustine, who informs ine that a reinforcement of seven hundred troops, and a large supply of artillery and stores, had just arrived at that place from the Havana: also, cash to pay off' all the debts of Government, to their troops as well as individuals. This they have done in both the Floritlas and Louisiana. So soon as I reach St. Mary’s, I shall have it in my power to give you better information of what is going forward in East Florida. I have not heard of any change in Indian matters, since my last. This will be handed you by James Leonard, the person whose deposition I forwarded to the President on the 27th ultimo. , . . Supposing that it would be satisfactory to see and examine him, on a piece of information so important, I have advised Mr. Leonard waiting on you for that purpose; which he engages to do without delay, and before he communicates with any person. '. . . It appears that Mr. Leonard hath been a great sufferer whilst in the Floridas; that his attachment to the United States is good; and is very desirous of being useful to them in any way in his power. You will find Mr. Leonard (though in a mean garment at present) a well-informed, intelligent man. I hope you will be able to give him some employ. I think he may be useful. I have assisted him in getting forward, as lie was destitute of casn. . I remain, See. James Seagrove, Esquire, to the Secretary of War. St. Mary’s, 8th September, 1792. Sir: Since I had the honor of writing you from Savannah, under date of the 4th ultimo, I have not been favored with any of your commands. I am nappy in informing, that no unfavorable change hath taken place in Indian affairs, notwithstanding the unremitting endeavors of the Spanish agents to prejudice them against us. Scarce a day passes, but I have additional proofs of the base conduct of the Spanish agents in the Creek nation. They, unquestionably, are using every means to induce the four Southern nations of Indians to take up the hatchet against the United States. Every undue, unjust, and villanous means are using by'them, to bring these unfortunate people to act to their diabolical purposes. What the Spaniards can promise themselves by such conduct, I cannot discover. With all their promises, presents, and threats, added to the exertions of McGillivray and Panton, &c., I am hopeful they will not be able to prevail on the Creeks to join them, or even to attend the treaty at Pensacola this month. I am using every argument with them to prevent their going; but the promise of receiving large presents, will carry some there. Mr. Olivar, the successor of McGillivray, hath lately been in the Lower towns, inviting them to Pensacola to receive arms and ammunition from the Spaniards, and talks in the most insulting terms of the United States. I am in hopes of momently receiving pointed instructions from the President on those affairs: the time is critical; as little delay as possible should be used. Should the savages once be induced to take up arms against us, it will not be easy to quell them. I have sent for Mr. Kinnard, whom I expect hourly. I have thoughts of placing him at the head of the Lower Creeks: but I shall do nothing until I hear from the President. I have advice of several of the chiefs being on their way f rom the nation to me on public business, the purport of which you shall know, if of consequence. In my last I mentioned the arrival of 700 troops, as a reinforcement at Augustine. I find the number is not so great, not being more than 200; all the other, information is just. I have direct information every week from thence; I do not find that any additional works are erecting; the Government, however, are grown very strict, as to who they admit among them, and absolutely deny their subjects any intercourse with the Americans or French; their vessels have been embargoed for some weeks, but that may arise from the approaching equinox. In my opinion, remonstrance ought to be made to the court of Spain, against the House of Panton, Leslie & Co. British merchants, residing in Florida. Panton (it can be proven) openly invited the Creeks and Cherokees to Pensacola, to receive arms and ammunition to use against the Americans, and said he was authoriy.ed so to do by the Spanish Government, and that, if they entered into a war with us. the Spaniards stood ready with troops to assist them. He also advised the Indians to plunder and kill every American trader they found in the nation; declaring to them, that no one had any right or authority to be among them as traders, but such as Spain approved. I hope some notice will be taken of those men, who have, and still continue to be a principal cause in keeping up the troubles among the four Southern tribes. I think (if the Spanish court are pushed on this business) they will readily sacrifice Panton & Co., especially as they owe that concern nearly two hundred thousand dollars, for Indian supplies. I have already stated to the President the situation of that house, and the motives which actuate them. Permit me to mention to you, the naked state of this frontier; not more than twenty soldiers, without an officer, compose our force. If St. Mary’s is approved of, as the place to communicate with Indians, I would advise a respectable force to be kept at the head of this river, and some good works erected; the situation is commanding, should we be involved in a war with the Indians, and will be a great check to Spanish insolence. In hopes of soon hearing from you, I remain, with the utmost respect, Your most obedient, &e. Copy of a Idler of James Seagrove to the Secretary of War. St. Mary’s, September 15, 1792. Sir: Since writing you on the 8th instant, I have had a talk with the Jf'hitc Ring, of the great Eufath towns, and several others, who were sent down by their countrymen to consult with me, respecting the talks of the Spanish agents in the nation, which distracts them very much. From w hat has been said to them here, and the attention shewn them, those chiefs set oft' for home yesterday, and have engaged to prevent any of their people receiving Spanish talks, or doing any thing against the interest of the United States. 1 am happy in telling you that the Lower towns, who were in favor of Bowles, are coming round to our interest very fast. Kinnard is very active indeed: he publicly opposes his people having any thing to do with the Spaniards. It will be of the utmost consequence, iny receiving immediate orders respecting those Spanish proceedings. 1 believe I can make them repent their interference. I have not time to add, as the boat which takes this to Savannah is on the point of departing. I remain, &c. James Seagrovc, Esq. to the Secretary of War. St. Mary's, 17th October. 1792. Sir: By the arrival of Mr. Jordan (express) at this place, on the 1st instant, l am honored with your despatch of the 30th August last, also a copy of yours of the 11th same month, by Major Gaither, the original of which I have not received^ owing to tliat gentleman’s going from Savannah to the Rock Landing. Every part of your instructions shall receive the utmost attention in my power to give, and I hope my endeavors will be such as to answer your wishes. It is pleasing to me to find that the President of the United States and yourself approve of my services hitherto; this alone is sufficient to encourage my going on in the arduous business I have undertaken, and which, in a very great degree, nowinduces me to consent to that very unpleasant part of your instructions, of residing in the Greek nation a proportion of the year, say one-half. The places for deputies and myself, I intend fixing with the chiefs at our next meeting; as yet, I cannot recommend proper persons for deputies; their appointments are of consequence, and none but approved characters ought to fill those places; attention must also be had to men whom the Indians like. Since my last respects of the 8th September. I have had frequent communications from different parts of the nation, all of which seem favorable, and promise pleasing consequences to the United States. lam happy in assuring you, that the Spaniards have totally failed in their intended treaty at Pensacola, w hich was to have been last month; not a single chief from the Creeks attended, and not more than ten or twelve common people—nothing wfiatever was done. This gives me strong hope of my future success with the Creeks, as, their not attending was solely owing to my advice to them. From the whole of my discoveries, I am enabled to inform you, that a very favorable change hath taken place in the nation, in favor of the United States; the enclosed copies of letters which I have lately received will serve to shew this change. Enclosed you will also find copies of several letters which I have sent into the towns, and one to Governor Telfair. There is not any account from McGillivray, further than his being yet with the Spaniards. Eight days past arrived here the sloop Polly, Captain Smith, and schooner Oak, Captain Maison, from Philadelphia, with corn and goods on public account. The vessels are now discharging at a place called Colerain, on this river, about seventy miles from the sea, where are convenient stores, and which is without inhabitants. I have obtained a guard from the few men that are on this station, for the care of the property. I returned last evening from where the vessels are discharging; every thing seems to come out in good order. I have advice by a runner, that the chiefs are preparing, and that they w ill he down by the middle of November at farthest. The corn will be very acceptable to them, for their situation for bread is very bad indeed; the Cussetah town, which contains three thousand souls, did not actually make fifty bushels of corn this year; many other towns are equally destitute. I have strictly forbid their bringing more than three or four chiefs from each town, but notwithstanding this, I fear I shall have a much larger assemblage than I wish. The strouds and blankets will be very acceptable, but I fear they will grumble for want of shirts, as well as small articles. 1 do not find that you have sent any spirits; some must be had before the time of meeting; it is im possible to talk to those people without; five or six hogsheads northward rum? and a pipe Tenerifte wine, wall be the smallest quantity we can expect to do with. I hope the vessel which is bringing the remainder of the corn and goods, will have some on board from you. Should the vessel that brings you this, have a short passage, you will have time to send those articles, as there is no such thing as purchasing them here at present. Should there not any arrive from you, I shall be obliged to send to Savannah, or Charleston, for them. In this I shall find much embarrassment, as I am without money, for this, or any other purpose. 1 hope I may soon receive a supply from you; the vessel which brings this,returns directly here. From the best information, the Spaniards in the Floridas are much alarmed at the present change in the disposition of the Indians. I shall observe the most pointed conduct towards them, in conformity with your instruction, which shall also be considered, as hitherto, to General M|GiIlivray. I shall obtain full proof of the Spanish agent’s conduct when I meet the chiefs, and, also, on my going into the nation, which I intend shall be as soon as they and I agree on the time and place. I attend to what you say respecting licence to trade. I shall not grant any till further instructed; I have not, hitherto, conceived myself authorized to "rant them. General McGillivray, and no other, that I know, gave any since the treaty of New York. There wifi be an absolute necessity that this trade should be regulated, and allowed to be carried on, otherwise there will arise some discontent among the savages, should supplies be withheld by the servants of the United States. ■ _ Enclosed you have a memorandum of some articles, which I much want, to make the intended presents more acceptable. If you can send them in time, it will be fortunate. I shall write you fully, in a few days, by a vessel via New York, And am, yours, &c. Memorandum of articles wanted, to make up an assortment of presents to the Indians expected at the head of th« river St. Mary's, in November, 1792. 5 hogsheads high proof northward rum. 1 pipe Lisbon or Teneriffe wine. . , 2 barrels Muscovado sugar. 200 lbs. coffee. ‘ 1 hogshead tobacco: 1 box of pipes. 5 tierces rice. 50 dozen knives, commonly called scalping knives; those made in size and shape of carving knives, are best, and if bone handles, the more acceptable. 50 pieces cotton Round handkerchiefs. 100 pieces Garlia linen, or, low priced Irish linen. 200 castor hats; a box of feathers for ditto. ■ 1,000 yards white or blue plains, for leggins, in order to save giving strouds, which are double the price. Gunpowder and lead are always expected by the Indians, as necessary,to support their families by hunting; but, I do not wish to give it them, if it can be avoided. They grumble much at our not giving it to them. [enclosures. I / * New York, in the Upper Creeks, 1st August, 1792. Sir: r .   * I have taken this opportunity to write you by Mr. Hull, and to inform yon of our friendly disposition towards our brothers and friends, the white people of Georgia, and to let them know that we have not thrown away their talks! The greatest part of our nation holds,'still, your talks; and the reason we could not unanimonsly agree to go down was, the many and great talks we daily received from different parts, that the minds of the Indians w'as so confused, that they did not know how to act for the want of our great chief, to join us together. The great talks that our beloved men had with your beloved men, at New York, we still stand by, and shall consent to run the line; and, if you are agreed, we shall drink out of the same waters. Don’t think that I take upon me to write for all the nations; but,' this is the mouth of their greatest part of the head-men, and I look on myself as good as any, and request you to keep your people in peace, and we shall do the same. I have seen a great many of the people from the Lower towns, who have seen you, and talk well of you, and hope that you don’t take it ill that we have not seen you before this; but it was entirely owing to the confused talks amongst us, and the want of a commissary, who could advise us. The day is not far off that we shall take you by the hand, and be as friends and brothers. I am your friend and brother, THE WHITE LIEUTENANT. James Seagrove, Esq. Agent of Indian Affairs, S. I). U. S. A talk from the kings, chiefs, warriors, and head-men of the Cussctahs and Cowetas, to James Seagrove, Esq. Agent of Indian Affairs, for the Southern department. Cusseta'h, 23d August, 1792. Friend and Brother: : You may remember, when we w'ere at the Rock Landing, the talks that passed between us, as, atso, the talks we brought up with us. Our interpreter has, in public meeting, told them to the Lower towns, who all seemed well pleased, and are well satisfied that we shall meet and take each other by the hand in peace and friendship, at any place you may mention to us. You will let us know'; and let it be as convenient as possible for both parties. You will be informed by a runner from Jack Kinnard, when we shall be ready to set out. You will see by what The White Lieutenant of the Oakfuskies has wrote you, how the Upper towns is disposed. We are informed that a young man of your people is killed by some Indians about Carr’s Blurt', on the Oconee river. Who they are that, committed this murder, we cannot find out as yet, but we hope it will not be long before it is discovered, as the horse and gun cannot be long concealed, which was taken; and by them we hope to find out, ami make an example of, whoever it is that has committed the murder—when we shall send you word. We hope the white people will not be rash, but give us time, as we did when the like happened to us; we waited twelve months before we took satisfaction for the man that was killed, last May wras twelve months. You know' the time of our hunting will be coming on soon, and a number of our people will he over the Oconee, a hunting, and the white people may be assured that no guilty person will come that way. We hope that nothing may happen to prevent our meeting. There are some horses brought in our towns, which shall be gathered and sent down, three of which we senil by Mr. Hull, to Mr. Barnard’s, to send down to the frontiers, that the owners may get them, and the rest shall be sent, as soon as gathered. ■ / We observe your orders respecting the stopping such people as come into our land without a pass, and should give the necessary orders to our warriors, but are afraid they might be too eager, and overdo the thing; therefore, we hope you will use your influence and put a stop to their coming, for many of them tell lies, and bring stolen property, which has a bad effect on the minds of the red people. We conclude with wishing to meet you in peace and friendship. CUSSETAH KING. CUSSETAH WARRIOR’S KING. OP AY MI CO. HALLOWING KING. James Durouzeaux, Interpreter, C. N. L. T. ir920 general view. 31$ Cheehaws, in the Lower Creeks. 28th August, 1792. M v dear Brother: I wish to let you know that, according to your request, I have collected all the stoien horses that has keen brought into my towns, the Cheehaws and Teiliuanas, and you may depend that the head-men do not set those bad men on to steal the white people's property, nor will they suiter them to do it. I have collected twelve head of horses, which is all that is hereabout: there may be some carried up into the other towns, which I shall inquire into. I send those horses to Captain Fleming, at Trader's Hill, on St. Mary’s, to be delivered to their owners on proof being made. The Indians who bring those horses down ought to receive some pay for their trouble: I think that eight kegs of rum will not be too much, as they have had much labor in collecting them. Many bad talks have been of late given out in the nation, but we are determined to listen to none of them. We have taken your talks, and will follow your advice to be at peace with everybody. My dear friend, I assure you it is the wish ol our nation to live in peace and friendship with you; and we are determined it shall be so. If I knew any thing to the contrary you should know it, being a friend to your nation, and ever shall be to you. I hope soon to take you by the hand, and am, , Your friend and brother. JOHN KINNARO. St. Mary’s, (in Georgia) tit It October, 1791. The Kings and Chiefs of the Cussclahs and Co wet as. with all other Chiefs of the Creek nation, who may see it: Friends and Brothers: I received your agreeable talk of the 23d August last by Mr. Hull. It is very pleasing to me to find that you pay so much attention to the talks that passed between us at the Rock Landing, and that you are pursuing the measures I recommended to you, which cannot fail rendering you a happy people. Your collecting and sending back to their owners all stolen property is very commendable. Nothing will put a stop to the dangerous practice of stealing, so soon as its being discountenanced by the chiefs of the nation in this manner. I fear there is too much reason for the report, that a young man of the name of Pew was killed about three months past by some of the Creeks near Carr’s Blun, on the Oconee. If it should appear he lost his life by your people, I have not a doubt but you will give complete satisfaction, as it will unquestionably appear to have been an unprovoked wanton murder, and, tlicre-tore, it becomes the more incumbent on you to use every exertion to discover the perpetrators. Agreeable to your request, I have sent a,runner along our frontier on the Oconee, desiring our people not to injure any of your people who may he among them, hut, on the contrary, to use them kindly, and at the same time, informed them of your talk promising satisfaction. I have al-o sent a talk to the Governor of Georgia, to order his people not to injure any Indians. I must request that you will give strict charges to all your people who are going out a hunting to behave with civility to all white people they may meet, and to avoid stealing. This will be the way to preserve peace. I have just received permission from our great and good Father, the President of the United States, to meet you and the other chiefs ol' your nation on this river as soon as convenient. I have much to say to you from him when we meet. In order that runners may he sent to all the towns, and that the chiefs may have time to assemble, and come down, I have fixed the time of meeting me on the head of St. Mary's to he the latter entl of next moon, when I hope as many as two or three of the principal chiefs from eaclt town in the nation will attend, when. I have no doubt, all matters will be made agreeable to (hem. The President of the United States having been informed by me of the failure of your crops of corn, hath, out, of his great humanity and kindness toward your nation, ordered from Philadelphia a very large supply of corn, sufficient to Support your whole nation until another year, lie hath also ordered a large quantity of clothing against the approaching cold season. AY hen we meet, we shall make arrangements for distributing the provisions anil clothing, which your people can receive at any time afterwards, as their wants require. I have to desire that no greater number than what I have mentioned may attend at our meeting, as a croud of people only prevent business being done: and as I shall have proper persons at the public stores on St. Mary's, your people can receive the provisions and presents any time after our meeting. I must now request that you make this known as soon as passible in all the towns iti die nation, and inform the chiefs that I shall be happy to see them as friends and brothers. I do not send this talk to any one in particular: it is intended for all: and you will, therefore, pitch upon such chiefs to meet me as yon sec fit. Before I close this talk, I must recommend to yon all, that, by every means in your power, you will preserve peace with all your neighbors: you have no business with war; peace alone can make you a happy nation; and which it is my ardent wisli to see accomplished and enjoyed among you. As we are soon to take each other by the hand. 1 shall not say more at present than to refer you to the bearer, Mr. John Galphin. for further information, and am your friend and brother. Sr. Mary’s, 7th October, 1792. Sir: It is with great pleasure that I now acknowledge my having received your agreeable talk of the 15th August last by Mr. Hull. Although I never have had the pleasure of seeing you, yet I atn well acquainted with your respectable character and good conduct in all matters between your country and mine, and I do assure you, that I feel a great deal of satisfaction in having this opportunity.of telling you how much I respect you, and that I shall be happy, on every occasion, in giving you proofs how much I am your and your country 's real friend. Your friendly sentiments toward the United States, and your wise and just determination in holding last the talks given by our great beloved man to yours, as also my talks given your people at dillerent times, cannot fail to place you and your people in a respectable light with our great and beloved father, the President of the United .States, who I shall take care to inlorni of your friendly conduct. I am very sensible of the confused situation the Greek nation hath been in for a long while, owing entirely to designing wicked white men, who wished to see your ruin, by advising your people to measure, which would have involved them in a war, and perhaps ended in their total destruction. I am happy to find that a very great, majority' of your country have had wisdom enough to withstand the advice and attempts made on you by those bad men. Let me advise yum to keep your ears shut against all who will attempt to advise yron to acts of injustice against your neighbors. , They cannot possibly he your friends who advise you to any thing but peace. The time, I hope, is near at hand, when we shall meet as friends ami brothers, and when I shall explain to you many matters for the happiness of the Creek nation. A few days past I received leave from your good friend, the President of the United States, to meet two or three of the principal chiefs from each town in the Creek nation, in order to arrange and settle all matters depending between his country and yours. I now inform you, and all the chiefs of the Upper towns, (through you) that I shall be happyr to meet them the latter end of next moon near the head of this river, where every thing will be provided to make them welcome, and to give them proof how much we are their friends. I must request you will make this known in all the Upper towns, and that you will take measures to bring the number of chiefs required down with yum. Perhaps some who have taken Bowles’ talks may be shy of coining, but you must tell them that I do not blame them for it j it was not their fault, but those who imposed on them. So let them come and see me, and I will receive them as friends. I have the pleasure to tell you, anti all the people of your nation, that their good friend, the. President of the United States, out of his humanity and goodness, having heard from me that there was danger of your wanting bread, on account of the failure of your crops of corn, hath ordered a large quantity of corn being sent from Philadelphia to You may rely on it, sir, that, as matters are at present circumstanced, if I cannot render the United States any essential services. I will not encourage, but endeavor to prevent, any measures of any people, that may be planned against the interests of the United States. I am with, every sentiment of respect and esteem, sir, your most obedient servant, ' ALEX. M’GILLIVRAY. Hon. Major General H. Knox, Secretary of the Department of IVar of the Unite f Slates of .America. ■ His Excellency the Governor of South Carolina to the President of the United States. Dear Sir: I have the honor to enclose you copies of letters from General Pickens and Colonel Anderson, on the subject of Indian Affairs. To me, I confess, their intelligence is unexpected: fori thought the justice and friendship the United States had treated the Creeks and Cherokee's with, had entirely secured their confidence and respect: and that, notwithstanding the attempts of the Northern and Western Indians, the Spaniards, and perhaps the Britisn, the Southern States would have been free from their hostility. To the enclosed letters I refer you fora full statement of their situation, and, as the opinions of General Pickens and Colonel Anderson, on Indian affairs,are much more to be depended upon than any others,I must submit to your better judgment the measures necessary to be pursued in this emergency, assuring you, that, while I continue in office, no endeavors of mine shall be wanting to carry your directions fully into execution. In answer to that part of Colonel Anderson’s letter which seems to wish my authorizing an expedition immediately into the Indian country, I have said, that, having'been always determined to make the Federal constitution ny guide, and the individual States being very properly restrained from commencing or undertaking a war, without the authority of the Union, I should not feel myself, by any means, justified in sanctioning a measure of that kind, even from its necessity; because, however properly it may be done in this case, yet, still, if a precedent was once established, no doubt instances would frequently occur, where the Union might be involved in the most serious expenditures of blood and treasure, by the unjustifiable, or, perhaps, unprovoked and precipitate measures of interested States or individuals. I informed him I would, however, immediately submit the intelligence and opinions of General Pickens and himself, to you, and I had no doubt that proper measures would be adopted by the General Government to support our citizens and protect their rights. In the interim, I have ordered the frontiers of this country to be put in the best state of defence the situation of the militia will admit; and have sent, and mean to send them up such supplies of ammunition, as the commanding officer requires, and have directed blockhouses to be built for the protection of the most exposed inhabitants of the frontier. The regiments of militia I have ordered to hold themselves in readiness, are some of them on, others near, and none of them more than eighty miles distant from,’the frontier; they consist of about 8,000 men altogether, of which I hope a sufficient number may be summoned, if they have notice, to protect it, as I have desired them to raise a corps of militia horse to each regiment,as soon as possible. I have also requested General Pickens and Colonel Anderson to send me their opinions on the subject, and, if they concur with me, I shall endeavor to have a deposite of ammunition, &c. established in a situation sufficiently near to supply them with ease, and, at the same time, so distant, as to be free from surprise. Our upper counties being covered, in some degree, by the more distant and extensive frontier of Georgia and North Carolina. I am hopeful the measures I have pursued may be sufficient to protect'them, until some general system is adopted by the Union with respect to the war, which, 1 assure you, I am apprehensive will be much more serious than the Northern one, as the Southern States are not numerous, the frontiers extensive and exposed; the scene of action at a great distance from the seat of the Federal Government, and the hostile tribes strong and well supplied with arms and ammunition. Georgia will be the most severe sufferer: for, if a general Creek war takes place, which, from these accounts, seems unquestionable, I have very little doubt the greatest part of (hat country will soon be overrun by them. I shall write you again in a few days, by Mr. Barnwell, and remain, with the highest respect and attachment, Dear sir, yours truly, CHARLES PINCKNEY. {n Charleston, September 30th, 1792. Jlndreiv Pickens to his Excellency the Governor of South Carolina. , ' r IIopeweix, 13th September, 1792. Dear Sir: On my arrival from the Western country, I had the pleasure of receiving your favors of the 8th and 26th July last, with their enclosures. I was very happy to see, by yours of the 26th July, that you had sent to the Cofonels of the different regiments w hich I formerly had the honor to command, the acts of Congress, with your general orders. Had I not received this, I might have been induced to have sent the acts, and the orders from you to them, as a request from you to me, but not as an order so to do. It is long since I acquainted your Excellency what I had done in that respect, and I am now too far advanced in life to engage again in the trouble and difficulty of military affairs, especially with the militia; and have, perhaps, too Jong neglected the interest of a large family. Colonel Anderson. I expect, has written you fully on the state of affairs in this part of the country, and the prospects there are of a war with the Creeks, and spine of the Cherokees; it might, perhaps, be well to give him some general orders, in case our frontiers should be attacked, and to make some necessary arrangements to prevent a surprise. Ammunition, I know, is very scarce in the frontier parts of (his State, and I find that circumstance very much discourages the people. Whilst I was in the Western country, attending the treaties with Governor Blount, I found that country, particularly Cumberland, in a most pitiable ami distressed situation, almost continually harassed by the Creeks, and tire four Lower towns of the Cherokees, on the Tennessee. Just before we went there, a small station was taken, with about nineteen or twenty persons in it; all were killed or taken, but three or four who made their escape. This was done by a party of Cherokees, Creeks, and a few_ Shawanese, who hail resided among the Cherokees for some years past; several others were killed and wounded in this country while I was there. From the different accounts which I had from the Chickasaws and Choctaws, in private conversation, as well as from persons from that country, all agree that the Spaniards are using all their influence with the Southern Indians, to engage them against the United States; and I am clearly of opinion, that the Creeks are on the eve of going to war with us, as well as those four Lower towns of the Cherokees. 1 believe there is no doubt but the chiefs, and a number of the warriors of the Creeks, are now at Pensacola in treaty with the Spaniards; they are soon expected here, with a large quantity of ammunition, for the purpose of going to warythe same thing has been offered to those tribes we have lately been in treaty with. This the chiefs told us in confidence; but the Chickasaws appear well attached to the interest of the United States, so did the Choctaws who attended the treaty; but the Spaniards have great influence over a great part of that nation. The cause of our misfortunes with the Indians in general, is of an old date; and our misfortunes in the Northern campaign, the last two years, and, I fear, our prospects the present expedition, in that quarter, are not favorable; all those things are against us, and encourage our enemies. Were I to venture an opinion respecting our Southern country, it would be this: make immediate preparation for the defence of the frontiers, and, as soon as possible, carry a vigorous campaign into (he Creek country; this would convince (he Southern Indians, in general, that we arc able and determined to protect ourselves, and would chastise their insolence. This might prevent the junction of more tribes against than perhaps is now expected. It is vain to attempt treaties with the Creeks, or to make any offers to them, until they are chastised by the arm of Government. It may be objected, that provisions are scarce in the country; that is true,: but flour could be brought from Philadelphia and New York, to Savannah, and from thence to Augusta, by water, at no great expense; without some such measures are taken, I dread the consequences. Mr. Shaw, an agent from Congress, has lately coine in here, and left the Cherokee nation; he thinks it unsafe at present to return, although a great majority of the Cherokees appear friendly to the United States. I have just received information that two Indians, one a chief from one of the four disaffected Cherokee towns, are on their way here, but what their business is. or talks may be, I know not. I am. &c. Robert Anderson to the Governor of South Carolina.—Wednesday Morning. I -2th September, 1792. I)eau Sir: Before I had sealed your letter, and just now, 1 received the following intelligence, which I send you, in the author's name and words: An extract of a letter from General Pickens, of this date. 1 "Mr. Shaw, agent from Congress to the Cherokees. arrived here Iasi evening. 1 was from home till in the night. He says, the four Lower towns of the Cherokees in the Tennessee, have declared for war. with John Watts at their head, who was lately with the Spaniards at Pensacola. lie says they were to set out in a bod}’, on the 4th instant, and to make a 'stroke at Cumberland, or the settlements near Knoxville, on the llolston. He expects that their number will be from four to five hundred; the Creeks will no doubt make a part. He says the Creek chiefs are not yet returned from Pensacola, but arc expected shortly, with a large quantity of ammunition, for the purpose of war. The other parts of the Cherokees from Estanaula, this way, advised him to come down here, and sent a guard with him. As you are about writing to the Governor. I have sent you this intelligence, as I wish you to write fully to him, as I am well assured, if some immediate measures are not taken to prevent it. this country will be in a distressed situation. " ANDREW PICKENS. ” To Rorert Anderson."Sir: Having previously conversed with the general, and hating consulted my own reason, on the present prospect of Indian affairs, nty real sentiments were as communicated in the letter, of the rectitude of which, there is a strong confirmation. We can only expect now to hear of the perpetration of such acts ol savage cruelty, committed ott the defenceless inhabitants, in all quarters of an extensive frontier, a circumstance which must be regretted by every feeling heart. Your most obedient. ROBERT ANDERSON. Governor Pinckney. Robert Anderson to the Governor of South Carolina.—20th September. 1792. Dear Sir: Although I wrote you very fully on the subject of Indian affairs, by Captain Maxwell, which you cannot have received, nor perhaps may not, before this reaches you, yet. having since received a more full and particular information, and thinking it my duty to do every thing in my power, which may contribute, in the smallest degree, towards the safety of the lives of our citi/.ens, 1 have therefore taken the liberty to write you, by express. 1 send you, enclosed, the affidavit of Jesse Spears, who also will be the bearer ol this. He will be upon the spot, and your Excellency can question him upon the subject. This man escaped from the Cherokees in the year 1775, came into our settlements, and gave us notice of a premeditated stroke then intended by the Cherokees against our frontier settlements. He was the only one who escaped, at least to our (juarter: the I mlians having been a ery careful to kill or otherwise secure their traders, to prevent their escaping with such intelligence as might counteract or frustrate their designs. But they struck as he had notified, and (winch is very remarkable) they struck at the same time, all along the extensive frontier from Georgia to Virginia. At another time, in 1782. this same man came down, and gave notice of a strong party of Indians and tories, who were to embody or rendezvous. beyond the Oconee river, on the back of Georgia, by a certain day. to make a stroke on tlie frontier settlements of that State. On his information, we immediately raised one hundred men, General Clarke as many, fell in with the party at the time and place appointed, and totally broke them up. I mention those circumstances to strengthen the belief ol his present information. I have ordered the people to build block-houses, where they are exposed and intimidated, to IIy to with their families, in case of alarm. 1 have frontier block-houses built and building, at suitable places along our frontiers, at the distance of about eight or ten miles apart; five are on the way, some of which are nearly completed, but I believe another must be appointed to complete the chain. I have ordered trusty spies to be contaiitly kept out at Tugulo and the Oconee mountain, as they are the spots (in all appearance) winch will be most exposed. ! have ordered a few men from the more interior part of the regiment, to eaclt of the frontier posts: but in some places, there is a difficulty in providing them with provisions, the settlements being thin on the frontier, the people poor, and their improvements and crops but small. I mention those matters, to show what is dune in the mean time, and to beg your Excellency's further orders and directions in those matters. Permit me to observe, that we (having had so much experience in the ways of Indian warfare) are of opinion, that it is very expensive, hazardous, and distressing, to carry on a defensive war with Indians; they have such ' advantages, being so wolfish in their manner, and so savage in their nature, that we cannot war with them upon equal ground, when we only pretend to defend ourselves in our own country. Experience has discovered it to be much the better way to carry the war immediately into their own country. They seem not to be so well calculated to oppose a spirited attack in their own country, as they are to take skulking, wolfish advantages of the defenceless in ours. A very speedy and spirited attack in their country ,■ might, perhaps, rid us of a war which might become very hazardous and expensive in the long run. \Ve think that, if a party of men could possibly be marched through the peaceable towns, and into the disaHeeled towns of llie Cherokees, before the Creeks made a stroke, that it might check the Creeks; at least, it might keep back their premeditated stroke, until the clumsy wheels of Government could be got turned. But we are well aware that, if the Creeks do immediately break,' (ol which there is but little room to doubt) and the U. States are obliged to carry on a defensive war, if only till next June, yet it will cost them much blood and treasure; perhaps double as much as would keep our army in their country during the time. These conclusions we are warranted to draw from past experience. 1 just returned home from reviewing the frontier parts of the regiment— found this man waiting to give the information; the general (with whom he had been) being so unwell that lie could not do the business. However, I have since seen and conversed with him on this subject; he is still unwell, but I hope will soon he recovered. Although I have been uniformly opposed to war, and therefore have been decidedly of opinion, that the strictest justice should be done to the different Indian tribes, to evade the disagreeable necessity as long as possible; and, that, if the United States must be dragged into Avar, they might engage in the business with that conscious rectitude on their part, which cannot fail to embolden the soldier, and give decision to the politician. Then firmness is truly justifiable, as well as absolutely necessary. But iioav, sir. you may rest assured, that the moment has arrived, Avhen the most spirited exertions of Government are necessary, and I am truly sorry that the citizens cannot be permitted to defend themselves in the best Avay, without the approbation of Government: I mean by an offensive war; because I am of opinion that much could be done in the course of tAvo months from this date; much blood and treasure might be saved, by a spirited exertion, before they Avere aAvare; and I have no doubt, but two or three thousand of the militia from this State and Georgia, could be immediately raised, to march light into the Creek country; about five hundred militia, horse, the rest infantry,-with pack-horses. Two thousand more, from the Western Territory arid North Carolina, in the same manner to march through and destroy the disaffected Cherokee towns, which would be just on their way, and meet in the Creek country, destroy what they could, and so return. This would only be a temporary relief, but it would greatly check the impetuosity’of their present disposition, and, in all appearance, would save the lives of many innocent people. This could be done; and the people have firmness and resolution enough to carry such a plan into execution, if they had the sanction of any authority; self-defence would be a stimulus to spur them on. Could such a plan be sanctioned by the President ol the United States and yourself, in time, I think it would be of great utility, and I have no doubt (in all human probability) but it would be carried into effect. Rut if your Excellency would even consent to risk your approbation to such a plan, and depend upon (he necessity of the case, to justify the measure in the eyes of the President and Congress, I have hardly any doubt but that the Western country people would do their part, at all ventures: lor they are well calculated for such enterprises. But if any thing of the kind was attempted to be carried into effect, General Pickens must be appointed to the command, in preference to every other man, for two reasons: first, because the people have confidence in him, and will cheerfully turn out to go under his command; and, in the next place, because he is most equal to the task. I have never hinted it to him, but I think he will serve, from the same cause by which I think the people will be induced to turn out, namely, self-defence, or, more properly, the defence of the country in which lie lives; and I do think him the most suitable person that could be appointed, and he thinks it might be done in the way I have stated, as I have conversed with him on the subject. But I fear it cannot find authority under which it can claim protection; indeed, should an expedition into their country next spring, be approbated, we are very scarce of flour in these Southern States, as the rust killed up the' wheat generally. This is an unfortunate circumstance, but there is flour enough in the Northern States, which could be shipped to Savannah, in Georgia, and brought up in boats to Augusta. All those things, must be done this winter, else no campaign in the spring; then we may as well dissolve , the Union, as to pretend to hold together, because-Georgia will be ruined, perhaps this State, and several others much injured. Indeed, I am of opinion (if they see Congress tardy, or relax in their exertions, as they have been against the Northern tribes) they will soon have Spain to contend with, and perhaps’one more of the European Powers. Pardon these suggestions; they have just rose as I have wrote them down, for the bearer tvaits. I am in haste, and have kept no copy. I wrrote for arms and ammunition, if possible, in my last, and, as the necessity is not lessened by this, I need not repeat the request. You will please pay the bearer for carrying this. Your Excellency’s, &c. No. V. Statement of the 7'roops in the service of the United States Old Troops in service, -------- . 1,264 RECRUITED SINCE THE 5TH MARCH, 1792. In Massachusetts, - - - - - _ 51 Vermont, - - - - _ ■ 68 Connecticut, ' - - - -  45 New York, - - - - _ 166 New Jersey, - - - - - 165 Pennsylvania, - - - - - 756 Delaware, - ■   - - -  95 Maryland, - - - - - 289 Virginia, - - -  - - 843 North Carolina, - -       - 47 2,525 Dead, deserted, and discharged, -    V  148   2,377 In service, - - - - - _ 1 ll Wanting to complete, - - - - -  1,479 Establishment, (non-commissioned and privates) ----- 5,120 {a) DISTRIBUTION. At various places on the Ohio, and 7 Old Troops, - - - 988 to the Nortliwest thereof, 5 Recruits, - - - 1,916 On the march to Pittsburg, - - do - - - 162 At the several rendezvous for recruiting, do - - - 299 ---- 2,377'T n ,---- 3,365 In Georgia, --------- S gyg 3,641 War Department, November 6th, 1792. H. KNOX, Secretary of Tfar. 2nd Congress.] 
