No. 44. [1st Session1. THE CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 22, 1794, War Department, January 22, 1794. Sir: Communications relative to the Southwestern frontiers having been laid before Congress, the President of die United States has directed me to submit to the Senate, further information just received from James Seagrove, of his having restored peace between the United States and the Creek nation of Indians. I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant, II. KNOX, Secretary of War. The Vice President of the United States. Sir: Town oe Tuckaubatchee, on the Tallapoosa River, Upper Creeks, 30th November, .1793. 1 It is with pleasure I inform your Excellency, that, in consequence of a meeting which I have had at this place, with the chiefs of all the Creek nations, peace and good understanding is again re-established between the United States and the said nations. The Creeks bind themselves to deliver tome, all the prisoners in this land, to restore all the negroes, horses, and cattle, taken from Georgia, for twelve months past; to punish capitally, two or more of their first aggressors. Measures are taken for carrying into effect all these desirable objects, and runners are sent in every direction, to make known the news of peace, and strictly to forbid their people from injuring the persons or property of the people of your State, or of the United States. I have, therefore, to request, that your Excellency will lose no time in promulgating this information throughout your State, thereby to prevent any outrage being offered to such Indians as may appear on your frontier, belonging to this nation, whilst they conduct themselves as friends. I have not time to be more particular at present, but shall do myself the honor of writing you again in a few days, and am, with respect, Your obedient humble servant. JAS. SEAGROVE, //is Excellency the Governor of Georgia. Agent of Indian Affairs, S. D. U. S. Extract of a letter from James Seagrove, Agent of Indian Affairs of the Southern Department, to the Secretary of War. Sir: TruKAun.vrciiEK, on the Tallapoosa River,/ Upper Creeks, 30th November, 1793. 5 1 had the honor of writing you on the 28th instant, which went by way of St. Mary's. I shall now endeavor to give a more minute detail of my proceedings, since my departure from Georgia. By a reference to my letters to you, down to the 31st ultimo, you will see the difficulties I had to encounter in Georgia, in order to effect an entrance into this country. On the 5th instant, 1 left fort Fidius, escorted by thirteen mounted militia, whom I got, to prevent my being robbed by the frontier banditti, who. two days before, took ten of the horses which I had to convey goods, &x. to the nation, for the use of the Indians. 'This guard attended me as far as the Oakmulgee, where I arrived on the 7th, and there found one hundred and thirty chiefs anti warriors ready to receive me. Here I discharged the militia, and next day proceeded with the Indians towards the Cusse-tahs, w here we arrived on the 14th. and took quarters in a house set apart for me by the king ot the town. On the morning of the loth, I was saluted hy several discharges from a piece of artillery, and drums beating. At ten o’clock, I was received in great form hy all the chiefs and people ot the town, in,the public square, as the agent of the United .States. As far as expressions and actions could extend, 1 received proofs of their sincere joy in seeing me among them. Runners were despatched to all the Lower towns, to acquaint them with my arrival, and ordering the immediate attendance of the chiefs at that place. On the 18th. the chiefs of the Lower towns and myself received a letter from the chiefs of the Upper towns, desiring our attendance at this place, the Tuckaubatchee, that being the place fixed on to settle the business of the nation. Accordingly, we set off, and arrived here on the 22d. On the 23d, I was received in form, and acknowledged as the aaent of the United States: but my reception did not appear accompanied with that warmth of expression or apparent friendship I met with in the Cussetahs. 1 could plainly discover a sullen countenance on many of the principal people, especially those belonging to the clan of the unfortunate young warrior, David Cornell, who fell at St. Mary’s. On the 23d, there then being a full representation of all the Creek nations, I proceeded to business; iny talk to the chiefs continued the whole"day. 1 left nothing unsaid that could favor the cause of my country, and though standing on dangerous ground, and surrounded hy numerous enemies, both white and red, yet these things did not. in the smallest degree, prevent my speaking in plain and decided terms, pointing out their transgressions, and demanding justice from them, as a preliminary to reconciliation and peace with the United States. After sitting iu council two days and nights, w ithout adjourning, it was unanimously determined on, that all acts of hostilities or depredations should, from that moment, cease betw een the United States and the Creek nations. To which I agreed, on condition that all white prisoners in their nation be immediately delivered to me, to be sent to their respective homes. That all negroes, horses, and cattle, that hath been taken from the people of Georgia, since the conference at Colerain, in November last, he delivered to me for the use of the owners. That satisfaction be given by the nation, for the murders committed on St. Mary’s, in /.larch last, hy capitally punishing two or more of the principals in that affair. To all of which conditions they have agreed, and solemnly pledge themselves to see carried into effect. As agent of the United States, 1 have promised the nation and friends of David Cornell, who was murdered at St. Mary’s, when coming with a Hag of truce and despatches from the chiefs of the nation to me, that every step will he taken by the United States to bring to punishment the murderer or murderers of that young man. Upon which, the business is rested for twelve months from this time. I hope, sir, you will see the necessity ot having a proclamation issued without delay, offering a suitable reward for apprehending and convicting the perpetrators of that horrid deed. 1 also engaged that the prisoners in Georgia should he returned without delay; hut as the Governor of that State hath already refused delivering them to me, (as you have been advised) I apprehend the interference of the General Government may he necessary, ere they are delivered. Should this he the case, 1 must request that uo time he lost. The .Spanish agent, (or, as lie is styled, commissary) Mr. Olivar, paid me a visit soon after my arrival. He informed me that his orders were, to act in all things toward iny country or sell, with friendship, and 472 INDIAN AFFAIRS. 1794. that he should comply therewith, as far as in his power. He was present during my business, and declared himself much pleased with my conduct. He continued in the same house with ine until yesterday, when he returned to his home at Little Tallassee, about twenty-five miles below, on this river. The White Lieutenant possesses nothing of ail Indian, but the Ilaine. He is a virtuous, good man, and his friendship to our country is not equalled by any in this land. As an instance of this assertion, allow me to mention, that, after having eighteen of his people killed and prisoners, in consequence of the Oakfuskee village affair, his son and three of his family killed by the Cumberland people, yet this was the man to step forward to save my life, when a large majority of those Upper towns had meditated my destruction, and to his manly exertions, among his savage countrymen, do we owe, in a very great degree, their present pacific disposition. I shall not lose sight of such a friend to my country. I am happy to say, I can plainly discover a very material change in the temper and conduct of all around me. Candor, anil the virtuous cause I am engaged in, having been fully explained to them, the cloud of deception hath been expelled, and impostors are obliged to seek shelter. I am now considered as their real friend, and treated kindly. I have, by this express, wrote the Governor of Georgia, informing him with what I have done: a copy of my letter you have herewith. I have sent expresses to different parts of. the frontier of Georgia, with like information, and desiring their not committing any outrage on Indians. I hope it will be attended to. I am requested by the chiefs of this nation, to send an express to Governor Blount, desiring him to restrain his people, from injuring the Creeks on their hunting ground. I shall comply with their desire, as they appear desirous of peace with that quarter. The chiefs also request that I will apply to their Great Father, the President of the United States, on (he same business. If a slop is not speedily put to this affair, it will spread beyond what may, at present, be apprehended by people at a distance. Had J not been here to have stopped them, a large body of warriors would have been out, ere this, to have taken revenge for th<? Lieutenant’s son, and others.   As soon as I have collected the prisoners, about ten in number, chiefly from the westward. I shall send them to fort Fidius. Finding the people ol the Upper towns very naked, and there being a quantity of blankets and strouds remaining on hand at fort Fidius, I have determined to send for them, and distribute at this place, as I conceive such a step, at this time, will have a good effect on those naked people. Before the general meeting of the nation broke up, they appointed three commissioners to attend and remain with me, and to settle all other matters, as well as-to carry into effect what was determined on. These commissioners are, the White Lieutenant, Mad Dog, of Tuekaubatchee, and Hallowing king, of the Cowetas. The Indians are now all pushing out to their hunting grounds, their chiefs having sent runners after those already out, strictly forbidding their offering injury to the persons or property of the Americans. I hope, for the sake of humanity, and the reputation of our country, that similar orders will be given along the frontier ot Georgia. Please excuse this long detail of matter, and believe me, with the utmost respect, Sir, your obedient, &e. JAMES SEAGROVE, Agent Indian Affairs, S. I). U. S. I 3d Congress.] 
