No. 94. [1st Session. '. ST. REGIS AND SENECAS. v . * -* . .   COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, FEBRUARY 2, 1802. fly message from the President of the United Slates, making sundry nominations, of which the following is an . .. extract: " John Taylor, of New York, to be commissioner to hold a treaty between the State of New York, as explained in a letter from the Governor'of New York, an abstract of which is enclosed; also, to be commissioner to hold a convention between the Seneca Indians and the agent of the Holland Land Company, for the purpose of reconveying to the Senecas, certain parcels of their former lands, as explained in a letter Irom the said agent, a copy of which is enclosed.” . . . [EXTRACT, FROM THE WAR OFFICE.] “ 11 is Excellency Governor Clinton, in his letter of the 26th of November last, addressed to the Secretary of War, states that the St. Regis tribe of Indians had proposed ceding a tract of land, one mile square, including a ferry, to the State of New York: .to sanction which cession, he requests that a commissioner- may be appointed, on the part of the United States, to attend at Albany, where the business would be closed the present winter.'-’ Philadelphia, 27th December, 1801. Sir: .   . At a treaty held in the county of Ontario, and State of New York, under the authority of the United States, the 15th of September, 1797, by Jeremiah Wadsworth, Esq. a commissioner appointed by the President of the United States, the Seneca nation of Indians released their native rights in a tract of country, situate in the county of Ontario, and State ot New York, to Robert Morris. Esq. of the city of Philadelphia, a large proportion of which is now vested in a certain association, or company, called the Holland Land Company, for whom I am the agent or attorney. . At this treaty, the Indians reserved the native right to certain tracts of country on which they now reside, the bounds of which are particularly defined in their deed of cession. Since the treaty, their reservations have been surveyed, and it is now alleged by them, that the lands intended to be reserved by them, are not wholly included within those bounds. ... To promote the harmony which has hitherto subsisted between the Indians and the settlers on the adjoining lands, on a representation of fhe facts, I did not hesitate promising, that, if the Government assented to the exchange, 1 would execute a deed, confirming the bounds of their reservation, conformably to their wishes. This has tended to increase their anxiety, and they have actually executed a deed, and sent it to me, to be executed on the part of the Holland Land Company. By referring to the act of Congress, of 3d of March! 1799, section 12,1 find this conveyance would be of no validity, and that I should be transgressing the laws of the United States to execute the same, and, of course, incurring the penalties of that law. A letter written by me, directed to the sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the nation, explaining my motives for.delaying the execution of this deed, would probably not prove very, satisfactory to them; and I am advised that the President of the United States, should it even meet his approbation, cannot, without a treaty being first held, give this conveyance effect. The only mode that I can then pursue, will be, to delay the delivery of this conveyance till a treaty is field. To satisfy the Indians in the interim, it would be useful to shov/ that I had applied to Governmentto confirm this conveyance, but'that the delivery of .the-'same,- until a-treaty'was held; would be incompatible with the laws of the United-States.   .   ■ —   . 'If, on .reflection, this course should'appear proper to you, may I solicit you, in your official capacity, to communicate the same to me? Your letter I will immediately forward to the Indians', and I trust, it will be satisfactory to them. , ■ 'With much consideration, I am, sir. your most obedient servant, -   : PAUL BUS.TI. , The Hon. James Madison, Secretary of State, Federal City. .. .  ’   .   .   . Wau Department, OtJi February', 1802. Sir: . _   . - The Secretary of State has just put into nty haiid, your, note of yesterday, in answer to which, I can'only say, that the treaties alluded to are to be holden at the expense of the parties applying for them, and that I have- no other information, respecting the wishes of the Indians, than that \vhich is contained in the documents transmitted with the message. ' _ . ’ I am, sir, with great respect, your most obedient servant, . H. DEARBORN. Hon. Uriah Tracy, Esquire. , Till Congress.] 
