NO. 241.	[2d SESSION. EXPENDITURES OF THE INDIAN DEPARTMENT, AND THE STATE OF OUR RELA- TIONS WITH THE SEVERAL TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, ON THE 5TH OF DECEMBER, 1826. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, November 20, 1826. I had the honor, on the 4th instant, of furnishing the estimate (in two papers, Nos. 1 and 2,) of the amount which will be required to be appropriated for the current expenses of the Indian Department for the year 1827; to wit, $181,224. The demand for the increase over the amount appropriated for the last year, to wit, $25,124, arises out of new obligations incurred by«treaty, and by an extension of our Indian relations; a reference to which 1 had the honor more fully to make in my letter of the 4th instant. The amount of money disbursed in the Indian Department for the last three quarters of the present year (that is, to the 30th of September) is $820,080; and the amount for the settlement of which returns have been received within the same period is $573,732; leaving to be accounted for $246,348. This deficiency (if it can be so called) is, however, only apparent. In arises, in great part, out of remittances which have been made to superintendents and commissioners for certain objects which have not yet been fully accomplished, and out of the difference between the period in which, by the act of Congress amendatory of the act of 1802, approved May 6th, 1822, the agents are required to make their returns, (which is to the 1st day of September in each year,) and the period, to wit, the 30th of September, embraced by the call for a statement of the disbursements and receipts. The agents making their returns up to the 1st of September, in conformity to the act of Congress, they show only their disbursements up to that date; whilst they are charged with whatever they may have had remitted to them for application to the 30th of the month. The result is, an apparent balance against the agent, and for just the amount which he may have on hand on the 1st of September, and which may be applicable to the objects for which it was remitted to the close of the third quarter of the year. It is believed that, of the entire amount disbursed, not a cent will be lust; and that, as soon as the application of the money is made on account of the objects for which it has been remitted to the several agents charged with its application, returns will be received for every dollar. The amount of demands for this year against the provision of $10,000, on account of education of Indian children, as per act of 3d March, 1819, appropriating that sum for the civilization of the Indians, is $13,783 33J. This act went into operation before those to whom it was deemed best to intrust its humane provisions were fully prepared to engage in their application. The sum consequently increased, and a surplus arose out of this state of things. This surplus, in the first years after the passage of the act, was considerable; but it had become reduced in the last year to $3,550; and now the whole of it is absorbed, and every dollar of the appropriation is disposed of in the apportionments which have been made towards the support of the schools that are in operation under the regulations of the Department. It is to be regretted that the sum at the disposal of the Department for an object so beneficent, and which is in such exact conformity to the principles of our Government, should be so limited; and especially now, when experience has demonstrated the utility of the plan, and that success is attending it wherever it has been put in operation. It is a Jamentable fact, that hundreds of Indian children are turned away, annually, from those nurseries of kindness, for want of ability on the part of the superintendents to receive them. Numerous applications for assistance, and from the most respectable societies, are now on file in this office, to which it has not been possible to return any other answer than that the fund appropriated by Congress is exhausted. It is respectfully but earnestly recommended that the sum be increased. The personal inspection which I have been able to make during the last summer of some of the schools, (that, for example, at Michilimackinac, and that near Buffalo, in the State of New York, on the Seneca reserve,) has confirmed all my previous convictions of the vast benefits which the Indian children are deriving from these establishments; and which go further, in my opinion, towards securing our borders from bloodshed, and keeping the peace among the Indians themselves, and attaching them to us, than would the physical force of our army, if employed exclusively towards the accomplishment of those objects. It is respectfully suggested, whether, after the Indian children shall have passed through a course of instruction, and made capable thereby of taking care of themselves, some suitable provision of another kind ought not to be made for them? If, after they shall have acquired a knowledge of letters and of the arts, they are thrown back into uneducated Indian settlements, is it not to be apprehended that the labor of instructing them, and the expense attending it, will be lost? To make the plan effective, therefore, and to follow out its humane designs, it is respectfully recommended that, as these youths are qualified to enter upon a course of civilized life, sections of land be given to them, and a suitable present to commence with, of agricultural or other implements, suited to the occupations in which they may be disposed, respectively, to engage. They will then have become an “intermediate link' between our own citizens and our wandering neighbors, softening the shades of each, and enjoying the confidence of both.” For a further illustration of this subject, I beg leave respectfully to refer to the report of the commissioners which accompanies the treaty recently concluded at the Fond du Lac Superior. The number of schools, their location, and number of teachers to each, and the number of pupils, are all shown in the accompanying paper marked A. The reports from all of the schools are flattering—indeed, some of them remarkable, as indicating the extraordinary advances making by the children in all the branches of practical, and moral, and religious improvement. In addition to the schools enumerated, there is one at Great Crossings, in Kentucky, at which are fifty-four children. This school was established by the Choctaws, and is supported out of their own resources, under the direction of the President of the United States. The Creeks) impressed with the important benefits of education, appropriated part of their means arising out of the treaty of 22d April, 1826, for the. education of some of their children at the same school. Thirty-five children hâve been added to the schools during the present year, and fifty-four received into the Choctaw academy. Last year, the number was one thousand one hundred and fifty-nine; and this year, one thousand two hundred and forty-eight; making an increase of eighty-nine. Provision was made at the last session of Congress for holding treaties with certain Indian tribes on Lake "Superior and at Green Bay, in Indiana and Mississippi. Commissioners were duly appointed for holding these treaties; and treaties have been entered into, accordingly, with the Chippewas of Lake Superior, and with the Miamies and Pattawatamies of Indiana. Fer reasons which will appear in the report of the commissioners who negotiated the treaty on Lake Superior, no council was held at Green Bay. A treaty was held by the commis- sioners appointed for that object in Indiana, which, together with the treaty of Fond du Lac Superior, and the proceedings under both, I have the honor to enclose herewith. No returns have yet been received from the com- missionersBappointed to negotiate with the Choctaws and Chickasaws of the State of Mississippi. Measures have been duly taken to carry into effect the act of Congress of 20th May, 1826, making appropriations for defraying the expense of negotiating and carrying into effect certain Indian treaties; the act of the same date, to aid certain Indians of the Creek nation in their removal west of the Mississippi; the act making appropriation to carry into effect a treaty concluded between the United States and the Creek nation, and ratified 22d April, 1826; and an act for the relief of the Florida Indians. The treaty with the Creeks has been carried into effect; the condition money paid, and in the mode prescribed by the Congress; and the returns made by the agent to the Department. Information having been received by the Department of the hostile dispositions of the Osages an/tDelawares towards each other, and that a war of extermination was likely to be waged between those tribes air43,i\r allies, your instructions were complied with in addressing letters to the agents of the Department to inte. [5f00and by their counsels put a stop, if possible, to the threatened tragedy. Letters received from General Cla^’®^of the 12th ultimo, accompanied by a treaty of peace between those, tribes, anij which 1 have the honor to submit herewith, show that a war, so fatal in its effects as that promised to be, has been, by the interference of that officer, happily avoided. The commissioners appointed under the act of 3d March, 1825, to mark out a road from the western frontier of Missouri to the confines of New Mexico, having been, by the first article of that act, authorized to hold treaties with the intervening tribes of Indians to obtain their consent to the making of said road, and the undisturbed use thereof to the citizens of the United States and of the Mexican republic, have reported ho treaties subsequent to those made with the Osages and Kanzas, and which were ratified the 3d of May last. An informal treaty was entered into between the late Peter Wilson, sub-agent on the Missouri, and the Assina- boins; informal, only because he had no power to make it. The provisions are proper; and as these Indians are sometimes troublesome, it is respectfully suggested whether due powers should not be conferred on the successor of Mr. Wilson, with instructions to make a treaty upon the same basis. I have the honor to enclose the treaty, together with the letter from General Clark, which accompanied it, to the Department. To that part of your order (which forms the basis of this report) which directs me to add such remarks as I may think proper in relation to the administration of the Indian Dcpartmtnt, I beg leave respectfully to refer to an act which was reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the House of Representatives at the last session, as embracing, in my opinion, all that will be required to give promptitude and efficiency to this branch of our Government relations. All which is respectfully submitted. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War. SIR:	SUPERINTENDENCE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, ST. Lours, May 20, 1826. The enclosed are articles in form of a treaty entered into by Mr. Wilson (sub-agent at the Mandans) with the Assinaboins. Mr. Wilson, it appears, has not been authorized to enter into treaties with the Indian tribes; yet, as that tribe is distant, have had but little intercourse with the citizens or traders of the United States, and are numerous and more vicious than those nearer to us, I am of opinion that some regulations are necessary to a further intercourse with them. I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, WILLIAM CLARK. Colonel MCKENNEY, Washington. .	Informal Treaty made by Peter Wilson, Sub-agent, with the Assinaboins. For the purpose of holding a treaty, and in order that a friendly understanding may hereafter exist between the United States and the Assinaboin tribe of Indians, the President of the United States, in pursuance of an act of Congress, passed the twenty-fifth day of May, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and twenty-four, entitled “ An act to enable the President of the United States to hold treaties with certain Indian tribes, and for other purposes,” has, by virtue thereof, appointed two sub-agents for the purposes expressed in the said act, with all the powers and privileges thereunto legally appertaining: therefore, I, Peter Wilson, duly appointed one of the said sub-agents, on the part of the United States, have made and entered into the following articles and conditions with the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Assinaboin tribe of Indians, on the part of said tribe, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, shall be binding on both parties. ARTICLE I. Henceforth there shall be a firm and lasting peace between the United States and the Assinaboin tribe of Indians, and a friendly intercourse shall immediately take place between the parties. ART. 2. It is admitted by the Assinaboin tribe of Indians that they reside within the territorial limits of the United States, acknowledge their supremacy, and claim their protection. The said tribe also admit the right of the United States to regnlate all trade and intercourse with them. ART. 3. The United States agree to receive the Assinaboin tribe of Indians into their friendship and under their protection, and to extend to them, from time to time, such benefits and acts of kindness as may be convenient, and seem just and proper to the President of the United States. ART. 4. All trade and intercourse with the Assinaboin tribe shall be transacted at such place or places as may be designated and pointed out by the President of the United States, through his agents; and none but American citizens, duly authorized by the United States, shall be admitted to trade or hold intercourse with said tribe of Indians. ART. 5. That the Assinaboin tribe may be accommodated with such articles of merchandise, &c. as their necessities may demand, the United States agree to admit and license traders to hold intercourse with said tribe, under mild and equitable regulations: in consideration of which, the Assinaboin tribe bind themselves to extend protection to the persons and the property of the traders, and the persons legally employed under them, whilst they remain within the limits of their district of country. And the said Assinaboin tribe further agree, from this time, to relinquish all trade and intercourse with the British, their factories, and their agents; and should any foreigner, or other person not legally authorized by the United States, come into their district of country forjhe purposes of trade, or other views, they will apprehend such person or persons, and deliver him or them to some United States superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or to the commandant of the nearest military post, to be dealt with according to law. And they further agree to give safe-conduct to all persons who may be legally authorized by the United States to pass through their country; and to protect, in their persons and property, all agents or other persons sent by the United States to reside temporarily among them. ART. 6. That the friendship which is now established between the United States and the Assinaboin tribe shall not be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by the party injured to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or other person appointed by the President. And it shall be the duty of the said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he or they may be punished agreeably to the laws of the United States: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to said tribe, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in like manner as if the injury bad been done to a white man. And it is agreed that the chiefs of the said Assinaboin tribe shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolen from any citizen or citizens of the United States by any individual or individuals of said tribe; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the agents, or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of said tribe a full indemnification for any horses or other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property so stolen cannot be recovered, and sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the said Assinaboin tribe engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or of the agents, to deliver up any white man resident among them. ART. 7. And the chiefs and warriors as aforesaid promise and engage that their tribe will never, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation, tribe, or band of Indians, not in amity with the United States, with guns, ammunition, pr other implements of war. Done at the Mandan village, this twenty-ninth day of September, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and twenty- five, and of the independence of the United States the fiftieth. In testimony whereof, the said Peter Wilson, United States agent, and the chiefs and warriors of the Assinaboin tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. P.	WILSON, U. S. Indian Sub-agent. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Assinaboin tribe.] SIR:	'	ST. LOUIS, October 12, 1826. I have the honor to state to you, that a deputation from the Great and Little Osage nation met one from the Delawares, Shawanees, Piankeshaws, Peorias, Weas, Senecas, and Kickapoos, at this place, on the 25th day of September, and, after recommending that they should make an attempt to effect a permanent peace without the interference of the Government, they met in council, and, after six days of warm debate and recriminations, I was forced to take my seat among them, and with much difficulty obtained their entire approbation to the treaty, a copy of which is herewith enclosed. I am in great hopes that a strict regard to its provisions will be manifested by ail the parties concerned. They appeared to be all well pleased before they left me. I however found it absolutely necessary to make some presents to the relations of the dead, and advances^ settle and quiet the differences between them. To avoid any collision from their hunting on the same grounds, I would recommend that the Delawares and other nations who have emigrated from the east side of the Mississippi should be collected together, and located on that strip of country which has been purchased’ from the Osages and Kansas, lying between the Missouri river and Marais des Cygnes, (on or near the Kanzas river,) and immediately west of the boundary line of this State. I have consulted with the chiefs and considerate men of these nations, in respect to the exchange of land they hold within the bounds of this State, for the above-described lands; they seem to be pleased at the idea of being placed upon lands which will be a permanent home to them, and where they will be protected from any further pressure of the white population. They have told me they would make an examination of these lands, and report their decision. Should they be inclined to remove thither, (of which I have no doubt,) I would recommend that a treaty should be entered into with them for the exchange of lands, and to embrace within its provisions the following assistance: to enclose with fences an adequate quantity of ground near to each village, and have it broken up with a plough, and divided into parcels for each family; to have it planted with all the common and most useful fruit- trees; to furnish them with some provisions, stock animals, and the different kinds of domestic fowls; and to assist them in the erection of permanent houses. For a more full development of my views, I refer you to a letter I had the honor to address you on the 1st of March, 1826. I would recommend that Government should aid these Indians in their removal; the most efficient and advisable course for which would be, to send special agents to collect scattered bands and families, and to pay tbeir expenses to the lands assigned them. An estimate of the probable expenses of which is herewith forwarded. I have the honor to be your most obedient, humble servant, WM. CLARK. The Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War. Treaty of peace and friendship between the Osage nation and the Delawares, Shawanees, Kickapoos, Weas, Piankeshaws, and Peorias, entered into at St. Louis, the 7th of October, 1826. A treaty of peace, amity, and friendship, made and concluded at the city of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, this seventh day of October, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, in the presence of General William Clark, superintendent of Indian affairs, and General Henry Atkinson, commanding the United States troops within the right wing, western department, between the Delaware nation and their allies the Shawanees, Kjckapoos, Piankeshaws, Weas, Peorias, and Senecas, residing in the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas, of the one part, and the several bands of the Big and Little Osage nation of Indians, of the other part. Whereas the parties above named are anxious that the unhappy differences which have existed between them within the last fifteen months should cease and terminate, and that the most perfect peace, harmony, and friendship shonld exist, [they] do agree to the following articles; that is to say: ARTICLE 1. There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between the Delaware nation, their allies, the Shawanees, Kickapoos, Piankeshaws, Weas, Peorias, and Senecas, residing within the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas, and the several bands of the Big and Little Osage nation. 85 E ART. 2. The Delawares, on their part, and for their allies, do agree to pay to the chiefs of the Great Osage nation the sum of one thousand dollars, (the receipt whereof the said Osages do hereby acknowledge,) in full of all demands the said Great Osages may have against them for any depredations or murders they may have committed; and, if the Delawares should discover, within twelve months from this date, that the Osages have committed the murders alleged against them by the Delawares in the present council, and denied by the Osages, the said Osages do hereby authorize the superintendent of Indian affairs at St. Louis to deduct the same amount from their annuity, and repay to the Delaware nation the same. ART. 3. It is further understood that the Delawares and their allies shall not hunt on the land reserved to the Osages, under the penalty of any injury they may receive on said reservation; nor shall the Osages hunt on the land reserved to the Delawares or their allies, under the same penalty; but each party may or can hunt in any other direction or country in which either of the parties is authorized to hunt. And if any person or persons of either of the contracting parties shall be convicted, to the satisfaction of the President of the United States, of having killed any person or persons of the other party, the nation to whom the murderer or murderers belong shall deliver him or them to the Government of the United States, or pay to the offended party one thousand dollars for each person so proven to have been killed; and, if a principal chief, an additional stun shall be paid, at the discretion of the superintendent. ART. 4. It is agreed by the parties aforesaid that no private revenge shall be taken for any property stolen or destroyed, or murders thought to have been committed by either of the contracting parties; but that complaint shall be made, in future, by the aggrieved party, or by their agent, to the offending party, or their agent, for redress; and the agent of the offending party is hereby authorized to compel the offenders to make a full and fair compensation to the injured party, as stipulated in the third article. ART. 5. It is further understood by the contracting parties, that when either party may receive an injury from the other, and have made due complaint thereof, as provided by the fourth article of this treaty, that the United States will interfere, and cause justice to be rendered, as far as practicable, should justice be delayed beyond six months. ART. 6. It is agreed by all the tribes, parties to this treaty, that messengers shall be sent by them to their bands residing or hunting in different parts of the country, to notify them of this treaty. In testimony of our good-will and friendship towards each other, we, the representatives of our nations, specially deputized, and the chiefs, braves, and considerate men, have hereunto affixed our handk and seals, this seventh day of October, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, as before written. [Signed by the representatives of the respective tribes mentioned in the caption.] An estimate of the expenses of collecting, removing, and settling all the Indian tribes now in the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas to the west of the Missouri State line, being, in all, about fifteen thousand souls, viz: Delawares, Shawanees, Piankeshaws, Weas, Miamies, Peorias, Kickapoos, and Senecas. Expenses of treaties for exchange, ------	$8,000 To collect the scattered bands and families, &c., and to remove them to the land west of the State of Missouri,	-------	20,000 Expenses for special agents,	------	4,000 Provisions for one year, on the land assigned to each tribe,	-	-	-	-	35,000 Fencing 7,000 acres of ground in small fields, -----	13,000 Breaking up the ground with ploughs, and planting fruit-trees, -	-	-	-	8,500 Stock: 300 milch cows, 300 sows, and domestic fowls,	-	-	-	-	4,000 Agricultural implements, carts, and 15 yoke of oxen,	-	-	-	-	2,700 A small mill,	-------	1,000 Useful mechanics, to mend their implements of husbandry, for one year, -	-	-	2,500 $98,700 NOTE.—It cannot be expected that the contemplated measure of removing the Indians above named can be effected within a less period than one or two years after the treaties with them shall have been entered into. WM. CLARK, Superintendent of Indian Affairs. ST. LOUIS, October 14, 1826. A.—Statement showing the number of Indian schools, where established, by whom, the number of teachers,fyc., the number of pupils, and the amount annually allowed and paid to each by the Govern- ment, with remarks as to their condition, <$'c. Names of stations and sites. By whom established. Numb, of teachers. Number of pupils. Amount annually paid by Govern’!. Remarks. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 13 Spring Place, Cherokee nation, Alabama, Ochgeelogee,	do. Elliot, ™ 	:- Mayhew, Bethel, Emman’s, Goshen, Capt. Harrison’s, do. Mr. Juzon’s, Ai-ik-hun-hah, Col. Folsom’s, Carey,on St. Joseph’s river, among the Pattawatamies, Thomas, on Grand river, among the Ottawas, Withington, Creek nation, Georgia, Oneida Castle, New York, Senecas, near Buffalo, do. - Oneida, New York, ... Wyandots, near Upper Sandusky, Ohio, Asbury Mission, Creek nation, Georgia, Monroe, Chickasaw nation, Tockshish, Cane Creek. Martyn, Florissant, Missouri, Cataraugus, Senecas, New York, Charity Hall, Chickasaw nation, Pleasant Point, Passamaquoddy Indians, Maine, Brainard, Cherokee nation east of .Mississippi, Carmel, Creek Path, High Tower, Dwight, Valley Towns, Tensawattee, Tonawanda, Senecas, New York, Union, Osages, Arkansas, - Harmony, Osages, Missouri, Tuscaroras, New York, Michilimackinac,* Ottawas, Miami of the Lake, do Choctaw nation, do. do. ,	do. do. do. do. do. United Brethren,	- Do. .	.	.	. Amer. Board ofCommissiuners for Foreign Missions, Do. do. do Do. do. do Do. do. do Do. do. do Do. do. do Do. do. do Do. do. do Do. do. do 6 6 4 4 6 1826.] EXPENDITURES OF THE INDIAN DEPARTMENT, $300 11 8 2O'| 54 16 25 14 13 15 22 7_ 70 1,500 yPhese schools are all prosperous. Flourishing. Appendage to Carey, establ’d last year; no funds to aid it. Flourishing. Do. Do. Visited; a pattern of order and prosperity. Do. Do. No allowance has yet been made to this school for want of means. It is flourishing in all things, except in means. Recently established, and reported thisyear for first time. 7 These schools have been established during the last year 5 from funds appropriated by the Chickasaws for that purpose. The permanent annuity of $3,000, per act ' of 25th February, 1799, has been assigned by them for the education of their children. Baptist General Convention, Do.	do. Do.	do. Protestant Episcopal Church, New York, U. For. Mis. So. transferred to Am. B.Cora.&c. 1826, Hamilton Baptist Missionary Society, - Methodist Society,	... Do.	- Synod of South Carolina and Georgia, [flourishing,] Do.	do.	[flourishing,] Do.	do. Do.	do. Society of Jesuits, United Foreign Missionary Society, Cumberland Missionary Board, Society for propagating the Gospel, &c. Amer. Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions 13 600 600 500 450 400 800 27 30 45 40 69 40 27 17 9 3 8 2 2 2 12 2 6 2 9 9 14 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 Total amount of children,	_	_	_ To which add amount allowed to Bishop Chase for education of six Indian youths in Ohio, -	-	-, And also this amount allowed to Bap. Gen. Conv. for education of seven Indian youths of promise in N. York for this year, Total amount of annual allowances for 1826, NOTE.—Under the head of “ No. of teachers” is included all the mission family, including mechanics and laborers. The number of teachers in the schools is from 1 to 3. The reports include the whole. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, November 20, 1826.	THOMAS L. McKENNEY. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. west of Mississippi, east of Mississippi, do. 800 [flourishing,] 16 25 39 31 60 Do. do. do Do. do. do Do. do. do Do. do. do Baptist General Convention, Do.	do. Do.	do. United Foreign Missionary Society, Do.	do. Do.	do. Do.	.	do. Western Missionary Society, 42 84 ’ 800 500 400 250 1,000 100 100 16 6 38 2t 65 60 38 30 31 40 45 50 10 1,194f 800 500 250 300 250 250 450 500 300 12,800 600 383 33j 13,783 33j| The reports due from these schools on 30th September last, for the present year, have not yet been received. This part of the statement is, therefore, made out from the reports of last year. ♦Visited, and known to be a model in all that is excellent in every branch of teaching. Nothing can be more interesting, or to that region more valuable, than this school. fl,194 in the schools in the Indian country, and which derive assistance from the appropriation. 54 in the Choctaw academy in Kentucky. 1,248 total. Ci 19th CONGRESS.]	
