NO. 143      TREATY AND CONVENTION WITH THE CHEROKEES. [1st SESSION. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, MARCH 28, 1816. To the Senate of the United States:	MARCH 26, 1816. I lay before the Senate, for their advice as to a ratification, articles of a treaty and of a convention which have been concluded with the Cherokee nation, with documents relating to the losses by the Indians, for which indemnity is stipulated. JAMES MADISON. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at the city of Washington, on the twenty-second day of March, one thousand eight hundred and sixteen, between George Graham, being specially authorized by the President of the United States thereto, and the undersigned chiefs and headmen of the Cherokee nation, duly authorized and empowered by the said nation. ARTICLE 1. Whereas the Executive of the State'of South Carolina has made an application to the President of the United Stales to extinguish the claim of the Cherokee nation to that part of their lands which lie within the boundaries of the said State, as lately established and agreed upon between that State and the State of North Carolina; and as the Cherokee nation is disposed to comply with the wishes of their brothers of South Carolina, they have agreed, and do hereby agree, to cede to the State of South Carolina, and forever quit claim to, the tract of country contained within the following bounds, viz: beginning on the east bank of the Chattuga river, where the boundary line of the Cherokee nation crosses the same; running thence with the said boundary line to a rock on the Blue Ridge, where the boundary line crosses the same, and which rock has been lately established as a corner to the States of North and South Carolina; running thence, south, sixty-eight and a quarter degrees west, twenty miles and thirty-two chains, to a rock on the Chattuga river, at the thirty-fifth degree of north latitude, another corner of the boundaries agreed upon by the States of North and South Carolina; thence, down and with the Chattuga, to the beginning. ART. 2. For and in consideration of the above cession, the United States promise and engage that the State of South Carolina shall pay to the Cherokee nation, or its accredited agent, the sum of five thousand dollars, within ninety days after the President and Senate shall have ratified this treaty: Provided, That the Cherokee nation shall have sanctioned the same in council: And provided, also, That the Executive of the State of South Carolina shall approve of the stipulations contained in this article. In testimony whereof, the said commissioner, and the undersigned chiefs and headmen of the Cherokee nation, have hereunto set their hands and seals. GEORGE GRAHAM. [Signed also by the chiefs and headmen of the Cherokee nation.] Articles of a convention made and entered into between George Graham, specially authorized thereto by the President of the United States, and the undersigned chiefs and headmen of the Cherokee nation, duly authorized and empowered by the said nation. ARTICLE 1. Whereas doubts have existed in relation to the northern boundary of that part of the Creek lands lying west of the Coosa river, and which were ceded to the United States by the treaty held at Fort Jackson, on the ninth day of August, one thousand eight hundred and fourteen: and whereas, by the third article of the treaty, dated the seventh of January, one thousand eight hundred and six, between the United States and the Cherokee nation, the United States have recognised a claim on the part of the Cherokee nation to the lands south of the Big Bend of the Tennessee river, and extending as far west as a place on the waters of Bear creek, [a branch of the Tennessee river,] known by the name of the Flat Rock or Stone; it is, therefore, now declared and agreed that a line shall be run from a point on the west bank of the Coosa river, opposite to the lower end of the Ten Islands in said river, and above Fort Strother, directly to the Flat Rock or Stone on Bear creek, [a branch of the Tennessee river;] which line shall be established as the boundary of the lands ceded by the Creek nation to the United States by the treaty held at Fort Jackson, on the ninth day of August, one thousand eight hundred and fourteen, and of the lands claimed by the Cherokee nation lying west of the Coosa and south of the Tennessee rivers. ART. 2. It is expressly agreed on the part of the Cherokee nation that the United States shall have the right to lay off, open, and have the free use of such road or roads through any part of the Cherokee nation lying north of the boundary line now established, as may be deemed necessary for the free intercourse between the States of Tennessee and Georgia and the Mississippi Territory. And the citizens of the United States shall freely navigate and use as a highway all the rivers and waters within the Cherokee nation. The Cherokee nation further agree to establish and keep up, on the roads to be opened under the sanction of this article, such ferries and public houses as may be necessary for the accommodation of the citizens of the United States. ART. 3. In order to preclude any dispute hereafter relative to the boundary line now established, it is hereby agreed that the Cherokee nation shall appoint two commissioners to accompany the commissioners already appointed on the part of the United States, to run the boundary lines of the lands ceded by the Creek nation to the United States, while they are engaged in running that part of the boundary established by the-first article of this treaty. ART. 4. In order to avoid unnecessary expense and delay, it is further agreed that, whenever the President of the United States may deem it expedient to op'en a road through any part of the Cherokee nation, in pursuance of the stipulations of the second article of this convention, the principal chief of the Cherokee nation shall appoint one commissioner to accompany the commissioners appointed by the President of the United States, to lay off and mark the road; and the said commissioner shall be paid by the United States. ART. 5. The United States agree to indemnify the individuals of the Cherokee nation for losses sustained bv them in consequence of the march of the militia and other troops in the service of the United States through that nation, which losses have been ascertained by the agents of the United States to amount to twenty-five thousand five hundred dollars. In testimony whereof, the said commissioner, and the undersigned chiefs and headmen of the Cherokee nation, have hereunto set their hands and seals. Done at the city of Washington, this twenty-second day of March, one thousand eight hundred and sixteen. GEORGE GRAHAM. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headmen of the Cherokee nation.] REMONSTRANCE AGAINST THE TREATY. To the President of the United States of America: This memorial and remonstrance respectfully declareth: That one of the most inestimable privileges which freemen enjoy is the right of investigating the proceedings of those whose duty it is to advance the public weal, and remove the causes which have a tendency to produce public and individual injury. Availing ourselves of this sacred right, we, your memorialists, would respectfully submit a number of the grievances under which we labor in common with the people in this State; a candid and full examination of which, we trust, will produce a removal, so far as the power of doing this, or recommending it to be done, is vested in yourself. The people of this State know that their political and individual prosperity is much retarded, and they also believe that their rights are obstructed by two causes, connected with the relations of the United States with the Indian tribes: the first of which is a failure to extinguish the Indian claim to land within the chartered limits of this State; and the second is a cession to the Cherokee Indians of that tract of country south of Tennessee ceded to the United States by the Creek Indians, by the treaty held by General Jackson. We are more concerned on the latter subject, that the Government should have yielded to the Cherokees this tract, at the very time when the nation refused to sell for a full price to the United States a portion of land on the north side of Tennessee, within this State, which is of much importance to us, and in a measure useless to that nation. To show how far the existence of the Indian claim to the land within the chartered limits of this State is a political injury, and connected with the violation of individual right, we will beg leave to call your attention to the following facts: Previous to the formation of the constitution of the United States, and when the State of North Carolina possessed the absolute sovereignty of soil in what is now the State of Tennessee, each of the States having declared independence, and after the States had conquered their enemies, foreign and interna], the Legislature of that State, with much magnanimity and justice, offered for sale her western lands to her own citizens, to extinguish the debt which she owed to the war-worn soldiers of the Revolution; that debt was paid, and a fee-simple title was vested in the purchasers to a large portion of the lands within what is now the State of Tennessee. This took place in the years 1783 and 1784. At that time the title of the Indians to the lands sold by the State was not acknowledged by aoy treaty or law; and it was purchased, and grants obtained, under a confidence that possession could be had so soon as the Indian nations were conquered or would cease to be hostile. Few, if any, of the tribes of Indians ever actually inhabited the lands which wore sold by the State of North Carolina. That portion of territory in which the Cherokee tribe werejsettled south and east of Tennessee was reserved, when the boundary was prescribed of lands offered for sale. After the State of North Carolina bad sold out the lands to redeem her public debt, the territory now composing, the State of Tennessee was ceded by North Carolina to the Congress of the United States, reserving, however, the rights of individuals holding grants, and the right to perfect the titles of such as had purchased lands from that State, which were not granted. Since that period the United States have, by treaties or compacts with the Cherokee and Chickasaw Indians, acknowledged a possessory right in those tribes to a large portion of the lands within this State; and that acknowledgment of title continues to exist, to the exclusion of citizens who have paid a fair price to North Carolina for those lands, more than thirty years since. Nay, the treaties purport to vest an absolute right to those lands in the Indians. A large portion of territory is unoccupied by the Indians on the north side of Tennessee, (except, perhaps, occasionally by a few straggling parties,) to which their title is nnextinguished. This land is of vast importance in a political point of view to the State; it has also been granted by North Carolina, and the grantees are deprived of the enjoyment of their property; and yet the Cherokees refuse to sell it, with the same stubborn independence as if their title were absolute. An extensive and fertile tract is situate on the west of the inhabited part of this State, and extending to the Mississippi, which land was sold by North Carolina, and a great portion thereof granted nearly thirty years since. It is unsettled by the Indians, yet it is claimed bv the Chickasaw tribe; and thé grantees of the land, who have a freehold in the soil, by purchase from the State, have a more gloomy prospect of enjoying their property now than existed twenty years ago. Many individuals are deprived of their patrimony purchased by the blood of their fathers. The State is deprived of the political advantage arising from the settlement of a part of its soil, fertile beyond description, and rendered doubly important from its situation on the great navigable waters, which have become the highway to market of the produce raised by several millions of people. At the close of the American war, the absolute right to the vacant soil existed in the States, respectively; and the right was in the Indian tribes, most of whom were [conquered by the States. If this right existed in the States, we would inquire whether it be consistent with the principles of a free Government to exclude the individual owners of the soil from the enjoyment of their property? And we would humbly suggest the injustice of doing this, by laws or treaties made subsequent to the vested right of the owners. This is a grievance under which the citizens of the State of Tennessee have labored fur many years past. In an humble and respectful manner has it been presented to the constituted authorities of the United States by the Legislature of our State, and by our Representatives and Senators in Congress. With painful emotion it has been seen that all exertions for its removal have failed. Yet, as citizens, we were respectfully silent, hoping each succeeding year would produce a change. We fondly looked forward to the time when the rights of our citizens would be considered as paramount to the rights of the Indians; and, of two conflicting claims, that that claim would be protected which would convert a pathless wilderness into peaceful habitations of freemen, yielding individual wealth and national prosperity; and, if an indemnity was necessary, it would be conferred on those whose claim was later in point of law and acknowledgment, and least in point of use and necessity. From the arrogant and aspiring pretensions of the adjacent tribes, we have no hope that they will voluntary yield, or even sell their claims. Recent events show that they desire to embrace every foot of territory which will lessen the facility of communication with the settlements on the Mississippi and Mobile, and retard the prosperity of this State. We would inquire, where is this matter to end? is it to be left to the will of the Cherokee and Chickasaw Indians? We would also call your attention to the peculiarity of our injury. In no other State do we know of a sale of lands, at an early period after the Revolution, where the purchasers are as yet deprived of the possession. In a few years the extinguishment of the Indian claim will be useless to the individual claimants. The destroyer Time will have soon demolished every trace or mark of the surveys and boundaries; and already almost every individual to whom they were known is consigned to the tomb. One other subject of complaint is the late cession to the Cherokee Indians of so large a portion of the territory added to the United States by the treaty held with the Creeks by General Jackson. This is considered an evil of much magnitude, and we submit the following facts to prove that the Creeks were fully empowered to make the conveyance to the United States by the treaty of 1814. It is clearly established, and it is here almost universally known, that at the first settlement of the western country, the territory in question was not held under the least color of claim by the Cherokees, but was in the possession of the Creeks, who continued to occupy it until the war in 1813, when the Creeks fled from villages within this territory, which were afterwards demolished by General Jackson. The chiefs and headmen of the Cherokees, even at that period, so far from claiming this land, declared to General Jackson that his army was in an enemy’s country after crossing a small stream called Will’s creek, twenty miles south of Fort Deposite, on the Tennessee river. From thence, southwardly, they said, the army was in the territory of the Creeks, and all the property was the property of the enemy. Of the truth of these facts abundant proof can be produced, sufficient to establish the same at any time when it may be desired. Did not the cession of this land to the United States by the Creeks vest in the people thereof prima facie evidence of title? If so, could the people be divested of this title by the act of the President and Senate? This committee humbly state that they do not think the constitution has vested this power in those branches of the Government. The cession of this territory to the United States was hailed with joy, as an era in the prosperity of Tennessee. By this, a communication would be had through a country inhabited by white men, and governed by laws, to the counties on the Mississippi and Mobile. We ever were informed the boundaries of the lands held by the Creeks were directed to be run by public authority, separating those lands from the Cherokees. We understand the line was run, and information thereof communicated to the proper office. But our satisfaction at this event was succeeded by surprise and regret, when we learned so much of this tract was ceded to the Cherokees as would effectually prevent that connexion in settlement with our fellow-citizens on the waters of the Mobile. We would ask, where is the policy of ceding this tract to the Cherokees, who are so tenacious of the territory which they already possess, that they will not surrender one acre without receiving what would be the value of the land? We would inquire, upon what principle of justice was this land ceded to the Cherokees? It was not useful to them for cultivation, nor due to them as a nation, to the exclusion of the people of the West, to whom the advantages from the occupation and settlement of this country were in some measure due, as a boon for its conquest. We applaud the course of policy adopted by the United States towards the Indians, replete with humanity, justice, and moderation; but we cannot agree that it is proper to sacrifice the convenience and welfare of so large a portion of the members of the community to gratify the cupidity of any tribe. The country bordering on the Tennessee, and occupied by the Creeks before the war of 1813, is that through which would pass the great highway from this State to New Orleans and Mobile. The country is fertile, and would soon be covered by a population of yeomanry, and become a perpetual barrier to the communication of the northern and southern tribes of Indians, who, from their intimate correspondence, produced such distressing effects subsequent to the declaration of war in 1812. Our citizens would then travel in security, without the risk of being murdered at every wigwam by some drunken savage, or of being ambushed and plundered until a safe passage is purchased by giving to the Indians money for permission to travel the public road. One of our neighbors a short time since was insulted, and afterwards murdered, on the road leading through that nation; and another of our most respectable citizens, when travelling with his family on the same road, was compelled to purchase his safe passage by his purse of money. The tribe will claim in palliation that such excesses are committed by drunken and profligate Indians, and perhaps will claim credit for surrendering such to be punished by our laws. These things, to us, are no satisfaction or security. The course of business requires frequent travelling along the roads leading through that country, and, while the Indians possess the soil from the Mississippi to Georgia, our citizens are not secure from attacks. We desire rather security against this mischief, than revenge for a murder when committed. If you will refer to the map of the country south of the State of Tennessee, and bring to mind that the produce of all the western country is sold at New Orleans, and that the Indians possess an extensive territory between this State and that market; that thousands of the citizens of Kentucky and Ten nessee annually return by land, after selling tbeir produce, and that this happens most frequently in the unhealthy season; that want of accommodation, sickness, insult, and injury, often await them through this Indian territory; that every year increases the quantity of produce for the market, and consequently the number of persons exposed to the evils enumerated—you will have but a faint idea of the magnitude of the object to the people of this section of the Union, and of the regret with which they beheld that a free communication was no sooner obtained from the Creeks, than it was surrendered to the Cherokees. We cannot but believe that the policy of retaining this part of the country is so evident that it would not have been surrendered to the Cherukees, except from a mistaken belief that it of right belonged to that nation; and we believe, if the fact had been known tu you that the Cherokee claim was founded altogether in pretence, and had no substantial existence, that this cession would not have been sanctioned. We have heard it suggested that the treaty of 1806 contained a pledge that the United States would acknowledge the claim of the Cherokees to this treaty. We will remark that the article in that treaty which speaks of the boundary of the Cherokee and Chickasaw Indians was evidently concluded by the Secretary of War, relying upon the representation of the Cherokees, and without a knowledge of the title of the respective tribes. It is beyond dispute that the land in question did not belong to, nor was it occupied by, either the Cherokees or Chickasaws, but was vested in the Creeks. An agreement on the part of the United States that they would endeavor to prevent collisions between the Cherokees and Chickasaws, by procuring the establishment of a certain boundary, did not, it seems to us, bind the United States to relinquish any title they might acquire from a third party, provided that third party had the better title, particularly when it is recollected that the projected boundary of the treaty of 1806 never was established. We might still go further in depicting the evils to be produced from carrying this stipulation into effect, after the treaty held with the Creeks by General Jackson, and after the boundaries were run and ascertained. This tract has been settled by a numerous population—by men whose lives and property have often been pledged to their Government. We will leave you to imagine the difficulty, distress, and dissatisfaction which will result from dispossessing this population of a country which was considered as a land of promise, and which they had prepared themselves to purchase by a sale of their interior possessions, and that this disposition should be made, that the country may remain a wilderness for the refuge of plunderers and murderers. We arc also mortified that the treaty with the Cherokees should contain an imputation against the militia of this State, in making an appropriation of $25,500 for depredations pretended to be committed in their territory by the army of the United States. This claim, set up by the Cherokees, we believe, from good authority, to be unfounded. The language as well as the matter of this article is a subject of regret to the militia of Tennessee, since it implicates the character of their officers, who are virtually accused of leading bands of marauders, and allowing the most flagrant acts to pass unpunished. We would beg leave to bring to your notice the tedious and injurious system adopted by the War Department in the payment of accounts which have been created during the war in the quartermaster’s office. The payment of these accounts has been postponed from time to time, to the great injury of those who hold unsettled claims; and, as if to increase the difficulty, it has been lately ordered that these claims should be sent to Washington for inspection, previous to their adjustment. The delay and risk of loss in transmitting the evidences of these claims are very great, and the difficulty of presenting demands, although entirely just, authenticated according to exact form, has been experienced by all interested in them, because the officers ordering the same paid are now at an immense distance from the place of their liquidation. All these embarrassments have in many instances created an expense equal to the amount of the demands producing it. The payment of the officers and soldiers for their services has been so long protracted, and so many difficulties presented, from the want of funds or otherwise, that many of the soldiers who braved the dangers of the field, and conquered the heroes of Britain, have not yet received the first cent for their services. This committee are assured that penury has not tied the pursestrings of the nation; that appropriations were made to satisfy all demands against the pay and quartermaster’s departments in this district; therefore, we most respectfully inquire, what disposition has been made of the funds appropriated to satisfy the just claims on Government? The citizens of Tennessee deem the grievances which this committee have referred to as matcriallv affecting the rights and happiness of the community at large; and are happy to believe that they have, by their recent and unparalleled display of patriotism and valor, secured to themselves the plaudits of the American people, and are justly entitled to a prompt removal of all the causes hereby noticed, which so materially affect the present and future destiny of this country. For and in behalf of the citizens of Davidson county: JENKIN WHITESIDES,	; JAMES TRIMBLE,	| WASHINGTON L. HANNUM, > Committee. ALFRED BALCH,	| WILLIAM CARROLL,	j [NOTE.—The documents referred to in the message were returned to the War Department after the ratification of the treaty and convention, and are not now to be found.] CONGRESS.] 
