No. 23. [1st Session. NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, JANUARY 11, 1792. Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House of Representatives: I lay before you, in confidence, two reports made to me by the Secretary for the Department of War, relatively to the present state of affairs on the Western frontiers of the United States. In these reports the causes of the present war with the Indians: the measures taken by the Executive to terminate it amicably; and the military preparations for the late campaign, are stated and explained; and also a plan suggested of such further measures on the occasion as appear just and expedient. 1 am persuaded, gentlemen, that you will take this important subject into your immediate and serious consideration. and that the result of your deliberations will be the adoption of such wise and efficient measures as will reflect honor on our national councils, and promote the welfare of our country. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, January 11 tk, 1792. W ar Department, 2G//t December, 1791. Sir: 1 have the honor to submit to your consideration, two reports, relatively to the Western frontiers of the United States. The report A is accompanied by official documents, and is intended to exjiibit the measures taken by the Executive to induce the hostile Indians to peace, without the necessity of using force against them : and also the measures of the Executive relative to the objects and preparations of the campaign ot 1791. and in some degree an explanation of the causes of its failure. The report B contains a general, but summary review of the conduct of the United States towards the Indians northwest of the Ohio, since our separation from Great Britain. And it also contains an opinion, delivered with great diffidence, of such further measures as the nature of the case, and the public interests, seem to require. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, sir, your most obedient humble servant, H. KNOX, Secretary of IVar. The President of the United States. A. J1 summary statement of facts, relatively to the measures taken, in behalf of th e United States, to induce the hostile Indians, northwest of the Ohio, to peace, previously to the exercise of coercion against them; and also a statement of the arrangements for the campaign of 1791. That the measures of the Executive of the United States, relatively to Indian affairs, since the operation of the General Government, have been calculated to produce a peace with all the Indian tribes, upon the terms of justice and humanity, may be evinced by having recourse to the records of the Indian department. That, as the former proceedings have generally been laid before (lie Legislature, the present statement commences with the close of the campaign of the year 1790. That the Cornplanter, a war-captain of the Senecas, and other Indians of the same tribe, being in Philadelphia, December, 1790, measures were taken to impress them with the moderation of the United States, as it respected the war with the Western Indians; that the coercive .measures against them had been the consequence of their refusal to listen to the invitations of peace, and a continuance of their depredations on the frontiers. That, at the same time, the Senecas were warned to restrain their young men from taking part with the hostile Indians; upon which point, assurances were made by the Cornplanter, that he, and the Indians under his influence, would not only be friends to the United States, but that they would endeavor to prevent the further hostilities of the Western Indians. Arrangements were accordingly made, that the Cornplanter, with other friendly Indians, should proceed to the Western tribes, and endeavor to influence them to peace. That, in addition to this measure, Colonel Thomas Procter, on the 10th of March, was sent to the Cornplanter to hasten his departure, to accompany him to the Miami villages; and messages were sent to the Indians, declaratory of the sentiments of the United States towards them. That both the Cornplanter and Colonel Procter met with difficulties, in the due execution of their orders, which were insurmountable. That further measures .were taken, in the month of April, to draw the Six Nations to a conference, at a distance from the theatre of war, in order, not only to prevent their joining therein, but, also, if necessary, to obtain some of their young men to join our army, in case of hostilities being inevitable. That the said conference was accordingly held at the Painted Post, in the month of June, by Colonel Pickering. That, besides these, measures were taken for holding a treaty with the Cherokees,1 which was concluded on the second of July; and also other pacific measures were pursued with the Chickasaws and Creeks. That Major General St. Clair was instructed, in addition to the measures immediately taken by the Executive, to devise and execute further expedients to endeavor to quiet the hostile Indians, without a further effusion of blood. That he accordingly forwarded messages to the Delawares and Wyandots, and through them, to the hostile Indians, expressive of the pacific and humane dispositions of the United States towards them. That he also endeavored to tranquillize the Wyandots and Delawares, relative to some of their members having been killed in March, who had been trading at a block-house at Big Beaver creek. That, although the Governor of Pennsylvania, at the request of the Secretary of War, issued his proclamation to bring the offenders to justice, yet it does not appear to have been done. That the preparations of the campaign commenced while the subject was under the consideration of Congress. That two thousand arms and accoutrements, and a proportional quantity of ammunition, were transported to fort Pitt, during the months of February, March and April. That eight pieces of artillery, and stores, were also arranged, repaired, and transported to fort Pitt. That the corps of two thousand levies, authorized by the act of Congress of the Sd of March, were organized into two regiments., each of three battalions; that one battalion was raised in New Jersey, two in Pennsylvania, one in Maryland, one in Virginia, and one in the territory of the United States, south of the Ohio; the latter being intended to be armed entirely with rifles. That each battalion consisted of four companies, and each company of eighty-three non-commissioned officers and privates, amounting, in all, to the number of one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two. That of the levies, tlicre were raised and marched, from their respective rendezvous, during the months of April, May, June, and the beginning of July, one thousand six hundred and seventy-four non-commissioned and privates. That of the first and second regiments of the more permanent troops of the United States, there were recruited, and inarched to the frontiers, during the months of April, May, June, and the beginning of July, seven hundred and eighteen; and of the battalion of artillery, forty-five, making, in the whole, seven hundred and sixty-three noncommissioned and privates. That the total of the regulars and levies, who actually marched from their respective rendezvous, appear to have been two thousand four hundred and thirty-seven; and to which is to be added, two hundred and sixty-two of the first regiment and artillery, previously at tort Washington, which will make the whole to amount to two thousand six hundred and ninety-nine, non-commissioned and privates. That, of these, there appear to have been at fort Washington, and different parts of the Ohio, in the month of September last, as per abstract of musters, two thousand five hundred and eighty-seven privates. That the continental troops, consisting of regulars and levies, artillery, and cavalry, for the expedition, as appears by Major General St. Clair’s letter of 6th of October, amount to about two thousand. That, besides the aforesaid number of two thousand six hundred and ninety-nine troops on the Ohio, there have been enlisted and marched, of the second regiment, three hundred and seventy-three non-commissioned and privates, of whom two companies, consisting of one hundred and fifty-six, have been at fort Pitt until lately, wnen they descended the Ohio to Fort Washington. Another company, of fifty-nine, have been detached to Georgia, which, with the troops already there, and a company recruited in South-Carolina, which is also-Ordered there, will amount to five hundred and ninety-two non-commissioned and privates; besides which, there is a small detachment at West Point, of seventeen men. That thus it will appear, that, of thetroops authorized by the acts of Congress, amounting*to four thousand one hundred and twenty-eight non-commissioneu and privates, only the number of three thousand three hundred and eight, are, and have been raised _ , That the deficiency, of eight hundred and twenty, have not been enlisted, appears to'Jmve been in consequence of the low pay, and perhaps the nature of the service. That, previously to the enlistment of the levies, to-wit: on the tenth day of March, in consequence of irruptions of the Indians on the frontiers, the county lieutenants of the frontiers, lying along the Ohio, and in the southwestern parts of Virginia, and in the territory of the United States south of the Ohio, were empowered to call forth the militia for the defensive protection of said counties, respectively. ■ That this measure was dictated by the necessity of the case, and under the laws authorizing the President of the United States for the purpose. That, besides this species of defensive protection afforded the frontiers, during the preparing the army for a forward movement, two desultory operations were directed, at the expense of the Unitea States, from the district of Kentucky, and both of which succeeded in a considerable degree. These expeditions w ere intended as well to prevent the Indians from spreading themselves on the frontiers, by calling their attention to their own safety, as. to shew our power to chastise them. _ 'That Major General St. Clair, besides his troops of regulars and levies, had authority to call for militia from Kentucky, to supply any deficiences of new levies, and that such militia should be of such species as he should judge proper. That the said Major General St. Clair called for one thousand one hundred and fifty militia, but of these, only the number of four hundred and eighteen joined him, as appears by the abstract of the musters; but, by his letter of the first of November, there appears sixty to have joined him on the march, and about as many deserted. That the detention of his troops in the upper parts of the Ohio, and afterwards the lowness of the waters in that river, were considered by him as truly unfortunate circumstances. That the instructions of Major General St. Clair contain the plan of the campaign. That the said instructions, and the other papers on which this statement is formed, whether relative to the Indian department, or the preparations for the campaign, are hereunto annexed. All which is humbly submitted to the President of the United States. H. KNOX, Secretary of JVar. War Department, December 5.6th, 1791. The speech of the Complanler, Half-Toiun, and the Great-Tree, Chiefs and Councillors of the Seneca nation, to the Creat Councillor of the Thirteen Fires. Father: The voice of the Seneca nation speaks to you, the great councillor, in whose heart the wise men of all the Thirteen Fires have placed their wisdom. It may be very small in your ears, and we therefore entreat you to hearken with attention: for we are about to speak of things which are to us very great. When your army entered the country of the Six Nations, we called you the town destroyer; and to this day, when that name is heard, our women look behind them and turn pale, and our children cling close to the necks of their mothers. Our councillors and warriors are men, and cannot be afraid; but their hearts are grieved with the fears of our women and children, and desire it may be buried so deep as to be heard no more. ■ When you gave us peace, we called you father, because you promised to secure us in the possession of our lands. Do this, and, so long as the lands shall remain, that beloved name will live in the heart of every Seneca. Father: We mean to open our hearts before you, and we earnestly desire that you w ill let us clearly understand what you resolve to do. When our chiefs returned from the treaty at fort Stanwix, and laid before our council w hat had been done there, our nation was surprised to hear how great a country you had compelled them to give up to you, without your paying to us any thing for it. Every one said that your hearts were yet swelled with resentment against us for what had happened during the war, but that one day you would reconsider it with more kindness. We asked each other. What have we done to deserve such severe chastisement? 'Father: When you kindled your thirteen fires separately, the wise men that assembled at them told us, that you were all brothers, the children of one great father, who regarded, also, the red peopleas his children. They called us brothers, and invited us to his protection; they told us that he resided beyond the great water, where the sun first rises; that he was a king whose power no people could resist, and that his goodness was bright as tliat sun. What they said went to our hearts; we accepted the invitation, and promised to obey him. What the Seneca nation promise, they faithfully perform; and when you refused obedience to that king, he commanded us to assist his beloved men in making you sober. In obeying him, we did no more than yourselves had led us to promise. The men who claimed this promise told us that you were children, and had no guns; that when they had shaken you, you would submit. We hearkened to them, and were deceived, until your army .approached our towns'. We were deceived; but your people, in teaching us to confide in that king,had helped to deceive, and we now appeal to your heart—Is the blame all ours? Father : When we saw that we were deceived, and heard the invitation which you gave us to draw near to the fire which you kindled, and talk with you concerning peace, we made haste towards it. You then told us that we were in your hand, and that, by closing it, you could crush us to nothing, and you demanded from us a great country, as the price of that peace which you had offered us; as if our want of strength had destroyed our rights; our chiefs had felt your power, and were unable to contend against you, and they therefore gave up that country. What they agreed to, has bound our nation; but your anger against us must, by this time,he cooled; and, although our strength has not increased, nor your power become less, jwe ask you to consider calmly, Were the terms dictated to us by your commissioners reasonable and just? * _ Father: Your commissioners, when they drew the line which separated the land then given up to you from that which you agreed should remain to be ours, did most solemnly promise, that we should be secured in the peaceable possession ot the lands which we inhabited east and north of that line. Does this promise bind you? Hear now, we beseech you, what has since happened concerning (hat land. On the day in which we iinished the treaty at fort Stanw ix, commissioners from Pennsylvania told our diiefs that they had come there to purchase from us all the lands belonging to us, within the lines of their State, and they told us that their line would strike the river Susquehannah below Tioga branch. They then left us to consider of the bargain till the next day; on the next day we let them know that we were unwilling to.sell all the lands w ithin their State, and proposed to let them have a part of it, which we pointed out to them in their map. They told us that they must have the whole; that it was already ceded to them by the great king, at the time of making peace with you, and was their own: but they said that they would not take advantage of that, and were willing to pay us for it, after the manner of their ancestors. Our chiefs were unable to contend, at that time, and therefore they sold the lands up to the line, which was then shewn to them as the line of that State. What the commissioners had said about the land having been ceded to them at the peace, our chiefs considered as intended only to lessen the price, and they passed it by with very little notice; but, since that, time, we have heard so much from others about the right to our lands, which the king gave when you made peace with him, that it is our earnest desire that you will tell us what it means. Father: Our nation empowered John Livingston to let out part of our lands on rent, to be paid to us. lie told us, that he was sent by Congress, to do this for us, and we fear he has deceived us in the. writing he obtained from us. For, since the time of our giving that pow er, a man of the name of Phelps has come among us, and claimed out-whole country northward of the line of Pennsylvania, under purchase from that Livingston, to whom, he said, he had paid twenty thousand dollars for it. He said, also, that he had bought, likew ise, from the council of the Thirteen Fires, and paid them twenty thousand dollars more for the same. And lie said, also, that it did not belong to us, for that the great king had ceded the whole of it, when you made peace with him. Thus lie claimed the whole country north of Pennsylvania, and west of the lands belonging to the Cayugas. He demanded it; he insisted on his demand, and declared that he would have it alt. It was impossible for us to grant him this, and we immediately refused it. After some days, he proposed to run a line, at a small distance eastward of our western boundary, which we also refused to agree to. He then threatened us with immediate war, if we did not comply. Upon this threat, our chiefs held a council, and they agreed that no event of war could be worse than to be driven, with their wives and children, from the only country which we had any right to. and, therefore, weak as our nation was, they determined to take the chance of war, rather than to submit to such unjust demands, which seemed to have no bounds. Street, the great trader to Niagara, was then w'itli us, having come at the request of Phelps, and as he always professed to be our great friend, we consulted him upon this subject. He also told us, that our lands had been ceded by the king, and that we must give them up. Astonished at w hat we heard from every quarter, with hearts itching with compassion for our women and children, we wTere thus compelled to give up all our country north of the line of Pennsylvania and east of the Genesee river, up to the fork, and east of a south line drawn from that fork to the Pennsylvania line. For this land, Phelps agreed to pay us ten thousand dollars in hand, and one thousand a year for ever. He paid us two thousand and five hundred dollars in hand, part of the ten thousand, and he sent for us to come last spring, to receive our money; but instead of paying us the remainder of the ten thousand dollars, and the one thousand dollars due for the first year, he offered us no inure than five hundred dollars, and insisted that he agreed with us for that sum, to be paid yearly. We debated with him for six days, during all which time he persisted in refusing to pay us our just demand, and lie insisted that we should receive the live hundred dollars; and Street, from Niagara, also insisted on our receiving the money, as it was offered to us. The last reason he assigned for continuing to refuse paying us, was, that the Icing- had ceded the lands to the Thirteen Tires, and that he had bought them from you, and paid you for them. We could bear this confusion no longer, and determined to press through every difficulty, and lift up our voice that you might hear us, and to claim that security in the possession of our lamb, which your commissioners so solemnly promised us. And we now entreat you to inquire into our complaints and redress our wrongs. Father: Our writings were lodged in the hands of Street, of Niagara, as we supposed him to be our friend; but when we saw Phelps consulting with Street, on every occasion, we doubted of his honesty; towards us, and we have since heard, that he was to receive for his endeavors to deceive us. a piece of land ten miles in width, west of the Genesee river, and near forty milesin length, extending to Lake Ontario: and the'Jines of this tract have been run accordingly, although no part of it is within the bounds which limit his purchase. No doubt lie meant to deceive us. Father: You have'saul that we are in your hand, and that, by closing it. you could crush us to nothing. Are you determined to crush us? If you are, tell us so, that those of our nation who have become your children, and liave determined to die so, may know what to do. In this case, one chief has said be would ask you'to put him out of pain. Another, who will not think of dying by the hand of his father or of his brother, lias said he will retire to the Chateaugay, eat of the fatal root, and sleep with his fathers, in peace.'Before you determine on a measure so unjust, look up to God, who made us as well as you. We hope lie will not permit you to destroy the whole of our nation. Father: Hear our case; many nations inhabited this country; but they had no wisdom, and, therefore, they warred together. The Six Nations were powerful, and compelled them to peace; the lands, for a great extent, were given up to them; but the nations which were not destroyed, all continued on those lands, and claimed the protection of the Six Nations, as the brothers of their fathers. They w ere men, and when at peace, they had a right to live upon the earth. The French came among us, and built Niagara; they became our fathers, and took care of us. Sir William Johnston came and took that fort from the French; he became our lather, and promised to takecare of us, and did so, until you were too strong for his king. To him we gave four miles round Niagara, as a place of trade. We have already said, how we came to join against you: we saw that we were wrong; we wished for peace; you demanded a great country to be given up to you; it was surrendered to you, as the price of peace, and we ought to have peace and possession of the little land which you then left us. Father: When that great country was given up, there were but few chiefs present, and they were compelled to give it up, and it is not the Six Nations only that reproach those chiefs with having given up that country. The Chippewas,and all the nations who lived on those lands westward, call to us, and ask us, Brothers of our fathers, where is the place you have reseiwed for us to lie down upon? Father: You have compelled us to do that which has made us ashamed. We have nothing to answer to the children of the brothers of our fathers. When, last spring, they called upon us to go to war, to secure them a bed to lie upon, the Senecas'entreated them to be. quiet, till we had spoken to you. But, on our way dow n, we heard that your army had gone toward the country which those nations inhabit, and if they meet together, the best blood on both sides will stain the ground. Father: We will not conceal from you, that the great God, and not men, has preserved the Cornplanter from the hands of his own nation. For they ask, continually, Where is the land which our children, and their children after them, are to lie down upon? You told us, say they, that the line drawn from Pennsylvania to lake Ontario, would mark it forever on the east,'and the line running from Beaver creek to Pennsylvania, would mark it on the west, and we see that it is not so. For, first one, and then another, come, and take it away, by order of that people which you tell us promised to secure it to us. He is silent, for he has nothing to answer. When the sun goes down, he opens his heart before God, and earlier than that sun appears again upon the hills, lie gives thanks for his protection during the night: for he feels that, among men, become desperate by their danger, it is God only that can preserve nim. He loves peace, and all he had in store, lie has given to those who have been robbed by your people, lest they should plunder the innocent to repay themselves. 1'he whole season which others have employed in providing lor their families, he has spent in his endeavors to presen e peace; and, at this moment, his wife and children are lying on the ground, and in want of food; his heart is in pain for them, but he perceives that the great God will try his firmness, in doing what is right. Father: The game which the Great Spirit sent into our country for us to eat, is going from among us. We thought he intended that we should till the ground with the plough, as the white people do, and we talked to one another 19 * about it. But before we. speak to you concerning this, we must know from you whether you mean to leave us and our children any land to till. Speak plainly to us concerning this great business. All the lands we have been speaking of belonged to the Six Nations; no part of it ever belonged to the King of England, and he could not give it to you. The land we live on, our fathers received from God, and they transmitted it to us, for our children, and we cannot part with it. Father: We told you that we would open our hearts to you. Hear-us once more. At fort Stanwix, we agreed to deliver up those of our people who should do you any wrong, that you might try them, and punish them according to your law. We delivered up two men accordingly, but instead of trying them according to your law, the lowest of your people took them from your magistrate, and put them immediately to death, ft is just to punish murder with death; but the Senecas will not deliver up their people to men vvho disregard the treaties of their own nation. _ _ Father: Innocent men of our nation are killed one after another, and of our best families; but none of your people who have committed the murder have been punished. We recollect that you did not promise to punish those who killed our people, and we now ask, was it intended that your people should kill the Senecas, and not only remain unpunished by you, but be protected by you against the revenge of the next of kin? Father: These are to us very great tilings. We know that you are very strong, and we have heard that you are wise, and we wait to hear your answer to what we have said, that we may know that you are just. Signed at Philadelphia, the first day of December, 1790. CORNPLANTF.R, his x mark. HALF-TOWN, his x mark. GREAT-TREE, his x mark. Present at signing, Joseph Nicholson, Interpreter. T’v. Matlack. The reply of the President of the United Slates to the speech of the Gornplanter, Half-'Town, and Great-Tree, Chiefs and Councillors of the Seneca nation of Indians. I, the President of the United States, by my own mouth, and by a written speech, signed with my own hand, and sealed with the seal of the United States, speak to the Seneca nation, and desire their attention, and that they would keep this speech in remembrance of the iriendship of the United States. I have received your speech with satisfaction, as a proof of your confidence in the justice of the United States, and I have attentively examined the several objects which you have laid before me, whether delivered by your own chiefs at Tioga Point, in the last month, to Colonel Pickering, or laid before me in the present month, by the Corn-planter, and the other Seneca chiefs now in this city. In the first place, I observe to you, and request it may sink deeply into your minds, that it is my desire, and the desire of the United States, that all the miseries of the late war should be forgotten, and buried forever. That, in future, the United States and the Six Nations should be truly brothers, promoting each other’s prosperity by’ acts of mutual friendship and justice. I am not uninformed, that the Six Nations have been led into some difficulties,'with respect to the sale of their lands, since the peace. But I must inform you that these evils arose before the present Government of the United States was established, when the separate States, and individuals under their authority, undertook to treat with the Indian tribes respecting the sale of their lands. But the case is now entirely altered; the General Government, only, has the power to treat with the Indian nations, and any treaty formed, and held without its authority, will not be binding. Here, then, is the security for the remainder of your lands. No State, nor person, can purchase your lands, unless at some public treaty, held under the authority of the United States. The General Government will never consent to your being defrauded, but it will protect you in all your just rights. * Hear well, and let it be heard by every person in your nation, that the President of the United States declares, that the General Government considers itself bound to protect you in all the lands secured to you by the treaty of fort Stanwix, the 22d of October, 1784, excepting such parts as you may since have fairly sold, to persons properly authorized to purchase of you. You complain that John Livingston and Oliver Phelps, assisted by Mr. Street, of Niagara, have obtained your lands, and that they have not complied with their agreement. It appears, upon inquiry of the Governor of New York, that John Livingston was not legally authorized to treat with you, and that every thing that he did with you has been declared null and void, so that you may rest easy on that account. But it does not appear, from any proofs yet in possession of Government, that Oliver Phelps has defrauded you. If, however, you have any just cause of complaint against him, and ean make satisfactory proof thereof, the federal courts will be open to you for redress, as to all other persons. But your great object seems to be, the security of your remaining lands; and I have, therefore, upon this point, meant to be sufficiently strong and clear, that, in future, you cannot be defrauded of your lands; that you possess the right to sell, and the right of refusing to sell, your lands; that, therefore, the sale of your lauds, in future, will depend entirely upon yourselves. But that, when you may find it for your interest to sell any part of your lands, the United States must be present, by their agent, and will be your security that you shall not be defrauded in the bargain you may make. It will, however, be important, that, before you make any further sales of your lands, you should determine among yourselves'who are the persons among you, that shall give such conveyances thereof as shall be binding upon your nation, and forever prevent all disputes relative to the validity of the sale. That, besides the before mentioned security for your land, you wil I perceive, by the law of Congress for regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, the fatherly care the United States intend to take of the Indians. For the particular meaning of this law, I refer you to the explanations given thereof by Colonel Timothy Pickering, at Tioga, which, with the law, are herewith delivered to you. You have said in your speech that the game is going away from among you, and that you thought, it the design of the Great Spirit, that you should till the ground; but before you speak upon this subject, you want to know whether the Union mean to leave you any land to till. You now know, that all the lands secured to you, by the treaty of fort Stanwix, excepting such parts as you may since have fairly sold, are yours, and that only your own acts can convey them away. Speak, therefore, your wishes, on the subject of tilling the ground. The United States will be happy in affording you every assistance, in the only business which will add to your numbers and happiness. The murders that have been committed upon some of your people, by the bad white men, I sincerely lament and reprobate; and I earnestly hope, that the real murderers will be secured, and punished as they deserve. This business has been sufficiently explained to you here, by the Governor of Pennsylvania, and by Colonel Pickering, on behalf of the United States, at Tioga. The Senecas may be assured, that the rewards offered for apprehending the murderers, will be continued, until they are secured for trial; and that, when they shall be apprehended, they will be tried and punished as if they had killed white men. Having answered the most material parts of your speech, I shall inform you that some bad Indians, and the outcasts of several tribes, who reside at the Miami village, have long continued their murders and depredations upon the frontiers lying along the Ohio. That they have not only refused to listen to my voice, inviting them to peace, but that, upon receiving it, they renewed their incursions and murders, with greater violence than ever. I have, therefore, been obliged to strike those bad people, in order to make them sensible of their madness. I sincerely hope they will hearken to reason, and not require to be farther chastised. The United States desire to be the friends of the Indians, upon terms of justice and humanity; but they will not suffer the depredations of the bad Indians to go unpunished. My desire is, that you would caution all the Senecas, and Six Nations, to prevent their rash young men from joining the Maumee Indians: for the United States cannot distinguish the tribes to which bad Indians belong, and every tribe must take care of their own people. The merits of the Cornplanter, and his friendship for the United States, are well known to me, and shall not be forgotten; and,' as a mark of the esteem of the United States, 1 have directed the Secretary of War to make him a present of-dollars, either in money or goods, as the Cornplanter shall like best; and lie may depend upon the future care and kindness of the United States; and I have also directed the Secretary of War to make suitable presents to the other chiefs in Philadelphia; and also, that some further tokens of friendship be forwarded to the other chiefs, now in their nation. Remember my words, Senecas! Continue to be strong in your friendship for the United States, as the only rational ground of your future happiness, and you may rely upon their kindness and protection. An agent shall soon be appointed to reside in some place convenient to the Senecas and Six Nations. lie will represent the United States. Apply to him on all occasions. If any man bring you evil reports of the intentions of the United States, mark that man as your enemy: for he will mean to deceive you, and lead you into trouble. The United States will be true and faithful to their engagements. Given under my hand, and the seal of the United States, at Philadelphia, this twenty-ninth day of [l. s. ] December, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety, and in the fifteenth vear of the sovereignty and independence of the United States. GEO. WASHINGTON. By the President: Th: Jefferson. By command of the President of the United States of America: II. KNOX, Secretary for the Department of liar. The speech of the Cornplanter, Half-Town, and the Great-Tree, Chiefs of the Seneca nation, to the President of the United States of America. Father: Your speech, written on the great paper, is to us like the first light of the morning to a sick man, whose pulse beats too strongly in his temples, and prevents him from sleep. He sees it, and rejoices, but he is not cured. You say that you have spoken plainly on the great point. That you will protect us in the lands secured to us at fort Stanwix, and that we have the right to sell or to refuse to sell it. This is very good. But our nation complain that you compelled ns at that treaty to give up too much of our lands. We confess that our nation is bound by what was there done; and, acknowledging your power, we have now appealed to yourselves against that treaty, as made while you were too angry at us, and, therefore, unreasonable and unjust. To this you have given us no answer. Father: That treaty was not made with a single State., it was with the thirteen States. We never would have given all that land to one State. We know it was before you had the great authority, and as you have more wisdom than the commissioners, who forced us into that treaty, we expect that you have also more regard to justice, and will now, at our request, reconsider that treaty, and restore to us a part of that land. Father: The land which lies between the line running south from lake Erie to the boundary of Pennsylvania, as mentioned at the treaty at fort Stanwix, and the eastern boundary of the land which you sold, and the Senecas confirmed to Pennsylvania, is the land on which Half-Town and all his people live, with other chiefs, who always have been, and still are, dissatisfied with the treaty at fort Stanwix. They grew out of this land, and their fathers’ fathers grew out of it, and they cannot be persuaded to part with it. We therefore entreat you to restore to us this little piece. Father: Look at the land which we gave to you at that treaty,and then turn your eyes upon what we now ask you to restore to us, and you will see that what we ask you to return is a very little piece. By giving it back again, you will satisfy the whole of our nation. The chiefs who signed that treaty will be in safety, and peace between your children and our children will continue so long as your land shall join to ours. Every man of our nation will then turn his eyes away from all the other lands which we then gave up to you, and forget that our fathers ever said that they belonged to them. Father: We see that you ought to have the path at the carrying place from lake Erie to Niagara, as it was marked down at fort Stanwix, aval we are all willing it should remain to be yours. And if you desire to reserve a passage through the Conewango, and through the Chataugue lake and land, for a path from that lake to lake Erie, take it where you best like. Gur nation will rejoice to see it an open path for you and your children while the land ana water remain. But let us also pass along the same way, and continue to take the "fish of those waters in common with you. Father: You say that you will appoint an agent to take care of us. Let him come and take care of our trade; but we desire he may not have any tiling to do with our lands: for the agents which have come amongst us, and pretended to take care of us, have always deceived us whenever we sold lands; both when the King of England and when the States have bargained with us. They have by this means occasioned many wars, and we are therefore unwilling to trust them again. Father: "When we return home, we will call a great council, and consider well how lands may be hereafter sold by our nation. And when we have agreed upon it, we will send you notice of it. But we desire that you will not depend on your agent for information concerning kind: for. after the abuses which we have suffered by such men, we will not trust them with any thing which relates to land. Father: \Ve will not hear lies concerning you, and we desire that you will not hear lies concerning us, and then we shall certainly live at peace with you. Father: There are men who go from town to town and beget children, and leave them to perish, or, except better men take care of them, to grow up without instruction. Our nation has looked round for a father, but they found none that would own them tor children, until you now tell us that your courts are open to us as to your own people. The joy which we feel at this great news, so mixes with the sorrows that are passed, that we cannot express our gladness, nor conceal’the remembrance of our afflictions. \Ye will speak of them at another time. Father: We are ashamed that we have listened to the lies of Livingston, or been influenced by threats of war by Phelps, and would hide that whole transaction from the world, and from ourselves, by quietly receiving what Phelps promised to give us for the lands they cheated us of. But as Phelps will not pay us even according to that fraudulent bargain, we will lav the whole proceedings before your court. When the evidence which we can produce is heard, we think it will appear that the whole bargain was founded on lies, which he placed one upon another; that, the goods which lie charges to us as part payment were plundered from us; that, if Phelps was not directly concerned in the theft, he knew of it at the time, and concealed it from us; and that the persons we confided in were bribed by him to deceive us in the bargain. And if these facts appear, that your court will not say that such bargains are just, but will set the whole aside. Father: We apprehend that our evidence might be called for, as Phelps was here, and knew what we have said concerning him; and as Ebenezer Allen knew something of the matter, we desired him to continue here. Nicholson, the interpreter, is very sick, and we request that Allen may remain a few days longer, as he speaks our language. Father: The blood which was spilled near Pine creek is covered, and we shall never look w here it lies. We know that Pennsylvania will satisfy us for that which we spoke of to them before we spoke to you. The chain of friendship will now, we hope, be made strong as you desire it to be. We will hold it last; and our end of it shall never rust in our hands. Father: We told you what advice we gave the people you are now at war with, arid we now tell you that they have promised to come again to our towns next spring. We shall not wait for their coming, but will set out very early, and shew to them what you have done for us, which must convince them that you will do for them every thing which they ought to ask. We think they will hear and follow our advice. Father: You give us leave to speak our minds concerning the tilling of the ground. We ask you to teach us to plough and to grind corn; to assist us in building saw mills, and to supply us with broad axes, saws, augers, and other tools, so as that we may make our houses more comfortable and more durable; that you will send smiths among us, and, above all, that you will teach our children to read and write, and our women to spin and to.weave. The manner of your doing these things for us we leave to you, who understand them; but we assure you that we will follow your advice as far as we arc able. CORNPLANTER, his x mark. ' HALF-TOWN, his x mark. Present at signing, Joseph Nicholson, Interpreter. GREAT-TREE, his x mark. Ty. jVlatlack. , , John Dechart, his x mark. Jem Hudson, his x mark. Philadelphia, 10lh January, 1791. The speech of the President of the Brothers: United States to the Cornplanter, Half-Town, and Big-Tree, chiefs of the Seneca nation of Indians. 1 have maturely considered your second written speech. You say your nation complain that, at the treaty of fort Stanwix, you were compelled to give up too much of your lauds; that you confess your nation is bound by what was there done, and acknowledging the power of the United States; that you have now appealed to ourselves against that treaty, as made while we were angry against you, and that the said treaty was, therefore, unreasonable and unjust. But, while you complain of the treaty of fort Stanwix, in 1784, you seem entirely to forget that you, yourselves, the Cornplanter, Half-Town, and Great-Tree, with others of your nation, confirmed, by the treaty of fort Harmar, upon the Muskingum, so late as the ninth of January, 1789, the boundary marked at the treaty of fort Stanwix, and that, in consideration thereof, you then received goods to a considerable amount. Although it is my sincere desire, in looking forward, to endeavor to promote your happiness, by all just and humane arrangements, yet.I cannot disannul treaties formed by the United States, before my administration, especially, as the boundaries mentioned therein have been twice confirmed by yourselves. The lines fixed at fort Stanwix and fort Harmar, must, therefore, remain established. But Half-Town, and the others, who reside on the land you desire maybe relinquished, have not been disturbed in their possession, and I should hope, while he and they continue to demean themselves peaceably, and to manifest their friendly dispositions to the people of the United States, that they will be suffered to remain where they are. The agent who will be appointed by the United States, will be your friend and protector. He will not be suffered to defraud you, or to assist in defrauding you of your lands, or of any other thing, as all his proceedings must be reported in writing, so as to be submitted to the President of the United States. You mention your design of going to the Miami Indians, to endeavor to persuade them to peace. By this humane measure you will render those mistaken people a great service, and, probably, prevent them from being swept from off the face of the earth. The United States require, only, that those people should demean themselves peaceably; but they may be assured, that the United States are able, and will, most certainly punish them severely for all their robberies and murders. You may, when you return from this city to your own country, mention to your nation my desire to promote their prosperity, by teaching them the use of domestic animals, and the manner that the white people plough, and raise so much corn. And if, upon consideration, it would be agreeable to the nation at large to learn these valuable arts, I will find some means of teaching them, at such places within your country as shall be agreed upon. . I have nothing more to add, but to refer you to my former speech, and to repeat my wishes for the happiness of the Seneca nation. Given under my hand, and seal of the .United States, at Philadelphia, this nineteenth day of January, [l. s.l . one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one. GEO. WASHINGTON. The speech of Cornplanter, Half-Town, and the Big-Tree, Seneca Chiefs, to the Great Thirteen Fires. 'Father: Councillor of the No Seneca ever goes from the fire of his friend, until he has said to him, “ I am going/’ We therefore tell you. that we are now setting out for our own country. , Father: We thank you, from our hearts, that we now know there is a country we may call our own, and on which we may lie down in peace. We see that there will be peace between your children and our children; and our hearts are very glad. We will persuade the Wyandots, and other Western nations, to open their eyes, and look towards the bed which you have made for us, and to ask of you a bed for themselves, and their children, that will not slide from under them. We thank you for your presents to us, and rely on your promise to instruct us in raising corn, as the white people do; the sooner you do this, the better for us. And we thank you for the care you have taken to prevent bad men from coming to trade among us: if any come without your license, we will turn them back; and we hope our nation will determine to spill all the rum which shall, hereafter, be brought to our towns. Father: We are glad to hear that you determine to appoint an agent that will do us justice, in taking care that bad men do not come to trade amongst us; but we earnestly intreat you that you will let us have an interpreter in whom we can confide, to reside at Pittsburgh: to that place our people, and other nations, will long continue to resort; there we must send what news we hear, when we go among the Western nations, which, we are determined, shall be early in the spring. We know Joseph Nicholson, and fie speaks our language so that we clearly understand what you say to us, and we rely on what he says. If we were able to pay him for his services, we would do it; but, wfien we meant to pay him, by giving him land, it has not been confirmed to him; and he will not serveus any longer unless you will pay him. Let him stand between, to intreat you. Father: You liave not asked any security for peace on our part, but we have agreed to send nine Seneca boys, to be under your care for education. Tell us at wnattime you will receive them, and they shall be sent at the time you shall appoint. This will assure you that we are, indeed, at peace with you, and determined to continue so. It you can teach them to become wise and good men, %ve will take care that our nation shall be willing to receive instruction from them. CORNPLANTER, his mark. HALF-TOWN, his * mark. Signed at Philadelphia, 7th February, 1791, in presence of BIG-TREE, his y, mark. Joseph Nicholson, Interpreter, Thomas Procter, Ty. Matlack. The speeeh of the Secretary of JTar to the Cornplanter, Half-Town. and Big-Tree, chiefs of the Seneca nation of Indians. The subscriber, the Secretary of War. lias submitted your speech, of yesterday.' to the President of the Ltiited States, who has commanded him to assure you of his good wishes for your happiness, and that you may have a pleasant journey to your own country. The Governor of the Western territory will appoint you an interpteter whenever one shall be necessary. The President of the United States does not choose to interfere on this point. The President of the United States thinks it will be the best mode of teaching you how to raise corn, by sending one or two sober men to reside in your nation, with proper implements of husbandry. It will, therefore, be proper that you should, upon consultation, appoint a proper place for such persons to till the ground. They are not to claim the land on which they shall plough. The President of the United States, also, thinks it will be the best mode of teaching your children to read and write, to send a schoolmaster among you. and not for you to send your children among us. He will, therefore, look out for a proper person for this business. As soon as you shall Jlearn any thing of the intentions of the Western Indians, you will inform the Governor of the Western territory thereof, or the officer commanding at fort Washington, in order to be communicated to the President of the United States. Given at the War Office of the United States, this eighth day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one. H. KNOX. Secretary of War. Message from the Cornplanter, Xcic-elrroic. Ilalf-Toirn, and Big-Tree, chiefs of the Seneca nation of Indians, to the President of the United States. Pittsburg. March 17. 1791. Sir: When we raised from the great council of the Thirteen Fires, we mentioned that v.e meant to have a council with the chiefs of the bad, angrv Indians. Through the whole Quaker State, as we came up the road, we were treated well, and they took good care of us until we came here. One misfortune happened only, that one ot our wagons is not yet arrived here, the one we first engaged, with the goods you presented to us. Father: Your promise to us was. that you would keep all your people i[uiet: but, since we came here, we find that some of our people have been killed—the good honest people who were here trading. Father: We hope you will not suffer all the good people to be killed: but your people are killing them as last as they can. Three men and one woman have been killed at Big Beaver creek, and they were good people, and some of the white people will testify the truth of this. When we heard the news, we found one boy bad made his escape, and got to the trader’s house, who saved his life: we now wait to sec him. Father: We have been informed that twenty-seven men came from another State, and murdered these men in the Quaker State, and took away nine horses, and all the goods they had purchased from the trader. Our father, and ruler over all mankind, now speak and tell us, did you order these men to he killotir Father: Our word is pledged to you that we would endeavor to make peace with all warrior nations. If we cannot do it. do not blame us: you struck the innocent men first. We hope you will not blame us, as your people have first broke good rules: hut, as for our people, they are as friendly and firm as ever. Father: We must now acquaint you with the men’s names who did this murder at Beaver creek: Samuel Brady, formerly a captain in your army, and under your command, also a Balden, were persons concerned in this murder. Father: We can inform you little more, therefore will conclude with asking you how we should have come to the knowledge of this, or how we could have informed you, had it not been for our good friend Joseph Nicholson? Therefore beg you may grant him an appointment as interpreter: for we cannot see now we will do without him. We know of no other man that speaks your language and ours so well as him. CORNPLANTER, his + mark, NEW-ARROW. his + mark. HALF-TOWN, his + mark, BIG-TREE. his T mark. P. S. The boy who made his escape at Beaver creek has arrived at this place, and I have taken him under my protection. Father, your despatches for Detroit have been unavoidably detained, heretofore; hut to-morrow Big-Tree and one other shall set off with them, and will also take the hoy mentioned here, and deliver him to his relations. We part to-day at this place: Big-Tree is going amongst the cross Indians, to see if they will make peace and I go to my own people, to call them to council. CORNPLANTER. Message from the Secretary of War to the Cornplanter, and all the chiefs of the Six Nations of Indians. Brothers: Your message of the seventeenth of the present month has been received, in which you complain that a number of friendly Indians were killed at Big Beaver creek, by Samuel Brady and others, who caine from another State to commit this murder; anil you ask w hether the President of the United States ordered the said men to he killed. In answer to your message, I inform you. that the President of the United States has not, and will not, order any friendly Indians to be killed. That lie did not order the men at Big Beaver to be killed; and that he will he very angry indeed when he shall hear of it. Major General St. Clair, the great warrior of the United States on the Ohio, will inquire into this matter, and will comfort the friends and relations of the persons who were killed, and will make them compensation for the horses and other property that were taken at Big Beaver. Brothers: You may be convinced that the President of the United States will do all in his power to bring the murderers to justice; and that he will consider the crime as bad, exactly, as if it had been committed against so many white people, and will use the same endeavors to bring them to justice. Brothers: Hold fast the chain of friendship between you and the President of the United States. Do not suffer the conduct of bad men to create any coolness or disgust, and all will be well yet. By this time, it is to be hoped that Colonel Procter will have set off for the Miami Indians. Take care of him. and assist him in the good work of peace. Brothers, farewell: may no more accidents arise from the conduct of bad people to interrupt the friendship of the United States and the Six Nations. Given under my hand, and the seal of the "War Office, this twenty-eighth day of March, one thousand [l. s. ] seven hundred and ninety-one. H. KNOX, Secretary of I Tar. Instructions to Colonel Thomas Procter. Sir: Having offered to you the execution of a mission, on the part of the United States, to the Miami and XVabash Indians, and you having accepted of the same, you are to receive these instructions as the rule of your conduct. The great object of your long journey is, to impress the said Miami and Wabash Indians with the candor and justice of the Genera! Government. That the United States require only that they would demean themselves peaceably. That, if they should refuse to listen to this invitation, they only will be liable for the evil which will fall upon and crush them. This invitation is not made in consequence of any principles of fear, but from a desire to pluck them, if possible, out of the fire, which is already enkindled. The message which is herewith delivered you, will show you the sentiments expressed to them, and you; and the Indians who may accompany you, are to say all that may be proper to enforce said sentiments. You have been informed of the measures taken with the Cornplanter, Big-Tree, and Half-Town, and other Senecas, who were in this city lately, to go to the said Miami and Wabash Indians, with messages from their own nation, of similar import with the one with which you are charged. You will, therefore, immediately repair to the Cornplanter’s residence, which is upon a branch of the Alleghany river, near the creek called Oil Creek, and make known to him your intentions, and deliver lfim the speech herewith delivered you for the Senecas, and others of the Six Nations. It is possible he may not be at home, in which case it will be important to despatch, instantly, runners for him; or in ease he should be counselling at Buftido creek, with the other parts of the nation, it may be proper for you to repair thither. You are to endeavor, by all possible means, to induce the Cornplanter, and as many other of the chiefs as possible, to go with you upon your mission to the Miami and Wabash Indians; and you will remember, that it is of the highest importance that you should set off without the least delay. Having obtained, as companions, the chiefs of the Senecas, and others, yon will proceed by land or water, as shall he judged best, to Sandusky, upon lake Erie, where reside the Wyandot and Delaware tribes of Indians. These tribes are our friends, and in treaty with us, which, as far as is known, has been well observed by them. You have also herewith delivered to you, two messages, one to each of the said tribes, written by General St. Clair, who made the treaties with them at Fort Harmar, in Januaryj 1789. You will inform them of the object of your Journey, and desire that they will appoint some of their chiefs to accompany you, agreeably to the general desire in his messages. You will proceed from the Wyandots and Delawares, directly to the Miami town, where you will assemble the Indians together, and speak to them in the style betorementioned. If you succeed in persuading them to accompany you to fort Washington, you will set out immediately with them, sending Captain Houdin, and such chiefs of all the tribes present, as shall be .agreed upon, to the Wea or Ouiatanon towns, on the Wabash, and to the other tribes on that river and its vicinity, in order to persuade them also to repair to a treaty at fort Washington. But, if, after using all your arguments to induce the'Miami Indians to repair to fort Washington, you should fail, you must leave them, anil with the friendly Indians who may accompany you, repair to fort Washington. Let it be strongly impressed upon your mind, that every moment after you set out upon your journey must be most industriously employed: for you must, if within the limits of possibility, be at fort Washington by the 5th of May next, whether you succeed or not. This is of the highest importance, as it is connected with collateral arrangements. The great retardment to be apprehended, will be at the Cornplanter’s residence, or other parts of the Seneca nation; but you will endeavor to render your stay as short as possible. A knowledge of your character induces a confidence, that you Mill execute the high trust reposed in you with all due despatch and address. Your mission requires an acquaintance with human nature, and the art of managing the hopes and fears of an uncivilized race of men. You will be careful not to promise more than is reasonable to the Indians who may accompany you, and all your promises of that sort shall be complied with. Your business with the Miami and Wabash Indians will be to persuade them to repair to fort Washington, where they shall be treated kindly and justly ; but you are not authorized to particularize to them any terms. Considering the nature of the service, it is proper to be explicit as to the terms you are to receive from the public, which are as follows: f st. Your reasonable expenses shall be borne by the public, and upon this point yon will be careful to set down your expenses daily, in order that a judgment may be formed thereon, when your accounts are to be settled. 2d. As a reward for your services, you shall be allowed the sum of five dollars for each day, while you]are actually employed on this business. 3d. If you succeed in bringing the real chiefs of the Miami and the Wabash Indians to a treaty at fort Wash -ington, you shall receive the further sum of five hundred dollars. 4th. In case you should, in the course of the business, be wounded, or disabled from obtaining a livelihood by your personal exertions, attempts will be made to obtain for you a pension of a lieutenant colonel commandant, wounded in the service of the United States. 5th. And in case you should unfortunately lose your life in the course of this business, the same attempts will be made to obtain the pension of seven years' half-pay of a lieutenant-colonel commandant, to your orphan childj-en. Captain Michael Gabriel Houdin, a French officer of reputation, who served in the late war in the Massachusetts line, will accompany you in the prosecution of this business; and in case-of any misfortune to you, by sickness or otherwise, he is to take these instructions, and pursue them, as if given to himself. Captain Houdin is to be allowed his expenses, and two dollars per day, as a reward for his services. And in case he should be wounded or disabled, endeavors shall be used to obtain him a pension of a captain, wounded in the military service of the United States. I have issued my warrant upon Joseph Howell, to pay you six hundred dollars, on account of your and Captain Houdin’s expenses, and for which sum you are regularly to account. Your route will be from this city to Sunbury,.and thence, either directly for that part of the Alleghany where the Cornplanter lives, or to Tioga Point, as you may find best. If you go through Wyoming, inquire for a Captain Baldwin, w ho has agreed to keep school among the Senecas, on account of the United States. You will consider your business as a secret, and enjoin the same on Captain Houdin. Provided you should bring the Indians to fort Washington, you will stay there no longer than the treaty shall be accomplished; upon which, you and Captain Houdin will return with all convenient speetl to this city. You will keep a journal of your daily occurrences, and deliver me a copy thereof, when you shall deliver the report of your proceedings. Given at the War Office of the United States, in the city of Philadelphia, this 11th day of March, 1791. H. KNOX, Secretary of War. Message from the Secretary of liar to the Miami Indians. To the Head-men and Warriors of the tribes of Indians of the Miami town, and its neighborhood, and inhabiting the waters of the Miami river of lake Erie; and to the tribes inhabiting the waters of the river Wabash. Brothers; The President of the United States, General Washington, the great chief of the Thirteen Fires, speaks to you by this address. Listen attentively to him, for he speaks of things of the highest importance to your future welfare. The white men and the red men inhabit the same country, and ought to be good friends: but the contrary has been the case; injuries and hostilities have subsisted, and the last year many lives were sacrificed on both sides. This address to you is the offering of a desire to save you from ruin; it is. therefore, of the last consequence, that you should understand and receive it aright. It is unmixed with fear, and dictated by the pure principles ol humanity. The President of the United States is anxious that you should understand your true situation, and the consequences of your persisting any longer in the exercise of hostilities. The United States are powerful, and able to send forth such numbers of warriors as would drive you entirely out of the country, ft is true, this conduct would ocasion some trouble to us, but it would be absolute destruction to you, your women, and your children. 'Pbe United States require nothing of yob but peace. Nay. they are desjrou sol making you understand the cultivation of the earth, and teaching you how much better it is for human kind to have comfortable houses, to have plenty to eat and drink, and to be well clothed, than to he exposed to all the calamities belonging to a savage life. The offer of peace now made to you is for your good, and the Great Spirit above will approve it. Rcilect that this is the last offer that can be made; that, if you do not embrace it now. your doom must be sealed for ever. Receive, then, the bearers, Colonel Procter, Captain Houdin. and our Indian allies who accompany them, with open arms. After having pondered well upon the contents of this address, and what may be further said to the same purpose, call in your parties, and fly, with all your head-men, to fort Washington, at the Miami of the Ohio. Also, send messengers to all the neighboring tribes to_ conic to the same place, and there make and ratify a firm peace with General St. Clair, the great officer of the United States on the Western waters. You will find the terms lie shall dictate will be full of justice, moderation, and humanity. You are now the only tribes with whom the United States have any disputes. The powerful Indian nations south of the Ohio, are our allies; the Six Nations of Northern Indians arc at peace with us. and we arc desirous of receiving you into the number of our friends, and to forget all the evil which has passed. If you refuse, all the nations will approve and justify your punishment. Given at trie War Office of the United States, this 11th day of March. 179i. II. KNOX. Secretary of I Far. Brothers: Message from the Secretary of Jf'ar to the Senecas. Upon a late visit of the Cornplanter. and others of your nation, to the President of the United States, the Great Chief of the Thirteen Fires, it was agreed, that some of the chiefs of the Six Nations; should repair immediately to the Miami and Wabash Indians, in order to explain to them the danger ot their situation. That the United States desired of the said Indians only a peaceable conduct, and a regard to their own welfare. That it would be well-pleasing to the President of the United States, to embrace all the surrounding Indian nations as brothers, and to promote their happiness by acts of kindness. Tliat. while this was the sincere desire of the President of the United States, he was determined, that all future murders and invasions of the Indians should be punished severely. The President of theUnited States is persuaded, that, if the Indians generally could see the kindness of his heart to them, and of his intentions to do them justice, they would, one and all. bury the red hatchet forever. He will, therefore, if obliged to chastise the disorderly Indians, feel all the pain that a kind father feels in chastising his disobedient children. In order, therefore, that llie Miami and Wabash Indians shall be without excuse, in the minds of the Six Nations.^ and other Indian tribes, the President of the United States has determined to send them a solemn warning of their fate, in case they continue their hostilities; and he has. for this purpose, sent Colonel Procter, the bearer, with whom you are acquainted. The President requests that you will immediately set out with Colonel Procter, either by land or water, as shall be judged best. That you would call upon the \\ yandots, and Delawares, our friends, and take some of them along with you to the Miami and Wabash Indians. That you would endeavor to persuade the said Miami and Wabash Indians to accompany Colonel Procter and you, to General St. Clair, the great chief of the United States on the Ohio, and there settle ail disputes, on terms of reciprocal justice and humanity. That, on your faithful performance of this business, you will be entitled to the approbation, friendship, and rewards, of the United States. Given at the War Office of die United States, in the city of Philadelphia, this 10th of March. 1791. II. KNOX, Secret my of War. Message from Governor St. Glair to the. Half-king, and the Chiefs of the If yandots. Brothers: When J was last at fort llarmar, 1 left a message for you. and one for the Ottuwas and Chippewas. I hope you have received them, and found an opportunity to send them forward. Brothers: It would have given me great pleasure to have seen you at fort Harmar. and to have taken you by the hand, in testimony of that friendship which the United States hear to your nation. Brothers: 1 informed yoii last summer, that the continual depredations of the Shawanesc, and the Miamies, had roused the resentment of the United States, and that they would no longer bear them. You know, my brothers, that evil did befal them. But, because they were not destroyed entirely, it iias had no effect upon them; and they have since done, mischief, and killed a number of defenceless women and children. Brothers: The United States did not wish to destroy them; why should they?] Is not the country large enough for both of us? But they hoped a little correction would have brought them to their senses, and that they might again have been received into friendship. ' % \ Brothers: Notwithstanding all the mischief those foolish nations have donc,jnu of those on the Wabash, they do not wish to destroy them now, and, upon proper submission, we might stwrlie friends; and it is to let them know precisely the.situation in which they stand, and the disposition which the United States are in towards them, that Colonel Procter, who will deliver this to you, is now sent to them. If they will hearken to him, well; if they will not, their blood be upon their own heads. The United States will no longer suffer their depredations, and, if they bring utter destruction upon them, they will be justified before the Great Spirit, and all the world. Brothers: Colonel Procter is the. messenger of peace to all nations. 11 they hearken to him. the. tree we planted at the Muskingum will grow and flourish, and they may sit under its shade. If they will not hearken to him, keen yourselves at a distance, for ruin will surely overtake them. Brothers: I recommend Colonel Procter to your friendship and good offices, and request that you will send ■mme of your discreet people with him, and to interpret for him, if he should be in need of an interpreter. Farewell: 1 am your assured friend, AR. ST. CLAIR. Governor of the territory of the United States northwest of the Ohio. Philadelphia, March 8, 1791. Message from Governor St. Clair to Capt. Pipe, and the other Chiefs of the Delaware Nation. My F mends and Brothers: Conformably to the engagement we mutually entered into at fort Harinar, to give notice to each other of any hostile parties entering our respective countries, I informed you last summer, that a force would inarch against the Shawanese and Miamies. _ . Brothers: You very well know, that these nations had been doing us continual mischief; that we had borne them (in hopes that, through good counsel, they would come to their senses) as long as it was possible to bear them; but those hopes were disappointed: the longer that revenge was delayed, the worse they became. Brothers: You know how they suffered last fall, but it has not had the proper effect upon them. They still continue to do mischief, and have since killed a number of defenceless women and children. Brothers: In the last message I sent you, you were told that the United States did not hate the Shawanese and Miamies; that if they would return to their senses, and do what was just and right, they would be taken into friendship. I now tell you again, that the United States are not averse to them; they do not wish to destroy them, and it is to carry that information to them, that Colonel Procter is now going. If they listen to him. tvell; the evil that awaits them, may yet be avoided. II they will not listen to him, their blood be upon their own heads. The United States will be justified, before the Great Spirit, who loves all his children, red as well as white, and to all the world, in bringing that destruction upon them, which they merited long ago. Brothers: Relying upon your friendship anti good faith, I recommend Colonel Procter to your good offices; he is the messenger of peace, if he shall be so received; and if the nations to whom he is sent are wise, they will hearken to him. The United States, my brothers, hold fast by the chain they made with you, and as long as you hold it fast, neither spot nor rust shall be suffered to appear upon it. Farewell: 1 am your assured friend, All. ST. CLAIR, Governor of the territory of the United States Northwest of the Ohio. Philadelphia, March 8, 1791. That, in pursuance of these instructions, Colonel Procter and Captain Houdin departed from Philadelphia on the 12th of March; that he arrived at the Cornplanter’s the sixteenth day of April; that the Cornplanter conceiving, according to custom, that he must consult the rest of his nation, Colonel Procter and Captain lloudin, with the Cornplanter and his Indians, accordingly repaired to Buffalo creek, near fort Erie, on the lake of that name. That, after various councils and difficulties, from the twenty-seventh of April, to the twenty-first of May, the council agreed to send a deputation of Indians with Colonel Procter, provided he could obtain a vessel; that he accordingly applied to Colonel Gordon, the commanding officer of Niagara, to be permitted to freight a vessel to transport himself, and the Indians who should accompany him, to Sandusky, on the west side of lake Erie. That copies of his letters and the answers thereto, are as follows: Buffalo Creek, 5th May, 1791. Sir: Aldiough I havenot the honor of a personal acquaintance, I am, notwithstanding, emboldened to address you by letter, and through the same, to inform you, that I am the person charged with certain messages, from his Excellency the Secretary of War for the United States, to the Six Nations and other tribes of Indians, residing near lake Erie, Ac. One of those messages is particularly sent to the tribes now unhappily at war with the Americans, and with whom it is the ardent desire of General Washington, the President, that peace should be established, on the most lasting terms of equity and justice to them. My mission is, therefore, to invite them to a treaty with Governor St. Clair, on the Ohio, not far from the country they inhabit. The better to effect so desirable an object, proposals were made to the President, in January last, by certain chiefs, who came, on business of the Six Nations, to Philadelphia, viz: that they would appoint in their councils, certain of their head-men, to accompany such gentlemen as might be sent into the country of those miguided people, to bring them to terms of amity with the thirteen States. This, sir, you will discover, on reading the Secretary of M ar’s letter to the Six Nations, and committed to my care. It will be handed you by the Young King, with other public papers, which were delivered Captain O’Beel, for the better information ot the nations concerned. I have therefore to entreat you to conceive the most favorable sentiments on the meaning and intent of those public intruments of writing, as they are founded on the principles of humanity, and a regard for the well doing of our fellow men. > And I can not doubt, but the same motives will invite you to assist in so laudable an undertaking. The effects of which will establish happiness to theBritish subjects of Canada, Ac. as well as to the United States. The favor that I here request at your hand, is to permit me to charter one of your vessels in the lake, for such number of Indians Ac. who may accompany me to Sandusky, on lake Erie. So far as my request meets your approbation, I shall receive much pleasure by your signifying the same by a few lines to, sir, Your most humble servant, THOMAS PROCTER. Colonel A. Gordon, Commandant of Fort Niagara, $-c. «$-c. Buffalo Creek, 15th May, 1791. Sir: The fifth instant I had the pleasure of addressing my first letter to you, and delivered the same to the care of Captain William Print, an Indian, to be presented by him; but having received no answer since, I presumejt has miscarried through neglect. The purport of it was, to be permitted to have a passage in one of the vessels on lake Erie, for such number of Indians aim whitfui^tn, destined to accompany me to some convenient port on the west end of the lake. The mission that I am charged with, is directed to the Indians now unhappily at war with the United States, with desires to reclaim them to a peaceable deinTjinor, before that certain destruction overtakes, which is now pending over them. Mr. Horatio Jones will deliver you my letter, and wait your answer, which I hope will be the granting ot my request: and whatsoever expenses may accrue upon this occasion, I shall most cheerfully satisfy the same with the commander; and subscribe myself, sir, ’ Your most obedient and most humble servant, THOMAS PROCTER. Col. A. Gordon, Commandant at Fort Niagara, Ac- Niagara, May 18, 1791. Sm; A few days ago, I had your letter of the 5th instant, to which I should have returned an immediate answer, had I not waited for some public papers, which you wrote were to be handed to me by the Farmer's Brother, and other clfiefs, who were to wait upon me, to receive my advice on business of importance. I think it but proper to give you this explanation of my not having sooner replied to your letter; but, as there is no document, which places you in any other light than a private agent, I cannot enter on any discussion of a public nature. Whenever any of the chiefs of the Seneca, or others of the Six Nations, apply to me for counsel, I shall give them such advice as I conceive best suits with the present state of affairs. As to that part of v your letter, which requests to be permitted to freight one of the vessels on lake Erie, to carry you, and such Indians as may be inclined to accompany you, to Sandusky, on the west side of the lake. I beg leave lo inform you that I am not authorized to comply with your requests. I am, sir, your niost obedient humble servant. A. GORDON. Colonel Procter. That thus failing in obtaining a vessel, the object of his mission also failed, and he returned to Philadelphia, after having exerted himself honorably to proceed forward. His report is lengthy, and minute, according to his instructions. Narrative of Colonel Thomas Procter. Philadelphia, July 9th. 1791. Sir: In the following narration, I fear to have transgressed, in blending any matters of opinion or of observation but of that which immediately had relation to business committed me to transact. I have, therefore, to request, that you will pass over such parts as are light and immaterial—this being the only copy taken from the original entry; and, when you may think proper to return the same, 1 will, with pleasure, transcribe the most material parts, and present it as my report, should you think proper to lay the same before his Excellency the President. 1 am. your Excellency’s most obedient servant. THOMAS PROCTER. To the lion. Secretary of War. To the Hon. Major General II. Knox. Secretary of (far. The following Diary is respectfully submitted for his inspection, being transacted under his commission, granted to Thomas Procter. Esq., of the city of Philadelphia, bearing date March lUth, 1791. accompanied with messages from him to the several Indian nations inhabiting the waters near Lake Erie, the Miamies. and the Wabash. The same being intended to the establishment of peace and friendly intercourse between the said nations and the United States of America. March 11 th.—Received a draft from the Secretary of War, on Joseph Howell, Esq., paymaster, for tlie sum of GOO dollars. Purchased a horse from Richard Hunt, for the use of Captain Iloudin, sent as my companion into that country—price £25 4s. Purchased saddlery from I. Polk, the equipment ol two horses, as per bill rendered. Tl6 11s. Money advanced Captain Iloudin, to be accounted for by him, £ 16 17s. 6d. McFadden’s draught of North America, Ac. 12s. 6d.—pocket compass, best kind. lbs. 8</.—tin box and oil case, 11s. 3(/. as also two small books and one quire of paper. 9s. 4^</. March 12th.—Left the city of Philadelphia, accompanied by Captain M. G. Houdin, under a heavy rain, fully evidencing our intention to stop at no ditlicultics, until we should gain the settlement of Cornplanter, alias Cnpt. O'Beel, one of the chiefs of the Seneca nation, residing on the head waters of the Alleghany river. Our first setting out was big with difficulties, anil foreboded some extraordinary events: for, on crossing the Perkioiiien, Captain Houdin’s horse, after tasting of the water, (which is customary with him) laid down in the same, and were both nearly covered. On the horse’s rising immediately afterwards, the Captain’s loot being fast in the stirrup, the horse made several lashes at him with his hind feet, before he could disengage himself, but happily received no other injury. Dined this day at Norrington—paid 9s. 9d.—other contingent expenses, 12s. Staid this night with Major Swaine. March \5th.—Laying on double soles on a pair of boots, 4s. 9d.—shoeing a horse, 4s.—horse feed, wine, and bitters. 4s. 6t/.—dinners, Ac. at Pottsgrove, 9s. 4£rf. Halted for the night at Cimleses’l tavern, 13s. 1 Or/. March 14 th.—Breakfasts, Ac. at Reading, 9 s. 4(7.—purchase of a tomahawk, 3s. 9d.—straps of a saddle. Proceeded from thence to Carahers town, in company with Mr. Potts and Mr. Baird: the latter of which gentlemen informed me, that he was engaged to attend General St. Clair to fort Washington, whither the General was immediately to proceed, in order to prepare for a campaign against the Miami and other Indians, who are daily committing of murders on the defenceless inhabitants on the frontier settlements.—Expenses this night. 15s. 1 Or/. March 15th.—Set forward this morning on our journey bv daylight: breakfasted at Orwick’s tavern, 6s. 9(/.— Hallers do. refreshment, 5s. 7|</. Halted for the night at Treshers’ tavern—expense 13s. 6d. The roads from Philadelphia hither, nearly impassable, occasioned by the heavy rains that had fallen for several days past; and with some danger we forded the little Schuylkill; and, on this day’s journey, we crossed the Blue mountain. March \6th.—Dined at Leidenburgh’s tavern, and was informed, that the 1,200 acre tract of land that I purchased of Daniel Rees, in Northumberland, was situated three miles from his house, watered by the Cattawissey, and joining lands of Captain Mason, of Philadelphia. Dinners, and for horses, 11s. 3d. Lay this night at Hughs-burgh, at the house of George Knefferbergher. By him I was informed of twenty-live tracts of land I have on Big Fishing creek, which empties into the east branch of the Susquehanna!), about two miles above Hughsburgh. Expenses tins night 18s. 1 ()■£</. March 17th.—Crossed the east branch of the Susquehanna!), fed our horses. Ac. at Miller’s tavern, and paid, including ferriages over Fishing creek, and shoeing a horse, 17s. Sd. Lay this night at Berwick, a small town, situate on the west siile of the Susquehannah. Expenses of the night. 17s. 10c/. March 18th.—Proceeded on our journey up the west side of the Susquehannah, above twelve miles; and. in endeavoring to go through the narrows, the river being exceeding high and rapid, had a narrow escape of drowning myself and horse, as was the case with Captain Iloudin. With great difficulty we mounted the summit of a steep precipice, being unable to return by the same delile we had attempted to pass through. From this, I endeavored to go round the mountain, which lay along the river; and, after having travelled one hour and a half, over the most rugged ground, and seeing no end to the ridge of mountains, wre shaped our course through the wroods, to the place from whence we departed in the morning; and, by the entreaty of our host, the ferryman, on the opposite shore of the Susquehannah, was prevailed upon to venture over the river with his flat, which he did, with the assistance of four other men, and conducted us across, for which I paid him 15s. Dinners, and putting one new shoe on a horse, with other repairs, lS.y. lc/. From thence w'e proceeded on the road for Wilksburgh, by the way of the mountain path, as dangerous for man and horse as was possible to encounter with; and at 9 o'clock in the night we reached the first house in the settlement of Wyoming; but, there being no feed for our horses, I hired a guide to conduct us to a place to lodge in. Paid for a night’s fare, 13s. 6d. March \9th. —Arrived at Wilksburgh about eleven o’clock; halted here for the night, in order to rest our horses, which were much fatigued and jaded. I should have mentioned in its place, that I did not open the instructions I had received from the Secretary of War, before my arrival at Reading, owing to an intention with me, that no person—not even any of my family—should know what errand I was sent upon. This threw me exceedingly out of my road, and by the worst way: for, had I known that Wilksburgh was my route to Cornplanter’s, I should have went through Bethlehem, which would have been fifty miles nearer than the way I went. Spent the afternoon at our lodgings with Colonel Butler and Captain Grubb. The former was an officer in the Connecticut line, and stationed here during the late war, for the protection of the frontier inhabitants against the British and Indians, in which station he proved to be a vigilant and brave officer. The latter part of the evening I accompanied Colonel Pickering, prothonotary of the county, and late adjutant general of the armies of the United States. Here we equipped ourselves with a tinderbox, flints, steel, &c., paid 4.v. 6c/.; and for helving a tomahawk, and leather sling for the same, 4s. 9c/. Expenses at Mr. Fell’s, part of two days, 41s. 8c/.; and for powder and horn, 5s. 7id. Much snow fell while we remained at this place. Weather extremely cold. March 20th.—This day we set forward for Captain Waterman Baldwin’s, arrived there in the evening, halted far him part of two days, as I had orders to take him with me to the residence of the Cornplanter, at which place he was intended to act as instructor of the Indian youth, as also a director in the inode and management of agriculture, for the use and benefit of the Indians. This gentleman was made prisoner by Cornplanter, during the late war, and was treated by him with remarkable tenderness, until legally exchanged. Paid for two bushel of oats ami two bags, 13s. 1 id.', washing, 2s. 6c/.; expense at Baldwin’s, 30s. 3/urch 22c/.—Ferriage to Captain Jenkins, passing the first narrows of Susquehannah, 7s. 6c/. Paid for gammon, bread, and spirits, 32s. 6c/. to John Davis. Encamped this evening in the woods, thirteen miles from Lahawanock, on the waters of the Buttermilk falls. This cataract has a beautiful appearance from the river. It falls upwards of eighty feet; and the place it issues through, on the top of the mountain, is about six feet in width, and its torrent is so strong that it is sufficient to serve many mills at one time. This place I had the opportunity of examining minutely, when going on the expedition with General Sullivan against the savages, in the year 1779, at which time I had the command of 214 vessels, on the Susquehannah, taking with me the provisions and stores of 6,000 men. We anchored oft' this cataract in the afternoon of the 1st August, and I landed and passed to the top of the mountain to review so great a curiosity. March 23c/.—The Susquehannah being so extremely high, and all the waters leatling thereto, compelled us to quit the river road and go by that lately cut (though not cleared) by John Nicholson’s, Esq., comptroller general of tire State of Pennsylvania. We reached the settlement called the Ilawbottom, which consisted of about fourteen families, the land exceeding rich—inferior to none about the city of Philadelphia; but the lands between this place and our last encampment were chiefly covered with hemlock timber, cold soil, and unfit for culture, and one continued rise, for nearly thirteen miles, with little intermission. Took dinner at the house of Ebenezer Stephens, and purchased from him two bushels of oats, which he had for seed; and, having brought it afar off', charged lor the same 3s. 9c/. per bushel. Paid for three persons eating, and feed for the horses, 12s. 6c/.; one horse bell, 4s. 6c/.; three cakes sugar, 4s. 6c/. Encamped this evening with some sugar boilers, in a hut not finished. The promoter of this manufactory, which appeared to be very extensive, from the number of kettles and apparatus belonging thereto, is the comptroller of the State of Pennsylvania; and the conductor of the works, Mr. John Jones, ofNorthum-berland county. They were unfortunate enough, two days before, to. lose most of their provision, by the oversetting of a canoe, in the main branch of the Lahawanock; but, of the provisions we had, we gave to them what we could spare, preserving what we thought would take us to' Tioga Point—supposed 86 miles. The taking of this road, which is cut about.20 feet in width, the frees lying across the same, and iu every direction, was not a matter of choice, but necessity: for the river road was impassable. By the taking of this we escaped some deep waters. 24//i.—We arrived at the cabin of Richard McNemara, fed our horses with the corn that we brought with us, for he had none but about two quarts for his own use: they however provided us with a dish of rye coffee, made tine with the pole of an axe on a smooth stone, and maple sugar as bright and as well tasted as the best 8c/. sugar in Philadelphia; and as they deemed it would be charity to us, they gave of the juice of the maple, which appeared as clear as the limpid stream, and pleasant to the taste, and deemed very wholesome: paid, for eating, 3s. 9c/. We were obliged to encamp early this afternoon under a very heavy storm of raft, thunder, and lightning, and, what is very remarkable, the snow was in general fifteen inches deep on the ground. 25th.—We still travelled by the way of Nicholson’s road, till we reached the one cutby Mr. Ellicott, geographer to the United States, vv hich leads to the great bend on the east branch of the Susquehannah, and to describe the same, it is hardly possible, but, to say the least of them, there is none can equal them for height of mountains, arid swampy valleys. Encamped this night ten miles from Tioga Point; heavy rain as usual, our horses worn down, and ourselves more that commonly fatigued; had naught to eat ourselves or for our. horses; and I may say with propriety, that, until we arrived at Tioga, to save our horses, we travelled on foot more than half of the way from the town of Reading. .'26th.—We arrived at the ferry at Tioga Point, crossed to the flats, paid ferriage 3s. 9d.; the river still very high; took refreshment-for ourselves and horses, paid 12s. 9c/.; repair of horse shoes, 5s. From thence we proceeded on our way to Newtown Point, and lodged at the house of Mr. William Wynkoop. At Tioga Point I was compelled to purchase a pack horse, as the route we had to take from the Painted Post to the Genesee, was not inhabited, which, by computation, was 99 miles. Captain Baldwin also purchased another horse, the better to enable him to carry on the farming business for the Cornplanter, and for which I advanced him 75s., to be accounted for by him in his settlement with the Secretary of War. From hence I also took a guide, named Peter, in his own language Cayantha, there being nothing but a blind path to the Genesee river, so that my retinue, at this time, amounted to three white men, one Indian, and five horses. The horse designed as a pack horse, I received on the order of Colonel Hojlin-beck, on Mr. Guy Maxwell, his partner in trade at Tioga, for which I drew-in favor of them,_ on my daughter in Philadelphia, £15 for the horse, and for a saddle and bridle, value £3: took up our quarters this night in company with Mr. Jabez Colloor, a dissenting minister, at the aforesaid Wynkoop’s, with whom we spent a most agreeable evening, and, during our conversation together, he enjoined me,, in a very becoming manner, should I at any time see the honorable Major General Sullivan, late the commander in chief against the Indians, in the year 1779, to tender to him the grateful thanks of himself and his parishioners, inhabitants of the district of Tioga, for opening a way into the wilderness, under the guidance of Providence, to the well doing of hundreds of poor families for life. Sunday, March 27th.—Dined at Mr. Isaac Baldwin’s, and halted for the night, and reviewed the ground on which the British and Indians were entrenched, for better than a mile, against the forces under the command of Major General Sullivan. I also saw many traces made by our round and grape shot against them, and a large collection of pieces of 5i inch shells, which I had the pleasure of formerly causing to be exploded amongst them. Expenses at Mr. Baldwin’s for present diet, provisions, and forage, 53s. l(f</. 28th.—Took breakfast at William Dunn’s; for four persons. 6s.; oats and spirits, 4s. 7 id.-, also one chain halter for a horse, 20s. From thence we proceeded to the Painted Post, or Cohocton, in the Indian language; dined, and refreshed our horses, it being the last house we should meet with ere,we should reach the Genesee river; addition of stores for ourselves and horses, 36s. lit/.; present dining, 14s. Sd.; four new horse shoes, &c. 6s. 9 </.; spirits, Is. 10id. Here I was joined company by a Mr. George Slocum,'who followed us from Wyoming, to place himself under our protection and assistance, until we should reach the Corn planter’s settlement, on-the head waters of the Alleghany, to the redeeming of his sister from an unpleasing captivity of twelve years, to which end he begged our ■ immediate interposition. On the leaving the Painted Post, we entered the warrior’s path, lying on the northeast side of the Tioga river. We had not gone above five miles up the same, before we fixed our encampment, having completed thirty-five miles this day, which was more than we had done any one day within seventeen days since we left the city, it having rained or snowed every day since, and the worst of roads to encounter with: for, as we passed over mountains and valleys, the frosts were just mellowed enough to admit our falling through in some places, knee depth   to the horses: rained this night as usual. 29th.—Continued our route by the aforesaid path this day, through level land, covered chiefly with hemlock timber, and interspersed with sugar tree bottoms, and through which we frequently encountered with deep sloughs and morasses. In one of them, which had the appearance of a long pond, variegated with shrubbery, Captain Baldwin, while leading our forage horse, was, by a sudden check, brought backwards from the horse he was riding, and immersed in the water, so as to be entirely covered. The same fate had nearly happened to myself, by my horse’s feet fastening between two trees which lay on the bottom, of which he fell. All this night we had rain, and with much difficulty could light a fire; at the same time piercing cold. 30th.—We began our journey before sunrise, the usual time of our moving, and, on the way, we discovered, in many places, fine land; the timber chiefly sugar tree maple and beech, and on this day, we passed three principal mountains, the last of which the Alleghany, that divides the Tioga river from the Coshequa. The latter river runs through a fine flat, resembling much the flats below Tioga: here Captain John resides, and one white family only. I did not see the chief, he being from home a hunting. 1 should have premised that the course of the warrior's path gives a traveller a sight of the river Tioga, upwards of sixty miles, and, by such a ivay, I would never desire to travel again. The next principal water we crossed, is called, in the Indian language, Con nesserago, from . whence it is called twelve miles to the Genesee river, where we were conducted by our Indian guide to the house of Captain Ebenezer Allen, about ten o'clock at night. Having rode hard and constant to reach it, both our horse* and ourselves much fatigued. I purchased from an Indian squaw one and a half bushels corn, at the,rate of one dollar anti a half per bushel, and refused to let me have any more at a less price; adding that the white people had made them pay more the last year, when a scarcity of corn was among them; and that at this place there was neither hay nor grass for our horses to exist upon. 31sL—This morning I found myself in a settlement of Indians, called the Squawkey tribe, but a branch of the Seneca nation; having no interpreter with me, 1 wrote a letter directed to Captain Allen, or Horatio Jones, and sent it bya runner by the way oi Connewago.or at such a place where he could meet with either of them, requesting that whosoever received it should repair to Squawkey hill to meet me; and, should they meet any Indian chiefs or warriors, to invite them to meet me also, haring business of importance from General Washington, the President of the United States, to lay before their nation, f at the same time despatched two other runners, one to go to the several sugar camps adjacent, to give them the like information, and the other to repair to the habitations of Captain Big Tree and Little Beard, who resided about seven miles from hence, and deemed to be principal chiefs. To each I paid one dollar for their services. By the middle of the afternoon, and in the evening, several Indian warriors and chiefs arrived at Mr. Allen'shabitation: amongst the latter, Captain Little Beard, Stump Foot, and the Black Chief. Said Stump Foot being the leader of the Squawkey settlement, residing on the high lands above the Genesee river, and from which blufi’ commands a beautiful landscape of the great flats on the Genessee, being in width about four miles, and the length from Carahaderra about forty-seven miles towards lake Ontario, where the said river empties into it; the soil exceedingly rich, the land as level as a bowling green, beautifully interspersed with groves of trees, some of three acres, and not more than five. April I si.—Mr. Horatio Jones, Indian interpreter, arrived this morning, and about eleven o'clock there were thirty odd Indians collected agreeable to my im itation. And shortly afterwards. I convened them into council, and introduced my message by some prefatory sentiments, touching on the candor and justice of the United States, and of the unexampled conduct of his Excellency the President, in the late interview lie had with the Cornplanter. and others, who appeared as representatives in behalf of the Six nations, by restoring unto them all their lands, which they feared were held from them by the power of the United States; by which act of his goodness, their situations in life were made comfortable, and as lasting as they should demean themselves as faithful friends to the United States: and by such a becoming deportment, it would entail lasting happiness to their children's children. This simple introduction being ended, I read the message to them from the honorable Secretary of M ar; having ended the same, they signified their full approbation, in their accustomed manner. For the particulars of their answer, which was delivered by Captain Little Beard, their principal speaker, see a subsequent page. Captain Little Beard, in the dose of his speech, acquainted me that their great warrior. Captain O'Beel, or Cay-antawanka, in the Indian language, had arrived at Pittsburg from Philadelphia, and sent out runners from thence to summon the chiefs and warriors of the Six Nations at Buffalo, where he desired that the great council fire might be kindled, and where he should lay before them all the business that had been done by him at Philadelphia, and the public papers and documents which he had received for the Six Nations, from the President of the United States, the Secretary of War, and from the Governor of the State of Pennsylvania. This information induced me to prepare myself for going to Buffalo in the morning, instead of continuing my route to O’BeeFs town, and urged it upon them in a very pressing manner that they would accompany me on this deserving errand to Buffalo. as its design was big with advantages to every Indian on the continent. Five of them immediately offered to attend Captain Houdin and myself, and chiefs of the first notoriety in this settlement, and accordingly appointed a sugar camp, eight miles distant, the place of meeting in the morning, where they must go and acquaint their people of this hast} departure. 1 now made the necessary inquiry w hether it wa.* easy to obtain a good interpreter at Buffalo, or otherwise; and being informed that there were no interpreters there but those under British pay and establishment. I conceived it a duty incumbent on me to engage Mr. Jones, as being a proper person for my business, from the reputation he bore from inquiries I had made, and I accordingly agreed with him in the behalf of the United -States, to pay him the customary wages so long as I should find occasion for his services. Having for the best part of two days caused provisions to be provided for myself and people, and for several Indians who lived at a considerable distance from here, and at a considerable expense to Mr. Allen, and much trouble to his family, I proposed to make him restitution by payment, which he modestly refused, adding, that I was going into a country where I would have occasion for my money. 1 therefore treated his politeness in that manner which I thought would least offend hint, by saying he must receive at my hand in Philadelphia a best beaver hat, and four dollars’ worth in any thing Mrs. Allen should chuse to send for. estimating the whole at eleven dollars, for which I hold myself in honor bound to perform. Paid for 2t bushels corn to Mr. Forrest, 12s. Id.; amount of Jno. Jones' bill, flour, spirits, and store* laid in for O’Beel's town, 35s. 7d. April 2d.—Departed from the council fire at Squawkey Hill to proceed by the way of Tariawandy, to Buffalo, presumed distance between 90 and 100 miles; but, agreeable to my promise to the chiefs yesterday, I had to call for them at their sugar encampment. On my way thither, I stopped at the hut of Stumpfoot, with the Black Chief, who accompanied me, just at the instant that a runner had arrived there from Buffalo creek, who brought the information that the council fire at that place had been quenched by the direction of the chiefs who had lighted the same, at the instance of O’Beel’s message to them, and the same lire was to be covered for one moon, in the words following, which he received from the great council, directed to the chiefs and warriors in this settlement, viz: “Brothers: "We know from our former intimation to you to meet us here, that you are just now rising from your seats, with your backs bent, bearing your loaded hoppas; but on hearing ns speak, you must sit down again on your seats; and remain there for one moon, until you shall hear that our great warrior, O'Beel, (alias Cayantawanka. in the Indian) shall arrive at Buffalo and light it again.*’ Upon this sudden information to me. and their determination to continue as above directed, I concluded to change my route from this place, and go for the Oil Springs, near which the Corn Planter has his residence, and of which intention of mine, I immediately informed them, and added, that should I be so happy as to meet him at home, I would use every possible endeavor to bring forward, to Buffalo, Captain O'Beel and his chiefs, in order to rekindle the council fire, as my intended interview with the chiefs of the Six Nations would have the most happy effect, by being instrumental in preserving the lives of many hundreds of our fellow men, when, staying one moon longer, might prove forever too late. On these remarks we parted, and I proceeded with my people to a village eight miles distant, called Nondas, ami halted for the night at the hut of a white woman, who had been with the savages from her infancy, and had borne to one of them nine children, all of whom were living. Two of her daughters I have seen, possessing fair features, bearing the bloom upon their cheeks, and inclining to the side of beauty; and her second son hail lately been adopted a sachem, and styled the promoter of peace. Paid for 2 cakes sugar, and Indian bread, 7s. 6d. Snow this day, and excessive cold. Sunday, April 3.—Arrived this day at an Indian village called Canasedcr, situated on a high bluff’of land, overlooking the Genesee river. It consisted of about 30 houses, and some of them done in a way that showed some taste in the workmen. The town was vacated by its inhabitants principally, save only one squaw and a young girl, who were left as guards to the interest of others, who were out providing sugar for their general stock. In this place was erected a wooden statue, (or deity) fashioned like a fierce looking sage. This form they worship by dancing before it on certain festive occasions or new moons, looking on it as through a veil or assistant, whereby they pay adoration to the Supreme Spirit, as knowing it hath a form, but not a substance. This day we were compelled to swim our horses three times over the Genesee river; and at one of the crossings, Captain Houdin’s horse took down the current with him, and could not steer him to the intended shore, having crossed the reins of his bridle at mounting, and were it not that he had left the horse to his own management, (by our entreaties) and our Indian guide rushing into the water to his assistance, arid the horse turning for him, the Captain must have certainly drowned in the current, which was excessively rapid a little lower down. April 4th.—This morning we again swam our horses over the same river, and had the assistance of a canoe, for which I paid 3.?. 9(/., and crossed it again 10 miles higher up, near the emptying of a small lake. Here, likewise, we had the assistance of a canoe to carry over our saddles, &c. Paid for the same Ss. 9d. At this village resides a Mr. James Latta, a trailer, from whom I purchased bread and sugar, the latter to answer the end of meat, as likewise some spirits, for which I paid him 16s. lid. From this place we had scarcely the trace of a path, and took up our encampment for the night at an old Indian encampment, where the covering of their wigwams served to shelter us from the inclemency of the weather. April 5th.—We gained an Indian settlement called Ohhisheu, situate on the waters of Oil creek, the emptying of which, into the Alleghany, about two hundred yards below'the huts, in crossing the Oil creek at a very steep shelving place, my horse fell backwards into the water. I happily disengaged myself from falling under him, but got wet through all my clothes. We then entered the cabin of an old Seneca chief, who called himself Captain Joseph Hays. I knew him wrell, thirty-two years before, at fort Pitt, and he professed having some small recollection of me. He spoke English well, and finding him to be conversant, I gave him to understand the business I was on to the Six Nations, and of the assistance I expected to receive from them as friends to the Thirteen Fires. He seemed very cheerful upon the occasion, and assured me that I should see him at Buffalo as soon as the council fire should be lighted by O’Beel. FYom him I bought two hams of fresh venison, and Indian bread without any salt, for we had none in our possession, not dreaming of it being so scarce and precious an article in this country. We encamped this night at the great bend of the Alleghany, (so called) on a tract of fine level land, covered with plum trees in abundance. At this place we discovered the ruins of a number of Indian huts, forming regularly with each other like a streetway. This place was formerly called by the Indians Dunewangua. April 6th.—This morning, having advanced about 4 miles, we met two Indian runners going with belts and speeches from the Cornplanter, alias O’Beel, to the Indians resident in the Upper towns,-' at the head waters of the Alleghany, to inform them that several of the Delaware Indians were killed by the white people, said to be a recruiting party of Virginians, near fort Pitt. The said Indians informed us, that the Indians who had escaped the catastrophe that their brothers had fallen into, turned their resentment for the injury their nation .had received on the white inhabitants who resided on the Alleghany, some miles above Pittsburg, and killed and scalped ,17 in number; that several of the bodies were partly destroyed by fire; that at the same time this mischief happened, Captain O’Beel, the New Arrow chief, and several other chiefs of the Senecas, as also the commanding officer of Venango, coming up in the garrison boat, and in canoes from Pittsburg, vrere overtaken by a party of militia, who threatened them with instant death, which was happily prevented, but forcibly carried back the garrison boat and canoes, with all the property purchased by Cornplanter for his nation. Having at this time no path to go by, and having to keep by the meanders of the Alleghany, made the way lengthy and disagreeable. I therefore desired my interpreter torequest that one of them would return with me to O’Beel’s towm, and as they vvould by that means be separated, 1 would give to each one.dollar, as a consideration for their trouble. They having acceded to iny desires, 1 paid them 15s., and our guide conducted us in safety, at about 10 o’clock at night, to O’Beel’s town, called, in the Indian language,Tenachshegouchtongee, or the burnt house. This town is pleasantly situated on the north side of the river, and contains about 28 tolerable well built houses; and the one which they had selected for me and my followers to reside in, was commodiously fitted up, with births to sleep in, and uncommonly clean, and provided us for the night with plenty of provisions, such as boiled venison and dumplings. Matters were no sooner arranged than I desired my interpreter to have the chiefs collected where I could speak to them. Upon which we found that all the chiefs and warriors of the town had gone on.to Venango, hearing that their head warrior, O’Beel, and their sachem, the New Arrow, were forced to take sanctuary in fort Franklin, (one of our garrisons) for the protection of their lives; that none remained in the town on this account, but three very old men, the women, and children. -' . That, such were their fears, as we were approaching this town, of which they had information, that they all assembled at their place of worship, believing it was near the hour of their dissolution, and they had called oil their God to help them. But being happily informed by our guide of the good intentions we were come upon, they came to make us welcome. I then desired that they would furnish me with a canoe and a guide, to conduct me to the place where I could meet with O'Beel and his people, being desirous of going forward immediately; and that I should, without doubt, be the instrument of bringing their chiefs and warriors to them in a few days. Upon which, they sent five miles to procure me a canoe, and by day light, two young Indians attended me, with whom my interpreter and Captain Baldwin went for French creek, distant about one hundred and thirty miles, and arrived on the 8th day 6f April, about four in the afternoon, as we worked our canoe by turns all night. Cash paid at New Arrow town, corn for horses, fifteen shillings; hire of a canoe and Indians to carry me to French creek, thirty-seven shillings and six pence; provisions, &c. thirteen shillings and one penny. I no sooner arrived at the garrison on French creek, than I received a visit from Cornplanter, and those Indians who accompanied him at Philadelphia, who professed the greatest happiness to see me, being under the greatest anxiety of mind for the safety of the New Arrow, who was carried in the garrison boat to Pittsburg, in the forcible manner before related; saying, at the.same time, that the whole of their goods were taken from them,.which they never expected to recover; that, in this distressed situation, they had not a second shirt to put on. I, hereupon, used every argument I was master of, to appease the fears they entertained oil account of the absence of the New Arrow, as I could not believe that the inhabitants of Pittsburg would offend, or suffer him to be. ill treated; and should any, or the whole of their goods be squandered, by the unwarranted conduct of the militia, that I should make it my duty to ¥ resent the same to the Secretary of War, who would cause most ample justice to be done them; that, on the morrow, would write to the commanding officer at Pittsburg, to have their sachem, the New Arrow, I conducted in safety to this place, as, also, their goods, as I could not possess a belief that any waste would be committed upon them. I therefore desired him, without loss of time, to bring with hint .into the garrison all the head-men of the nations then present, so that I might inform them of the message I was charged with, from his Excellencv the Secretary of War to the Six Nations; by which means they would be the better able to understand what I had to say to them, before my meeting them in general council to-morrow. Upon this Captain O’Beel left me, and soon after summoned the chiefs present, eleven in number, who met me in the garrison by permission of Lieutenant Jeffers, and, in the fullest manner, I gave them the necessary information. After some time spent on this business, I adjourned, and proposed meeting them again in their encampment over French creek, early in the forenoon, and of which I desired that they might inform their people, so that none might be absent. . April 9th.—1 crossed French creek to their encampment, about eleven o’clock, where I found them prepared to receive me, about seventy-five in number, exclusive of women, children, and youth; in the whole, one hundred and eighty. I read first the message to the Seneca nation, from the Secretary of War, and, after explaining the principles upon which it was founded, I read to them the messages from Governor St. Clair to the Wyandot and Delaware tribes, who were deemed and observed to be friends to the United States. Here I thought it my duty to explain to them the force of my message to the Indians, who were carrying on their wanton depredations and cruelties on the defenceless inhabitants resident near the Ohio; assuring them that it was the last solemn warning, should they refuse to accept the terms of peace now proffered to them, that they could lay hold of, until done by a decisive stroke of a superior army, just ready to go forward to conquest, and be rooted out of a country which they might otherwise possess and enjoy in undisturbed tranquillity. That, with this present council, it rests to save those misguided people on the Miamies and Wabash from the destruction that is just ready to fall upon and crush them; and the better to effect so laudable an undertaking, let there be selected, from amongst you. any number of your chiefs and warriors, not more than fifteen, nor le>-than five, to guide and accompany me to the Miamies; as. by our going from hence, we shall save the distance of four hundred miles, if not compelled to go to Butfalo creek: and. by this act. you will fully complete the end of my message to the Seneca nations, and tor your services you shall receive ample rewards from the United States, and due. honor to your nation. Hereupon they requested of me to retire from them, and those white persons who attended me, so that what I had said might be the more fully digested by them. We left them for about one hour and a half, when a chief came to inform me that they were desirous of seeing me .again at their fire. I accordingly attended, and Captain O’Beel was appointed to acquaint me with the determination of their council; which briefly was, that they could not agree to my request of going directly to the Miamies, as they must determine on that business in full council of the Six Nations, at Buffalo creek. Seeing, therefore, that I had no other alternative, but by going to Buffalo, I requested, then, that they would prepare themselves to leave this place, and proceed for Buffalo on to-morrow, which they readily complied with; and for Cornplanters address to me, upon this occasion, see subsequent page. I immediately from hence retired to the garrison, to prepare a letter for his Excellency Governor St. Clair, through which I gave, in detail, a circumspect account of every material transaction since my arrival in the Indian country; enclosing to him the speeches ot Little.Beard and Cornplanter, thereby to enable him to judge of the obstructions that liad fallen in my way, which, with others that I might probably have to encounter, would be a means of exceeding the time limited by the Secretary of War for my meeting him at fort Washington, on the Ohio, after passing through the country of the Miamies and Wabash Indians, to which nations my mission w as principally intended, to the restoration of peace between them and the United States. During the time I remained at fort Franklin, I received every mark of attention and respect from the commandant, Lieutenant John Jetfers. of the Connecticut line; and I think it but proper to name it in this place. A lew days previous to my arrival at this fort, the inhabitants, resident at Conneyat, and on French creek, were driven into the garrison, as also those at Cassawaga, and obliged to leave behind them their habitations and effects, possessed of every requisite for the comforts of life. David Mead, Esq. formerly of Wyoming settlement, with three of his brothers, and their families, were of the number of these unfortunate people. At Venango I was called upon by a white prisoner, named Nicholas Deamhoat, to give him a blanket, as he wanted one much. 1 did so, and paid for the same, 18s. 9d. He was dressed in the Indian garb, and, what I was grieved to see, his ears were cut round, and each hung with a considerable weight of lead, designed to stretch them to a proper length. He acquainted me that his friends lived in Schenectady; hjs father lately dying, left him a considerable sum of money. I urged him to go round with me on my tour, and. on our arrival in Philadelphia, I would give him decent apparel, and subsistence, while going to his relatives; but he declined it, saying, that he could not live so agreeable with the white people as with the Indians. Contingent expenses, mending my sword, two pair moccasons, washing bill, &c. 34s. 4d. lure of two Indians, from hence to O’BeeFs town, 45s. April 10th.—Agreeably to the arrangement made by me at the general council yesterday, we set out from French creek, to go up the Alleghany river, with thirty canoes, leaving, at the same time, with Lieutenant Jetfers, for the defence of the garrison, fifteen Indians, to act as scouts for the garrison, as occasion should require—the garrison being very weakly manned at this time, only for the addition made to it by the inhabitants, neither had they any Hour, on account of the detention of the garrison boat, before spoken of. but what was supplied by David Mead, Esq. who had brought from his mills at Conneyatta a sufficient quantity, as, likewise, some hundred gallons of whiskey, which he dealt out to the garrison and inhabitants, as they required it. Halted this night at Oil creek, about eight miles from the garrison. Lieutenant Jetfers came to us at this place, about twelve o’clock at night, anti brought with him certain letters that lie had received from Pittsburg that evening, with verbal messages he had received through the express, by which means tlie Indians were informed, that some of their canoes were plundered ol what they contained, but that the garrison boat was returning with their chief, the New Arrow, &c. under the escort of Major Hart, with a proper guard. The news of the canoes being plundered, gave rise to apparent disgust in most of the countenances of the Indians, saving that of Cornplanters, who received it with that composure that he was usually wont to do. Upon the whole it gave me to fear, that this rude piece of conduct ot our militia had damped the y.eal of those whom I yesterday conceived were engaged to serve agreeable to my desires. I, however, undertook to give them assurances, that, even should their goods have been plundered, as verbal report gave it, I would use every possible means to have every article replaced; and that, therefore, 1 earnestly entreated them to dispel those tears tor a lew days, having, in their presence, enjoined Lieutenant Jetfers to forward an express to me, at the castle ot O’Beel, and to write me, fully, every matter that took place; and to obtain another letter trom Major Hart, with whom they were well acquainted, to authenticate the same; and that, whatsoever the result should prove, 1 would faithfully communicate the contents to them. Upon this promise, about ten o'clock in the forenoon ot Monday, the 11th of April, we silently began to load our canoes, and, shortly after, took up the line of march. O'Beel taking the lead. 1 Leld it proper to take my place next to his canoe, to stimulate him to press forward on his journey. Ere we could reach Butfalo creek, we arrived this evening at an old Indian settlement, called Hog's town; we had much rain this night, and very cold. April 12th.—1 was invited this morning to breakfast with Captain O'Beel, his squaw, &c. Our repast, boiled chesnuts, parched meal, sweetened; his daughter made us some tea, also, which she put into an open kettle, when the water was cold, and being boiled in that manner, without any cover to the kettle, it became very dirty, and disagreeable to the taste; but, of the chesnuts. 1 partook sufficiently. Finding, this morning, by an Indian who had lately left the garrison, that several canoes loaded had deserted our little fleet, the Indians, being under much intoxication, had returned there again; in consequence thereof, 1 wrote the commanding officer,by an express, requesting him to cause the Indians, who were designed to go forward with O'Beel, to quit the garrison and proceed. To express, 11s. 3d. This day, about one o’clock, we arrived at the Munsee settlement, where all the canoes came to at, in order to rest, and prepare our dinners. Immediately after we had landed, and what appeared very strange to me, several Indian women came forward with kettles full of boiled corn and bear’s meat, and placed it before Captain O’Beel, whom they had heard was approaching with Lis people. This being done, each family of a canoe, (as in each were women and children) approached with their kettles, without any signal being made, to receive their stipend; and, to do which, an old squaw was appointed to act as an issuing commissary, who dealt it out in proportions so justly, that each went away fully satished. Captain O'Beel requested of my interpreter to inform me, it was expected that I would partake of what was prepared; I did so accordingly^ to prevent displeasure, but with the weakest appetite. Expenses at this place for eatables, 22-s. Gd.; one gallon of w hiskey for O’Beel, anil his people who accompanied me. 15s. After the w hole had refreshed themselves. O’Beel informing the Delawares the business I was on, I was invited to their council lire, of which council Captain Snake was the principal; about thirty of the Delawares were present. 1 spoke a few words to them, introductory to my reading Governor St. Clair's message to their nation, residing on the waters near Lake'Erie; the same message being directed to Captain Pipe, as the principal chief of that tribe. Shortly after this discourse wras ended. Captain Snake spoke through his interpreter to mine, as the person I had could not speak the Delaware tongue, anil its contents are as follows: ‘‘ Brother : AY e are thankful to God for the safe arrival of our brother amongst us; and w e are glad to sec him with such good intentions, and of the good news lie brings. It makes us feel warm in our hearts, and easy in our minds, that such confidence is placed in our nation. But the request he makes of us, to go with him to Buffalo, we cannot give an immediate answer too, as all our head-men are not present; moreover, we want to talk with him ami them together? and now we give him the kind invitation of your staying with us all night; anil it is likely we shall then help him to the council tire, where he now asks us to go to. and our chiefs shall be sent for.” Here O’Beel spoke, and aided my proposition; and, as I was fully sensible of his friendship, I took his counsel, before I should determine on staying in this town. And, finally, judging of it to he a sure means of securing them, to go to Bufialo with us, I consented; and of which they being informed, they sent jff runners for their chiefs and warriors, while we still remained in the council-house. 12th.—At 9 o’clock at night, Capt. O’Beel, the Delaware chiefs, and Senecas, called ine into council, when Captain Snake’s, interpreter gave his speech, as follows: “ Uncle, (for that is the term given by the Delawares to the Senecas) God lias been good to us this day: for we have each heard the good talk sent from the Great Chief of the Thirteen Fires; and we have ever said, that we would advise eacli other of every thing that we heard that was bad; or that was like to befall either of our nations. Now, uncle, we have determined togo with you,and our brother, who brings to us these good tidings, to Buffalo, and there meet our nations at the great council lire. Blood may fall upon ns while we are going, but now we give you our hands as we promised, and we will lie down and will rise together.” [Here a belt of wampum was given, consisting of five strings, which Capt. O’Beel viewed in his hand a short time, and then presented it to me.) Captain Snake again repeated: “ Uncle, in three days we move our women and children, and all that we have, to your towns; they are to remain with your women until our return.” In the course of his speech he also mentioned, that their people expected’to receive a stroke from the Messasagoes, a part of that nation who were led to war by their brothers. '   , '13th.—Our fleet set out from Hickory town, and reached Log-trap creek, 10 miles distant, and encamped. Rained the whole night, and not a dry thread of clothes on myself or companions. 14th.— Proceeded up the river this day, took up our encampment near the mouth of Casyoudang creek, it being the place where Colonel Broadhead, in the year 1779, had fought against the savages; and, in which action, Joseplv Nicholson, his interpreter, was wounded. 15th.—Being very unwell this morning, and overtaken with rhuematism pains, and to such a degree that I was obliged to have assistance to convey me from my canoe to the fire; same time being cold and rainy, I informed Cornplanter that I should leave his Jleet and proceed to his lower town, to procure some assistance; and I arrived there, some time in the night, after a very laborious day’s work to the Indians: the current of the river being so very much against us, at this place, 1 applied to an Indian doctor, who prepared poultices of roots and herbage, and applied it to my foot, the power of which, over the parts affected, threw it into my knee, which produced the most exquisite pain; and I perceptibly felt that"it shortened the sinews under my ham, upon which I applied it no more; fearing the consequences might be fatal to me for life. About eight miles above the encampment, where I left O’Beel, I came to a large river, called the Conawango; and, at its emptying into the Alleghany, is said to contain as much water as flows in the other river, above it. At the confluence of those two rivers, the government of Pennsylvania have laid out a manor of 3,000 acres, and up the said fiver (Conawango) to an Indian town called Cayantha, or the Corn-fields, are extraordinary rich lands, of which a survey was made, by David Rittenhouse, Esq. of the city of Philadelphia, some time since. The Indians whom I hired at Venango; to bring me to O’Beel’s town, (there being two called by his name) drew so nice a distinction, that they chose the first, or lower town, and insisted that this was the town they intended to come to, and not the other; and should I require their assistance to go to the upper town, I must pay to each one dollar (fifteen shillings.) The terms being agreed upon, we proceeded to the upper town aforesaid, by some called the New-Arrow’s town, being the name pi the head sachem ot that place. At this town I left Captain Houdin, Indian Peter, the guide which I brought from near Tioga Point, also, our horses, when I departed from thence to Venango, on the 7th of April, and found the Captain in an enfeebled state ofhealth, owing entirely to the hardships he underwent before his arrival at this place. . ' . 16th.—At this town I met, in company with Capt. Houdin, a French gentleman from Montreal, by the name of Dominick de Barge, who had followed the Indian trade, in this country, for six years past, and who lost by the same, a considerable fortune, by the credits he had given to some of the Indians, &c.; with them I found, also, a Mr. Culbertson, a trader from Genesee; and it gave me pleasure to find that the Captain was not altogether alone, he seeming to have an aversion, in general, to the company of Indians. 17th.—This day the canoes, which I left bn the 15th, arrived here, and brought news which they had received from an Indian runner, that, on Wednesday last) the 13th, the New-Arrow, and his associates, with the garrison boat, arrived at Fort Franklin; having suffered no damage in their persons, nor loss of their merchandise, as was reported, which belonged to Cornplanter, and other Indians, but two or more cases of gin, taken by the militia, for which Squire Wilkins, of Pittsburg, caused restitution to be made them. Settled with Mr. Janies Culbertson, for supplies for my people and horses, during my absence, 44 shillings York, Pennsylvania, 41?. 18//;.—An express arrived here from the New-Arrow, advising that they must send down to him, at fort Franklin, a certain number of canoes, sufficient to carry the goods brought forward by Cornplanter, from Philadelphia. Finding, from experience, that the Indians were exceeding slow- in putting matters in motion, which I held to be important, and slothful to the last degree, I wrote immediately by the return of the canoes to Franklin, to request that the commanding officer would lend them every assistance necessary to their'being forwarded to this place; as I was well informed, by a person that I employed upon the occasion, to know the general intentions of the chiefs, that not one of them would go for Buffalo, with .me, until they should see his safe return. This afternoon the canoes, which had loitered on the way? arrived; and bv which I was informed, that the Delaware and Munsee Indians, at Hickory town, were moving with, their stock, &c. to Cattaragus. 19th.—O’Beel and chiefs arrived here from the lower town, and ordered their conch shell to be sounded through the village, to summon their head-men into council. After some time spent therein, the whole of them adjourned to my hut, being confined, to pay me and my friend Capt. Houdin their compliments, as having come to visit them in their settlements, under such friendly intentions. Nothing more material this day. But dancing was carried on the major part ol the night, assisted by drumming, songs, &c. <* _ ", L20th.—An express arrived from Buffalo creek, informing, that the fire of the Six Nations had been lighted, by a number of chiefs and warriors; and that they bail been stirring it long, to keep it alive, waiting for the sachems of the Senecas, and their brothers, who were sent by the Great Chief of the Thirteen Fires, whom we want to hear speak with us. It is, likewise, our desire, that all writings received at Philadelphia, from the great chief, Honondaganius, (General Washington) may be brought forward with them, so that the great council may hear the contents. On receiving this public message, I was requested by O’Beel, and the other chiefs, to write an answer to this message, on their behalf, as hearing that Colonels Butler and Brandt were at Buffalo, waiting our coming. I complied, agreeable to their request, and directed the same to the Farmer’s Brother, Kuyasutta, and Red Jacket, chiefs of the Six Nations, at Buffalo creek.   -------———-— '21s/.—This morning, the whole of the town were preparing to have a grand feast, to return thanks to the Great Keeper of all men, for their being spared to meet once more together; several of the chiefs called upon us to give us the invitation to be present, while they should perform divine worship in their way; adding, that Indians worshipped one Supreme head, the Preserver of all, both white and red men. Their speaker advised us, also, to be prudent while they worshipped, and not to be guilty of laughing, or gestures, though the manner of it might differ, widely, from our own mode of worship; he likewise told us, that we must bring with us our ear, (the interpreter) to testify that they taught the true principles, by moral precept, and that their teachers, both men and women, admonished their hearers against thieving, lying, and speaking lightly of one another. The manner of their preparing tor worship is, that, in every house, they provide large quantities of such provisions as they think proper to bring with them, and the more varied the better, so that they may have a little of every sort, and nofie of the same returns to that house again, their method being to exchange their victuals on the ground, eating that which was brought by their neighbor; thus prepared, they proceed to the statue, which was erected in the centre of the village, bearing some proportion to a man, and justly painted, as the Indians are in common, but having no weapon of war about him; intimating that he was the maintainer of peace. This figure is about nine feet in height, ana stood on a pedestal of about twelve feet, having on breech-clout, leggings, and a sash over its shoulders, and a very terrible appearance. Underthis statue were placed two chiefs, termed the women’s speakers; each of these held in their hands the shell of a large tortoise, the. belly part covered ,w ith a thin skin, stretched on very tight, having, in the inside, several small stones, which shells being struck upon a deerskin, which is stretched between them, beating time together, accompanying the same with their voices, they made such melody that the whole of the assembly were delighted. The ol*l and the young women dance round in a circle, the image in the centre, the men following them, using gestures that would have made a saint laugh, had he forgotten that he was in a place of worship; but the women looked meek and humble, while they moved in concert in the dance, sliding their feet sideways, and folding their hands before them, in a half circle, looking, at the same time, steadfastly on the ground, inclining their heads to the left. The last of worship was performed to what they call a brag dance; the young warriors retire to a house adjacent, where are paints, leathers, and red clay; with the two former they ornament their heads with feathers, and their faces with paint, and their bodies with reddish clay, that give their skins all the same cast; some with one half their face black, and the other retl, in order to look the more terrible: for in this manner they go to war. When all matters are thus adjusted, and ready to sally from their showbox, their leader gives a long yell, such as when a scalp is taken; and on the third being given, it is re-echoed by the whole, rushing forward, at the same time, to the place of worship, while they dance round the statue, throwing their bodies and heads in every curious attitude, and brag, alternately, of all the cruelties they had exercised in war, of prisoners taken, and of thefts committed on their enemies, and of many other exploits never performed. J n the evening of the day, Captain O'Beel, and other chiefs, told me that they would be ready to go with me to Buffalo Creek in the morning, if I thought proper; the information gave me the most heartfelt satisfaction; and i acquainted him, that I was ready to depart at any h .ur they should agree to go, as much precious time had been wasted since my arrival at this place from the Genesee country. 22//.— I closed my letters this day for his Excellency the Secretary of War, and a second letter for Governor St. Clair, (having wrote him the first from Venango) and forwarded the same by a white prisoner named Nicholas Deamhout, and for which I drew on the commandant at fort Franklin to pay him to the value of 37s. Gel. in such articles as could be spared from the garrison; paid Indian Peter for services from Newtown Point to O'BeePs town, 22s. GtL; to mess expense from the lCth to the 23u. including horse feed, £6 18s. Sd.i to cash paid Francis Slocum, a white prisoner, 7s. Ur/.; do. a white prisoner at Cattaragus, 11s. Sr/.; she informs me that she is a sister to Henry Kepple, in Market street, born in Germany; her husband, a Lieutenant Groves of the Royal Americans, was killed at Venango in the year 1/61: had been prisoner ever since, but too old and enfeebled to leave them: she informed me that she was truly poor, which I had apparent reason to believe, and I mean to inform her friends of the same, w hich is the cause of my making this minute, as knowing her brother was under wealthy circumstances. Hire of a horse for my servant to Buffalo, and loss of a bell, 15s.: to house and fire wood expense, at New Arrow’s town. 15s.; Indian doctor's bill, 11s. 3d; one pair old shoes nod buckles, 11s. 3d. ; cash for an Indian kettle taken away by some of the Indians, 7 s. 6d. 23d.—We left O’Beel’s tow n about 12 o'clock, and proceeded with a few chiefs and warriors, (the whole not being ready to depart with us.) taking the route for Buffalo, through a village called Cattaragus, which we did not reach before the 25th, in the evening; and on our way thither passed through a settlement of the Delaware or Mu usee Indians, in which was about twenty houses. In this place I saw a number of active young men; they being play ing the game of bandy wicket, gave me the fairer opportunity" of judging. The town of Cattaragus contains in or near about fifty tolerable houses, bordering on a beautiful river, and about tw o and a half miles from Lake Erie, surrounded by a most beautiful country and excellent land; but the water they" have to drink, taken from a pond, is very indifferent. We had arrived but a short time when I caused the chiefs to be summoned into council, and, as in other instances, 1 made them fully acquainted with the business that led me into their country; and in answer thereto, a sentimental speech was delivered by Tliyogachec. [See subsequent page.] While we remained in this towfn, they" were preparing to bury the daughter of a great chief, and in the house that I was placed, there was a number of the mourners, w ho appeared under the greatest distress, by their cries; during which time, all their heads were covered with their shrouds, but when they had uncovered themselves I did not discover that they had shed oue tear. This brought to my recollection the manner of attending wakes in the old country, with the native Irish, where the rich hire old women to lament the loss of the deceased, and to recount all the valuable actions of their past life. 26//i.—We took up our journey towards Buflido. and in about five miles going from thence, we came in upon the verge of Lake Erie, w hich had a beautiful appearance, it being a pleasant morning, and the waters were very serene, and looking over the lake we could just perceive the land at the other side. A\ e travelled along the sandy beach for some miles, but were obliged, at three or four different places, to leave the shore and take to the woods, the rocks I laving come bluff up to the deep water: from small springs that appeared upon the face of the rocks, it shewed that it passed over bodies of mineral, from the hue that it gave; but the greatest curiosity that I had seen was alum lying on the surface of the rocks, off which we might have gathered a pound in a quarter of an hour. 27th.—We arrived at Buffalo creek, having travelled through a country of exceeding rich land, from our last encampment, the extent of which I had not been able to ascertain. The pre-emptive right to this valuable country was vested in the State of Massachusetts, but at present the property of the Hon. Robert Morris, of the city of Philadelphia, by a late purchase. The principal village of Buffalo belongs to the Seneca nation, and in it the young king, the Farmer's brother, resides, as also Red Jacket, the great speaker, and prince of the Turtle tribe. On my entering the town, there were numbers of Indians collected at the hut w here we alighted from our horses, and on taking a general view of them, 1 found that they were far better clothed than those Indians were in the towns at a greater distance, owing entirely to the immediate intercourse they have with the British, being but about thirty-five miles distance from Niagara, and but six miles from fort Erie, situate on the north side of the lake; from which places they are supplied yearly w ith almost every" necessary they require, so much so as to make them indifferent in their huntings. And the chiefs, who are poor in general, hav e to look up to them for almost their daily subsistence, not only of provisions, but for apparel: for the Farmer’s Brother, the Young King, was fully regimented as a colonel, red laced with blue, as belonging to some royal regiment, and equipped w ith a pair of the best epauletts. So that, from his after conduct, it may not appear extraordinary, w here the king has thrown in his opposition to my errand, he being paid so well for his influence over the Indian nations as to carry his favorite point in question. I had not been long in the village before I was invited to the great council house, with my companion, attended by Red Jacket, O’Beel, and other chiefs. Just as we approached the porch of the council house, they had a two pounder swivel gun, which they had loaded v ery high, hav ing put into her an uncommon charge, which the acting gunner being sensible of, stood within the door, and tired it from the end of a long stick, which he passed between the logs; which being done, the explosion upset the gun and its fixture. This, they said, was done as a treat for our safe arrival through the dangers that we had encountered, and for which they were thankful to the Great Keeper. The speech, as an introduction, given by Red Jacket, being ended, he came forward to me to the seat J had been ushered to in the centre of the council, and presented me witu four strings of wampum, which he had held in his hands while speaking; for the particulars of which see another page. Capt. O'Beel having been particularly named by Red Jacket, he rose and returned the compliment, in behalf of us that were strangers. Being at this time just sun setting, 1 apprised the council, through my interpreter, that I had messages from General Washington, the great chief of the Thirteen Fires, which were particularly addressed to the notice of the Six Nations, the representatives of which nations I presumed were principally present; but, as it was drawing late, I requested leave to postpone the introduction till the morning, which was consented to. Upon this, Red Jacket rose to remark, that many persons had occasionally come into their country, who said that they had also come in by the authority of the Thirteen Fires, but of the truth of which they were not always convinced. This information opened the door that I expected; being informed by a French gentleman, a trader amongst them, that these sentiments bad fallen from Colonels Brandt and Butler, about seven days previous to our arrival at this place, who desired of the chiefs, in private council, to pay no attention to what should be said to them by me; and, as they knew the purport of my mission, from the chiefs whom I had held council with at the Genesee river, the Colonels advised them not to assist me in going to the Miamies, as the consequence would be fatal to those that should attend me, and consequent death to ine and my companion. From these suggestions, which had fallen from Red Jacket, J mentioned, in open council, that I was desirous that they might call forward any gentleman of veracity, whom they had confidence in, to be present while I should deliver myself to them, and overlook any writings that I was directed to lay before the Six Nations, as by that means proof would be made that my commission was founded on the authority of the United States of America. They then agreed upon sending for the commanding officer of fort Erie, and despatched a runner for the purpose. Soon after the council broke up, Captain John, of the Onandagos. came to my hut, and informed me, in private conversation, that no scruple was made of the authority I came under to them, being well informed by the chiefs of the Genesee, who had given that information some considerable time before my reaching Buffalo. Captain John, from his manners, appeared to be a man of veracity, and had received a Mohawk education, and understood himself very well, and during my stay at Buffalo attached himself to me in person, and promoted, all that lay in his power, the business that I had before the council; but the reasons, lie said, they were'so particular with me, was on account of a certain William Ewing, a resident from the Connedesago lake, who had come in behalf of the Hon. Robert Morris, whom lie called the second greatest man in the Union; that he had convened a council the day previous to my arrival, informing those of the Six Nations present, that the pre-emptive .right to the lands in this country, as belonging to the State of Massachusetts, were now the property of the said Robert Morris, whensoever the Six Nations of Indians were disposed to sell any part of the same; that, the better to authenticate this business that he had to perform, he produced his instructions, under the hands and seals of the Hon. Robert Morris and the Hon.---Ogden, both of the State of Pennsylvania, adding, that the chain of friendship now stretched between the said gentlemen and the Six Nations, the centre of which was to be supported by him; that in consequence thereof, he desired their permission to traverse the several courses of the lands granted by their agent,-Livingston, of New York, to the said State of Massachusetts. . 28//i.—The council being convened within the house, there appeared to be about one hundred and fifty in number. Mr. Ewing began to open and continue his business, which he had introduced the day before; upon which, 1 rose to inform him that he must desist from going on any farther, as it was an interference with my mission, that was of the utmost consequence to the United States, and to the Indian nations in general; and that, as soon as the same was completed, agreeable to the purport of my coming here, that then I would lend him such assistance as was in my power, and through which I would evidence my respect for the gentlemen who sent him. The commanding officer of fort Erie sent word to the council this morning, that he could not leave his garrison without the express permission of the commandant of Niagara, (Col. Gordon) but that he had sent Captain Powell, of the Indian Department, as a suitable person to superintend their business. As a proper introduction to my mission, and by the consent and desire of O’Beel, I began by reading his address to the Governor and Council of the State of Pennsylvania, as also bis several letters to the President of the United States, and his Excellency’s answer to them, in order, and a third letter to the same, from the. Secretary of War. The reading of these several papers, and the deed from his Excellency the President, for the restoration of their lands in the Six Nations, and the interpreting the same, took up the whole'of the day, upon which I concluded to adjourn till to-morrow, leaving them to digest what had been said, and to judge of the great attention that had been paid to them by the Great Chief of the Thirteen Fires. I thought it proper to give the invitation to Captain Powell, to take up his abode at my hut for the night, which he very willingly accepted of. After we had taken a little refreshment, we entered into a general conversation, and spoke on many matters, the consequences of the late war. The captain, being free in conversation, gave me to understand, that Colonels Butler and Brandt, himself, and several other officers from Niagara and fort Erie, had been at Buffalo some time, waiting my coming, as they had advice that I was on the way hither; that while there, Brandt received private instructions, from head quarters, -to set out for the Grand river, and from thence to Detroit. This business. Captain Powell judged, was to carry instructions of some kind to the Indians, at war with the United States. It nad the appearance of truth, from what had fallen from the lips of Butler and Brandt, some days since, with the chiefs of the Onandagos and Senecas, as it had the tendency of their joint advice, when they spoke in the great council, viz: that they should not determine on any matter of consequence with me without their concurrence. These injunctions being laid upon them, (as I received it from my informant) the British officers retired to their different posts; Friday, Jlpril 29th.—The business which I postponed yesterday, I opened in a much larger council than had appeared before; and, after I had read the Secretary of War’s message by me to the Six Nations, I continued to read those also directed to the Delawares, Wyandots, the Miamies, and to the Indians inhabiting the Wabash; and closed the whole with an address to them, clearly explaining the greatness arid power of the United States, and of their trade and commerce; as also of their, being at peace and amity with many of the powerful nations of Europe: and though we were once angry with Great Britain, with, whom we had fought lor eight returning seasons, and having compelled, them by force and arms to quit our country, the red hatchet between them and the Unitea States was buried deep under the earth.   'I also went into and explained the treaty, held at New York, between his Excellency the President and Colonel McGillivray, the political chief of the Creek nations, and the most numerous body of Indians on the continent, and at this interview there were thirty-two of the most principal chiefs. Every thing being most amicably adjusted at this treaty, they are now become the established friends ot the United States, and have firmly engaged themselves to act as our allies in offensive and defensive wars, as the nature of the case will require. Moreover, as they had journeyed far from their own country, not less than sixteen hundred miles, that, to save them the trouble of returning the same way, an American vessel was properly equipped for their accommodation, and conducted them, fully satisfied, to their own country. And here I was happy to have it in my power to give a more recent proof to the Six Nations, of the great justice ' done them, by the President of the United States, in the late negotiation had with him by Cornplanter, and others, at Philadelphia; to evidence which, no greater testimony can be given than what I have produced this day, in the hearing of this large assembly. And that nothing more remained, at this tiine, to be done, but for the chiefs of the Six Nations to evidence their attachment to the United States, by their speedily proceeding forward with me to the unfriendly Indians, and assisting me by the same to inform their minds, to reclaim them from the murders and thefts which they were daily committing upon the defenceless inhabitants near the Ohio, &c. &c. By this, they might have an early caution what must be the consequence, should they refuse to accept the terms of peace, and the proffered mercy of the United States, before that a decisive blow be levelled at those misguided people, and which cannot be far off', if they persist in their cruelties. Moreover, that it is a business worthy the attention of the Six Nations, nay, of all good men, both of the Indians and of the whites; and the speedier their determination might be made known to me the better, so that we might go on to the accomplishment of this good work, thereby to preserve hundreds of our fellow men on both sides. The reply of Red Jacket to the foregoing, as it will come more proper in this place, I here insert it at its full length: “ Brother from Pennsylvania: “ We have heard all that you have said to us, and by which you have informed that you are going to the bad Indians to make peace with them, and that you are sent to us to receive our assistance. Now' we must consider the matter thoroughly, and to choose which way we must go, whether by land or by water. You likewise tell us, that you have messages to the Wyandots, and to Captain Snake, of the Delawares; and that they are to take hold of you and us by the hands, and goto the bad Indian nations with us; and this, ajso, we must consider of thoroughly: for xve find that all our Six Nations are not present; and, as our brother, Captain Powell, of the British, is here, and true to us, for he is with us at every treaty, we must let you know that we shall move our council-fire to Niagara with him, and that you must go with us to-morrow, as far as Captain Powell’s house. And, as soon as we can know what time we can reach Niagara, we will send runners off'to the fort, to acquaint the commanding officer of the garrison. And now the council want to have your answer.” I I did not long hesitate to make answer, in what I deemed a very unwarrantable request; and particularly so from a people that have received so many marks of gratitude and attention from the Government of the United States. I therefore addressed myself to the council, and acquainted them that I had the honor of receiving my instructions and messages for the Six Nations of Indians from the honorable the Secretary of War of the United States of Ame- rica, by the advice of his Excellency the President thereof: that, by those instructions, I was ordered to proceed to the council-fire of the Six Nations, where it should be deemed proper and advisable to light the same. This is, therefore, the place I have been led to by some of vour principal chiefs; and upon my account, and the messages I have for your nations, this council-fire has been lighted: this being truly the case? and that my errand here was to invite yon to send with me some of your head-men and warriors into the nation of the unfriendly Indians, as proposed at Philadelphia to the Secretary of War, by your chiefs who are present. That, on my coming thus far, I am certain to be in theline of my duty; but to move from hence, with this council-fire, to Niagara, a British garrison, there to transact important business, in which the United States were concerned, is of such a nature, that neither thy principles nor commission would warrant me in such a transaction. Therefore I should decline to accompany them; adding, that, if the Six Nations were so far obligated that they must have the particular counsel and advice of any person or persons at Niagara, let them be sent for to this council, so that the result of such deliberations might be done openly at this place; and that my desires were, that this fire should not be quenched until the intentions of the Six Nations were fully made known to me, so that I might lay the same in form before the Seci ctary of War, by him to be laid before General Washington, the Chief of the Thirteen Fires. A silence for some time pervaded the whole of the council; after which. Red Jacket and the Farmer's Brother spoke to the council by turns: the result of it being, that a runner must be immediately sent to Niagara, to request the attendance of Colonel Butler, &c. to meet them in their council as soon as he could make, it convenient. The foregoing speech of Red Jacket, as done by the advice of the Young King and Fish Carrier, (for they sat on either side of him, and prompted) plainly demonstrates, that the most of the chiefs of the Six Nations are under the influence of the British: as no business of consequence will be undertaken, to the advantage of the United States, but what must first be sifted bv British counsel. These suggestions, which were pressed on my mind at this time, gave me to fear that I should not meet the wished for assistance that I had a right to expect front the Six Nations: but fully determined to persevere in my endeavors, till I should gain the summit of difficulty, which I saw arranged before me. April SOth.—No business this day, but private counselling among themselves. In the evening, Captain Powell invited me to go with him to a store, about four miles distant, in which he was interested, and his partner who kept it a Mr. Cornelius Winney, of Fish Kills. With the last named gentleman I staid ’till the Monday following, through a very pressing and polite invitation, which at length I accepted of, being lame, and much indisposed, ihrough fatigue and change of diet, such as from poor, to exceeding poor indeed; but with him there was plenty of every necessary, and given with so good a grace tfiat l shall seek occasion to return the compliment. May 2d.—No further business with me, but the Indians still continue their councils, keeping their fire burning, waiting the arrival of Colonel Butler, and, by information which I received, that leaked out of the cabinet of the Sachems, the council were much divided upon my account. About two in the afternoon, a messenger arrived from Niagara, informing them, that Colonel Buttler &c. had set out from Niagara, for this place. Among other circumstances in their private council, by the friends to the British interest, that the place where I was desirous they should accompany me, was on the verge.of the ocean; that it would take them twelve months to reach the place oi treaty; but those falsities were soon explained to my friend.-, and through which, I plainly shewed them, by my draughts, that the distance from hence, to fort Washington, did not amount to six hundred miles, and that half that distance we should go by the waters of lake Erie, and that, when I was satisfied of their going with me, I would charter one of the trading vessels on the lake for that purpose. Map St/:—Finding, upon inquiry, that there was no general council to be held this day, waiting the coming of Colonel Buttler, 1 sent the interpreter to invite the chiefs to my cabin, as I had some matters to communicate to them, previous to their going to general council. They soon attended me. and I took the opportunity to open my map before them, and showed, from our situation at Buffalo, the trace we should make into the Miami nation; from thence to fort Washington, on the Ohio; the first, by a transport on lake Erie, to the mouth of the Miami, which, with any thing of a fair wind, could be completed in less than two days and two nights. From die mouth of the Miami to the Messasagoe nation, situate on the same, and from thence to the Miami and Wabash tribes, at such place where they might generally be assembled: plainly demonstrating, to their satisfaction, that the whole tour could be performed in a short time; and, therefore, enjoined them, under the frindship which they professed to bear to the Thirteen Fires, that they would.tin their next council, promote and further my business, that Icame to receive their assistance to perform; so that I might go on my journey, without farther hesitation, as my orders were, not to I remain at any council longer than two or three days, if I could possibly do otherwise; so that it might be reasonably expected, that my stay here could not be much longer, this being the seventh day since my arrival. I hoped, therefore, they would not be silent with me longer, as I plainly saw that they were not to exercise their own opinions but on,the opinion of the British agent. These remarks I made, with intention that they should feel the force of iny observations; noon which. Red Jacket desired that I should hear him speak; as I had been Speaking along time. “ Tell him, said he, (speaking to the interpreter) that some of his language is soft, but that other parts of it are too strong; for the danger that is before us is great, and our enemies are drunk: and they will not hear what we say, like a man that is sober, and we consider that, whatever number of the Six Nations accompany him, will be in the same danger with himself, and it is likely'that we shall not live long, when the bad Indians shall see us. Therefore. as it is a business of such great weight to us, we must take counsel, in order to save ourselves, and him, from falling by their hands. Moreover, the Indians are nbt like white men: for they must think a great while. He must therefore attend our councils, and look and hear till we shall speak on his business; and to-morrow our head-men will meet together, and try what can be done.” While we were in conversation together, a runner came to the Young King, acquainting him that Colonel Butler, with several officers, from Niagara, had arrived at the store house, on lake Erie, where, Colonel Butler desired, that.the sachems and head-men of the nations should meet him in the morning; but did not advise that I should attend with them. This, the Young King desired, might be told to me. that I might know that Colonel Butler had called them together. The circumstance of their moving the council fire from hence to lake Erie, had never been attempted before, and may with propriety be said, that, their being called together without my being to be present, was intended to answ er some private purpose; perhaps to damp the ardor of such friends as I might have gained among the Indians, through the fair and honorable statements which I had laid before them in their councils. Since the dusk of the night, Captain O’Beel has called a meeting of the chiefs, at the cabin of Cayassutta, as I understood it. to advise them not to do any thing to injure me, in the business I had to do with them. 'In the course of this day. Captains Ilalf-Town and Big-Tree, and several of the head-men and warriors from O’Beel’s town, and Cattaragus, about sixty in number, and Captain Snake, with about forty of the Delawares, arrived, attended by many of their women, youth &c. By invitation, I dined this day (in company with Captain Houdin,) with the principal chief of the Onandago nation, named Big Sky. His castle lay about three mile east of Buffalo, near which were about twenty eight good cabins, and the inhabitants appeared, in general, to be decent, and well clothed, particularly their women, some of which were dressed so richly with silken stroud &c. and ornamented with so many silver trappings, that one suit must be of the value of at least thirty pounds; some of the latter attended the feast, which principally consisted of young pigeons, some boiled, some stewed, and the mode of dishing them up was, that a hank ot six were tied with a deer’s sinew round their necks, their bills pointing outwards; they were pluck’d, but of pen-feathers there plenty remained: the inside was taken out, hut it a ppeared from the soup made of them, that water had not touched them before. The repast being the best I had seen for a long time, I ate of it very heartily, and the entertainment was given with the appearance ot much hospitality. Returned about sunset to Buffalo. May 4th.~The whole of the head-men and warriors repaired to the place, yesterday appointed by Colonel Butler, to open that council they intended holding at the British garrison of Niagara. 1 pressed my friend O’Beel to go forward with them, by all means, lest the United States should not be represented. About eleven o’clock, an Indian runner delivered me a letter from Colonel Butler, through which Captain Houdin and myself received a polite invitation to dine with him and his officers, viz. Captain Burrows, commandant of fort Erie, Colonel Street, Captain Johnson, Captain Powell, and Captain Butler Shane; most of which gentlemen appeared to speak the Indian language fluently, and all appeared to be busily engaged with the parties, holding converse with them. The tenor of which was, as I since understood it, that they must be cautious what they should undertake to do, in such matters as I had laid before them; and before they might determine, they must repair to Niagara, and receive the instructions of Colonel Gordon. Colonel Butler speaking to them, in my hearing, to the same effect, also mentioning. that, as Colonel Brandt, of Grand river, and,Mr. M’Gee, agent for Indian affairs for Detroit, were now preparing to go among the Indians at war with the Americans, to know what their intentions were, whether-for wai; or for peace; advising them by all means to wait the information that would be received from them, and, should it not come as early as might be expected, they should not go without it, as thereby.they would draw war upon their own nations; for they were very angry with them already, and would be more so on finding an American among them; and that, liotbwithstanding his going among them was to establish peace, they would kill them all, without waiting to hear what errand he had come upon. This, and the like conversation, from Colonel Butler, beside what were doing by his officers of the Indian department, then present; lasted till late dinner time, and previous to their going away to their castle at Buffalo. The Young King and lied Jacket remarked to Colonel Butler, that the speech intended for the Miami arid Wabash Indians contained threatening sentences, which would be more likely to irritate them, than soften them into a compliance. Upon this information being given, I undertook to show them to Colonel Butler, and others that were present; that, on the same being_ read publicly, thev acknowledged, that they had not understood it so well before, and appeared satisfied that a mistake rested with them. A considerable conversation took place with Colonel Butler ant! myself, in presence of the Young King and other chiefs, entirely on the subject of a peace, and of my intended progress, through the Miami country, which were severally interpreted to them, the tenor of the Colonel’s advice being, to leave the whole of the treaty, and adjustment of the same, to the chiefs of Buffalo, Colonel Brandt, and M’Gee, whom he should engage for, to accomodate the disputes between the Indians at war and the United States, and on no account to attempt the undertaking myself, as he was well aware what must be the consequence. Colonel Butler having given his opinion so fully, gave' me the opportunity to explain myself, by saying, that, if I possessed weakness enough to submit to a negotiation on the terms be had introduced, that a peace could, not be confirmed with the thirteen States, but with his Britannic Majesty’s subjects, in their behalf; that, on the completion of this business, due honor would rest with the negotiators, and, by such a passive procedure in me, I should justly entail on myself lasting disrepute. That, for those reasons, the chiefs of the Six Nations must be decisive in their answers to me, within a few days, being compelled, by my duty, to seek assistance by other expedients, which are in my power—perceiving in some of their chiefs, an indifference of.conduct in matters which I held to be of the utmost importance. These expressions having been interpreted to them,' they severally retired to their villages, and I received the invitation of continuing the night with those gentlemen,1 and complying with the same, I received the utmost civility and agreeable conversation till one o’clock m the morning. May 5.—This morning. Col. Butler and his suite took boat from hence, which was rowed by six British soldiers across the lake, for fort Erie; and previous to their departure, as before mentioned, 1 saw. that each, and every pub lic paper, received by Coruplanter at Philadelphia, together with the message that I brought to the Six Nations, were,safely put under the care of Col. Butler, and by him to be presented to the commanding officer of Niagara, as concluded upon by the council of the Six Nations, so that the counsel of Col. Gordon might be obtained by them. In the afternoon of this day, I wrote a letter to obtain permission from the commanding-officer of Niagara, to freight one of the schooners upon the lake, to conduct me, and such Indians as were willing to go with me, to Sandusky, in order that no time might be lost when I should gain their concurrence, and forwarded, the same by an Indian, being unwilling to trouble either of the officers with its carriage, to Coi. Gordon; paid him 15s. [See the letter to. Col. Gordon.] May 6.—Red Jacket and Captain O’Beei came to see me, when the former acquainted me with the reason why no council would be held this day, to wit; That it was their pigeon time, in which the Great Spirit had blessed them with an abundance; and that such was ills goodness to the Indians, that he never failed sending them,.season after season; and although it might seem a small matter to me, the Indians will never lose sight of those blessings. This is, therefore, the reason why our men, women, and children, are gone from their towns; out on to-morrow, our headmen will return, and your business again shall be taken up. ’Tis a matter worthy of observation, that at some convenient distance from eveiy of the Indian settlements, the1 pigeons hatch their young in this season of the year, and the trees which they commonly light on, are low, and of the bushy kind, and they are found in such great abundance, that, exceeding a hundred nests, a pair of pigeons in each are. common to be found in a single tree; so that I have seen in one house, belonging to one family, several large baskets full of dead squabs; these they commonly take when they are just prepared to leave their nests, and as fat as is possible for them to be made: when, after they are plucked and cleansed a little, they are preserved by smoke, and laid by for use. May 7.—Captain O’ Bed called the chiefs together on business concerning themselves; to take into consideration where land should be selected for the accommodation of certain tribes and families, who had put themselves under the protection of the Six Nations, being compelled to leave their former situations, dreading the rage of the Shawa-nesc and Miami Indians. To Captain Snake, and the Delawares under his immediate care, the place appointed for them to plant in, was near the village of Cattaragus; to the families.of Connondoghta, a chief oftlie Messasagoes. and to the Bear Oil Chief and his family, who fled from their settlement, Conyatt, all of the same nation, had their planting grounds assigned to them near the village of Buffalo. On the arrival of the Bear’s Oil chief and Connon-uochta at this place, they acquainted me, that, from their friends, they had intelligence, that large bodies of, Indians were assembled at the Miamis, preparing for a descent on some part of our settlements, or garrisons, on or near the Ohio; and that many white people had lately fallen by the hands of the Indians; in which attack, two warriors were lost: arid by the same information they received accounts that war traces were seen leading to fort Pitt. They professed to be very happy in seeing of me, as they had heard it in their own country, the business I bad come, upon. At this meeting advice was received that the Squawky Indians, those of Carrahadeer, and Hishhue. were in fear of our w,hite people, and about to leave their settlements and repair to Buffalo. This account several of the chiefs came to make me acquainted with. Upon which, I told them that such a report had not the least shadow' of truth, for it w'as a well known subject to the inhabitants oftlie Genesee,, that, by my mission, I was sent to the Six Nations as a pledge for the friendship of the Thirteen Fires to them; that whosoever was the author of this bad report, was a great enemy to the Indians, as well as to the whites inhabiting the frontiers, and that, therefore, without loss of time, they should send messengers to advise the Indians of those settlements uot to stir from their property, but to go on with their planting as usual, and that neither our army, nor our militia, dare to disturb the quiet. This my advice was communicated to the council, and Cornpianter was active in forwarding the despatches to them. During this day’s business in their council, it was moved that some of their chiefs, attended by the Farmer’s Brother, should go to Niagara to obtain tlie counsel and assistance of Colonel Gordon; but nothing was determined upon. Mr. Joseph Smith arrived this day from the Genesee, with a message from Coi. Pickering, intimating to the Six Nations that he had received presents.for them from the United States, desiring their attendance at the Painted Post, on the Tioga river, on the loth day of June next. The introductory, part of his address pointed out to them the interview' that he had had with their chiefs at Tioga Point, two years since; that there the mutual friendships between the United States and the Six Nations were entered into; that he was happy to inform them that the chain between them was held fast by the States, and kept free from rust. In his next position, he recommended, to them to keen peaceable in their towns, and by no means to join the Indians who were carrying on a. war against the. United States. I seconded the purport of his speech to them, and advised, in a particular manner, that the whole of their chiefs and warriors, .with their women, would present themselves at Cohockton, on the day, or as near it as possible, and receive, the benefits which \yould be bestowed upon them by the Thirteen Fires; and this the chiefs promised should be attended to., Council this day, as.usualj without, iny. meeting amongst them. Nothing more material. ■> 1 *'  J May 8.—A great dance was performed here this day. and worship, by the Six Nations present; but in the fore part of the day they held councd. and I was present. For the particulars, see the speech of Fish Carrier, a chief of t he Cayugas. and the right hand man of Brandt and Butler. May 9.—The council being convened, 1 replied to the speech of Fish Carrier, delivered yesterday, in which I gave them to understand, that I thought it useless for me to stay any longer with them at, Buffalo, seeing that those who were in the interest of the British' had deterred others of them from serving in the cause of the United States; and that, whatsoever they might have conceived of their conduct throughout this business, that I would lay it in its true colors before General Washington, the President of the United States, that he might be the judge how liar the Six Nations deserved his future attention and care. And here I must inform the chief and head men of the Six Nations, that I have, by your desire, from time to time, overstaid the period limited me to be at fort Washington, being the thirteenth day since my arrival. I therefore call upon you for your final answer to my message, and t cannot doubt but it will be such that will remove all those trouble's from my mind that it has labored under formally days past: and this you must receive as the last talk I have to make to you, unless that something worthy of my attention shall be publicly declared bv your head-men. that can alter the'opinion I now possess. And shall only add, in this place, that it is my fervent desire that the Great Spirit may always preside over the councils of the Six Na ■ tions, and direct all their doings for their lasting happiness. Previous to my leaving the council. Red Jacket and the Young King desired that I would wait their future deliberations, and from a few words which were afterwards spoken to me by Red Jacket in council, gave me the first, reason to expect their assistance. May 10.—W orship was performed this day, as usual. _ May 11.—The great dance that succeeded was attended with a very drunken entertainment, from the Young King to the meanest subject. Corn Planter and some of the elders of the women excepted; but not the least insolence was offered to me. or any of my people. May 12.—There was a general alarm took place in all the villages near this quarter, the cause of it.I had judged proceeded from the enemies of the United States: hut report gave it that there was a large number of Indians approaching the castle of Buffalo, and that one of them had come to a woman the last evening, and showed her two fresh scalps, one of which was a white man's, and the other an Indian's; the last scalp so large, that the ears, with its bobs, remained to it: and that the main object was to make demand of the white persons among them, and of me, in particular, to be surrendered; and should it be denied, they would commence an open war against them. Capt. O'Beel on this feigned alarm: sent out, early in the morning of the 13th, a number of liislndians, to discover if there were the appearance of an enemy’s track; but returned in the afternoon, and reported that there had been no Indians where it had been said they were seen in numbers. Some time in the day, the Young King went to the encampment of die Bear's Oil chief, and. in conversation with him. and many others of the Indians, told them to prepare going for Niagara in the morning, with him and others, to consult with Col. Gordon what was necessary to be done, as I had required an immediate answer from the Six Nations, on my messages to them, and to determine whether they should take the advice of the United States, or the advice of the British. This information I received from Captain Print, an Indian chief, and one of those who accompanied Gen. Sullivan, speaking the English language sufficiently well to be understood. He told me farther, that the British were the mam instigation of my not succeeding hitherto. This led me to call a meeting of the chiefs at my cabin, this evening, and particularly the Young King! to be of the number. Captain Print was present; as also O’Beel. Before them I recounted many principal objects, as the end of my mission to them; and in the clearest and most becoming manner, I showed them where they had failed to perforin, in many instances, all that I required at their hands; and if such had been attended to by them, the United States would be the more liberal in their rewards; hut the contrary having taken place, the more straitened their gifts would be in future; and that the reasons they were now called to the Painted Post, to receive clothing. &c.atthe hand of Col. Pickering, were under the firmest belief of the President of the Thirteen Fires, that we are, at thistime, fin-advanced in the country of the unfriendly Indians, proceeding on our way to the treaty at fort Washington, which is to be held by Gen. St. Clair, Governor of the Western territories. What passed at this interview between me and them, was soon carried for the information of the elders of the women, and was the cause of the awakening the whole of them from their lethargy. Mess expense for four persons, and feed for our horses, commencing 27th April, to 13th May, both days included, £’12 lfU. 7<l’. Information received this day of Mr. Joseph Smith, interpreter, as he had the same from a Mr. John Knowle-, of Detroit, and formerly of the city of Philadelphia, silversmith, viz. that, after the battle which was fought last fall, between Colonel Ilarmar and the Wabash Indians, Stc. great quantities of provisions, ammunition, and other necessaries, were sent to the seat of war, to supply the Indians, and conducted .by a Simon Gcrty, and some other persons, from the garrison of Detroit, said to be of more notoriety than said Gcrty. This being a fact, founded on truth. Quere. Is it not as likely that they are constantly supplied by the same process with every article they stand in need of to carry on war with the United States? And can this be a principle, comporting with the reputation of a brave Briton? I think not. \Ath.~-Private council this day with the Indians, as usual, in which they strongly debated on the principles under consideration between* me and Colonel Butler: the particulars of which are more fully explained in the speech of the Young King, assisted by Fish Carrier, which he delivered in iny hut after candle light. [See subsequent page.] The afternoon of the 9th instant, about 5 o'clock, my interpreter came to inform me, that Mr. William Ewing had called the chiefs to his hut, (as was his custom, unknown to me, almost every afternoon) and that a council fire was lighted in the front of the same; that Fish Carrier, the Farmer’s Brother, and several other chiefs, were present, consulting on the business I have before alluded to. It gave me some concern, that the imprudence of this young man had compelled me to come forward, to silence him; as I saw plainly, and received information also, that the Indians were not able to decide what purpose was intended, by sending two extraordinary messengers to them at one time: being led to believe, that the authority of each was nearly similar. I proceeded to the council fire, and in a short manner introduced my business to the chiefs, of what was the cause that brought me forward to interfere, in the business of their council. Upon this, 1 turned to Mr. Ewing, and charged him with having insidiously thrown obstructions in my way, and was one of the principal causes of my not having succeeded in the purpose of my message to the Six Nations. In consequence of which. I commanded him, in the. presence of the chiefs, at his peril to proceed any farther, in either their public, or their private councils, until my mission was fully decided upon by the chiefs of the Six Nations; and should lie attempt it after this caution, that I should be unpleasingly compelled to commit him to the first prison that could be come at within the United States, and prosecute him, on the obvious reasons before recited. The purport of this conversation with Mr. Ewing, I desired my interpreter to communicate to the chiefs, and upon which I left them-to regale themselves with liquor, placed before them for the occasion. On the Young King's closing his conversation with me for the night, and roundly denying that they would accompany me in person to the Miamies, &c. I took this as the last occasion I should have, to tell those who accompanied him the sentiments of my mind, and assuring them, at the same time, that whatever I should say to the Secretary of War on riiy return, should be identically to the same effect, that I had upon all occasions accosted them; and that, as I scorned deception, I must generously tell them, that I was displeased with their delays, and of the little respect they had paid to the message that I was charged with to their nations. That if the same was well received by the Secretary of War, it would tend to their future advantage; hut that I could not persuade myself would be the case; anil closed our conversation for the night. 15/h.—Early this morning the elders of the Indian women resorted to my hut. (present a number of chiefs.) Having heard the general conversation that took place between me and the Young King the evening before, addressed me in the following manner. “Brother: The Lord has spared us until a new day to talk together: for, since you came here from General Washington, you. and our uncles, the sachems, have been counselling together. Moreover, your sisters, the women, have taken the same into great consideration, because that you and our sachems have said so much upon it. Now, that is the reason why we have come to say something to you, and to tell you, that the Great Spirit hath preserved you, ^and you ought to hear and listen to what we women shall speak, as well as to the sachems; for we are the owners of this land—and it is ours; for it is we that plant it, for our and their use. Hear us, therefore, for we speak of things that concern us and our children, and you must not think hard of us, while our men shall say more to you : for we have told them.” The above speech being ended, I acceded to a request they made, that I would attend their sachems in council this day, and hear what should be said by the women’s speaker, the young prince of the Turtle tribe, (Red Jacket.) Soon after their departure the alarm gun was fired, which was their signal to call their head-men into council. They were soon assembled from their adjacent villages, and sent some of their sachems to usher me and my colleague into their assembly. Being arrived, the first matter unusual that presented itself, were the elders of the women seated near their chiefs. When, after a short silence, the speech of the women was continued by Red Jacket, agreeably to the terms entered into between them, and the whole of the leading sachems of the six nations, as follows. '“ Brother from Pennsylvania: You that are sent from General Washington, and by the Thirteen Fires; you have been sitting side by side with us every day, and the Lord has appointed us another pleasant day to meet again. Now, listen, Brother: You know what we have been doing so long, and what trouble we have been at; and you know that it has been the request of our head warrior (O’Beel) that weare left to answer for our women, who are to conclude what ought to be done by both sachems and warriors. So hear what is their conclusion. Brother, the business you have come on is very troublesome, and we have been a long time considering on it, ever since you came here; and now the elders of our women, considering the greatness of your business, have said that our sachems and warriors must help you over your difficulties, for the good of them and their children. Moreover, you tell us, since the treaty at Tioga with us, tlie Americans are strong for peace. Now, all that has been done for you has been done by our women, and the rest w ill be a hard task for us:-for the / people at the setting sun are bad people, and you have come on us in too much haste for such great matters of importance. And now, brother, you must look when it is light in the morning until the setting sun, and you must reach your neck over the land, and take all the light you can, to show the danger. And this is the words of our women to you, arid the sachems and warriors who shall go with you. And now we shall name them, as they have first presented themselves in this full council, viz: Our first great sacheni Kuyascetta, Red Jacket, the young prince of the Turtle tribe, Captain John, of the Onandagoes, the Grand Carrier, Awangogathe. [The foregoing are four chiefs of six, who were appointed to conduct me into the country of the unfriendly Indians. The names of the other two"grand chiefs were at the same time given, but, by some accident, not inserted.] And now we will name our chief warriors, viz: Sawishua, Cuyanddoas, Unundastheuous, Thenachqua, Conneague, Tenanquachqua, Othanjohngottang, Hottende-youcke, and Attwanikea. . Now, brother from Pennsylvania and from General Washington, I have told you what has been directed. Let us, therefore, throw all care on the mercy of our Great Keeper, in hopes that he will assist us. You now know that Col. Butler, of the British, told us that he must take our writings down to Col. Gordon, as he is a very wise man, and perhaps he may have something to say to us that is for our good. And we also want his assistance, as he is the man that keeps all the vessels that is on the lake. Therefore, my brother, make vonr mind easy, for your request is granted, and when we hear from our brothers the British, then we shall know what time we can start. And you must not be uneasy that our brother O’Beel does not go with you. for he is very tired, and he must rest awhile, and take charge of our young warriors while they are playing, (hunting) to keep them in peuce, for fear of danger. And now, while we are speaking, more of our young warriors have given their names to go with you.” Having received this welcome information, and so firmly authenticated by so complete a council, I undertook to write a second letter to Col. Gordon, commandant of Niagara, making request of him to grant me a passage in one of the merchant or other vessels on lake Erie, for a certain number of Indians, and others, intended to accompany me to the Miamies, and from thence to fort Washington, on the Ohio; and, the better to prevent any miscarriage or delay, I sent it by Mr. Horatio Jones, my interpreter, on the morning of the 16th, enjoining him by all means to present it to the colonel himself, and to return with an answer to me as speedily as possible. [See the letter.] Early on the morning of the 17th he crossed the river St. Lawrence to Niagara, and, being we]] acquainted there, he went through any part of the garrison he thought proper, until about ten o’clock, when he went to the commandant to present my letter. Mr. Jones informed me, that, as soon as it was known that he was charged with a public message from me, the town major had orders to put an orderly non-commissioned officer to attend him, and to prevent his going through the garrison, or of holding any particular conversation with the inhabitants. And, as soon as Col. Gordon sent to him the answer of my letter, he was ordered to return to Buffalo by the same route he had came; and the orderly conducted him to the ferry where he had crossed in the morning, and returned, on the 19th, to me at Buft’alo. .... The answer which Col. Gordon sent in his letter was, that, as he had not seen those public documents that I had wrote him of, therefore he could not enter into a discussion with me on matters of a public nature, viewing me only in the line of a private agent; nor was he authorized to permit me a passage for the Indians I proposed carrying to Sandusky, in any of the vessels on the lake. [See his letter.] This unfriendly denial puts a stop to the further attempting to go to the Miamies, as the Indian chiefs who proposed to accompany me were unable to walk the distance, required, and it was held by them unsafe to go in a large Albany boat I had contracted for, fearing disappointments: as, to gain a harbor for such a boat in case of rough water, it could not be met with at times, under going the distance of tw elve or fifteen miles, and all winds from the northeast and northwest and northerly, made the lake very turbulent, and the waters as rough as the ocean. While Mr. Jones continued at Niagara, six engineers and twenty-five or more artificers arrived there from Quebec, being sent by Lord Dorchester for the purpose of carrying on some works of fortifications. He likewise saw that fresh work had been done to the face of the garrison, &c. I have likewise been informed that the British have laid the foundation -of a new fortress on the north side of lake Erie, at some distance higher up the rapids, and, I presume, (beyond the range of thirteen inch shells) from the present garrison; it being very evident they cannot, in justice, maintain it much longer. The reason of their establishing of new garrisons on the lakes is very obvious, they being intended for the support of the fur trade, which produces abundance of wealth yearly to Great Britain. But this revenue will, I hope, very soon be decreased, on the surrender of the fort of Detroit, the key of the fur trade by tin; lakes, and such posts as may be established by the United States in the Western territory, near the Mississippi, and also in the.Wabash country, ami by the Government of Pennsylvania, at the old French garrison of Presqu' Isle; which will invite most of the. trade from the Grand river, that empties itself into lake Erie, on the north side, and at a small distance from that beautiful station of as-fertile lands as America produces, of a pure air, and a healthful climate. During the absence of my interpreter, twelve of the chiefs, headed by the Young King, came to the store-house on the lake, (at which place I was writing my despatches for the Secretary of War) and informed me that they understood that I had intentions of going away secretly from them in the night, and that I had proffered an extraordinary price for a horse for that purpose, and had likewise offered a large sum of money to an Indian to carry my letters to Pittsburg. I then inquired who was their informant that I had communicated these things to. They answered that John Berry, an Indian, who interpreted for Mr. Ewing, had told them so, and they had come toknow my reason for so doing. I replied, that such a thought had not passed my mind; and that, if I had had such intentions, why should I have sent my interpreter to Niagara, to obtain a vessel to conduct me and them to the place I so earnestly and so constantly had solicited them to accompany me? And that, were. 1 disposed to leave them in that manner, I should not have sold my horse yesterday to their trader, Mr. Winney; and the sole reason of my having sold him, was, that we could not take a horse by water to Sandusky: for, when there, we should have the utmost occasion lor them, having to travel a long distance on foot. But the mistake or wrong interpretation rested on this point: My intentions of going by water, as above related, prompted me to engage one of O’Beel’s Indians, whom I believed to be an honest man, to carry my letters to fort Franklin; and, as well as having ottered him certain payment for his services, I had proposed to him a horse to carry him to the New Arrow’s town, where the horse belonged, and the rest of the way he might go by water, if he chose to do so. Moreover, to speak in their own language, I was more of a man than to leave my friends in that manner; and that, whenever I was about to go from them, i should tell them so, and take my leave of the Six Nations. Having so said to them, 1 gave them a treat, and they returned to the towns fully pleased and satisfied. May 17.—Red Jacket and other of the chiefs informed me that my friends in the different towns expected that I would give them something to drink, as they were going to have a great dance before they should leave their women. J readily accepted his proposition, and ordered eight gallons of the best spirits to be presented them for the entertainment, and I desired that the women should be attended to particularly, for their valuable conduct in the last great council. 18th and 19th.—I was engaged in preparing my despatches for the Secretary of War, and other letters of the same import, for Governor St. Clair, and I proposed to forward them by the way of New Arrow's town, thence to fort Franklin and Pittsburg, and appointed Captain Stingfish, of New Arrow’s town, to be the bearer, whose wife was the principal governess and leader of the chiefs among the women, and the principal promoter in gaining the sachems over to my interest. It is well known to every person entrusted with a public commission among the Indians, that they are expected to possess a liberal hand. Red Jacket, whom we have often spoken of, waited on me this morning, to tell me that his house wanted a floor; that, as he was going with me. and desirous to leave his family more comfortable in his absence, he expected that I would have it done for him. Moreover, he wanted some rum for his wife and his mother; and, that he might drink with them before he set out on his intended journey, he wanted a little for himself. The first request, of laying his floor, 1 promised to have done immediately before our going on board the vessel; and to make him and his wife cheerful at parting, gave orders to present him with one gallon of rum. The Young King was not less pressing in his request for rum, on various occasions; and although he did not behave so well in their councils as I desired. I did not send them away empty handed, sound policy having dictated my motives. And, as I perceived that Captain O'Beel’s modesty prevented his calling on me in that way, to him and Cuyaratta I was not less liberal. To a Shawanee Indian, named Chaludet. (or Hot Sun) one of the chiefs appointed to conduct me into the Shawanee country, I gave a blanket, being entreated by him in a particular manner to furnish him. for which I gave 18s. 9c/. This afternoon, and immediately after Mr. Jones’arrival from Niagara, the Young King, atid the major part of the chiefs, came to be acquainted what was the result of Colonel Gordon's answer to me, upon which I informed them to meet me in general council in the morning, being desirous of communicating some matters of consequence to them, and then they should be informed of the contents of his letter. About this time, I received information, that, about eight days since, Colonel Brandt had set out from the Grand river, with about forty warriors, to touch at Detroit, to take with him Mr. McGee, agent for Indian affairs in that district, from thence, to proceed to the great encampment of those Indians at war with the United States: and by those who are professed friends of the British family, believed that his motives were not to pacify them, but to inflame their minds to a more vigorous opposition. 20th.—According to my proposals of yesterday, I met them in general council, introduced and explained the substance of Colonel Gordon’s letter to me, apprising them that I was sensible of the cause that led him to give me such a denial; that it was replete with envy in him towards the United States. And it spoke no great affection in him towards the Indians, ami that, ultimately, it must reflect on his name and station, the unfavorable epithet of a discernible'public, as preferring to cherish the rage of the desolating sword of war, to the happiness which flows in such abundance through the channels of peace. And perceiving from those causes, that nothing farther can be done by us at this time, I must take my leave of the Six Nations, and return with my information to the chiefs that sent me, to whose attention I will recommend them, seeing that no fault at this time lays at their door. Having placed the whole of our disappointment to the fount from whence it came, and to-morrow being the day I propose moving hence, 1 have now to desire that the chiefs will prepare to deliver me their farewell speech, which I will duly communicate to the Great Chief of the Thirteen Fires, and hope that it may be done soon to-morrow. 21s/.—'The whole of the chiefs resorted to my cabin, and the Young King, by appointment, gave their farewell speech, but not without the aid of Fish Carrier, whose physiognomy, when speaking, put me in remembrance of the old Roman senators, possessing so much keen gravity in his manner. [For the conclusive speech of the Farmer’s Brother, see subsequent page.] Settled with Mr. Cornelius Winney, for liquors, &c. had for the Indians occasionally, £26 os', deducting 32 dollars for a horse sold to him, bought of M r. Maxwell, at Tioga. Also, gave a white prisoner that lived with said Winner, 9.s. 4'id. Having now all matters arranged. I delivered to Captain Houdin all the public writings I had prepared for his Excellency the Secretary of War, and sent him by the Genesee, in company with Messrs. Smith and Ewing, residents of said place, (in the several villages adjacent to the castle of Buffalo, to wit: the Senecas, the Cayugas, the Onamiagos, Nc. there arc more than.170 tolerable well-built huts,) and proceeded by the verge of the lake for Caitaragus, with my interpreter and servant, where we arrived on the 22d. Paid tor the hire of two horses hither, and time for returning, 45s. The reason of my taking the route for Pittsburg, was, that I was apprehensive that my letters might have been intercepted, had I put them into the hands of the Indian before named, and taken to a British garrison for inspection; and that my conducting them myself, might give me the opportunity of meeting with General St. Clair, or Colonel Butler, and giving them personal information of such matters as might not have been treated on in my letter. Having found myself fully disposed.to make a forced march to Pittsburg, though latein theafternoon, 1 hired fresh horses,and an Indian, to go to New Arrow’s town and to_ return, for which I paid eight dollars; and for a supply of stores from a British trader, 16s. lO.jd. I arrived at the New Arrow's town on the 24th, in the evening, (distance 80 miles) having encamped out in the woods the two preceding nights. I had no sooner arrived, than the chiefs were summoned to council by the sound of a conch shell, which was intended for nothing more than to take their leave of me. Here I parted with my interpreter, for him to return to the Genesee country, the place of his residence, and accounted with him for sixty-one days sen ices, allowing him six days to return, at IOjS. per day, a balance appearing in his favor of £24 13s. l'±d. \ gave him my obligation to pay the same at sight, in Philadelphia; and at a late settlement with the paymaster-general of the United States, 1 left the same, together with £18 payable to Messrs. Ilollinbeck & Maxwell, fora small horse received of them at Tioga Point, and £7 10s. to the payment of my draft on the Secretary of War, to Joseph Smith, Indian interpreter. Previous to my leaving this town, 23d of April last, 1 was obliged to send my own riding horse to the Genesee settlement, it being impossible to procure forage or corn for him, and at which place he has remained ever since, at expenses. Not having it in my power of doing otherwise, and whether the same will be allowed for to me, I must submit to the judgment of the Secretary of War. Being in private conversation this evening with Captain O'Beel, and sitting between him and the New Arrow sachem, I hinted to Captain O'Beel, that if he would go and join General St. Clair with 35 or 40 of his warriors, as well equipped as he could make, them, purely to counterbalance the force that Brandt had taken with him to the unfriendly Indians, 1 would use endeavors with the Secretary of War to procure him a commission that should yield to him and his people a handsome stipend. He replied that the Senecas had received a stroke from the bad Indians, by taking two prisoners, a woman and a boy, from Conyatt, and that, should the hatchet be struck into the head of any of his people hereafter, he would then inform me what lie would undertake to do. I hired a canoe and two Indians this evening, to carry me to fort Franklin, and should have set out immediately, but for a heavy rain that fell. I agreed to pay them §4 SO, and a proportion of whiskey, when we should reach the garrison, and provisions to bring them back. I arrived the next morning by daylight at fort Franklin, took breakfast with Lieutenant Jeffers, had a canoe prepared with four fresh hands put into it, and after having adjusted my engagements with the Indians brought from New Arrow’s town, pushed off as speedily as lay in our power lor fort Pitt, (distance about 156 miles by water) and gained the same in 25 hours, the men having worked hard all night to complete it, and assisted myself, for which I paid extra to each, one'dollar, and one dollar for entertainment at Pittsburg, having completed in five days and two nights, going by land and water from Buffalo to this place, 411 miles. Expenses at Pittsburg to the 29th, 40s. 4d. To servant’s wages, engaged at Venango, April 8th, 52 days, at Ss. 9d. per day, as per receipt, is £9 15s. To Horatio Jones’ expenses going to Niagara with my letter, and returning, 46s.'10irl. Set out from Pittsburg to Philadelphia, oil the evening of the 29th of May, and arrived the 7th day of June. Expenses from Pittsburg hither, £7 14s. od.; and for the keeping of a horse employed in public service, and for stabling in Philadelphia, and returning the horse to James Smith, Esq. Cumberland county, 40s. Philadelphia, June 8, 1791. Sir: ' - I left the castle of the Six Nations of Indians, at Buffalo creek, the 21st of the last month, in the afternoon, the forepart of the day being spent in council with the chiefs of the above nations, of which there were a full representation; and, by the following, as delivered by the Young King and the Farmer’s Brother, will evidence their friendly disposition towards the United States, in maintaining with them an inviolable peace; as, also, with the Briiish, as, from the situation of their nations, they are centrally placed between them. . The same day I sent forward my despatches for your Excellency, under the care of Captain Houdin by the route of Wyoming, while I should proceed by the way of forts Franklin and Pittsburgh, with the letters I had written for the information of General St. Clair, and arrived here yesterday afternoon. It is also with pleasure I inform you that, as to the several posts on the Alleghany river, &c. they were under no apprehensions of danger from the unfriendly Indians, and were in good health and high spirits. I am your Excellency’s most obedient servant, THOMAS PROCTER. The Honorable Secretary of War. The speech of Little Beard, April Is/, 1791. ■ Brother of the Thirteen Fires, hear what we have to say to you: The Lord has spared us this day to meet together, and for you to let us know what has been done at Philadelphia, a few days ago, for our nation. You say our.lands are secured for us, and that the grant given by the Great Chief, General Washington, will last as long as the sun goes over us. That is the reason why we give you great thanks, our lands being secured to our children’s children. And great reason we have for doing so. Every one of us will wish well to your Great Chief Honandaganius, (or General Washington) and .our women and our children will thank him, and will look up to him as a strong sun for protecting of the right of their lands to them forever. And you tell us that there is a great paper in the hands of O’Beel for us. Now we want you to shew with your finger how large the lands are which are given to us. [Here I named to them certain grants to lands which they had made to the States of Massachusetts, New York, and Pennsylvania, &c.] Captain O' Beel's speech nt Fort Franklin, Jlpril 9th, 1791. We have met our brother here, and I believe lie remembers what we said at Philadelphia: that we would try our friends once more, viz. the Wyandotts; as there were bad people among them, advising to use the hatchet. There wTe said it would be well for one man to go with us from the United States, in order to hear what we should say to them. ’ Now the Lord has spared us to this day, to meet our brother, that has been sent from the Thirteen Fires, and to i join our hands with his to have justice done. And wre should have been glad that he were with us on our way to Pittsburg, for then our wagons would not have been stopped, our goods taken, and our liquors drank, and that by people whom we thought to be our friends. And when we had got to Pitt, more and great trouble began on us by the bad men of the Big Knife. ■ For when we had started from Pitt, with all our goods and writings with us, to shew what we had done for our nation, the white people and our friends seized upon the garrison boat, belonging to French creek, w-hich had our goods in, and several canoes, and forcibly took them back to Pittsburg, and there deprived us of all that'was necessary for the comfort of our women and children; and w e are sick' for them. And now we wrait here to know from our runners, if any thing is left for us; and then we are ready to shew you the road. In one part of General Washington’s speech to us, he gives us to choose v'hether we will go by land or water; and it affords us great pleasure, as we shall choose for the best and safest,‘as there are bad men on the wray. Now the chiefs of our nations here have made their choice, and we must go to Buffalo, where our head-men are waiting for us, and where the council fire has been long lighted and put out again. And we must light it the next, and that will be soon. There wre shall finish our minds, and have good plain faces wheresoever w e turn against those bad men, and we shall be strong. Our friendsent by General Washington must not think hard by our requesting of him to wait for us. For this is the last speech the unfriendly people can have. And it is a heavy matter. And we must take time to do the business well and sure. 'Now we shall send a runner right off, where the great fire is to be lighted at Buffalo, so that our great men of the different tribes may assemble all their people. And when there, we shall be able to tell you what number of Indians are going to accompany you to the Miamies. And he can write to General Washington of every particular of which our brother wishes to send. . „< And now we have determined to start from here in the morning, although we have left all our papers behind-us. But we shall leave some of our young men to bring them after us to the council at Buffalo creek. This is all we have to say at this time, but to leave the business we have here to do with our brother and the commanding officer of the fort, (o obtain our goods, &c. which your peo'ple have deprived us of. And we hope you will now send for them, as we are now goinji away. Now we want to know if our speech is pleasing to our brother, who will shew what we have said to General Washington: for we again say we must go by water. And with all our friends being with us we shall be.strong. Buffalo Creek. Speech of Thyogasa, Chief of the Senecas, at Cattarugm, near Luke Erie, as delivered 9.5th April. Some time ago there came messages into our country, that our people should meet at Buffalo creek, and then they should hear of our head-men from Philadelphia, what they had from the council of the Thirteen Fires; About this time they had got to fort Pitt. And wre heard there was a great man, and a Frenchman corning, also from Philadelphia, in great fear, trying to make peace. . Then we thanked God. The next express^ said that our head-men and those from Philadelphia were coming on the waters together, to have the great council fire lighted at Buffalo, and we that live here sent on the express, and gave great thanks to our Great Keeper. Now that you and they have arrived here, and have shewed your faces at our council fire in trouble and fear, we give great thanks again to the Great Spirit for keeping you and our chiefs from the trouble.that befel others coming o this place. Now tell the man from Philadelphia to pity ns children, for we are fearful. And we say to you, that will open your throats, that you may speak fair ami clear to us without any hard thoughts, when you get to our great council tire of the full nations, that you may deliver any message you are sent upon, from the great chiefs at Philadelphia. Besides, now we open your ears to hear any thing which may be said by us, and hear the same in peace. Brother: These are the few words we have to make known to you. And give thanks to God for our safe meeting this day together, our brothers and our chiefs. [This speech being ended, Thyogasy handed to me a belt of wampum of three strings, and then continued his discourse as follows:] Brother: This is our custom, to make a small speech on seeing our friends, but Buffalo is the place where you must speak, and at that place matters must be talked over in peace and quietness, and of which tell all people to be careful. Now wipe the tears from your eyes, and make your throat clear, so that you may be understood. The speech of Red Jacket before the Great Council at Buffalo, April 9.7th, as an introduction to the business of the day, addressing himself to me. Brother: Listen! It is usual for us to speak: and to you we do it as to a brother that has been absent a long time. Now we all speak to you, and to our head warrior that left us last fall: and we thank the Great Spirit for his and your safe arrival here, as you are together, hand in hand, from Honandaganius, (General Washington) upon great business. You have travelled long, with tears in vour eyes, upon account of the bad roads, and bad season of the year. Besides the disturbances between the bad Indians, and our brothers, the white people, every thing has been trying to prevent your coming, and to stop your business, and to lose the way. Thus the big waters might have stopped your coming, and the wars might have stopped you, ami sickness might have stopped you: for we cannot know what is to happen us until it comes upon us. So, therefore, we thank the Great Spirit who has preserved you from such dangers that might have hindered us from hearing of the good news which you and our head warrior have opened to us. But how could it be that any thing bad could have happened to you, while you have such important business to transact, as we understand you have come on? You must now wipe away those fears occasioned by all the great dangers you have come through. And now we set you upon a seat where you can sit up strait—on, a seat where you are secure from the fears of your enemies; where you can look round and see all your friends and brothers in peace. Besides, you have come along, with your heart and your throat stopped up, to secure all that you had to say in your body. But now we open your heart with your brother's hands, and we run our fingers through to open your mouth, to speak clear, and not to be molested. Your ears also have been stopped by Honandaganius until you should see your brothers at this place, being spared by the Great Spirit to arrive safe. Now open your ears to hear what your brothers may say after you have made your speech. This is. therefore, the compliment of the chiefs and head-men of Buflalo creek, to you and our great warrior (O'Beel) and you may, each of you, go on safely with your business. Monday. May 8th.—In full council. The speech of Fish Carrier, a chief of the Cayugas, and the right hand man of Butler and Brandt, as may appear from the following, addressed to me: Brother: This day you have met again with your brothers in peace: a day prov ided by the Great Spirit for you and them to sit together, and talk over the business you have been sent to perform by General Washington, the Thirteen Fires, and for which you are to come to our council; and likewise, to hear us with regard to the people (the bad Indians) on the other side of your body, toward the setting sun. Here you have made your business known, and to all the chiefs and warriors, who met every day; and now they understand the same, because they have taken due notice. Therefore, you shall hear what we have determined upon by all of us, for we all had a hand in it, or it would not be strong. Now, Brother: We shall say more to what General Washington sent you for. and to tell you, that our head warrior (O'Beel) our nephew, has done tilings which we know nothing of; and it seems to us, that he has requested that this business should go forward without our consent. Neither do we know you in this matter; and were we to undertake to help you, we do not know what might happen before we went far with you, as that might be the cause of our country being destroyed, or broken up by the mad people. Now we tell you, as we told you before, that we have met on your business, and that the one-half is not for peace. So we look at the man that has been sent to the Shawancse (Brandt) and we have sent to see how matters go at their council fire. We must, therefore, see his lace, for we can’t determine until we know what they are about. So we beg of you to grant our request; to keep your mind easy; for we who do this business, look on you, and hold ourselves to be slaves in making of peace. Now we all say, you must look for C. Brandt’s coming, to hear the words thpt come from his mouth, for then we can say to you, what towns will be for peace; and this is all we have to say to you at this time. Upon this I told the council, that, in the morning, I would give them my talk, in answer to what had been said this day, and immediately return, with what they had spoke in their council, to the Great Chief that had sent me. Captain O'Beel then told them, in council, what would be the consequence to the Five Nations, and publicly declared to accompany me, if no other chiefs would attempt it. For further particulars, 1 beg leave to refer to the continuation of my letter of the 4th of May. The speech of Conyandoeta, an Onandago Chief addressed to the council of the Six Nations, through ichich he explained the dangers which attended on him and his people, should they remain at Concyat. Brothers: There is a great deal of danger at this place, for we are told by the enemy, the Missesagoes, that we must come to their side, or else we wont live long. But, said I, we turned our face once, and you did not pay us the compliment to call us to council with you, or even to shake hands' with us. Now, we turn our face to this council, and you must prepare a place for us when we come; for we mean to be true to the promise we make to you. [On the close of this speech, four strings of wampum were presented, a mixture of black and white.] The speech of Bear's Oil, a Chief, to the same effect as the above, Messasagoes. Brothers: who, with his people, are in danger of the Now hear me a little. I am a Messesago chief, belonging to the Six Nations. I, and my people, are in great danger, because. I have been the entire instigation of saving the white settlers at Coneyatand Cassacago: for I told them of the danger they were in, as I heard the Red Indians say they were bound lor that place, and that they intended to murder them. Moreover, that if I did not come away to them, I should die, for that was the onlv way to save my life; and that, should I attempt to go to the Six Nations, they would meet me on the way and kifl me. For they say, if they meet with any of the Six Nations, they will strike them. But I have not listened to them. 1 have come to you, and you must have a place ready for me to sit down when I come with my people. These matters, 1 take the liberty of communicating to your Excellency, in order to shew you, the Six Nations themselves profess, that they are not secure from the anger of the Indians who are unfriendly to the United State*. Buffalo Creek, May 5,1791. Sir: Although I have not the honor of a personal acquaintance, I am, notwithstanding, emboldened to address you, by letter, and through the same to inform you, that I am the person charged with certain messages from his Excellency the Secretary of War, for the United States, to the Six Nations, and other tribes of Indians, residing near Lake Erie, &c. One of those messages are particularly sent to the tribes now unhappily at war with the Americans, and with whom, it is the ardent desire of General Washington, the President, that peace should be established, on the most lasting terms of equity and justice to them. My mission is, therefore, to invite them to a treaty with Governor St. Clair, on the Ohio, not far from the country they inhabit. The better to effect so desirable an object, proposals were made to the President, in January last, by certain chiefs, who came on business of the Six Nations to Philadelphia, viz: That they would appoint in their councils, certain of their head-men, to accompany such gentlemen as might be sent into the country of those misguided people, to bring them to terms of amity with the thirteen States. This, sir, you will discover, on reading the Secretary of War’s letters to the Six Nations, and committed to my care. It will be handed to you by the Young King,-with other public papers, which were delivered Captain O’Beel, for the better information of the nations concerned. I have, therefore, to entreat you. to conceive the most favorable sentiments on the meaning and intent of those public instruments of writings, as they are founded on the principles of humanity, and a regard for the well-doing of our fellow men; and I cannot doubt, but the same motives will invite you to assist in so laudable an undertaking: the effects of which, will establish happiness to the British subjects of Canada, &c. as well as to the United States. The favor that I here request at your hand, is to permit me to charter one of your vessels, in the lake, for such number of Indians, &c. who may accompany me to Sandusky, on Lake Erie. So far as my request meets your approbation, I shall receive much pleasure, by your signifying the same by a few lines to, Sir, your most humble servant, THOMAS PROCTER. Col. A. Gordon, Commandant of Fort Niagara, Brother: May 14th, 1791. The Speech of the Farmer Brother, or the King. The last summer was the time we had our last talk with the Shawanese, and'then we tried to make peace in their minds, but they would not listen to us. They named to us their great chief of the Shawanese, called the Little Hoope, who told them, that all the nations beyond them to the setting sun, being in number forty-eight large towns, were all under arms, and that Little Hoope said they would beat peacewith the Long Knife. So that when peace was put in their heads, and that we had returned home, then the great light was had between them and the Virginians, the Long Knife, and that made their determinations stronger for war than ever, because they had kil led many oi their people, and hurt their nations. And after this, we tried and told the Americans to be at peace and quietness. So we concluded to send some body again, to know what they were doingamong the bad Indians, so that we might judge, and we consented to send a chief to them, with whom they were acquainted. And upon that determination, as we told you before, we sent Capt. Brandt, so that he might know how many people were bent for war, or how many nations were not so hard for war, so that we might judge whether it was worth while to try again to make peace. That is the reason why we asked you, the other day, to attend our council tire, until you should see his mouth yourself, when he should tell us all that was doing in that country. And that is the reason why we are afraid of our brother, for we know that they wont receive you in peace, for it is their determination as we hear. We tell you again, that one of the same mind with us is gone to speak to those people, and we want to hear him as much as General Washington does, and we pay all attention to wnat he has laid before us; and now our opinion is, we must go alone and try to make peace ourselves; and that is the reason we dont want you to go with us; for this is the outermost edge\ of the bad people’s settlement; and were we to take you by the hand, and go together, we must instantly meet with a great loss, which would make war on both sides, and we should be killed. Now; we will tell you the reason why [/ they refuse to make peace, is, that General St. Clair struck the bad Indians, while they were Blinking of making peace with the Americans; and this is the reason to try ourselves, to make them hear by our chief, that is gone before us; and that will be the time for General Washington to light his fires, when he knows they are determined for peace, and we, the Six Nations, are strong for it. Therefore, tell General Washington to hold back his warriors a little, and let his intention be strong for peace, and God will assist the Americans to make it up; Now the Six Nations give great thanks to General Washington, that his mind is so strong ior peace, and the Six Nations look to him tor peace. Therefore, the sachems and head-men of our nations have come to you this evening, to tell you that you shall not go with them into the towns of the enemy Indians. Buffalo Creek, May 15, 1791. Sm: The 5th instant I had the pleasure of addressing my first letter to you, and delivered the same to the care of Capt. W. Print, an Indian, to be presented by him, but having received no answer since, I presume it has miscarried through some neglect. The purport of it was, to be permitted a passage in one of the vessels on Lake Erie, for such number of Indians and white men, destined to accompany me to some convenient port on the west end of the lake. The mission I am charged with, is directed to the Indians, now unhappily at war with the United States, with desires to reclaim them to a peaceable demeanor, before certain destruction overtakes, which is now pending over them. Mr. Horatio Jones will deliver you my letter, and wait your answer, which I hope will be to the granting of my request. And whatsoever expense may accrue upon this occasion, I shall most cheerfully satisfy the same with the commander; and subscribe myself, Sir, your most obedient, and most humble servant, THOMAS PROCTER. Col. A. Gordon, Commandant of Fort Niagara, 4’c> Niagara, May IS, 1791. Sir: A few days ago I had your letter of the 5th instant, to which I should have returned an immediate answer, had I not waited for some public papers, which you wrote were to be handed to me by the Farmer’s Brother, and other chiefs, who were to wait upon me, to receive my advice on business of importance. They have, however, as yet, never made their appearance at this post. I think it but proper to give you this explanation of my not having sooner replied to your letter; but as there is no document which places you in any other light than a private agent, I cannot enter into any discussion of a public nature. Whenever any of the chiefs of the Senecas; or others ot the Six Nations, apply to me for counsel, I shall give them such advice as I conceive best suits with the present situation of affairs. As to that part of your letter which requests to be permitted to freight one of the vessels on Lake Erie, to carry you, and such Indians as may be inclined to accompany you, to Sandusky, on the west side of the lake, I beg leave to inform you, that I am not authorized to comply with your request I am, sir, your most obedient humble servant, A. GORDON. Colonel Procter. The speech of (he Young King of the Six Nations, on my leaving of Buffalo Creek, May 21, 1791. Brothers: W e are called together this day by the appointment of yesterday, to hear what answer has been sent to your letter, from the commanding officer of Niagara. And the same having been made known to us. we find that you are disappointed in your expectations of getting a vessel, in which we were to go with you toward the unfriendly Indians; and that, therefore, you would return by the way of Fort Pitt. You have also said, that you do not blameus, but that you blame the British; and that, therefore, we should be easy in our minds, and be at peace with the United States. You have also mentioned a letter, which came from General St. Clair to us, and what answer we should give to th.e same, so that Colonel Butler, at Pittsburg, might be informed by you. The answer of our lighting, as requested by General St. Clair: On seeing how your troops should act against the enemy Indians, you must listen, and hear what is the full determination of all the sachems and warriors of the Six Nations; what they have determined upon, and that in a few words, for Col. Butler, to be sent to General St. Clair. Now, the answer is, that we are desirous of complying with the instructions ot his first letter, sent to Cuyasatta, our great chief for the Six Nations; namely, that we must sit still, and not to mind any other business but peace; and those were the words of his letter. Moreover, last fal I it. was told to us by Col. Pickering, that the Six Nations must take no notice of any thing, but what tended to be peaceable; for that would be an advantage to our nations, and nothing else. So that, ever since, we have conformed to these instructions, in not interfering in any matter that has another tendency; for with the British we are at peace, according to their request of us; and we are the same with the Americans. And should the unfriendly Indians come forward to seek peace by us, we will help to do so: and we are desirous ourselves of remaining peaceable. The reason why we now tell you these things, is, that we are neither on the one side, or on the other; whether of the British, or of the Americans; for we desire to be still, and to be at peace with both. Here, brother, we speak to you on another matter, that has respect to the Six Nations. General Washington, the great chief, has kindled a fire at the Painted Post; and this, we expect, is done for the sake of peace: for he has called all the nations, from the Grand river to the Oneidas. And it is our desire to attend the same, at the time , tell Colonel Butler, at Pittsburg, that we .cannot attend, according to the request of General St. Clair: for we shall attend the treaty at the Painted Post, where the fire is lighted by General Washington, and at that, place all matters we here related shall then be talked over again. In this, brother, you have heard the sense of the Six Nations, and our sentiments are firm and strong: for. amongst us, there is not one deficient. This is, therefore, the close of this speech, as w-e want to talk over other matters which concern the errand that you have come to us upon, and which we can't go through with, because we can't speak to the Indians, that reside towards the setting sun. But w'e have told you, that we have sent Captain Brandt, to know their opinion: and we have always wanted you to stay with us until his return, to know what is the minds of those people towards the Thirteen Fires. We. nave also told you, that w’e shall take the same into consideration, as we want to speak to them once more, on terms of peace: for our mind is the same as when you first came amongst us, and we are desirous of seeing Captain Brandt return; and when we hear that those people will incline to peace, we will help it. and try to bring the same, to elfect. And should Captain Brandt be here before‘we go for the Painted Post, whatever their intentions are, we shall make the same known; and if for peace, the one half of our chiefs shall go to the unfriendly Indians, and the other half, with our women and children, shall attend the treaty before named; and the same information shall be sent, to fort Pitt, for the information of Col. Butler, as you have requested of us. This, therefore, is all that we have to say to you at. this time, and are desirous that you may go whither you intended. Sir: Thus far, I have attempted to delineate the several events and progress of my tour, among the Six Nations of Indians,,&c. And although the commissions you were pleased to honor me with were not so completely accomplished as wished for, I nevertheless enjoy a conscious evidence, that, in no instance, have I omitted to put in practice such means as I conceived to be the most conducive to that end. I have the honor to be, your Excellency’s most humble servant, THOMAS PROCTER. Major General H. Knox, SecreUtry of IVar. proposed. Therefore Instructions to Colonel 'Timothy Pickering. Sir: The Vice President of the United States, and the Heads of the Departments of State, who are empowered thereto by the President of the United States, having determined it to be expedient, at this time, that the Six Nations of Indians, so termed, should be assembled together, for the purpose of cementing the existing friendships, and that this business should be performed by you, I have the honor of giving you the instructions herein contained, which are to serve as the general rules of your conduct. In order that you may comprehend clearly the present relative situation of the United States with the Six-Nations, 1 herewith deliver you copies of certain written speeches which were delivered by the Cornplanter, a chief of the Senecas, and his companions, who were lately on I visit to this city, to the President of the United States, and the answers thereto. Two of these answers were signed with due form by the President of the United States, and the first engrossed on parchment, and also the instructions to Colonel Thomas Procter, and a letter to Governor Clinton. It would be proper that you should repeat to the said Six Nations, all that has been stated by the President of the United States, as the foundation.of their future expectations. It being the sincere desire of the General Government that the Indians, on all occasions, should be treated with entire justice and humanity, you may give the strongest assurances on this point. The great object of the proposed meeting will be, to impress on the minds of the Indians that their interest and happiness depend upon the protection and friendship of the United States, and to conciliate their affections, for which purpose you will use your highest exertion. That the war in which we are involved with the Western Indians is highly disagreeable to the Urtited States, arid would be speedily terminated, were the Indians to manifest pacific dispositions; but, if they persist in hostilities, their destruction must be the consequence, as may be easily proved to them by a comparative view of the respective force. That, if the Six Nations shall be convinced that the United States are desirous of peace, on terms of moderation and justice, and that any further opposition ot the Western Indians, after receiving information of (he humane dispositions of the United States, wall be entirely unjustifiable; in this case, it is the expectation of the President of the United States that the Six Nations do not only abstain from joining the enemy, but that they manifest their friendship by sending their young warriors to join our army, for which they shall be well paid. It will be important to dwell much upon this point. It will be difficult, if not impracticable, for the chiefs to restrain the young men from indulging their passion for war. They will, therefore, probably join the Western Indians, unless they join us. If this should be the case, the United States will consider the Six Nations as responsible for the conduct ot their young men. To avoid, therefore, so dangerous a situation, they had better join our 22 * forces than remain liable to join the enemy. In case of their compliance with your request, it would be proper that you make a decisive arrangement on this point, so that a number of their warriors, not exceeding fifty or sixty, join the troops at fort Hannar, or fort Washington, by the fifteenth or twentieth of July. If the Cornplanter should head this party, it would be most acceptable, as his attachment and fidelity could be relied upon. You will observe the contents of the letter to Governor Clinton. If, therefore, you should see Captain Brandt at the meeting, you will endeavor, by all reasonable methods, to attach him to the United States; and, if you should think proper, you may invite him to repair to this place, when the President of the United States shall be present, together with such other important characters as you may judge proper; but none but such characters ought to be invited, on account of the expense. In case of their accepting the invitation, the proper time of their visit would be during the next session of Congress. J K _ 'That the General Government are not insensible to the improper conduct of some lawless whites on the frontiers, to the friendly Indians. That every measure shall be taken to make atonement to the Indians aggrieved, by making liberal compensation for the loss of property, upon which subject General St 'Clair is fully instructed, and that, also, the States have been applied to for the punishment of the aggressors._ , _ You will, also, inform the Indians how desirous the President of the United States is, that the Indians should have imparted to them the blessings of husbandry| and the arts, and of his willingness to receive the young sons of some of their principal chiefs, for the two-fold purpose of teaching them to read and write, and to instruct them fully in the arts of husbandry. >   .   > 'If they should readily accede to this proposition, you'may receive the children to be educated, either at the time of the treaty, or at such other time and place as you may agree upon. You have delivered to you certain goods, agreeably to the invoices hereunto annexed, in order to be presented at the treaty, according to your judgment; and, if it should be your opinion, that pensions, not exceeding one hundred dollars each, bestowed, annually, on four or .five of the principal chiefs, would greatly tend to create or increase an attachment to the United States, you will please to intimate the same to them, on condition of being hereafter confirmed by the President of the United States. You will conduct your business journal-wise, in the manner you observed at Tioga, keeping written copies of all speeches delivered to, or received from, the Indians; and you will report every part of your proceedings, in-order to be submitted to the, President of the United States. - . You will keep all your accounts accurately, and present them after the treaty, supported, in all cases, by proper vouchers; and, on this point, the delivery of the goods to the Indians to be witnessed by the most respectable white characters who may be present. 1 . The rate of your compensation for your services shall be the same as the President of the United States stipulated In your former employment of this nature, at Tioga. Given at the War Office of the. United States, in the citv of Philadelphia, this second day of May, 1791. H. KNOX, Secretary of War. To Colonel Timothy Pickering. War Department, May 18, 1791. Sir: I have received yours of the 8th of May. The report of the Jersey men to Colonel Abraham Miller, as delivered to you, relative to the Qneidas, Tuscaroras, Cayugas, and Onondagas, joining the Western Indians in hostilities against the United States, is, most probably, ill founded. In order that you may possess all the information relative to the objects of your mission, in my pow'er to afford, I transmit you, herein enclosed, a letter from Colonel Brandt, dated 20th February, 1791, which I have not yet answered; a letter from Mr. Kirkland, of the 22d of April, and my answer thereto; and, also, my letter to General Schuyler, of the 11th instant; Brandt’s letter to Mr. Kirkland, of the 8th of March; Governor Clinton’s letter to me of the 27th of April, and my answer thereto, of the 11th instant. You will see by the letter to Governor Clinton, the turn that the idea of employing Brandt has taken, and you will please entirely conform thereto. It is siucerely to be desired thatevery effort be made to establish peace with the Indians on a solid basis, and, if possible, previously to an active campaign against them. But, if force must be exercised to prevent their depredations, it is to be hoped that it will be administered in such a manner as tq bring them to terms, so as to prevent the necessity of another campaign. You will, therefore, to the utmost of your power, give every facility to all the messages of peace, and impress all the Indians who shall come within your sphere of action, with the justice and humanity of the General Government. The goods for your treaty were sent off by Mr. Hodgdon, on the-instant. ' , 1 am, &c. &c. Colonel Timothy Pickering. Sir: ' War Department, June ISt/t, 171)1. I have received yours of the 12th ultimo, with its enclosures for General Chapin. Colonel Procter has returned to this city, without effecting the object of his mission, lie was at Buffalo creek from the 29th of April, until the 21st of liiay. Brandt’s interest was against any of the chiefs going forward with him to the Western Indians. But he finally carried the point, that a number of the chiefs and warriors wouldaccom-pany him, provided lie could obtain a vessel for their transportation from Niagara. But they absolutely refused to proceed eitnerin canoes or by land, from, as they said, an apprehension of the Western Indians. Brandt had gone to the Western Indians, about the 12th of May,, with a design, as the Indians said at Buffalo creek, of endeavoring to make peace. Indeed it would'appear, from the imperfect information I at present possess, that the British have made use of Brandt, with a view to peace, intending to make a merit of it, in some future time. You will see by the speech of ;he_ Farmer’s Brother, which I enclose, the ultimate intentions of the Indians who were assembled at Buffalo creek.-This is the only written document which I have yet received from Colonel Procter, he having sent his despatches by. Captain Iloudm, by the way of Wyoming. I expect that he will wait on you, and I hope you will conceive it to be proper to open his despatches to me. But if you should not, and there should be any thing of real importance for you to know, I shall despatch an express to you.   'I believe your treaty will be pretty generally attended. Mr. Morris will not attempt to purchase any lands at present, although one of his sons will be present at the treaty. Mr. Morris does not approve of the conduct of Mr. Ewing, and informs me he has ordered Ewing to be discharged. General Butler, in a letter of the 2d instant, mentions that he was taking some steps with the Six Nations, to induce them to send some of their warriors to join our army, and that he would inform me further thereon by the next post. He was informed by Colonel Procter of your treaty, and has not been directed by me upon the subject. And I have also recently informed him of the treaty, and that he must not take any measures which would interfere with it. If you should persuade the Indians to send a party to join our troops, the route should be from Cornplanter’s town to fort Franklin, on the junction of French creek with the Alleghany. Lieutenant Jeffers and a party of the continental troops would join them., and proceed as General Butler should direct. Lieutenant Jeffers is well known to the Indians, and is really an intelligent and sensible man. If more than sixty should offer for this service, it would not be material. But unless they could be at fort Franklin by the 20th July at farthest, the arrangement would be useless.  I enclose you a copy of my last letter, lest you should not have received the original. . Since writing the above, Captain Iloudin has arrived, and brought your letter ot the 5th instant, and, also, Col. Procter’s despatches. But as they confirm the above ideas without containing any thing further, it is not necessary to 1792.] THE NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. 167 bend you copies of the several species. The Cornplanter may be depended upon; through all the changes of policj, we must cultivate and elevate him. Brandt, the Farmer's brother, and all the rest ot them, ought to be treated with great kindness, and attached to ns if possible. But the Cornplanter is onr friend from the solid ties of interest, and we must rivet them bv all wavs and means in our power. Houdin's receipt will be credited to your account. I am, &c. &c. Colonel Timothy Pickering. Letter from the Secretary of War to Governor ('Union. War Department, 12th April, 1791. Jsir: _ , I have the honor to inform your Excellency in confidence, that the present view of affairs upon the frontiers, indicates strongly, that all the Indian tribes northwest of the Ohio, will, in the course of the ensuing campaign, he combined in hostilities against the United States. The President of the United States has been exceedingly desirous of avoiding an Indian war, and to establish a general peace with all the tribes, on liberal terms, and measures h ive been taken for that purpose, but the effect is extremely doubtful. The involved state of things, arising from circumstances not under the control of the General Government, have proceeded from one stage to another, until it seems hut too probable-that force only can decide the contest. As it is to be apprehended that the Six Nations may be brought to act against us, it has been conceived important to assemble them together, particularly the Senecas, at as early a period as possible, in order to brighten the chain, and to remove all causes of discontent. Accordingly. Colonel Timothy Pickering, who resides at Wyoming, and who had a meeting the last autumn with the Senecas at Tioga Point, has been requested to invite the Six Nations generally, to a meeting at such place as shall be most, convenient to them, and at as early a period as they could conveniently be assembled. Aware of your Excellency's influence over Captain Joseph Brandt, I have conceived the idea, that you might induce him, by proper arrangements, to undertake to conciliate the Western Indians to pacific measures, and bring them to hold a general treaty. This measure would be abundantly more compatible with the feelings and interest of the United States, than to extirpate the Indians, which seems to be the inevitable consequence ot a war of long continuance with them. You are entirely able to estimate Brandt's talents, and the degree of confidence which might be placed in him on such an occasion, ft ought not, however, to be concealed front your Excellency, that Captain Abeel or the Cornplanter, has undertaken this object, and that, most probably, be is actually employed at this time on the business with Colonel Procter, who was sent from this city for the purpose. And it is also proper, that you should understand, that a mortal enmity exists between Brandt and the Cornplanter. In this situation of things, if your Excellency' should entertain the opinion strongly, that Brandt might be used with good effect, and consistently with the Cornplanter’s mission, and that they would not clash in the business, I earnestly request that you would take the necessary measures for the purpose, according to your own judgment. Perhaps Colonel Willet, of whose talents in managing the minds of men I have a high opinion, might accept of an agency on this'occasion, as it might respect Brandt. lie will be on the spot, and if you should consider the idea practicable, you could give him such information and instructions as would tend to success. After which, the Colonel might repair to this city, in order to make the further necessary arrangements. Your Excellency could despatch an express to Brandt, to meet Colonel Willet, cither at Colonel Pickering’s place of meeting, or such other as you should judge proper. Your Excellency will please to hold out such inducements to Brandt as you may judge most proper, with respect to money. The,arrangement for Colonel Willet's services should be made satisfactory to him. Any sum of money which yrou should conceive necessary to put this allair in motion, shall be paid to your order. 1 beg your Excellency to be persuaded, that nothing but a sol ill conviction of your regard for the public welfare, could have constrained me to trouble you on this occasion: and I take the liberty of requesting a [ine from you immediately, in answer to these suggestions: for, should you judge them practicable, not a moment's time should be lost. With great respect &c. His Excellency Governor Clinton. The Secretary of liar to Governor Clinton. War Department, April 2Sth, UOi. Sir: Having had the honor to write to jour Excellency, on die 12th instant, upon a subject of considerable importance to the welfare of the United States, and not having received an answer thereto, I am induced to believe, that my letter may, by some accident, have miscarried; I therefore transmit your Excellency a copy of it, and as Colonel Pickering is now in this city, I beg the favor of an answer as soon as possible. Ilis Excellency Governor Clinton. Copy of a letter from the Governor of the State of fir w fork to the Secretory for the Department of liar. New York, 27th April, 1791. Sir: 1 have received the letter, which you did me the honor to write on the twelfth instant; and by the tenor of the communication therein contained, I am led to conclude, that the President has given you discretionary powers in regard of the objects upon which jmu have been pleased to confer with me. I observe, with some regret, that the measure of attempting a convention of the whole six nations, hath been resolved and acted upon. It cannot be unknown to you, that those nations are at present disunited by private animosities; that there subsists not among them, mutual intercourse and confidence, sufficient to lead to a general combination, or to effect (without the interposition of the agents of the United States) a general congress of those nations, even for the purpose ol deliberation; that this disunion produces impotency and secures inaction, and that, if we should revive their importance, bjr renewing their union, we may give power and vigor, which we cannot with certainty direct, and over which we shall, with much trouble and expense, have an uncertain control. But, having heretofore communicated to the,President my sentiments upon the policy of that measure, I shall not now further obtrude them upon you; and I entreat you to be assured, that, how muchsoever I may differ as to the means, I will, with the utmost cheerfulness and assiduity, concur with you in endeavors to attain the ends, which you justly consider as momentous and interesting to the Union. 1 have communicated to Colonel Willet, your confidence in his talents, and desire for the interposition of his influence with Brandt, but have it not in my power to inform you of his explicit answer; I could wish that jour application might be made to him directly, if you should continue in the opinion of the importance of his personal exertions on inis occasion. 1 had, in June last, appointed an interview with Brandt, contemplating the danger you appear to apprehend from liis address and his influence with several of the Indian nations, (which Tam persuaded is very considerable) and from different letters I have since received from him, I have reason to hope he will give me the opportunity of a personal conference with him at this place, the beginning of the ensuing summer, if the proposed convention, to which, I will not venture to say he may not be opposed, should not prevent it; but the good understanding between us, and the friendly and familiar intercourse I have successfully endeavored to preserve, will, I doubt not,.'predominate over any transient disgust that the measures of the Union may have heretofore excited in his mind, and enable me'to procure an interview with him, at any time and place not particularly inconvenient. To accomplish this, however,' with certainty, it may require the personal application of some one expressly delegated, and in whom he will confide. As your wishes appear to be confined to Colonel Willet, I shall not, without your farther advice, undertake to exercise a discretion on this subject. Your knowledge of the views of government enable you to determine the importance of this measure. I can only add, that the most perfect reliance may be had in my exertions to carry those views into effect, when the particular mode of co-operation shall be defined, and connected with competent authority. With sentiments of the highest respect and esteem, I am, your most obedient servant, GEO. CLINTON. The Honorable Hexry Knox, Esq. Copy of a letter from the Secretary of JCar to the Governor of the State of New York, in answer to Ms Excellency's of the 27th of April. War Department, 11th May, 1791.' Sir: ' ... 'I had the honor, on the fifth instant, to receive your Excellency’s favor, dated the twenty-seventh ultimo, being an answer to my letter of the twelfth of the same month. I am sorry that you do not approve the convention of the Six Nations, at this particular crisis. The measure appeared highly expedient, in order not only to prevent their joining the Western Indians, but, if possible, to induce them, as a security to the continuance of their friendship, to join some of their young warriors to the troops of the United States. Although the Senecas were the principal object of the meeting, that tribe constituting the main body'of the Six Nations resident within the general limits of the United States, yet it was conceived that it would have been impolitic to omit inviting the other tribes, eastward of the Senecas, to the meeting. My having seen your letter to the President of the United States, relative to Captain Joseph Brandt, and knowing' also from repeated personal communications with your Excellency, the confidence Brandt reposed in your character, together with a persuasion of your cordiality to pacific measures with the Indians, were my inducements to address you on the twelfth ultimo. .   'My authority on the occasion, was founded on the circumstances, that the business of Indian affairs had been established by law, as a branch of the Department of War, and that the President of the United States had instructed me upon the objects of the Department during his absence. I am not enough acquainted with the character or views of Captain Brandt, to be able to conclude whether he would work cordially in the design of peace, upon such principles as may not hereafter create greater embarrassments. This was a point which I submitted to your Excellency’s decision. I am fully possessed with the information of his enmity to the Cornplanter, who, I am of opinion, is greatly attached to the United States, upon the solid conviction of the measure being the only one by which he and the other Indians shall be secured from utter destruction. 1 The Cornplanter has been actively employed to persuade the Senecas to send forward a powerful deputation, under his direction, to escort Colonel Procter to the Miami Indians, in order to induce them to peace. This information has been lately received, and from circumstances, I am inclined to believe, that Colonel Procter, protected by the Senecas, may be at this time, either actually with, or very near the hostile Indians. Your Excellency may remember Captain Brandt’s exertions, in the year 1786, to form a grand confederation of all the Indians northwest of the Ohio, the Six Nations included. By a late letter which he has written to Mr. Kirkland, and which I received yesterday, it appears that he still should like that measure, if he could find it practicable. But such an event could not be for the interest of the United States: for, although justice, policy, and humanity, dictatea liberal treatmentof the Indians, it cannot.be for the public interest to consolidate them in one body, which would be liable to a single impulse. Therefore, although it would be wise to conciliate Captain Brandt, and if witlnn the power of a reasonable sum of money, to attach him warmly to the United States, yet, considering the train of the business-, under the Cornplanter’s management, and the designs of Brandt relative to a general confederation of Indians, it w ould not, probably, be good policy to employ him actively, at present, with the Western Indians. It appears to me, judging from experience, that the United States may entirely depend on the Cornplanter’s abilities, fidelity, and his active exertions. ■ Brandt’s attachment may be doubted, and his views may be dangerous. But, as it may be concluded that Brandt’s visit to your Excellency ought to be encouraged by all means, and that the result of the impressions you may make upon him, would be highly favorable to the public interest, I shall instruct Colonel Pickering not to obstruct, but facilitate his visit. Colonel Pickering has appointed the Painted Post as the place, and the 17th of June next as the time, of his meeting with the Indians. ... . . . . 'I am persuaded that the President of the United States, upon his arrival in this city, about the beginning of July, w-ould be much gratified to receive a visit from Captain Brandt. , It may be proper, also, to intimate to your Excellency, that any pecuniary engagements you shall judge proper to enter into with Captain Brandt, to secure his attachment to the United States, will be paid without-delay by the General Government I have the honor to be, with great respect, your Excellency’s obedient humble servant, , . ’ H. KNOX. His Excellency the Governor of the State of New York. Letter from the Secretary of .TYar to the Honorable General Schuyler. v. War Department, 11th May, 1791. Dear Sir: . I was in hopes to have heard from you relative to your idea of employing the chief Old Peter, of the Onei-das. Mr. Kirkland has written relative to the same objects, for Captain Hendricks, of whom he speaks well. The Cornplanter continues firm, and most probably has gone forward to the hostile Indians before this time. If you think proper to employ Captain Hendricks, and Peter, whom you mentioned, and furnish them with the necessary means for the purpose, I will instantly make the re-imbursements to your order. I request the favor of you to forward the enclosed letter to XIr. Kirkland. I am, sir, &c. The Honorable General Schuyi.er, Albany. ' ' , Letter from the Secretary of TFar to the Rev. Sairmel Kirkland. War Department, May 11 th, 1791. Sir: I have just received your letter of the 22d of April, for which I sincerely thank you. I highly approve of Captain Hendricks being employed, and will make good any reasonable allowance to him for his services. Let him call on Colonel Pickering, at Wyoming, who will furnish him with clothing and necessaries for the purpose. General Schuyler also mentioned an Oneida chief of great respectability, who I wish would also accompany the others. But, I imagine the Cornplanter has already anticipated the others, and gone forward Colonel Brandt is right as to the principles of the boundaries. The idea, in future, ot conquest, ought to be relinquished, and fair purchase and optional sale take place. I shall be glad to hear that you have pushed forward Captain Hendricks, and the Chief Peter. I am, sir, &c. To the Re\. Samuel Kirkland. letter from the Secretary of Jf'ar to Governor Clinton. War Department, August 17th, 1791. Sir: The President of the United States has commanded me to transmit to your Excellency, an extract of the report of Colonel Timothy Pickering, who acted as the commissioner of the United States, at a late council held with the five nations of Indians at the Painted Post, on the Susquehannah. The object of the said council was, to conciliate the said Indians, and attach them to the United States; to prevent them listening to, or being combined with, the Western hostile Indians. The more effectually to carry this design into execution, it was thought proper to draw them to a greater distance from the theatre of war, and* at a critical period to hold out an object of employment for the minds of their young men, who are with difficulty restrained from indulging their ruling passion for war. These objects appear to have been executed with ability and judgment, and good consequences may be expected to flow from the council. But it appears, that the commissioner’s desire to accomplish the objects of his commission in the greatest degree, has led him incantiously, at the earnest request of the Cayugas present, to ratify and confirm a certain lease of lands, belonging to the Cayuga nation of Indians, to John Richardson, and to certify that a certain assignment of the Seneca Indians, to the daughters ofEbenezer Allen, was done at a public treaty, held under the authority of the United States. No copies, however, of either instruments, have been retained, or produced by the said commissioner. The right of the State of New York, to the pre-emption of the Cayuga lands, is unquestioned, and also, that the said right embraces all possible alienations of said lands by the Indians, with the concurrence of the United States, according to the constitution and laws. Therefore, I do, by command of the President of the United States, hereby transmit to your Excellency an explicit disavowal of the conduct of the said commissioner, relative to the said lease of the Cayuga lands to John Richardson, and also of the certificate relative to the Senecas’ assignment of lands, to the children of Ebenezer Allen; and I am further ordered to inform your Excellency, that the said acts of the said commissioner were unauthorized by his instructions, and will be considered as entirely null and void by the United States. But if, however, the State of New York should judge that it would derive any benefit from the due execution of said lease, the Executive authority of the United States will do every thing which may be proper, upon the occasion. Colonel Pickering, who is going to New York, will personally wait upon your Excellency, to give you any further explanations which you may request. I have the honor to be, &c. H. K. His Excellency Governor Clinton. Queries proposed by Captain Hendrick Aupamut. Chief of the Muhheconmick (or Stockbridge) tribe of Indians, and the answers to those enterics, by Timothy Pickering, Commissioner in behalf of the United States for holding a treuty with the Six Nations of Indians, at Newtown, in the State of New Fork, June 27th, 1791. 1st. Query.—Whether, if he makes a visit to the hostile Indians, he may assure them that the United States are sincerely desirous of making peace with them? Answer.—The most solemn assurances may be given: for the United States are sincerely desirous of making peace; and I have received pointed orders to give every possible facility to the messengers of peace. 2d. Query.—Whether, it" the Western Indians consent to makepeace, the United States will not, as a condition of peace, oblige them to give up part of their lands? Answer.—The United States will require no such condition. The Western Indians will retain all their lands, agreeably to the treaties of peace subsisting between them and the United States? until of their own will and choice they shall fairly sell them; unless they should obstinately persevere in their hostilities, until the United States shall drive them from their country; and, in that case, their lands will never be restored to them. 3d Query.—If the hostile Indians should be disposed to make peace, and be willing immediately to commence the negotiation, how shall the knowledge thereof be communicated so speedily as to suspend the operations of the army of the United Stales? Should messengers from those Indians, or he himself, attempt to go directly to the nearest post of the United States, they might be in the utmost danger of being killed by the scouting parties of white men. Answer.—Should the hostile Indians be sincerely disposed to make peace, I have no doubt but they will hit on proper means of communicating a knowledge of it to General St. Clair, or the commanding officer of the troops of the United States in the Western territory; perhaps by sending some of their warriors, accompanied by one more ot the white men living among them, with a white flag, or by getting some of those> white men to come along with their message, and a letter from you. A direct communication in some such way is most to be desired; lest, if a circuitous route be pursued, our troops should begin to operate before the messengers of peace should meet them; and that a letter from you (who are not known to the officers commanding the troops of the United States) may be properly received, I will write to General St. Clair, informing him of your character and business, and assuring him that he may perfectly rely on the intelligence you shall give him; and that General St. Clair, or the commanding officer, may distinguish your letter of intelligence, from a counterfeit, it may be proper for you, with your own hand, to write me a request to communicate a specimen of it to him, and underneath I will write the letter above proposed. This specimen I will transmit to General St. Clair, and a duplicate to the Secretary of War, to forward to General St Clair without deiay, so that when your letter of intelligence shall reach him, a comparison of the hand-writing may supersede or remove all doubts of its authenticity; and as you may be obliged, or find it expedient, to send runners to the Alleghany river with your intelligence for General St. Clair, I will write to Lieutenant Jeffers, or officer commanding at fort Franklin, (which is near the junction of French creek with the Alleghany river) desiring him to forward, without delay, any letters which you shall transmit to his care. This letter I will send by Captain Baldwin, who is now' here, but who resides with the Cornplanter, in the neighborhood of fort Franklin. 4 th. Query.—What treaties have been made with the Western Indians, relative to their lands? Answer.—For your full information on this. subject, and other concerns with the Western Indians, I will furnish you with copies of the treaties made by the United States? with the Wyandots, Delawares, Shawanesc, Ottawas, and Chippewas, in the years 1785 and 1786. I will also give you a copy of the treaty made last year with the great Creek nation of Indians, by which you will sec, strongly manifested, the good will of the United States towards the Indian nations: for, the benevolent spirit conspicuous in that treaty truly marks the kind disposition of the United States towards all the Indian nations within their limits. These queries and answers I will transmit to the Secretary of War, and request him to give the necessary orders corresponding with these arrangements. With the same .view, I will write to General.St. Clair, by the way of fort Franklin. Copy of a letter from Colonel Timothy Pickering to the Secretary of War. Philadelphia, 1 Gth August, 1791. Sir; In addition to the information given in my report of the proceedings at the late treaty with the Six Nations of Indians, relative to the land assigned by the Seneca nation to the children of one of their women, by Ebenczer Allen, and to the Cayuga reservation, leased to John Richardson for twenty years', it may he expedient for me to mention more particularly the grounds and inducements to a public ratification of both at that treaty. It appeared to be understood by the Senecas, that Messrs. Morris and Ogden, as the grantees of Massachusetts, had the right of pre-emption of all their lands. Hut, at the same time, there existed nothing to bar a division of their whole country among themselves;, md if they could divide the whole, they could certainly set off a part to two individuals of their nation as their share. This is the object of.their deed to Allen’s children, whom they called their children, agreeably to the rule of descent among them, which is in the female line; and in this deed, the land assigned is declared to be in full of those two children’s share of the whole Seneca country. Here was the ground of my ratification. . . Now, you will be pleased to recollect, that before this matter was opened in council, I had repeated the law of the United States relative to the Indian lands, anil the solemn declaration of the President, last winter, to the Corn-planter, that they (the Indians) had the right to sell, or to refuse to sell, their lands, and that, in respect to their lands, they might depend op the protection of the United . States; so .that on this head they had now no cause of jealousy or discontent. This" being by them well understood, I saw no way of avoiding the ratification of the assignment to their tivo children, without reviving, or rather exciting, their utmost jealousy, as it would have keen denying the free enjoyment of their own hinds, by some members of the nation, according to the will of the nation; and a denial, I was apprehensive, Mould lead them‘to think that the solemn assurances of the President were made but to amuse and deceive. Here you see my great inducement to the ratification. . Let me now remark, that every proposition made by me to the Six Nations, for introducing among them the primary aiid most useful improvements of civil life, (propositions grounded on the President’s declarations to the Cornplanter, which I .was enjoined to repeat, and on your particular instruction on this point) leads to a separate occupancy and ajoyment of land. The introduction of the art of husbandry, in its improved state, was the great object; but improvements in husbandry could not take place without exclusive property, that the improver might enjoy the fruit of his labor. Neither could the improving husbandman exist without the smith and the carpenter; and his flux and wool would furnish employment to the spinner and weaver. These were all the manual arts I mentioned. Instruction in the arts'ofreading and writing was at least equally desirable to the Indians; some of the chiefs have even manifested an anxiety to obtain such instruction for their children; and on this head the President was explicit, that they should receive, the necessary aid. The obvious consequence of such improvements is the separate enjoyment of lands; the nature and advantages ol such improvements were explained, and appeared to have been fully understood by the Five Nations, and they have explicitly agreed to adopt them. They only wait for that assistance which they were assured the United States were ready to afford them. Should that assistance prove successful, (forat this stage of the business I cannot entertain a suspicion that such assistance will not be furnished) it w ill tend to defeat the pre-emption right altogether, unless those improvements, by showing the Indians how small a portion of their lands, under proper cultivation. Mill suffice for their ample support, should induce them to part with the residue in exchange for a full supply of domestic animals, implements of husbandry, and other necessaries adapted to their improving condition; and this, as I some time ago intimated to Mr. Morris, appeared to me to afford the only chance.of extinguishing the Indian title to any of the lands he had bought of Massachusetts. With respect to the Cayugas’ reservation, I had, determined to give no countenance to a lease of .it. John Richardson applied to me about it before the Indians arrived. I told him that the pre-emption right was with the State of New York; that, if the Cayugas could lease it for five years, they might for ten, twenty, a hundred, or a thousand, and thus defeat the pre-emption right of the State. 1 heard no more of it until a few days before the treaty was closed. Then the Cayuga chiefs and Richardson made their applications, and then I was informed that a law of the State (passed as suggested, in consequence of the long lease obtained of the Indians by John Livingston and others) allowed of leases for any term not exceeding twenty-one years; and that, at the treaty last year, at fort Stanwix, Governor Clinton expressly assured the Cayugas that, if they pleased, they might lease their lands. The chiefs discovered much anxiety, and were importunate (the Fish-carrier, their 'head chief, in particular) to have the lease accomplished. I asked for the law referred to; the statutes were produced, blit those at Newton did not reach down to that session of the Legislature in which it was said the law had been enacted. I was further informed, that, at a late session of the York Legislature, (I think the last winter) a petition had been preferred in behalf of a lesseefrom the same Cayugas, for the ratification of a lease of a small tract of land lying on the water communication of the Seneca and Cayuga lakes, for the term of fifteen years, arid that the Assembly said a Legislative sanction was not necessary, the lease being for a term less than twenty-one years. All this .information .was repealed to me in such a manner as to afford a strong presumption of its truth: yet, that I might have all the evidence whichthe case would then admit of, I made inquiry of Colonel Brinton Paine, one of the judges of the co.unty court at Newton, and he generally confirmed the information above recited. I then ratified the lease, as stated in my report, grounding the date on the information, and expressly referring to it. I have not a copy of the lease or of the ratification; the latter I wrote when I was in a very great hurry, I believe the last day I was on the ground; and, in transcribing it from my rough draught, I made divers alterations, which rendered the rough draught useless. The inducements to this ratification were similar to those in the case of the assignment to Allen’s children. The ratification of that assignment' I subjoin, as copied from my rough draught, in which I do not remember that any alterations were made. The foregoing detail I have given as the matters rest upon my mind. I wished to have avoided meddling with them, but I could devise no way of doing it without exciting or confirming jealousies, which it was the great object of my mission to prevent or remove. I have the honor, &cl ' TIMO. PICKERING. P. S. I might have mentioned, that Mr. Allen declared that lie would make to Messrs. Morris and Ogden a reasonable compensation for their pre-emption right to the lands assigned to Ins children. Ratification of the deed of assignment executed by the chiefs of the Seneca nation, to the.two Indian children of Ebenezer Alien; by Timothy Pickering, Esq. commissioner in behalf of the United States for the purpose of holding a treaty with the Six Eat ions of Indians. I certify that the instrument of writing contained in this sheet, and in the sheet of paper annexed to it, (on which also I have written iny name) being an assignment made by the Seneca nation to their two children, Mary Allen and Cltloe Allen, therein named, of the tract ot land therein described, as their full share of the Seneca lands, was yesterday particularly explained by me, in full council of the said Six Nations; and, after I had explained the same, 1 asked them if they understood it: the sachems and chiefs of the Seneca nation answered, that the whole was well understood. The instrument having been thus agreed to, in full council, as aforesaid, was then signed, sealed, and delivered, in my presence, by all the sachems and chiefs, whose names appear in my hand writing, being the fifteen w hose names are subscribed in the right hand column and one in the left hand column, save that the chief So-ne-auk-do-wau only signed and sealed the instrument in my presence. In witness whereof. &c. Instructions to Major General Jfrthnr St. Clair. Sir: The President of the United States having, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, appointed you a major general in the service of the United States, and of consequence invested you with the chief command of the troops to he employed upon the frontiers during the ensuing campaign, it is proper that yon should be possessed of the view’s of the Government respecting the objects of your command. I am, therefore, authorized and commanded, by the President of the United States, todeliveryou the follow ing instructions, in order to serve as the general principles of your conduct. But, it is only general principles which can be pointed out. In theexeeution of the duties of your station, circumstances which cannot now be foreseen may arise to render material deviations necessary. Such circumstances will require the exercise of your talents. The Government possesses the security of your character and mature experience. that your judgment will he proper on all occasions. You are well informed of the unfavorable 'impressions which the issue of the last expedition has made on the public mind, and you are also aware of the expectations which are formed ot the success ol the ensuing campaign. An Indian war, under any circumstances, is regarded by the great mass of the people of the United States as an event which ought, if possible, to be avoided. It is considered that the sacrifices of blood and treasure in such a war far exceed any advantages which can possibly be reaped by it. The great policy, therefore, of the General Government, is to establish a just and liberal peace w ith all the Indian tribes within the limits and in the vicinity of the territory of the United States. Your intimations to the hostile Indians, immediately after the late expedition through the Wyandots and Delawares; the arrangements with the Senecas who were lately in this city, that part of the Six Nations should repair to the said hostile Indians, to influence them to pacific measures; together with the recent mission of Colonel Procter to them for the same purpose, will strongly evince the desire of the General Government to prevent the further effusion of blood, and to quiet all disturbances. And when you shall arrive upon the frontiers, if any other or further measures to effect the same object should present, you will eagerly embrace them, and the reasonable expenses thereof shall be defrayed by the public. Colonel Procter’s instructions, and the messages to the Miamies, &:c. are annexed, marked A. It is, however, important to he remembered, that all persons employed on this account, must, if practicable, return to fort Washington, on or before the 5th of May next, for the reasons which will hereafter appear. But, if all the lenient measures taken, or which may he taken, should fail to bring the hostile Indians to a just sense of their situation, it will be necessary that you should use such coercive means as yon shall possess, for that purpose. You are informed that, by an act of Congress, passed the 2d instant, another regiment is to be raised, and added to the military establishment, and provision made for raising two thousand levies, for the term of six months, for the service of the frontiers. The plan for raising the said levies is hereunto annexed, marked B. The 2d regiment ol regulars will be recruited in the four New England Stales, excepting one company, to be recruited in South Carolina, and another in the State of Delaware. Recruits will be raised to complete the first regiment in the States from Maryland to New' York, inclusively. The recruits for the regulars, as well as levies, will, as soon as they shall be raised, be mustered by companies and inarched to Fort Pitt, there to receive your further orders. It i» contemplated that the mass of the regulars and levies may be recruited and rendezvous at fort Washington, by the 10th of July. In this case, you will have assembled a force of three thousand effectives at least, besides leaving small garrisons on the Ohio, in order to perform your main expedition, hereinafter mentioned. But, in the mean time, if the Indians refuse to listen to the messengers of peace sent to them, it is most probable they will, unless prevented, spread themselves along the line of frontiers, for the purpose of committing all the depredations in their power. In order to avoid so calamitous an event, Brigadier General Charles Scott, of Kentucky, has been authorized by me, on the part of the President of the United States, to make an expedition against the Wea, or Ouiatanon towns, with mounted volunteers, or militia from Kentucky, not exceeding the number of seven hundred and fifty, officers included. That you may perfectly comprehend this subject, copies of the instructions given Brigadier General Scott, and the powers vested in him, in conjunction with John Brown, Harry limes, Benjamin Logan, and Isaac Shelby, and dated the 9th instant, arc hereunto annexed, marked C. You will perceive by the said instructions, that, if the said expedition he not prevented, by you, on or before the 10th of May next, it is to proceed according to the instructions. The period of the 10th of May has been fixed, in order to afford lime for Colonel Procter, and the other messengers, to return, before the commencement of the said expedition. You will observe, that Colonel Procter’s instructions are pointed, as to the time of his return. Yrou will also perceive, by the instructions to Brigadier General Scott, that it is confided to your discretion, whether there shall be more than one of the said expeditions of mounted volunteers or militia. Your nearer view of the objects to be effected, by a second desultory expedition, will enable you to form a better judgment than can at present be formed, at this distance. The propriety of a second operation would, in some degree, depend on the alacrity and good composition of the troops of which the first may have been formed; of its success; ot' the probable effects a second similar blow would have upon the Indians, with respect to its influencing them to peace; or, if they should be. still hostilely disposed, of preventing them from desolating the frontiers by their parties. It is to be observed, that, in case of a second or third desultory operation, that you will limit the numbers to be employed, to five hundred. The manner of their being mustered, both before and subsequent to their inarch, are stated in Brigadier General Scott’s instructions. And you will also judge, how far a desultory operation, made at the time of the main expedition, would conduce1 to the general success of the service; or, if a party of mounted volunteers, or regulars, or levies, were to form part of your main force. In case two such desultory operations should be formed, from Kentucky, and you should decide upon a third, of the same nature, to support, collaterally, the main expedition, I suggest the propriety of your employing Briagdier General John Sevier for the purpose. If circumstances should lead you to decide in favor of employing him, you could send an express to him, between the forks of Holston and French Broad, so that lie should have three weeks, or a month, to raise men; or perhaps it would be the best plan, to mount the battalion of levies, which is to be raised in the territory of the United States, south of the Ohio, and with such additions as you should order, put them under the orders of Brigadier General Sevier. It is, however, proper to remark, that, as the expense of an expedition of a mounted corps would be very considerable, the probable advantages ought far to outweigh the risk and expense. If such operations should be successful, and a considerable number of prisoners should be taken, particularly women and children, it would have the certain eftect of humbling the Indians, and inducing them to sue for mercy. You will observe, in the instructions to Brigadier General Scott, which are to serve as a basis for the instructions of the commanders who may succeed him, that all captives are to be treated with great humanity. It will be sound policy to attract the Indians by kindness, after demonstrating to them our power to punish them, on all occasions. While you are making such use of desultory operations as in your judgment the occasion may require, you will proceed vigorously, in every preparation in your power, for the purpose of the main expedition; and having assembled vour force, and all'things being m readiness, if no decisive indications of peace should have been produced, either by the messengers, or by the desultory operations, you will commence your march for the Miami‘village, in order to establish a strong and permanent military post at that place. In your advance, you will establish such posts of communications with fort Washington, on the Ohio, as you may judge proper. The post at the Miami village is intended for the purpose of awing and curbing the Indians in that quarter, and as the only preventive of future hostilities. It ought, therefore, to be rendered secure, against all attempts and insults of the Indians. The garrison which should be stationed there ought not only to be sufficient for the defence of the place, but always to afford a detachment of five or six hundred men, either to chastise any of the Wabash, or other hostile Indians, or to secure any convoy of provisions. ’■ The establishment of said post is considered as an important object of the campaign, and is to take place in all events. In case of a previous treaty, the Indians are to be conciliated upon this point, if possible; and it is presumed, good arguments may be offered, to induce their acquiescence. The situation, nature, and construction of the works you may direct, will depend upon your own judgment. Major Ferguson, of the artillery, will be fully capable of the execution. He will be furnished with three five and a half inch howitzers, three six-pounders, and three three-pounders, all brass, with a sufficient quantity of shot and shells, for the purpose of the expedition. The appropriation of these pieces will depend upon your orders. ■ . ■ Having commenced your march, upon the main expedition, and the Indians continuing hostile, you will use every possible exertion to make them feel the effects of your superiority; and after having arrived at the Miami village, and put your works in a defensible state, you will seek the enemy with the whole of your remaining force, and endeavor, by all possible means, to strike them with great severity. . 'It will be left to your discretion whether to employ, if attainable, any Indians of the Six Nations, and the Chickasaws or other Southern nations. Most probably the employment of about fifty of each, under the direction of some discreet and able chief, would be advantageous, but these ought not to be assembled before the line of march is taken up, because they are soon tired, and will not be detained. The force contemplated for the garrisons of the Miami village, and the communications, has been from a thousand to twelve hundred non-commissioned officers and privates. This is mentioned as a general idea, to which you will adhere, or from which you will deviate, as circumstances may require. ... ■ - The garrison stationedat the Miami village, and its communications, must have in store, at least six months’ good salted meat, and flour in proportion. . ■ It is hardly possible, if the Indians continue hostile, that you will be suffered, quietly to establish a post at .the Miami village; conflicts, therefore, may be expected; and it is to be presumed that disciplined valor will triumph over the undisciplined Indians. In this event it is probable that the Indians will sue for peace; if this should be the case, the dignity of the United States will require that the terms should be liberal. In order to avoid future wars, it might be proper to make the Wabash, and thence, over to the Miami, and down the same to its mouth at lake Erie, the boundary, excepting so far as the same should relate to the Wyandots and Delawares, on the supposition of their continuing faithful to the treaties. But, if theyshould join in the war against the United States, and your army be victorious, the said tribes ought to be removed without the boundary mentioned.   ■ ' _ You will also judge whether it would be proper to extend the boundary, from the mouth of the River an P.anse of the Wabash, in a due w est line to the Mississippi. Few Indians, besides the Kickapoos, would be affected by such a line; this ought to be tenderly managed. The modification of the boundary must be confided to your discretion, with this, single observation, that the policy and interest of the United States dictate their being at peace with the Indians. This is of more value than millions of uncultivated acres, the right to which may be conceded by some, and disputed by others. The establishment of a post at the Miami village will probably be regarded, by the British officers on the frontiers, as a circumstance of jealousy; it may, therefore, be necessary that you should, at a proper time, make such intimations as may remove all suen dispositions. This intimation had better follow than precede the possession of the post, unless circumstances dictate otherwise. Asitisnotthcinclinationor interest of the United States to enter into a contest with Great Britain, every measure tending to any discussion or altercation must be prevented. The delicate situation of affairs may therefore render.it improper at present to make any naval arrangement upon lake Erie. After you shall have effected all the injury to the hostile Indians of which your force may be capable, and after having established the posts and garrisons at the Miami village and its communications, and placing the same under the orders of an officer worthy ol such a high trust, you will return-to fort Washington on the Ohio. You will please to inform me of all the occurrences of your expedition, in order to be submitted to the President of the United States, together with such observations as may be necessary to form a comprehensive and precise judgment of the campaign, and of the further measures proper to be pursued by Government. You will observe, by the treaties with the Choctaws, Chickasaws. and Cherokees, hereunto annexed, marked D, that the President of the United States directed the observance thereof in his proclamation of the 26th of August, 1790. _ _ This proclamation became necessary, as information had been received that certain companies had. purchased of the State of Georgia the pre-emption to the almost entire lands of the said Indian nations, and that measures were taking, in pursuance thereof, to effect settlements on the said lands, in direct violation of the said treaties, and the peace of the United States. And information has lately been recived, that a certain Doctor O’Fallon is levying troops in Kentucky, and issuing commissions, in an illegal manner, for the purpose of making certain establishments upon the said lands. The conduct of the said Doctor O’Fallon is considered of. such a nature as that the attorney of the district of Kentucky has been directed to commence a prosecution against him, according to law and the nature ot his offence; and, in order that all concerned under him should be warned of their situation, the President of the United States has issued another proclamation, which is hereunto annexed, marked E. It is presumed the arrest of Doctor O’Fallon, and the issuing of. the proclamation, will operate to prevent the execution thereof; but, if they should not, and the party proceed in tne execution of their plan, it becomes an important consideration whether the military shall interfere to prevent them. This point is now under consideration of the legal department, and you shall be informed of the result. A military post at Bear’s Creek, called Occochappo, below the Muscle Shoals, upon the Tennessee, has been considered as proper to prevent the usurpation of tne Indian land, and, also, at some proper place upon the Mississippi. But, the approbation of the Indians is essential to the establishment of either. Governor Blount is to hold a treaty with the Cherokeesin May next, and it is part of his instructions to render that nation cordial to the measure   of establishing the proposed post upon the Tennessee. The post upon the Mississippi is attended with some dilli-culties, relative to tne Spanish claims, and is not to be attempted at present. Indeed, the force required for the main expedition will prevent the establishment of either post, until after the termination of said expedition. The object is now brought to your view, in order that you may, upon consideration, suggest such further measures, arising from information, as may be necessary to be adopted on the occasion. It is proper to observe, that certain jealousies have existed among the people of the frontiers, relative to a supposed interference between their interest, and those of the marine States: that these jealousies are ill founded, with respect to the present Government, is obvious. The United States embrace, with equal care, all parts of the Union; and, in the present case, are making expensive arrangements for the protection of the frontiers, and partly in the modes, too, which appear to be highly favofed by the Kentucky people. The high stations you till, of commander of the troops, and Governor of the Western territory, will afford you frequent opportunities to impress the frontier citizens of the entire good disposition of the General Government towards them in all reasonable things, and you will render acceptable service, by cordially embracing all such opportunities. The discipline of the troops, and their economy in all respects, will come under your consideration. Arrangements will be made for forwarding, with the first company which shall march, the arrearages of pay for the last year, as far as the same can be ascertained without the muster rolls. The recruits, which shall be engaged for the first regiment and the artillery, will depend upon the surplus clothing on hand upon the frontiers. Reliance w ill be made upon the said surplus clothing for about five hundred and fifty complete suits. One-quarter part of the recruits of the first regiment and the anillery will be clothed, and all will have blankets. From the quarter part, which shall be completely clothed, the officers will make arrangements for rendering all the men comfortable. The second regiment will be clothed. For the blankets which shall be issued here, of the number of which you shall be informed, a deduction must be made from the clothing for the troops on the frontiers, and the transfer thereof made to the Indian Department, for the purpose of the proposed treaty. ■ _ The goods necessary for a treaty shall be furnished, and your estimates upon this subject shall be duly regarded. Medicines, instruments, tents, and ordnance stores, and all other articles necessary for the proposed expedition, will be forwarded. Samuel Hodgdon, who has been appointed the quartermaster, under your directions, will repair to the frontiers as .soon as he shall have made the necessary arrangements here of the supplies. He will be entirely under your orders, in all respects; and he must produce your orders tor all the general objects of expenditures—such as boats, horses, and other arrangements for transportation. The provisions will be transported at the expense of, and by the means to be provided by, the contractors. To the quartermaster’s department will belong the transportation ot the troops from Fort Pitt to the rendezvous, and the return transportation of the levies; the transportation by land of tire ordnance stores, hospital stores, and such essential baggage as you may direct upon the expedition. It would be unnecessary to be particular, to an officer of your experience, on the article of a great quantity of baggage. The nature of the service in which' you will be employed will preclude the idea of all baggage which shall not be indispensable for the existence of the officers and soldiers. The horses, therefore, that you may require for such objects, may not exceed the number of---------. As you will probably want them for several months, it will be more economical to purchase, than to hire them, and, after the expedition, to sell them again. As Mr. Mentges, the inspector, will be upon the spot, you will direct him to muster and inspect all the troops as regularly as the service will permit. But the regulars and levies must be mustered on their first arrival at fort Washington. You will please to appoint some skilful person to make actual surveys ot your march, to be corrected, if the case will admit of it, by proper astronomical observations, and of all posts you may occupy, and transmit them to this office. The paymaster will place in your hands the sum of three thousand dollars. This money will be for such contingencies as shall arise, either tor intelligence or the objects of the Indian Department, and for which yon will account. Besides the desultory operations before recited, for the protection of the frontiers, the President of the United States has been pleased to direct, that the lieutenants of the several frontier counties of Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Kentucky, should be invested with the temporary authority, and under the restrictions contained in their instructions, of which the paper, marked F, is a copy. You will perceive, that the authority given to the said county lieutenants has been great. The continuance of the said authority will depend upon you. Although the protection to be afforded must be equal to the occasion, yet the expense ought not to be unnecessarily continued: you will, therefore,upon being convinced that the rangers which the county lieutenants may call out, in pursuance of the said authority, would not any longer be necessary for the protection of the inhabitants, direct the said lieutenants to discharge the same, on account of the United States. . It would be proper that, when you issue such orders, it should be done by some responsible character, who will certify to you the time of the delivery, in order that the public should not pay the expenses of the said rangers, after such notification. You will judge how far a similar protection is to be extended to the settlements in the territory of the United States, northwest of the Ohio. The said copy has been transmitted, officially, to the secretary of the said territory. Hoi -ses and equipments will be provided for the mounting of one hundred cavalry, for the purpose of the main expedition. At the termination of the expedition, you will direct the quartermaster to sell the horses, excepting such a small number as you shall consider as indispensably necessary for the communication of the posts. Although it is expected that you will have assembled at fort Washington, by the tenth of July next, a force of three thousand effectives, consisting of regular troops and levies, besides a sufficient number for the occupancy of the posts on the Ohio and Wabash, yet circumstances may possibly arise to prevent the expectation from being realized. In this event, the expedition must not languish. In order, therefore, to supply the numbers essential for the expedition, you must call forth, in the name of the President of the United States, the militia of Pennsylvania, Virginia, or the district of Kentucky, for the purpose. You will ground your orders, issued upon this occasion, upon the act of Congress, of the thirtieth of April, one thousand seven hundred and ninety, and of the third of March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, and direct them to the lieutenants of such of the counties as will most readily afford the militia required, agreeably to the following form: ‘‘ Sir: The President of the United States has been authorized, by the two following acts, to call into service the militia of the several States, for the purposed’ protecting the frontiers, to wit: An act, entitled ‘An act for regulating the military establishment of the United States,’ passed the thirtieth day of April, one thousand seven hun-23 * [1792. INDIAN AFFAIRS. died and ninety;* and an act, entitled ‘An act for raising and adding another regiment to the military establishment of the United States, and for making further provision for the protection of the frontiers, passed the third day of March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.’ “ And the President of the United States has, by his instructions to me as the commanding general of the troops of the United States, bearing date the twenty-lirst day of March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, and communicated to me by the Secretary for the Department of War, invested me with full authority in the premises. I do hereby require you, as the lieutenant of the county of--, forthwith to detach,vof the militia of said county, ----non-commissioned officers and privates, and the following commissioned officers, to wit: -----. The said officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates, to serve for-months, unless sooner discharged, and upon the, same pay and rations as the troops of the establishment.” It will be important that the most perfect communication should be kept up between you and this office. The regular post proceeds from this city to fort Pitt every other Friday. An arrangement will be made, after the fifteenth or twentieth of next month, to obtain a rider to proceed to fort Pitt on the Fridays which the post omits, so that the communication will be weekly. I earnestly request that you would make an efficient arrangement from garrison to garrison on the Ohio, so that I may receive correspondent information from you of the state of affairs! Mr. Duel-, the contractor for provisions, is now in this city, making the arrangements with the Secretary of the Treasury for the furnishing of the provisions for the troops under your orders. The number of rations will be estimated, after you leave fort Washington, at four thousand per day. ' The contractor promises the highest exertions in order to furnish the rations which may be required in due season. As your arrangements and success will greatly depend upon his punctuality, it will he important that you should afford him all the facility which the public interests may require. Such objects relative to the troops, dr the proposed operations, as. may not have been touched upon in the foregoing instructions, and which may hereafter occur, will be contained in future letters. In the mean time I have the honor, with the greatest sincerity, to wish you all possible success. Given at the War Office of the United States, in the city of Philadelphia, this twenty-first day of March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one. II. KNOX, Secretary of I Tar. ’ War Department, March 28th, 1791. Sir: I enclose you a representation of the Cornplanter, a chief of the Seneca Indians, to the President of the United States, complaining of the murder of some friendly Indians, on the 9th instant, who had been trading at Big Beaver creek. This matter will be attended witli the most pernicious consequences, unless instantly averted by decisive measures. t have stated the case to the Governor of this State, suggesting the propriety of demanding the accused for trial, of the State of Virginia, and such other steps as the occasion may require. But, as the measures to be expected for a legal process will be both slow and uncertain, it is important that the General Government should do all in their power to express a marked disapprobation of the. act, and to heal, if possible, the wound w hich the friendship of the Indians has received on this unfortunate occasion. You .will therefore please to inquire into the facts, and finding them as stated in the representation of the Corn-planter, you will, in a message to the aggrieved Indians, reprobate .the murder in the strongest terms, and assure them that every legal step shall be taken to bring the accused to condign punishment. You will also write the friends and relations of the deceased, together with the principal chiefs of the tribe to whom the deceased belonged, to meet you immediately at the place you shall mention. You will there repeat the abhorrence of the transaction, and the assurances of justice, and you will convince them of your sincerity by making liberal compensation to the relations for the loss of property sustained by the deceased Indians. You will also transmit the enclosed answer to the Cornplanter’s message, together with such further observations as you may think proper. , I have the honor to be, &c. &c. , General St. Clair. War Department, March 29th, 1791. Sir: In addition to my letter of yesterday, respecting the murder of the .Indians at Big Beaver, on the 9th instant, I wish .you would suggest to the proper magistrates, an inquiry upon oath, relative to the transaction; to be taken immediately, and forwarded to the Governor. This mode of.procedure appears necessary, in order that the Governor should ground' thereon the legal steps of demanding the accused of the State of Virginia. 'With great respect, I am, &c. &c. General St, Clair. - War Department, April 7th, 1791. Sir: 'I have nothing in particular to add to my letters to you of the twenty-eighth and twenty-ninth ultimo. I enclose you several of the Governor’s proclamations. As far as my information extends, the recruiting service, both in the regulars and levies, succeeds well. I hope in the beginning of May you will have some companies of levies at fort Pitt. It will be important, if possible, to conciliate the relations of the friendly Indians, who were killed the 9th of last month at Big Beaver; and it will also be important that Colonel Procter should, if possible, be charged by you with conciliatory propositions relative to this subject. IV c have learned accidentally of your being detained at Pott’s Gtove by the gout; but it is to be hoped that you-will have it no more. General Butler will set off to-morrow for Maryland and Virginia, to complete the arrangements for raising, these battalion:. I am, &c. General St. Clair. Sir: War Department, April 191 h, 1791. I have not had the pleasure to hear directly from you since your departure on the,twenty-third ultimo. I was sincerely sorry to learn casually you were detained by sickness on the road. One act of violence of the lawless inhabitants of the frontiers se'ems to succeed another against the friendly Indians, until all the tribes will be constrained, from principles of self defence, to unite against us. I am informed by a letter from fort Pitt, of the eleventh instant, that a party of militia, under one Major Gutrie, of Westmoreland county, in this State, has plundered a boat belonging to the contractor, which was on its way with a supply of provisions, to the garrison at Venango, and which also nan on board the goods which the United States and the State of Pennsylvania presented to the Cornplanter and his party. The direct consequence of this atrocious crime appears to be the loss of the garrison and post of Venango, and the enmity of the Senecas. ''If Major Gutrie was called into service under the authority and at the expense of the United States, it would seem that he is liable to a trial by a court martial for his conduct, and to be punished capitally if convicted under the tenth article of the thirteenth section of the rules and articles of war. Ifyou should be of opinion that he is liable to a trial and capital punishment by a court martial, you will direct that he be secured fur that purpose. At any rate, you will take-instant measures to give the most satisfactory assurances to the Cornplanter and his party, of complete indemnification for every article lost, and that proper lists for that purpose be forwarded to me immediately. I hope, between the twenty-fifth instant and the first of May, that we shall march one company of levies from Trenton, and another from Carlisle," and two companies of regulars, one from Delaware, and the other from this city. One hundred suits of clothing, for the upper battalion of the levies of this State, have this day been forwarded to fort Pitt; clothing for a company at Carlisle was forwarded seven days ago. I shall write further by the post which will depart to-morrow. 1 am, &c. &c. General St. Clair. War Department, April 2l.v/, 1791. Sir: The post arrived to-day, by which I have not received any information from fort Pitt, excepting two letters from the lieutenants of the counties of Washington and Ohio. I have the honor to enclose you the copy of a letter,, which I yesterday forwarded by the Viscount Malartie. The information which I mentioned, not having been confirmed by the post, raises some doubts of its authenticity. I really hope that it has not been as stated. But, if it should have been as represented, I am persuaded you will take every legal measure, which the nature of the case may require, to bring the offenders to justice by a court martial. You have my letter of the tenth of March, and I now enclose the copy of a letter from Colonel Campbell to me, of the thirty-first of the same month. It is proper I should mention to you, that, being strongly impressed with the importance of attaching the Five Nations to us in the approaching contest. 1 have desired Colonel Pickering to assemble them together, in order to take effectual measures to brighten the chain, and remove all causes ol difference. I expect him in this city- every hour, when I shall be informed of the time and place oi his meeting. If I receive any further information of the goods lost by the Cornplanter, 1 shall take arrangements for replacing the articles immediately, through Colonel Pickering. One hundred of the Jersey levies will march from Trenton on the twenty-fifth or twenty-sixth instant, by way of Reading and Carlisle, for fort Pitt. About the same time, Armstrong's and the Delaware companies of regulars will also march. I shall also hasten all the levies which shall be assembled at Carlisle. I shall write you further by the next conveyance, which will probably be by Major Ferguson. The quartermaster will set out by the first of May, having put all the stores in motion before him. I pray you to observe that, after the first of May. a post will regularly, once every week, set out from this place for fort Pitt, and so from that to this city. I am, &c. General St. Clair. War Department. April 22</. 1791. Sir: The bearer, Mr. Mentelle, has been recommended to me by Mr. Marbois, the consul of France in this city, as a young gentleman of good connexions, and one who is desirous ol serving under your auspices as a volunteer. As we have not any establishment for volunteers. I cannot do more than to recommend him to your protection, and such employment as you may think proper to give him, consistently- with the establishment. I have the honor to be, &c. General St. Clair. War Department, April 28th, 1791. Sir: ... * I have received your two letters, dated at Greeusburg, the fifteenth insimt. 1 lament sincerely the sickness and detention which you have suffered. 'I write this by the chaplain, who will probably not travel very fast, and therefore I shall not be very particular. A detachment of one hundred and one levies, under Captain Snowden, marched; yesterday from Trenton for fort Pitt, and, on the same day. Captain Armstrong's company from this city, and Lieutenant Platt's from Delaware, to the amount of about one hundred and fifty men. I have ordered all the levies assembled at Carlisle to march; and Colonel Gibson assures me there will be about two hundred and fifty of them. If so, these several bodies will make up the number of five hundred men, besides the number of the upper battalion, of which I have received no returns. .... \ I have received nothing precise, either from Maryland or Virginia, but I understand the recruiting service goes well there. _ _ - The Jersey battalion probably trill all march before the fifteenth of May. None of. the companies of the Eastern States are yet nearly completed; but I hope they will soon begin to forward some companies. As soon as these detachments arrive upon the frontiers, 1 pray you to make such decisive arrangements of them as that the militia may be dismissed, at least as far as it respects the United Stated I shall write you by the poSt next week-, and will make the arrangement that a post shall regularly set out from this place and fort Pitt. I am, &c. General St. Clair. War Department, May 5th, 179!. Sin: My last to you was of the twenty-eighth ultimo, a duplicate of which is enclosed. By a return of the levies at Carlisle, I find Colonel Gibson overrated the two hundred and fifty, there being only about one hundred and eighty in readiness to march. These had been inspected by Major Ferguson, and would inove.j'orward about the fourth. By a letter from Major Craig, he informs me that you have gone down the river. I have no specific report from Virginia relative to the levies; but General Butler writes me, from Baltimore, that the Virginia battalion would be completed by the tenth instant. The Maryland battalion will not be so forward, but I hope they will be at fort Pitt by the fifteenth of June. . As the county lieutenants have ordered out so great a number of men, it will be best to dismiss them all, but a small party of rangers, and substitute some of the levies, for the protection of the upper part of the Ohio. 1 presume you have directed this measure; but, lest it should be otherwise, 1 shall direct General Butler, if consistent with your orders to him oil this point. This I pray you not to consider as interfering in the interior of your command, which is by no means my intention. Upwards of one hundred more ,of, the levies will march from Trenton, in a day or two, under Captain Piatt. The remainder of the Jersey levies will probably be completed, and march before the twentieth, at farthest;, before which I hope two hundred more regulars will be moving forward. The recruiting service in Massachusetts has not been any ways equal to my expectations; but I hope it will soon be better. 'Colonel Pickering’s treaty is appointed to be held at the Painted Post, above Tioga, on the seventeenth of June next. I shall, after this period, write you weekly; and, by the next post, I shall fully reply to all that may be necessary in Brigadier General Harmar’s letter. The inhabitants, who have been compelled to abandon their settlements, will be so far entitled to the public attention, as to receive provisions at Venango, to carry them to the niore interior settlements; but it cannot.be expected that the public should maintain women and children, at an advanced post, with rations at a high price. This cannot be done. v * I have the honor to be,&c. General Sr. Clair. W An Department, May 12th, 1791. S' r ; I*have received your several letters of the 19th. 21st, 22d, and 25th of April, from Pittsburg, with several letters enclosed, which have been forwarded according to their directions. The present view of the force inarching, and about marching, is pretty much the same as is contained in the duplicate of my letter enclosed, dated the 5th instant. The upper battalion of levies of this State, does not appear to succeed. The lower battalion will be completed. The Jersey battalion will be full, and march, 1 hope, by the 25th. One hundred and ninety-six are already pushed forward. By the 20th, a very considerable portion of the Virginia battalion will be on the march; and I hope, a respectable detachment from the Maryland battalion. ...... The battalion south of the Ohio, to be raised under the direction of Brigadier General Sevier, will be retarded by his sickness, he having been confined at Richmond until the 20th ultimo; but as the clothing and all the equipments for that battalion moved forward on that day from Richmond, he writes me.that he hoped to have the battalion completed by the 1st of June, so that it will be the 15th or 20th before itwill reach fort Washington. It is to be remembered,' that the said battalion is to consist of riflemen. But lest there should be any difficulty about arming them in that manner, I have directed Major Ferguson to transport arms and accoutrements for them from fort Pitt. I hope that General Butler will be able soon to dismiss the militia of the counties, all but a fewguards. The artillery, medicines, and the principal part of the stores, have been sent forward to fort Pitt, and the quartermaster will follow in a few days. . The cavalry horses will be purchased, and sent down the Ohio under an escort. The equipments, which are excellent, have been sent forward.   The horses will be good. Upon the formation of this corps, much will depend; and the sooner it shall be formed, the more it wall be disciplined. .   \ It will depend upon your judgment, whether to make the cavalry to consist entirely of regulars as to officers and men, or whether to make a mixture of regulars and levies. As you will require an efficient corps, you will undoubtedly pick all the officers, non-commissioned and privates, from the whole army. It you take any levy officers, I would recommend Captain Snowden, who was of Lee’s legion; he is brave, and, by reputation, judicious. I have heard nothing further from Colonel Procter, than was contained in your last letter of the 25th ultimo. As, in all probability, it will at least be the latter end of July, or beginning of August, before your force shall be assembled for the main expedition, it may be proper to arrange more than one expedition from Kentucky, provided the Indians continue their depredations. But of this you will judge from your nearer view of the subject. A quantity of Indian goods shall be soon forwarded, in ordeV to enable you to hold a treaty with effect, if you should be so fortunate as to have the opportunity. 1 shall continue to write you weekly. 1 am, &c. General St. Clair. Sir: . War Department, 3lay 19/A 1791. 1 have this moment received your favor of the 1st instant. The information the Wyandot Indian woman gave you of the disposition of the Wyandots and Delawares, seems probable. If it should be true, and the Cornplanter’s and Colonel Procter’s mission not be’obstructed, the prospect of peace with the Indians, on proper terms, is not so hopeless as many people expect. . > I am persuaded that you will leave no rational measures for that purpose unattempted. The conclusion you seem to draw from the tranquillity of the frontiers at the time you wrote, seems to be just, to w it: that the Indians are not united among themselves, or decided upon their measures. They will not receive any countenance from the British; but it is probable they may receive ammunition from the traders. I instructed Major General Butler, on the 12th, to make arrangements for the dismissal of the militia, consistently with your orders to him relative to the disposition of the levies; and I shall repeat the same to him by this post, as he is now about arriving at fort Pitt. Colonel Sproat’s services appear to-be of such a nature as to deserve, compensation. I will give the representa tions relative to his services mature consideration, and if I can, with perfect propriety, 1 will make some arrangements on that subject: if not, it must remain as it is, until the arrival of the President of the United States, to whom the affair shall be communicated. My enclosed letter will inform you of the prospect of the recruiting service on the 12th instant. The present prospects are, including the regulars and levies, that there will have marched from the respective rendezvous, about twelve hundred and fifty recruits, on or before the first day of June next, agreeably to the schedule annexed. By the next post. 1 shall hope to be able to be more precise as to the expectations you may justly entertain of the subsequent force. But, independent of the regulars of the Eastern States. I do not foresee any material deficiency'. The time of their arrival at fort Washington, will, however, be late in the month of July. Orders are given for the purchase ol a considerable part of the cavalry horses, which, with their equipments, shall be forwarded to fort Washington in the course of the month of June! \ I am persuaded the arrangements you have made atMuskingum, will be just and proper. I enclose you a list of Indian goods which w ill be forwarded to fort Pitt in the course of this month, and to be forwarded to fort Washington, to be in readiness for a treaty. 1 have not heard any thing of Colonel Procter, but I entertain the opinion that he has gone forward under a strong escort of Indians, headed by the Cornplanter., I am, &c. General St. Clair. War Department, May 26th, 1791. Sir: _ . Nothing material has occurred necessary for me to write you upon, since my last of the 19tli instant, a copy of which is enclosed. The frontiers of this State have, since the beginning of the present mouth, been much infested by predatory parties of Indians; but the arrival of the'troops will probably push them to a greater distance. The tardiness of the recruiting service will occasion some deficiency of the regular troops. But I do not foresee any’ deficiency of the levies, excepting of the upper battalion of this State. I flatter myself that the battalion raising under General Sevier, will join you at fort "Washington before the 1st of July. I have not heard any thing of Colonel Procter. If Major General Butler should hear any thing of him, he will communicate it of course. 1 have the honor, &c. General St. Clair. W ar Department, June 1st, 1791. Sir: 1 have the honor to transmit you a duplicate of my letter to you of the 26th ultimo, since which nothing material has occurred. On the 20th ultimo, marched from Winchester one hundred and seventy levies, and ninety followed from the same place on the 22d. One hundred and fifty levies were to march on the 28th from Hagerstown; the 30th, eighty-three levies from Trenton; and yesterday. Captain Shailer, with seventy-six' regulars of the second regiment, marched from New Brunswick. Tam. &c. General St. Clair. W ah Department, June 9th, 1791. Sir: . As I have mentioned to you in my former letters, 1 have not received any of your favors since the first of May. . I have written you weekly since the nineteenth of April, always enclosing a copy of the letter of the preceding week. Colonel Procter arrived here on the seventh instant, by the way of fort Pitt; from that place he says lie informed you fully of the failure of his object and the reasons thereof. This obstruction being removed to the advance of. the troops of General Scott, you will of course, give them free scope. I enclose you a schedule of the troops who have marched, and who will probably inarch in the course of the present month. Although a considerable number of regulars w ill probably he recruited in the Eastern States, after the present month, yet I do not estimate that they wilfbe of service to your main expedition. They will, however, serve asa reinforcement, and to garrison the posts you may assume. The force, contemplated in your instructions of the twenty-first of March last, was about three thousand effective for tne expedition, besides the garrisons, which might be estimated at about three hundred more. From the present view of the subject, you will have about two thousand eight hundred troops, Sevier’s battalion included, in addition to the old troops on the Ohio, which may amount to about three hundred and fifty. In this view, there would he a deficiency of one hundred and fifty. In order to supply this, I have authorized Major General Butler, who seems to be of opinion that a company could be raised in Fayette, to raise it, and three others, if he should be of opinion that they could be raised by the twentieth of next month. He will communicate with you upon this subject, and you can take measures to supply any deficiency of numbers, by raising companies of levies in Kentucky, or calling out the militia of the district, or to cal! out a mounted corps to act collaterally with the main expedition, as you shall judge most proper. In case you should raise levies, you may take some of the continental clothing, in the store at fort Washington, lor the same. I am persuaded the force marched from their respective rendezvous will not exceed twenty-eight hundred men, and it may possibly fall short of that number two hundred; but that will not happen, according to present prospects. All the ordnance, powder, lead, and quartermaster’s stores, have been forwarded, and Indian goods, particular lists of which shall be forwarded by the next post. The quartermaster, Mr. Ilodgdon, did not set out until the fourth instant; lie will be at fort Pitt about the twelfth. Besides the stores sent from hence, lie takes with him the sum of twenty thousand dollars, to pay for boats, pack horses, and other articles for the campaign; one half of the sum necessary for the cavalry horses was before forwarded. Besides this sum, not more than fourteen thousand dollars of which being appropriated, the other six being for contingencies not foreseen, he has orders to draw for such further sums as you may certify to be necessary for the service. The quartermaster will forward, from the upper parts of the Ohio, hardy horses, which have been used to the woods, for the cavalry. According to Colonel Procter’s verbal report, there will he a pretty general attendance of the Six Nations, at the Painted Post, the seventeenth instant. It would also appear by the Colonel’s statements, that Brandt has gone to the Western Indians, with the concurrence of the British officers, and that his design is peace; that they expect him back before the seventeenth instant, in which case part of the chiefs will attend at the Painted Post, and part go forward to persuade the Western Indians to peace. 1 shall be extremely anxious to hear from you before the arrival of the President of the United States, who will be here about the twenty-filth instant. I cannot again too strongly mention the importance of frequently hearing from you. I am, &c. P. S. I enclose for your information a copy of my letter to Major General Butler, of this date. Major General St. Clair. War Department, \6th June, 1791. Sir: I enclose you a copy of my letter to you by the last post, dated on the ninth instant. Your letter of the first of Myy is still the last I have received from you. I presume Major General Butler informs you, by every opportunity, of the troops which arrive at fort Pitt, and of his disposition of them. Captain Doyle has marched from this city, for Lancaster, and Captain Beatty will march to-morrow, or next day, from New Brunswick. These two detachments will make about one hundred and fifty. About the same number of regulars arc at this time moving forward from New England, and will probably be at New Brunswick about the twenty-second instant. 1 enclose you copies of the returns of ordnance and military stores, medicines, and hospital stores, and goods for the Indian Department, which have been forwarded to fort Pitt. I have received Colonel Proctor’s written communications. . I think it appears pretty evident, that Brandt has gone to the hostile Indians, accompanied byGirty and McGee, with the concurrence, of the British officers at Niagara; and that the object of ids mission probably is to attempt a peace between the said Indians and the United States. You will be able, by some signs or information, to judge of the effect of this interference. The Virginia battalion of levies is completed, and the remainder inarched from Winchester on the fourth instant, excepting about thirty, who are deficient by desertions, but who will be replaced. The first division of the Maryland battalion, of which one hundred and eighty-eight marched on the twelfth from Hagerstown. The eastern battalion of this State, and the Jersey battalion of levies, are still deficient- about a company each, which will not probably be completed and marched until the latter end of this month. The upper battalion of this State is about two hundred recruited, according to'General Butler’s information. The President of the United States has not yet returned, but will be expected from the twenty:fifth to the thirtieth instant. .. I am, sir. &c. Major General St. Clair. 'War Department, June 23rf, 1791. Sir: t ■ ■ I have the bonor'to enclose a duplicate of mine to you of the sixteenth instant, and also a copy of mine to Major General Butler of tins date. I enclose you'the last, for your information, and to avoid repeating the same things to you. Captain Beatty marched from Trenton this morning, with about ninety;regulars and twenty levies. He husumler his charge, seventeen thousand eight hundred and forty-four dollars and Jifty cents, ?vhich he. is to deliver to Mr. Hodgdon, the quartermaster. I his money is intended as a sort of military chest, and to be issued from thence by your warrants. It would require about jive thousand dollars to pay the old troops up to the thirty-first of March last, which you will do if you judge proper. The remainder would form one month's pay for your army. This you may issue at such times or seasons as your judgment shall direct. . In my next, I shall be precise as to the number of the regular-troops, who are on the way from the Eastward, which will not exceed two hundred. But it is possible, that one hundred more of regulars may be drawn from that quarter, for the purpose of the expedition, provided you do not move until the first of September. But I do not depend upon them. The recruiting service shall, however, be continued, and the recruits forwarded as fast as possible. It is now pretty well ascertained, that, levies and regulars included, exclusive of the old troops on the Ohio, there will not be forwarded to you more than twenty-five hundred at the extent, and that some may be deducted from that number for sickness and desertion. You witlknow the number of old troops: for such additional numbers, then, as you may judge the campaign to require, you must depend on the frontiers. You will fix the number of additionqls, taking care to have a force adequate to the object. And you will also decide upon the species of troops, agreeably ^o my letter to you of the 9tli instant. If you could obtain them, it would seem, at this distance, that a corps of five hundred, or seven hundred and fifty Kentucky mounted volunteers or militia', would tend to give more efficacy to your operations, than any other species of troops. . . 'Not having lately heard front Brigadier General Sevier. I cannot inform you any tiling of the battalion he was to raise. I sincerely hope and believe, that he has effected the object, and that the advanced guard of his battalion are now with you. Brigadier General Harmar having, by his letter to the President of the United States, dated the 28th of March. 1791, requested that a board of officers might be instituted for the purpose of inquiring into his conduct oil the late expedition against the Miami Indians, the President of the United States, in a letter of the 17th instant, from Mount Vernon, has commanded me to direct, that such a board be instituted accordingly. You will, therefore, sir, as soon as the public, interests shall permit, direct, that a court of inquiry, constituted agreeably to the articles of war, assemble for the purpose of inquiring into the conduct of Brigadier General. Harmar, the commanding officer upon the late expedition against the Miami Indians; and, that they report to you, a full statement of facts, with their opinion thereon. _ ' - v- The court ourtit to consist of characters of the highest rank in the service, and of the greatest impartiality; -and "the evidence ought to be delivered from the different species of troops who served on the expedition. In the course of the investigation, it will be necessary to comprehend all the circumstances of the campaign, from the time the army departed, until it returned to fort Washington. This will embrace the personal conduct of the General, the organization of the army, the orders of march, encampment, and-battle. The motives which influenced the detachments of the' fourteenth, nineteenth, and twenty-first of October; and whether the said detachments were duly supported, and if not, the reasons which prevented the said support. The articles of war specify, that courts of inquiry shall not give their opinion on the merits of the case, excepting they shall be specially thereto required.' But this seems to be one of the cases in which an opinion seems requisite, as well for the reputation of Brigadier General Harmar. who has requested the court, as for the satisfaction of the public mind, and I presume he will fully concur in this idea. Since writing the above, and in this moment, I have received a letter from General Sevier, dated the Ceded Territory, the fifth instant, who informs me, that “about three companies ol the levies are raised, and will march for fort Washington in a few days.” ’I have the honor, &c. General St. Clair. War Department, Juiie 30lh,_ 1791. Sir: . _ _ _ I have the honor to enclose you a duplicate of mine to you, of the 23d instant, enclosing a copy of mine of the same date, to Major General Butler; and I also enclose a copy of mine to Major General Butler of this date, by which you will observe the measures directed, relative to the additional battalion.of levies, and the other objects therein mentioned. Your letter of the first of May is still the last of your communications. _ .   . . I hope, before this time, that the battalion raised by Brigadier General Sevier, lias principally, or entirely joined you. ( . 'As all the troops, (excepting a small deficiency of the Jersey, and the lower battalion of levies of this State, and perhaps a deficiency of the levies of Maryland,) are now to move forward, it seems highly proper that the troops’, already arrived at the upper parts of the Ohio, should rendezvous at head quarters; and I have, as yon will observe, written to Major General Butler accordingly. I shall hope, by the next post, to transmit you a return of all the troops who have actually marched, but-1 am persuaded they will not exceed the number I have mentioned, to wit: twenty-five hundred. Aware that your regular force may be inferior to the demands, I shall continue the recruiting service, and forward the recruits to head quarters. But I depend much, that you will be able to obtain from the levies, upon or before the expiration of the service, a considerable accession to your regular regiments; probably you may make use of the moneys in Mr. Hodgdoirs hands, for the bounties. _ . - 'Judge Innes, and the other commissioners at Kentucky, have informed me of the departure of General Scott on the twenty-third ultimo, and that it was expected he would make a stroke about the thirtieth ultimo; we shall be anxious to hear of the result. You will judge, from the effect of this expedition, and from the view of the time of your general operations, whether to form another such desultory expedition. If, to you. it should appear to have a decidedly good effect, to humble the Indians and prepare them for peace. I am persuaded the expenses thereof will be. cheerfully borne by the public. The President of the United States will arrive here about the 4th of July. I am. &c. General St. Clair. Sir: War Department. July 7th, 1791. 1 have the satisfaction to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the twenty-sixth of May to Captain Pratt. I have written you regularly by the post, every Thursday, and I flatter myself you have received them. 1 am sorry that Brigadier General Mannar should take the resolution to resign, as, with you, I esteem him to be a good officer, notwithstanding the loss sustained on the late expedition. I sincerely hope he will reconsider that resolution, and continue in set vice, at least for the campaign. The copies of my letters to Major General Butler, will inform you of the measures which have been executed for the discharge of the militia, and of the guards which he 't ill call out after the troops shall descend the Ohio. 1 enclose you a copy of mine to him of this date. And I also enclose you a schedule of the troops who have marched, and who will march, in the course of this month. I think this schedule may he depended upon as the extent, excepting such additional as Major General Butler may raise; of the number of which, 1 confess I am not very sanguine. If, therefore, from your own view of the object, you should require additional force, you will obtain it in the manner, and of the species of troops, you may judge proper. If General Scott's expedition should be successful, and satisfactory' to the people of Kentucky, there could be no doubt of your raising such another body of mounted volunteers; although a less number, perhaps li\e hundred, would be sufficient. I mean that this body is to make up deficiencies, to form part of your army, and act under vour immediate orders. With such a body of light troops, well commanded, and mixed with your regular cavalry, it would appear that your movements would be irresistible. I should think, at this distance, the expense would be amply repaid by the services of such a corps. They might be engaged lor such time, and he discharged when you shall judge proper. . But of this, or any other effective arrangement, you will be the judge. 1 will write to the Governor of Virginia, that, if there should be any collateral orders to be issued by him. he will please issue them immediately. I am not satisfactorily informed of the means the contractor has prepared for the transportation of the rations on the expedition; but, if there should be any deficiencies of any sort in his department, you will not suffer the service to be delayed thereby, if in the power of the quartermaster to remedy them. You will also take care not to interpose but in case of necessity, in which cases you will have a full statement of the circumstances transmitted, so that the contractor may be properly accountable for the deficiencies at the treasury. The President of the United States arrived here yesterday, in perfect health. I have the honor to be, &c. General St. Clair. Sir: War Department, July 14, 1791. On the eleventh of this month, I had the satisfaction to receive your favor of the first of June. The fate of General Scott’s incursion must have been decided long ere this, but we are in the dark as to the result. It was reported at fort Pitt, on the seventh instant, that he had succeeded greatly, but the particulars of the report were not transmitted to me. The letters from Major General Butler, at fort Pitt, are encouraging as to the supplies, the state of the river, and the general tranquillity of the frontiers. General Butler has, most undoubtedly, transmitted you Rhea's affidavit. Although some things contained therein may be doubted, yet there are strong causes to believe that others are true. I transmit you a copy of my letter to General Butler, on receiving Rhea’s information. We must, by all means, avoid involving the United States with Great Britain, until events arise of such quality and magnitude as to impress the people,of the United States, and the world at large, of the rank injustice and unfairness of their procedure. But a war with that Power, in the present state of affairs, would retard our power, growth, and happiness, beyond almost the power of calculation. The information of Rhea will serve to guide your measures, and seems to strengthen and rivet the propriety of assuming the position with a strong hand, mentioned in your instructions. 1 enclose you duplicates of my letters to you and Major General Butler, of the 7th instant, a duplicate of the schedule therein enclosed, a duplicate of mine to General Butler, of the 12th, and of mine to him of this date. The hundred regulars* mentioned in the schedule to march by the first of August, will, 1 hope, he increased to one hundred and fifty. I judge From appearances, hut it may be doubted whether these will arrive in time for the expedition, which I presume you will he in readiness to commence, at the furthest, the first of September. 1 shall, with the approbation of the President of the United States, continue the recruiting service in the Eastern States until the first, ol October, during which time it may be. expected we may obtain two hundred and fifty, or three hundred regulars, in addition to those specified in the enclosed schedule. 1 hope, however, that you will he able, with the bounty of six dollars, to fill up your regular regiments from the levies. You will please let me have your opinion of the probability of this event. I am, &c. General St. Clair. . 'War Department, July 21,.1791. Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 13th of June, by the post of this morning, and I enclose you a duplicate of mine of the 14th inst. the copy of the contract of provisions, and a letter from the President of the United States to the marshal of Kentucky, a copy of mine to Major General Butler, of the fourteenth, and of mine to him of this date. By my letter to Major General Butler, combined with those written to you, you will observe the progress of your force, and the. orders I have given him from time to time. As Captain Phelon will probably be the last of the troops who will march from the eastward of fort Pitt, so as to be of service in your expedition, you will, before this, have formed your judgment of the auxiliary force you will require from Kentucky, and have made your arrangements for obtaining it accordingly. I have urged Mr. l)uer repeatedly, to take ail the necessary steps relative to an ample supply of provisions, and to obtain the means necessary for the transportation thereof, and I am given to understand that he has made the arrangements accordingly. I sincerely hope this to be the case. But as lie is not personally present, some doubts arise as to the arrangements of his substitutes. At this distance, I only repeat the observation which I have had the honor to make to you before, that, in the present stage of public credit, the public interests must not suffer in any wise; that, if the contractor’s agents shall not have provided the articles necessary in his department, you will make effective arrangements to supply the deficiencies. That, in all cases of tliis nature, you will, of course, transact the requisitions upon the contractor’s agents in writing, and obtain their answers in the same, manner. That you will transmit these several papers, in order that they may be properly acted upon at the treasury. . INDIAN AFFAIRS. [1792. I omitted, in my last, to reply to your observation relative to Colonel Sargent. The office of adjutant general is not provided for by the laws. In case, therefore, of an officer of that description being appointed, as seems to be indispensably necessary, he must depend upon an after provision being made for him by Congress, of which there will be very little doubt. It must be left to your view of the subject, to determine the rank and pay which shall be offered such an officer for the expedition, but they certainly ought not to exceed that of a lieutenant colonel. We have had, for a. week past, reports, by the way of fort Pitt, and of Kentucky, of the favorable issue of General Scott’s expedition, but nothing to be entirely depended upon. 'If Colonel Edwards, lieutenant of Bourbon, should go upon the expedition you mention, it is to be hoped he will meet with some marked success. I have no information of Colonel Pickering’s treaty yet being closed. It was attended by about eight or nine hundred of the different tribes, men, women, and children; as he has nothing to request of them but to be quiet, there is little doubt but his mission will be successful. I enclose you a copy of l)e Bartzchi’s information, which has been sent by Major General Butler, who may not have taken a copy of it. This information and the speech appear to be such as to deserve some credit. I therefore enclose it, that it may be associated and compared with other information. The President of the United States has commanded me to urge, that, as soon as your troops are assembled, or such portion thereof as you may judge proper, that you commence the establishment of such of your posts of communication, to which your force may be adequate. . 'He is greatly anxious that the campaign be distinguished by decisive measures, so that the expense incurred may he manifestly useful and important. I am, &c. General St. Clair. Sir: War Department, 21 si July, 1791. The bearer, Doctor Grasson, is one of the emigrants from France, who has decided to incorporate himself among our citizens. ■ ‘ .lie is recommended to me as a gentleman of science, and professional knowledge as a surgeon. I have recommended him to Major General Butler, to have him examined by professional characters, and, if the report should be favorable, to appoint him to one of the vacant battalions of levies. In case the said vacancies should be filled up,-1 recommend him to you for such temporary employment in the medical line, as you may with propriety employ him. I am, sir, &c. General St. Clair. . . 'War Department, 4th of August, 1791. Sir: - 1 have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter by the post this morning, of the 6th of July, covering a duplicate of yours of the 26th. of June, containing Brigadier General Scott’s enclosures. Your letter of the 23d of June, and the first of yours, of the 26th of June, have riot yet been received. Brigadier General Scott’s despatches were received by Lieutenant Belli, on the 26th ultimo. The success of his expedition will probably be attended with exceedingly beneficial consequences, and prepare the minds of the Indians for that peace, which only can save them from destruction. I should hope, by the time you can receive this letter, you will also receive the whole of yourforce from fort Pitt, Phelon’s detachment included. ' . ■ I have not heard from General Sevier since the fifth of June; he then informed me that nearly three companies were completed, and would march in a few days. As he was furnished with money for all objects, and’clothing, I hope there will not be any failure. But, as Phelon is considered as the rear guard of your troops, for the expedition, ot which you have been informed; as you possess all the information of your force which is in my power toaftbrd; and asyou embrace-the objects to be performed, and the difficulties to be surmounted, you will be entirely competent to decide upon the additional force to be required; and I am persuaded that you .have taken efficient arrangements to obtain such additional numbers from Kentucky, and of such species, as you shall judge adequate to make up all deficiencies. Captain Newman marched from this city, with eighty-three non-commissioned and privates, regular's, on the thirtieth ultimo, and Captain Buell will march from Brunswick,on the tenth instant, with detachments from New England, and such numbers as are in this city, to make up, probably, about one hundred and twenty regulars more. But neither of these detachments will arrive in time to make part of your army. In addition to these detachments, I presume there will be about two hundred and fifty, or three hundred more regulars enlisted and marched, between the tenth instant and the first of October, after which it is probable the recruiting service will be suspended during the winter season. But, as I have before intimated, it is most probable you will be able to fill up your regular regiments by recruits from the levies. . The powder and lead which you request, were early forwarded from this city to fort Pitt, and ought to have formed part of Major Ferguson’s convoy. The quartermaster will forward them. - The five and a half inch shells and the shot you request, shall be forwarded immediately; but it is not possible for them to arrive in time for your expedition. The quantities you have on hand will probably be sufficient in the first instance for your posts, ana as many as you can carry. . On the seventeenth of March, I ordered two hundred shot and shells to be forwarded for each piece of artillery, then directed for the posts. Mr. Ilodgdon depended on a furnace at fort Pitt lor these articles, by which the transportation would be saved. He oh the twenty-eighth of July writes me word they cannot be had. You mention that you have directed the contractor’s agent to make a provisional agreement for eight hundred pack-horses, to transport the provisions for the army. I am persuaded that you will direct no more than-shall be requisite to give efficacy to your movements, and your judgment must be definitive on the case. But I am apprehensive, from a conversation between you and the contractor in my office, that he has calculated on a far less number. The idea was then entertained that posts of communication were to be established, and the supplies carried from .one to the other. I shall inform him of your opinion, and request him to extend his arrrangements to the number you may direct. As you will take as little baggage with you as possible, the number I have contemplated in the quartermaster’s department will not exceed three hundred pack-horses; but I have directed him to comply with your orders, for such further numbers as you may direct. Major General Butler writes, that Lieutenant Jeffers is arranged at fort Franklin, agreeably to your orders. Major General Butler will inform you particularly of the arrangements he has made for the defensive protection of the upper counties of the Ohio. The liberal provison he has made will most probably be satisfactory to the people of that part of the frontiers. You will also please to state particularly the arrangements you may think proper to make on the parts of the Ohio below the Kenhawa. , It will be highly proper to check the spirit of desertion which you mention, by some early and decided examples. The rules and articles of war will probably undergo a revision at the next session of Congress, and, if possible, some grades of punishment be obtained, between one hundred lashes and death, which, as you justly observe,are almost infinitely disproportionate. It is said, and it is probably true, that Brandt has returned to Niagara from the Miami town, and that he has brought some Western Indians with him; if so, and their designs are lor peace, we shall soon hear from them. The Indians at Buffalo creek, and those at Colonel Pickering’s treaty, asserted that Brandt went forth for the purpose of peace, and intimations to that effect are also constantly given in this city by ;r gentleman in the confidence of Lord Dorchester: and it is said, that Sir John Johnson is to assemble the Five Nations at Buffalo creek immediately. The indications which shall result from this council and Brandt's messages will probably give a decided complexion, for the present, to Indian affairs. If the British policy frowns upon Indian hostilities, and the Six Nations keep quiet, your operations, and your intimations of the disposition of the United States to be at peace with all the Indian tribes, will, in the course of the season, effect the object, and you will probably be suffered to establish your posts without opposition. I enclose you duplicates of Col. Pickering's letter to you, of the 8th ultimo, and of the queries and answers of Captain Hendricks. The treaty closed the fifteenth, and the Indians returned satisfied. Colonel Pickering did not attempt to persuade any of them to join our army, as he found such a proposal would be. very disagreeable to them. But Big Tree came from O'Beel’s town with a proposition to assist our army to make peace. Tins was debated and refused. The President of the United States still continues anxious that you should, at the earliest moment, commence your operations. 1 enclose the copy of a letter to Major General Butler, of this date, which I presume will be the last he will receive for the present at fort Pitt. I am. sir, &c. Major General Sr. Clair. War Department, August llth, 1791. Sir: I have the honor to enclose you a duplicate of my last letter to you of the 4th instant, and a copy of mine to Major General Butler of the same date, and of the one to him of this day. The President of the United States is exceedingly anxious that the troops upon the upper parts of the Ohio should be assembled at fort Washington, at as early a period as possible. So that you may commence and effect your operations in due season. Nothing occurs as necessary or proper to be given you as additional instructions. You are fully informed of the objects to be accomplished, the means furnished you for that purpose, and authority to supply all deficiences. The President of the United States is convinced that you are deeply impressed* with the national importance of the force entrusted to your direction, and that you will use it in such a seasonable and decisive manner as shall at once reflect honor on yourself and the army, and the public character of the United States. I have received a letter from Governor Blount and General Sevier, of the 15th Julv. which mention that great difficulties had arisen in raising the corps in the Ceded Territory: that two hundred had marched under Major Rhea, and were then probably at fort Washington: and that the remainder would be forwarded immediately. Governor Blount, on the 2d of July, concluded a satisfactory treaty with the Cherokees; all is, therefore, quiet at the southward, excepting a few rascally Indians, probably Creeks, have been committing some depredations on the Cumberland settlements. , I am. sir. &c. General Sr. Clair. M ar Department, .lugust 18th, 1791. Siu: I have the honor to enclose a duplicate of mine to you of the llth instant, and also a duplicate of mine to Major General Butler, of that date, and of this day. I presume Captain Newman will not arrive at fort Pitt until the 25th instant, and Captain Buell about the 10th of September. No other troops are on their march excepting a party of about thirty from New Hampshire, w ho have not yet arrived at Brunswick. Buell's detachment consists of about ninety-two regulars. All the stores which have been written for have been forwarded, either from fort Pitt or this place, excepting the 54 inch shells, which cannot be obtained in season for the campaign; as the most expeditious mode, I have sent for some to West Point, and expect them here hourly: when they arrive they shall be forwarded. Some reports have recently been raised in this city, as if the powder furnished Mr. Hodgdon, by Mr. Joseph Miller, was not of a good quality, especially that made bv his foreman, Jacob Keyser. I have had some powder of Jacob Keyser's make proved, by taking one ounce of each sort, to wit: cannon, musket, and rifle, and projecting a 24 lb. ball out of a 54 inch mortar, elevated at 45° placing the powder in the chamber of the mortar loose, and putting a piece of paper over the mouth of the chamber: the powder to be well dried in the sun. This is the surest possible mode of proving powder, and the powder so proved had been manufactured from damaged public powder, ami was found upon trial to be equal to the best proot powder. It is considered, that, if one ounce will, under the above circumstances, project a 24 lb. ball thirty yards, it is sufficiently strong. Most of the powder which was tried as above, projected the ball, on an average, forty yards. Mr. Miller has made an affirmation that the powder furnished the public was made of refined salt-petre, and was at least equal, if not superior, to that which has been proved here. I mention this circumstance to you lest the report may have reached you by some other channel; you will, of course, direct the powder to be proved in the manner stated by Major Ferguson: I have no doubt that you w ill find it full proof. You w ill readily perceive that this is a sort of suspicion which must be kept carefully from the troops; for unless they rely with confidence on the goodness of the powder, no dependence can be placed on their exertions. The report here I am pretty confident originated in a jealousy ol some dealers in the same article. 1 sincerely hope that you will have received your whole force, and have commenced your operations by the time you will receive this letter, which I consider as the last you will receive at tort M ashington. I cannot easily express to you the anxiety of the President of the United States, that the campaign should be entirely successful, and issue in a just and honorable peace with all the tribes: he is persuaded you will brace to exertion every nerve under your command, and that you will establish a sure mode of communication with this office, while you are on the expedition. M ith great respect, &c. Gen. St. Clair. W ar Department, .iugust 25th, 1791. Sir: I enclose you a duplicate of my letter of the 18th instant, and of one to Gen. Butler, of the same date, and also of mine to him, of this date. The President of the United States laments exceedingly, the unfortunate detention of the troops on the upper parts of the Ohio, for which no reasons sufficiently strong have been assigned. This detention will undoubtedly retard the commencement of the operations, and require the highest exertions to accomplish the objects of the campaign. The President, reiterates his confidence in your activity, and that every thing will be put in motion, on the arrival of the rear of your troops, under Major General Butler. The quartermaster will give you horses for the cavalry and baggage; and, if you require more than he has provided, he must obtain them. 24 * I have repeatedly written to you, that, if the contractor's arrangement?, either in his supplies of provisions, or the transportation of them, should be deficient, that such deficiency must be supplied by your orders, and the contractor made answerable. The public service cannot be retarded or injured by any deficiencies in that line. I have also written you several times relative to any deficiency of troops, in order that you might make such seasonable arrangements for supplying such deficiency as you should think proper. All of which, no doubt, has been done on your part. 1 have the honor, &c. Major General S r. Clair. » War Department, September 1st, 1791. Sir: I transmit you a duplicate of my last to you, of the 25th ultimo, and to Gen. Butler, of the same date, and of mine to him, of the present date. _ r _ A company of regulars will march from this place and Brunswick by the 10th instant; either Captain Haskell or Cushing will command it. ... . r I have nothing to add to my former communications, excepting that the anxiety of the President of the United States still continues exceedingly great for the success of the campaign; he is fully aware, that vigor of operation, and the success of the campaign, will reflect honor on you, .your troops, and the Government; and that languor and want of success will be attended with consequences directly the reverse. He therefore enjoins you, by every principle that is sacred, to stimulate your operations in the highest degree, and to move as rapidly as the lateness of the season, and the nature of the case, will possibly admit. Pray establish a mode by which we shall be regularly informed of your movements, and the events of your operations. 1 have the honor, &c. Major General St. Clair. War Department, September 9th, 1791. Sir: I have the honor to enclose you a duplicate of the Secretary of War’s letter to you, dated the 1st instant, and also a duplicate of his letter to MajorGeneral Butler, of the same date. I am, &c. JOHN STAGG, Chief Clerk. Major General St. Clair. W ai; Department, September 22c/. 1791. Sir: I have received your letters of the 8th of August, from fort "Washington, and of the 24th, from Danville; but yours of the 3d of August, and the one you mention from Lexington, are both missing. Captain Haskell inarched, two days ago, with eighty men, tor fort Pitt, and thence to descend to fort Washington ; about the same number are on their way from New England, and more will follow. As this letter will not reach you at fort Washington, 1 have done no more than to acknowledge your letters. d have the honor, &c. Major General St. Clair. War Department, September 29th, 1791. Sir: I have received from Brigadier General Wilkinson, a copy of his report to you, relatively to his. expedition against l’Anguille. As his conduct and his services on the occasion merit public thanks, I have transmitted him a letter, of which the following is an extract: “ I have, by this post, instructed Major General St. Clair to thank you, if he -had not already performed that pleasing duty, in the name'of the President of the United States, for the zeal, perseverance, and good conduct, manifested by you in the command of the expedition, and for the humanity observed towards the prisoners whom you captured; and also to thank the officers and privates of the volunteers, for their activity and bravery while under your command; and to express his hope, that you and they may enjoy, in future, entire peace, as a reward for your services.” If you should not have previously thanked him, you will please to do it according to the ideas expressed to him. I have the honor, &c.. General St. Clair. Ter pust, to the care of Major Craig-, at Pittsburg. Duplicates forwarded the 6th of October, 1791. War Department, September 29th, 1791. Sir: _ ■ _ _ I enclose you a duplicate of mine, of the 22d inst. since which I have received your letters with their several enclosures: July 6th, a duplicate; August 3d and 8th, both duplicates; August 17th and 29th; all of which have been duly considered. But as it is highly probable that you are not at fort Washington, and that it will be some time before you will receive this letter, I shall not particularly reply to your several communications. But if, by circumstances, this letter should reach vou, I beg leave, to express an entire reliance, that you will endeavor to fill the companies of the first regiment, and corps of artillery, which are with you, at a proper season, out of the levies. Captain John Smith and Captain Pratt are recruiting their companies, and will probably have them completed by the first of November; and by the same period I hope-the companies of the second regiment will also be completed. But, lest it should be otherwise, I think it would be proper, il convenient, that you should also enlist one hundred men on account of the second regiment. It is presumed that you have made a perfect arrangement for the quantity of provisions, which is to rertiain as a stock in the garrisons you shall establish. I have the honor, &c. General St. Clair. War Department, September 30, 1791. Sir: 1 omitted, in my letter of yesterday, to state, that, on the 15th July, I wrote a letter to the Governor of Virginia, to instruct the county lieutenants of Kentucky to obey your call for militia, of which the enclosed is a copy. 1 was in hopes General Scott would have received these orders from the Governor, so that you would have experienced no difficulty in obtaining the additional militia you might require. I am, sir, &c. General St. Clair. Delivered to Lieut. Belli. Duplicate forwarded 6th October, to Major Craig, at Pittsburg. , War Department, October 13, 1791. Sir: 1 have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, of the 18th ultimo, from fort Washington, by the contractor's light canoe, which refers to a former letter, by some other conveyance, not yet come to hand. Captain Haskell will have arrived at fort Pitt by this time; Captain Cushing will probably march from Brunswick, with at least ninety men. on the 18th instant. We shall be exceedingly anxious to hear from you while upon your expedition, which I pray God may succeed in all its parts. As you will not probably receive this letter, until your return from the expedition, I shall not enter into details. The President of the Tinted States is absent in Virginia, and will not be here until the 20th. I am, sir. &c. General St. Clair. \\ ar Department, October 20. 1791. Sir: The President of the United States having long since leceived an application from the Baron de Steuben, relative to a young man by the name of George Demelar, who went from New York to the Ohio, some time past, where he has been employed in surveying lands, I request that you will please to make inquiry respecting this person: and. if his character is good, you will appoint him an ensign in the second regiment of infantry, and notify me of the same. As Mr. Demelar has been absent a considerable time, the Baron solicits that this inquiry, relative to his conduct, should be made, before the appointment is decisive. i have the honor, &c. General St. Clair. M ar Department, December 2, 1791. Sir: My. last letter to you was dated the 20th of October, duplicates of which have been transmitted. I have not written since, as it was presumed you had departed upon your expedition: and, also, because nothing occurred of any considerable importance. But as the period has arrived when your operations may be drawing to a close, and you about to return to fort 'Washington; and having a safe opportunity, by the troops hereinafter mentioned, about to descend the Ohio, which will be the last for the season, on account of the probable difficulty of navigating the river, it seems proper that a full communication should be made to you, at thi- time, of such circumstances as the public service may require. I have conceived it important, as well for the comfort ol the levies and militia, acting under your orders, as blithe reputation of the Government, that the said troops should have their accounts adjusted at fort Washington, and each man paid the balance that may be found due to him before his discharge. 1 have therefore sent Mr. Caleb Swan, of this office, to perform the business of settling the said account.', and making the payments; and he is accordingly furnished with fifty thousand dollars, which is estimated as sufficient for this object. Mr. Swan is well used to accounts of this nature, having been employed in the pay office upwards of live years; and he is furnished by Mr. Howell, acting as paymaster, with the necessary information. Mr. Swan will report to you the balances, and receive your warrants for the payments, and he will take a number of blank warrants for your use. I have entire confidence in Mr. Swan's integrity. But it will be proper that every check be devised and executed to render the business perfectly clear. I enclose y ou a copy of his instructions; and if there should be any additional guards proper, I pray you to use them. It will be proper that the levies ami militia, although discharged at fort M ashington, have such additional allowance, both of pay and ration.', as shall he sufficient to carry them to their respective battalion rendezvous at which they were recruited, estimating each day at one ration and fifteen miles; the. commissioned officers to be allowed their full rations. The levies and militia will of course be mustered to the time of their leaving fort Washington, to which must be added such further time as the aforesaid fifteen miles per day will entitle them to. Mr. Swan, besides the aforesaid sum, estimated as sufficient for the levies, has the further sum of---dollars, judged sufficient, with the 17,000 dollars which were entrusted in Mr. Hodgdon's hands, for this object, to pay the artillery, and the parts of the two regiments of infantry, their full pay to the first of January, 1792. But if the said seventeen thousand dollars, or any part of it, should have been distributed to the (mops, it will lessen, according to its amount, the. sum to be paid out of the sums now sent by Mr. Swan. I have but little doubt, from (be estimates, tliat the money on hand, and now fonvarded, w ill be ample for all (be payments to be made to the levies and militia, and most probably complete the payments of the regulars for the present year. I estimate that you have enlisted, or will enlist, tit least five hundred of the levies. But, if there sliould be any-deficiency-, it must fall on the regulars and not on the levies, who ought to be entirely paid up at the time of their discharge, with such additional allowances, both of pay and rations, as.will serve them to the rendezvous at which they were recruited: to wit. Trenton, in New-Jersey; Tarlisle and fort Bitt, in Pennsylvania; Hagerstown, in M arylaud; Winchester, in Virginia; and Jonesborough, in the Southwestern territory. The levies, originally, were to have had only one pair of linen overalls, and two pair of shoes, which would have borne a proportion to the clothing of a continental soldier, as the six months, the time for which the levies were engaged, would to the twelve months clothing for the continental soldiers. But, at a subsequent period, two thousand additional overalls, and two thousand additional pairs of shoes, were forwarded for the levies, with the intention of charging them therewith. But, as.the said troops have undergone considerable hardships, and as they probably will be detained longer in service than the six months, it would, perhaps, be rather more rigid and economical than oolitic, and, perhaps, unjust, to charge them with the said articles. Tlic said articles will not, therefore, be deducted from the pay due the levies. As the levies will, most probably, have to return by the way- of the wilderness, it will depend upon your judgment as to the manner of their return. You will, without doubt, order them up ihe Ohio, if the weather and state of the river will permit, at least as far as Marietta or M’heeling. It would, most certainly, more comport with good order, that they should preserve their military consistence and organization, until they should reach their respective battalion rendezvous; and that each major sliould command his Battalion. But there might be inconveniences in this arrangement, independent of the expense, and loss of arms and accoutrements; provided circumstances of danger, in returning, should be such as you should direct that they should retain, their arms and accoutrements, or a proportion thereof, until they should arrive at the battalion rendezvous. It will be proper, and important, that you should not permit more arms to be taken, by, the discharged troops, than shall be necessary for their safety; and. for such, the field officers ought to be responsible, and to receipt to you for the same, and their receipts to be transmitted tome. But the officers ought, by all means, to command Ihe men until they arrive at their respective rendezvous. To this end, the officers should possess the discharges of the men, and not to deliver them until a suitable time; and it might, also, he proper, that some of the pay should be delivered to an officer, of each battalion, to be delivered to the men at the place ol their dismissal. But in this case, the men ought to appoint the officer w ho is to be their agent; each individual to know the [in cise sum he was to receive. The public, by this arrangement, would be exonerated from any demands, in case of deficiency. But, upon more mature reflection, it will be the least exceptionable to pay the men, at fort Washington, their whole arrears. But, if you should judge that the discharged levies should preserve a military form, it will be necessary that the contractors should make an arrangement to furnish them with provisions on their route, and also to pay any small contingencies of their march, such as straw, fuel, &c. In case of the levies returning in military form, they must have a proportion of tents, delivered under the same guards and restrictions as the arms and accoutrements. The orderly and comfortable dismissal of the levies, is a point of some importance; I am persuaded, therefore, that you will take such arrangements upon the subject, as shall at once be regular, convenient, and economical. Permit me to urge you, in the strongest terms, to direct that all the spare arms and accoutrements be collected, repaired, and put in such situation, as to be tit for immediate use, and a return thereof to be made to this office. No doubt can be entertained, but that you have, agreeably to your original instructions, furnished the post you may have established at the Miami village, and its communications, with six months’ salted meat, and a due quantity of flour. This circumstance omitted, the safety of the said posts must be considered as extremely precarious. If there should have been any defects in the contractor’s department, it is to be hoped that you have remedied them, according to my several letters to you upon that subject. Upon the return of the. troops at fort Washington, you will, I am persuaded, have made the best possible arrangement of the. sale of the spare cavalry and pack-horses, so that the public may sustain as little injury upon that subject as possible. The expense of the quartermaster’s department has far exceeded my estimates. But I flatter myself, that the excess has been dictated by such sound principles, that, when they are developed, they will appear not only reasonable, but inevitable. A new contract for the supply of provisions, for the year 1792, has been entered into,by the Secretary of the Treasury, with Elliot and Williams, the former contractors, a copy of which is herein enclosed. I enclose you a list of the officers as they row stand. In this, you will perceive, that General Wilkinson is appointed the lieutenant colonel-commandant of the second regiment of infantry. I hope he will merit your approbation, and that his conduct will reflect honor on his country and the troops. It is the expectation of the President of the United States, that, at* the expiration of the campaign, the necessity of an adjutant general will cease, and that the duty may be performed consistently, by the inspector; and it is also his expectation, at the expiration of the campaign, that Major General Butler will retire'with the levies. He was' appointed specially for them, and under the law by which they were raised; and however desirous the President of the United States might be to retain him in service, he would not have the power, without a new law for the purpose. You will, therefore, intimate to him, in handsome terms, this order. His pay and emoluments will, however, be. continued him,, until his arrival at fort Pitt. 1 have detained Captain Haskell’s company for some time past at fort -Pitt, as a substitute for the dismission of the militia. But Cushing’s company having arrived at that place, they will be detained no longer than the arrival of Mr. Swan, who will, with his money, be under their protection. Either Major Trescott, or Major Burnham, will command these two companies. There are recruits, to the amount of two other companies, ready to march, to wit: Captain Mills, from this city, and Captain Cass, with detachments from New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Connecticut; but they cannot possibly arrive in time to descend the Ohio this winter. I have, therefore, caused a provisional arrangement to be made for them at fort Pitt, for the winter. Captain Hunt’s company will be raised during the winter, in Massachusetts; Captain Pratt’s, in Connecticut; and Captain John Smith’s, in New York. I had ordered Captain Hughes to join his company, but it is probable lie will be ordered to recruit a full company this winter. These four companies will probably be in readiness to join you early in the spring. Some disturbances have lately been excited among the Creeks, by one Bowles, styling himself General William Augustus Bowles. He has set himself up in opposition to M’Gillivray, and has prevented running the line, agreeably to the treaty at New York. It seems probable, that either M’Gillivray or Bowles must fall. The United States will support the former, who appears to have conducted with propriety and sincerity. Brigadier General Harmar has arrived, and the proceedings of the court of inquiry are in the press. He has intimated his intention of resigning, but has not yet executed it. Since mine of the 20th of October, I have received your several letters of the 4th, 15th, 16th, 23d, and 25th of September: and we have heard of you and the army, on the 8th of October. As those several letters contain information only, it is unnecessary to reply particularly thereto. Your anxiety at the detention of the troops, at the upper part of the Ohio, must indeed have been great, to what-J ever cause it was owing. _ _ _ The arrangements you made in Kentucky’, relatively to the calling out the militia, were highly judicious, and extremely satisfactory to all the people of that district. Every such instance of conciliating and proper conduct, is extremely gratifying to the President of the United States, who is desirous of the utmost harmony subsisting between all parts and branches of the Government. The bills which Mr. Ludlow drew for the pack-horses, have been protested by Mr. Duer, he stating, that Mr. Ludlow had no authority from him for the purpose, .and that he made another arrangement, for the purchases of the said horses. But these bills were endorsed by you, in behalf of the United States, and they have been regularly paid. The allair has been stated to the Secretary of the Treasury, and the business will be adjusted by the Comp-tioiler, upon proper principles. _ . ■ I sincerely hope, uy the time this letter arrives, you will have returned to fort Washington, crowned with success, having made an equitable and lasting peace with the poor Indians, and entirely fulfilled all the objects of the. campaign. But although entire confidence is reposed in your talents and arrangements, we shall entertain a painful anxiety until we shall be relieved by your despatches. I have the honor to be, with very great respect, your most obedient, &c. Major General Arthur St. Clair. , ^ Instructions to Major General Butler. War Department, April 5, 1791. Sir: _ 1 The public service requires that you should immediately set off for the States of Virginia and Maryland, in order to put into immediate operation the measures necessary for the raising of the two battalions of levies assigned to said States. _ The first object demanding your attention will be the appointment of the officers. Colonel Henry Lee having declined the command of the first regiment, it has been, by order of the President of the United States, offered to Colonel Josias Carvell Hall, residing near Baltimore. If he should accept, you will, with him, make a perfect arrangement of the officers for the Maryland battalion. I herewith deliver you a list of officers suggested to the President of the United States by his Excellency the Governor of Maryland. This list must be respected, and the appointments conformed to it, so far as the officers may reside near to, and have influence within, the local districts of Maryland most likely to afford the recruits. Colonel Rawlings, of Fredericktown, has had the offer of being major of the battalion, but I have received no information of his acceptance or otherwise. It has been decided that Hagerstown should be the principal rendezvous in Maryland, with one or more subordinate rendezvous for the companies; but it is to be observed that numerous rendezvous create additional expense, and therefore ought to be avoided. As soon as (lie arrangements are made in Maryland, you will proceed to Virginia, and there appoint the officers of the battalion: any lists or intimations you may reteive'upon this subject from the President of the United States, you will, of course, obey. Winchester is to be the principal rendezvous in Virginia, with a subordinate rendezvous or. two if necessary. Joseph Howell, the paymaster, will deliver you two thousand one hundred and seventy-two dollars and eighty cents, for each of the battalions, being for the objects specified in the enclosed schedule, (marked A) and also (he sum'of one hundred and forty-four dollars and forty cents, being for the lieutenant colonel-commandant and surgeon. In case Colonel Josial 0. Hall should decline the appointment of lieutenant colonel-commandant, the offer of it is to be made to Colonel Moses Rawlings, unless you should be otherwise directed by the President of the United States. Mr. Duer, who has contracted to furnish the rations and supplies which may be required in Maryland and Virginia, and thence to the Ohio, has engaged to send a suitable person to Winchester and Hagerstown, to make the proper arrangements, and at such subordinate places as you shall judge requisite. You will direct the major who shall be appointed to each of the battalions, as soon as a sufficient number of recruits shall be assembled, either at Hagerstown or Winchester, to form a company, that it be marched to Redstone. there to embark for fort Pitt. This measure may, for a time, occasion some intermixture of companies, but a more perfect arrangement will take place when the levies shall be assembled together. The company officers to be commissioned on condition of each recruiting the number of twenty-eight non-commissioned and privates, on or before the first of June next. This condition is essential, as the deficiency of the levies must then be made up by draught sof the militia. The clothing for the Maryland and Virginia battalions is now preparing, and a sufficiency for the half of each battalion will be forwarded in about fourteen days hence, from this place. The arms, ammunition, and accoutrements, for the said battalions, are lodged at fort Pitt, and will be delivered at that place. You have herewith delivered to you the arrangement of the battalions, for the levies, by which you will observe (lie number and rank ot'the officers to be appointed for each battalion, (marked B.) You have also herewith delivered, the establishment of pay, rations, and forage, for the levies, which is the same as to the troops of the United States. You have also herewith delivered, twelve copies of the Baron Steuben's instructions, thirty Articles of YY'ar, thirty recruiting instructions, and thirty blank bonds, which the officers are to sign upon receiving their recruiting money. To you, who are sensible of the urgency of affairs which requires the highest possible despatch, ibwould be unnecessary to say any thing to give vigor to your measures: but you will urge the officers whom you may appoint, by the most cogent arguments, to use the greatest diligence and activity. The lieutenant colonel-commandant must be alternately at both rendezvous of YVinchester and Hagerstown; bnt each major must constantly superintend at the rendezvous of his battalion, and stimulate the exertions of the officers. The majors must weekly report to this office the state of the recruiting service. In short, that nothing must be omitted which would give a spring and vigor to the recruiting service. Y'ou will write to me twice a week of your proceedings. YYith great respect, I am, sir. &c. Major General Butler. YV ar Department, April 8, 1791. Sir: Since writing the foregoing letter, I have received the enclosed letter from the President of the United States, dated the 4th instant, by which you will observe, that he has taken measures for the appointment of the officers of the Virginia battalion, and has directed the major to call upon me for orders. Y'ou will endeavor, in your journey, to find out this person, and give him the money and orders necessary for his battalion; in which case you need not proceed to Virginia. I have received an answer from Colonel Rawlings, declining to accept the Maryland battalion. Although he declines the battalion, yet probably he would accept the regiment, in case Colonel Hall should decline accepting it. On this point you will consult him personally, before any offer of the lieutenant colonel-commandant shall be made to any other person. But, in case he should entirely decline, you will endeavor to find some suitable character of the late war, either from Virginia or Maryland, to accept the regiment. When you shall have finished the business in Virginia and Maryland, you will please to repair to Carlisle, in this State, and complete any deficiency which may be in either of the battalions or levies to he raised within the State? and, as soon after .as possible, you will repair to the frontiers, there to take the command of Major General St. Clair. Y'ou will keep me constantly informed of all public objects necessary for me to know. I have issued my warrant on the paymaster, in your favor, for the sum of two hundred dollars, on account of your extra expenses, incurred in travelling to Virginia and Maryland? for which sum you will account. I am, sir. &c. Major General Richard Butler. War Department, April 15, 1791. Sir: Colonel Hall declines: Colonel Darke, of Shepherdstown, therefore, must be appointed, agreeably to the letter of the President of the United States of the 7th instant. As you are the pivot upon which all things turn relative to raising the two battalions in Maryland and Virginia, I flatter myself that you will urge every part of the business with a vigor which will delight and surprise the public, I am, sir, yours, &c. Major,General Richard Butler. War Department, April 21, 1791. Sir: I write you this letter to meet you by hazard. Lieutenant-colonel Darke accepts the command, which you probably know. One hundred and thirteen suits of clothing, and tents for one company, were sent from this city yesterday, by land, to YVinchester, in Virginia, and the same quantity necessary to Hagerstown, and the quantities necessary to complete each battalion will be forwarded in ten days, hence. 1 have not received any information of the levies of this State? part of the clothing has been forwarded, and the remainder will follow in quick succession. One hundred levies of the Jersey battalion will march from Trenton, on the 25th or 26th instant, and about the same time, the companies of Armstrong, and of the State of Delaware? and I shall, to-morrow, send some person to inarch those who shall be at Carlisle. Much injury has arisen for want of a major at that place. I pray you to make every arrrangement in Virginia and Maryland entire, and enjoin on the commanding officers a correspondence with me. YYrith great respect, I am, sir. &c. Major General Richard Buttler. 1 i Sir: War Department, May 5th, 1791. I have received your letter from Baltimore, of the 30th ultimo. The clothing and tents, for upwards of two hundred men, have been forwarded to Hagerstown, and the same to Winchester, anu the remainder, to complete the Virginia battalion, will be forwarded to-morrow, together with camp kettles and some canteens. As I presume you have made a perfect arrangement relative to both the Virginia and Maryland battalions, I shall say nothing further upon that subject, excepting that I have received no more information, either from you or Colonel Darke, than is contained in your letter. Mr. Sw an, from my office, will set out from hence the next day after to-morrow, to inspect and muster the com-< panies as they shall assemble at the rendezvous of Winchester and Hagerstown. Captain Snowden marched from Trenton on the 27th ultimo, with one hundred and one levies; Captain Armstrong, from this city, and Lieutenant Platt, from Christiana bridge, on the same day; and Major Ferguson informs me that one hundred and sixty levies will immediately march from Carlisle. Captain Piatt will march from 'Prentonin adayortwo, with upwards of one hundred more of the levies of Jersey: and I nave but little doubt of the battalion of that State being completed and on its march before the 20th instant. ' I pray you to urge the completion of the battalions of this State. Major General St. Clair. I am informed, has descended the Ohio. It is to be presumed he ha$ left orders for yon at fort Pitt. In these orders, I hope he has directed part of the levies to be posted for the covering of the upper parts of the Ohio, so that the militia who have been called outby the county lieutenants, under the directions of the President of the United States, as contained in my letter of the 10th of March, should be discharged. But, if lie should not have instructed you upon this point, and has left it discretionary with you, as to the disposition of some of the levies, and it should be your judgment that they may be used for the temporary purpose of covering the frontiers on the upper parts of the Ohio, I pray you to dispose of them accordingly. In this case you will instantly despatch the most [jointed orders to all the county lieutenants of Pennsylvania and Virginia, so protected by the levies, to discharge ail the militia called out by virtue of the President’s directions contained in my letter of the 10th of March Iasi, except such small parties as you may judge indispensable to serve as scouts or rangers, to give the alarm. The great expense incurred by the militia, renders it necessary that this object should be attended to, as soon as the arrival of the levies Mill render it proper. In the temporary disposition of the levies, you will pay a just regard to the protection of the settlements of Mari etta, and the French settlements below, both of which are entitled to protection in the same manner as the inhabitants on the south of the Ohio. . I suppose General St. Clair will have directed that all the regulars, and probably part of the levies, descend the Ohio to head quarters. It is far from my intention of interfering in the least degree with his orders. My object is to discharge the militia consistently 'with the other objects of the troops. I shall expect to hear from you every opportunity, until you descend the Ohio. I am, sir, &c. Major General Richard Buti.er. Sir.’ War Department, May 12//;, 1791. Your letter of the 30th of April, is the last I have received from you. I have sent Mr. Swan to Hagerstown, in Maryland, and Winchester, in Virginia, in order to muster, inspect, and march all the levies at those places. He is furnished with money and orders to supply any delects which may have arisen on the part of the contractors, either with respect to rations or transportation, and he has, also, all the commissions for the Virginia and Maryland battalions.^ I have information from Captain Freeman, whom i despatched upon other public business, that the recruiting of the Virginia battalion has succeeded well, and from his information, I should nope that the greater part of that battalion will be in readiness to march from Winchester on'or before the 20th instant. Tents, clothing, and knapsacks, have been forwarded complete, for the Virginia, and the same articles have gone forward, or are about setting out, for the Maryland battalion at Hagerstown. I have, therefore, the persuasion in my mind, that you have completed all the arrangements with which you are charged, relative to the said Virginia and Maryland battalions, and that they will be completed in due season. The Jersey battalion will probably be completed and marched before the. 20th or 25th. Captain Pike marched with a detachment from Trenton on the 9th, which makes one hundred and ninety-six non-commissioned and privates of that battalion, which have already marched. The completion of the battalions of this State will claim your highest exertions. The lower battalion, it is to be presumed, will be completed in due season; but the upper battalion does not succeed so well; pray urge the business by all possible inducements. The battalion to be raised under the orders of Brigadier Geueral Sevier, will not be so forward as I expected, owing to his falling sick at Richmond. But as the clothing,and all equipments for it. had gone forward on the 25th ultimo, he writes me he had no doubt of the battalion being completed by the 1st of June. The recruiting in the Eastern States, for the regular troops, has not succeeded well, but I hope, from the measures taken, it will soon be better. Captain Shaylor, with a company from Connecticut, will, I expect, be shortly at Brunswick, in New Jersey, on its way to Fort Pitt, and I expect, in the course of this month, that Beatty and Doyle’s companies will be completed.   _ I enclose you a duplicate of my letter to you of the 5th instant. I pray your immediate-attention to the objects contained in it, relative to the dismissal of the militia of the frontier countries, as soon as the arrival of the levies will admit of the measure. 'If you have not orders from Major General St. Clair, relative to the time of your going down the Ohio, I wish it might be delayed, conceiving your presence will be essentially necessary at fort Pitt, in order to arrange and forward the service. As soon as the major of the Carlisle detachment shall be appointed, you will order Colonel Gibson to Fort Pitt. I am, sir, your’s, &c. Major General Richard Butter. Sir: . W ar Department, May 19th, 1791. I have received your favor, dated at Carlisle, the lltli instant. Mr. Swan will be able to remedy all defects in Maryland and Virginia, either with respect to provisions or transportation. 'I depend upon your appointing the major to the Carlisle battalion. I am well satisfied you have gone forward to fort Pitt. The Indians have lately committed some depredations on Westmoreland county; the mischief most probably has been committed by a few Indians, but the people seem i/greatly alarmed. The Governor of (his Commonwealth has again applied to me for arms and ammunition, and I have directed Major Craig to furnish two hundred arms and accoutrements, with a proportionate quantity of ammunition, to the orders of Colonel Biddle, quartermaster general of the State. T have furnished to the order of Major Smith, of Carlisle, the further sum of one thousand dollars, on account of Mr. Duel-, the contractor. I have not received any precise information relative to the upper battalion of this State. 1 have written to Major Clark for information, and shall hope to receive it either from him. but more especially from you. 1 have been informed that, as no men were called from Fayette county, it is unfortunate that one company had not been raised in that county. I trust that, if there is still a deficiency in other places, you will immediately attempt to raise men in Fayette. I depend greatly on your presence to give a due stimulus to the upper battalion. 1 am.persuaded, were a proper distribution to be made, by posting a company of levies at tort Franklin for the present, and until they would be wanted for the active operations'of the campaign, and by dismissing the Westmoreland militia, all but a few. who might act as rangers for quieting the minds of the inhabitant', that Major Clarke's battalion would immediately feel the good effects of the measure. I trust you will take decisive measures, as soon as the nature of the case will admit, consistently with the protection of the frontiers, to dismiss all the militia called out by the county lieutenants, as far down the Ohio as the Great Kenhawa. General St. Clair will take care of all below the Kenhawa. The dismissal of the militia must be entrusted to you. who will be upon the spot. The expense is a grievous circumstance, and ought to be terminated as soon as possible, consistently with the security of the inhabitants. When the levies shall arrive, if yon shall have the disposal of them by the general's orders, (for I wish not to interfere with the disposition of the troops after'their arrival at fort Pitt) it will be important that they should be arranged so as to cover the counties for the present, in order that the militia may be discharged. The troops which have marched, and which will march, from the respective rendezvous, for fort Pitt, before the first of June, will probably amount to twelve hundred, besides Captain Montfort's company of North Carolina, which amounts to upwards of sixty, and which has marched from Staunton by the Great Kenhawa. Mr. Hodgdon has employed Colonel Marshall, of Washington county, to purchase fifty horses for the cavalry, and lie has or will make arrangements for the purchase of the other fifty. All the stores for the campaign, together with the quartermaster, will set out before the first of June. 1 enclose a duplicate of my letter to you of the 12th instant. I earnestly request that I may hear from you by every post. 1 am, sir, with great respect, &c. Major General Richard Buti.er. M ar Department, May 22d. 1791. Sir; I have the honor to inform you that the bearer. James Woodhouse, is appointed a surgeon's mate to Major Clarke's battalion of levies, and. by order of the Secretary of M ar, repairs to fort Pitt to join his corps, ami to receive any further directions from you that maybe necessary. 1 have the honor to be. <Sce. JOHN STAGG. Chief Clerk. Major General Richard Butler. Sir: M'ar Department. May 26th, 1791. I hare received vows. dated at Turtle creek, thirteen miles east of Pittsburg, on the 19th instant. As the Virginia levies arc marching without arms.and, as it appears from your last letter there maybe some danger on the route to Pittsburg, it will be aU important that you use the armed troops in such manner as to prevent a possibility of injury to the unarmed levies, or the stores, which arc on the way to fort Pitt. You could detach arms, accoutrements, and ammunition, to meet the levies before they arrive upon dangerous ground. I have directed arms, accoutrements, and ammunition, to be forwarded to the Maryland levies, and I would do so by the Virginia levies, but it appears, from the information from Mr. Swan and Colonel Darke, that all the Virginia levies would he in motion before the first of June. One hundred and thirteen were to march IVoin Manchester on the 18th, so that they will arrive at fort Pitt previously to this letter. The levies from Carlisle and Trenton will also be armed. I enclose you a schedule of the troops which have actually marched, and which will probably inarch, before the first of June. By the 10th of June, 1 exncet we shall march one hundred and fifty regulars, under Beatty, or Doyle, and. by that time, the remainder also of the. Jersey battalion, which will probably "be about sixty. The recruiting service at the Eastward is exceedingly dull: we shall probably tall short in that quarter. In a few days I shall be able with certainty to estimate the force which will march in the course of June. Besides the request herein contained, relative to the safety of the unarmed parties, I shall write to Colonel Gibson to make use of Purdy's company, which is about inarching for the upper post. I am anxious to hear of Colonel Procter. You will please to give me, and Major General St. Clair, the earliest information yon shall have relative to him. And you will also keep me constantly informed of every thing necessary for me to know. 1 am, sir, yours, &c. Major General Richard Butler. M’ar. Department, 1 si June, 1791. Sir: This will be delivered to you by Mr. Hodgdon, the quartermaster to the army. You will please to give him your advice and directions for such preparations as shall be essential t<> the campaign. 1 ain. &c. Major General Richard Butler. M’ar Department, '■Id June, 1791. Sm: . The Secretary of War being absent for a day or two. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter to him, dated the 22d ultimo, with its enclosures-. Mr. Hodgdon, the quartermaster, sets out this morning for Pittsburg, and will hasten his journey, in order to make whatever arrangements may be found necessary in his department, and to receive your further commands. By the next post, the Secretary of War will write you more particularly. I have the honor to be, &c. JOHN STAGG, Jun. Chief Clerk. Major General Richard Butler. War Department, Qlh June, 1791. Sir: J have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letters of the 22d and 29th ultimo, and of the 1st instant. The clothing and canteens for Clarke’s battalion must have all reached fort Pitt on or about the 1st instant. Sheet iron was sent forward, in order to make the camp kettles at fort Pitt. Camp kettles, ready made, would have been rendered useless by the transportation. The knapsacks were neither painted nor strapped, but the quartermaster was to forward both paint and straps. Rut, in order to remedy this matter entirely, I have directed a sufficiency to be painted and strapped here, and they will be forwarded in a few days. The quartermaster says, that he consulted good judges on the articles of the pack saddles; but I believe, from your representation, that he has been mistaken. 1 am satislied that you have employed some persons to make trees for other saddles. If the materials you mention, to make up the pack-saddles, have not been already forwarded, which I believe is the case, it shall be done immediately. The quartemaster made an arrangement for boats and the cavalry horses. I have conceived that Kentucky was the proper place to purchase the pack-horses, and have directed it accordingly. Mr. Ilodgdon, the quartermaster, set out from Carlisle on the 7th instant, and will be at fort Fitt by the 12th or 13th. lie is amply furnished with the means of obtaining every thing that shall be wanting for the campaign, and I have directed him to take your advice upon such preparations as you may deem essential, and which have not already been done. As the representative of the public in the preparations of the campaign, I feel it my duty, and it is most certainly my inclination, that every article, however minute, should be furnished,' and I have given the directions accordingly. From the activity of Mr. Ilodgdon, and his ample funds, I have no doubt that all things in the quartermaster’s department will be prepared in due season. By the returns of the provisions which you transmitted me, it appears "that such a quantity of flour is already purchased, that no apprehensions may be entertained on that account. Until the expedition shall take place, and during the operations of the troops, dependence must be placed on live cattle. The posts to be established will require six months’ salted meats, and the other parts of the ration in proportion. This object the contractor has promised to attend to, and from his information there will be no disappointment. There are no light fuzees for the levy officers. The French arms which have been forwarded, are not heavy; and I should presume would answer the purpose of all the officers very well. As the parties of levies, excepting the Virginians, who are yet to march forward, will be armed, the arms requested by the State might have been delivered. The colors for the levies have not been deemed essential; but at your request, they shall be forwarded. There are plenty of tents gone forward, but there ftre.no marquees; the nature of the campaign will render it very improper that heavy tents should be used on the expedition. ' But the quartermaster can modify those already gone, according to the directions of the general officers. I am well satisfied that Major Butler has been appointed to the command of the eastern battalion of levies in this State. I hope the remaining company will be soon tilled and marched. The object of Colonel Procter’s mission having failed, of which he informed you, General St. Clair will no longer restrain the expedition under Brigadier General Scott. I am persuaded that you transmitted to General St. Clair the whole of Colonel Procter’s despatches, because, on his early receipt thereof, much will depend. ’ .. You will not retain more troops on the upper parts of the Ohio than shall be necessary for the defensive protection of the frontiers. All beyond that number you will order down the river to head quarters. You will also make a perfect arrangement for the collection,of those who shall be employed in the defensive protection, at the time they shall be required for the expedition. I enclose you, in confidence, an estimate of the troops who have marched, and who will march during the present month. The recruiting service has been very dull in New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. In Connecticut it has been better. I hope, however, to march about five hundred regulars, or three years’ men, in the course of the present month; but this includes Doyle and Beatty’s, and all others to the eastward. This number is contemplated in the number of the enclosed estimate. As we shall not have all the three years’men I was induced to hope, and as you seem to think that a company of levies could be raised in Fayette, I hereby authorize you to raise one, two, three, or even four companies, ora battalion of levies, provided the object could be certainly accomplished by the 15th or 20th of July, in the upper counties of Pennsylvania and Virginia. If you go into this measure, you will immediately inform me and General St. Clair thereof. For the bounties and advance pay, you will draw upon the paymaster. A great part of the clothing is ready made, and shall be immediately forwarded upon your notification. You could appoint the officers, and, as soon as the President of the United States shall arrive, which will be about the 23d instant, the commissions shall be forwarded upon the names of the officers being certified by you. I am afraid of the instability of gentlemen volunteers, and therefore cannot give auy encouragement to the idea. The organization of the corps of cavalry is with Major General St. Clair, who will take regulars or levies, or both, as he shall judge proper. ', The equipments are excellent, and I hope the corps will be of that description. I have suggested Captain Snowden, who was of Bee’s corps, as an officer of horse. 1 consider that all the troops mentioned in the.enclosed schedule will be at head quarters by the 15th of July at farthest, the greater part long before, as I presume that two thousand three hundred will have marched from their respective rendezvous on or before the 22d instant. But this includes Sevier’s battalion. There is no frontier battalion of Virginia. Sevier’s battalion is of the territory of the United States south of the Ohio. There are six battalions of levies only, to wit: Sevier’s, Virginia, Maryland; thesecompose the first regiment of levies; the second is composed of the two battalions from this State, and one front New Jersey. You mention your taking some measures with the Six Nations. This must not interfere with the treaty which is to take place at the Painted Post, to be held there by Colonel Pickering on the 17th instant. 1 am of your opinion, that the Indians must join one side or the other, and that the Senecas and others had better join ours than the enemy. Colonel Pickering is instructed upon this point. You will, I am persuaded, join at head quarters at fort Washington, so soon as that you shall judge that the service docs not longer require your presence at fort Pitt, or as soon as you receive the orders for that purpose from General St. Clair. In this case you will undoubtedly give the necessary orders to be observed relative to the collection and transportation of the troops. But, as I have before mentioned to you, it is my desire to avoid the least interference with the orders of Major General St. Clair; his orders are therefore to be obeyed in all respects. I am, &c. Major General Richard Butler. _   "War Department, 16/h June, 1791. Sir: I have received your letter of the 9th instant. It may be expected that your arrangements will give protection to the upper parts of the Ohio. I am persuaded you constantly inform General St. Clair of your arrangements. The circumstance of the want of beef is a strange and unlooked for event, as the contractor has given me assurances of a full supply of provisions. Lest his agents should omit to give him full information upon the subject, I have written him, and enclosed a copy of your letter, and urged him to take the necessary measures for a full supply. The quartermaster is furnished with a sum of money for exigencies. The troops must not sutler for want of provisions while he has money or credit. The contractor entered into engagements with the Secretary of the Treasury for to supply the troops with rations of provisions, for which he is responsible. He says his arrangements are adequate to the end. I am not informed of the details, but should suppose that General Neville could inform you of the arrangements for the supplies; 1 I generally knew that it was not intended that the troops should remain a long time in the upper parts of the Ohio, and that the main part of the supplies were supposed to be required at or near fort Washington. But the arrangement of keeping the troops a short time on the upper parts of the Ohio, must occasion some change in the contractors arrangements. I shall apply to the postmaster to order that the post rider may stay longer at fort Pitt. It is not probable that your letter to the Five Nations will be received at Niagara, unless you have entrusted it to a special messenger. Colonel Pickering’s treaty is to be held the 17th, at the Painted Post. I hope your arrangements will not interfere with him. Neither of the remaining companies of the Jersey and eastern battalions of this State are completed, nor will they be. in less than the latter end of the month. I am assured that all the tents and clothing for Clarke’s battalion, and canteens, have gone forward some time ago; the painted knapsacks will he sent forward to-morrow. As Captains Hannah and Darke’s companies inarched the 4th instant from Winchester, they must have arrived by  this time at fort Pitt. Only a few now remain to complete the Virginia battalion, the deficiency being occasioned by desertions. The first division of the Maryland battalion, consisting of one hundred and eighty-eight, marched about the 12th instant. Captain Doyle lias marched for Lancaster, and Captain Beatty will inarch from Brunswick to-morrow or next day. These two will make about one hundred and fifty. Two companies of regulars are about embarking from the Eastern States, and will, 1 hope, beat Brunswick about the 20th, to commence their march forward. Hospital stores, and other articles necessary for the campaign, are about being sent forward to fort Pitt. I enclose you a copy of my last letter. _ J am, &c. Major General Richard Butler. War Department, 23(1 June, 1791. Sir: I have received your letter of the lfith instant, and I am very sorry to learn that you were unwell, but which I sincerely hope will be of short continuance. 1 have communicated to Mr. Doer, the contractor, the embarrassments relative to beef. From the liberal supplies of the treasury, 1 Hatter myself be will instantly take effectual measures to prevent a repetition of any cause of complaint on this head. _ It affords me great satisfaction to learn from you that every other part of the preparations are going on well. I have communicated to Major General St. Clair, the power entrusted to you of raising another company of levies, or another battalion, if necessary. All the troops who are to be depended upon lor the campaign, are, or soon will be, in motion forward. The recruiting service in New England has lately taken a spring, which may, perhaps, afford us another company, or perhaps one hundred more than as mentioned in my last. But it is iny judgment, that, if we could raise another battalion of levies to supply deficiencies, it had better be done. II' it could not be done within your sphere, it might be done lower down, under the immediate direction of Major General St. Clair. I shall immediately forward about two hundred additional suits of clothing for the levies, to fort Pitt, for the above purpose of additional companies. You will judge what part, of these to retain, or what to forward. I shall also direct two thousand pairs of large shoes to be forwarded as soon as possible, which, however, must he deducted from the pay of the levies. If they should not arrive in time for the campaign, I judge there are a sufficiency on hand at fort Washington. The colors for the'levies will be forwarded next week. The Quartermaster will inform you of the additional supplies forwarded, among which are the boots and spurs for the cavalry. _ . Colonel Pickering, who is at this time holding a treaty with the Six Nations at the Painted Post, has directions to aim at the.same thing that you are attempting, to wit: to obtain a body of their warriors to join the army. If he shall be successful, I have directed that the route of the Indians be from the Cornplaliter's town to fort Franklin, and that Lieutenant Jotters would there join them, and proceed as you shall direct. A party of sixty Indians has been contemplated; but I have mentioned to Colonel Pickering, that, if more should otter, would not be material. But, unless they could he at fort Franklin by the 20th of July at farthest, the arrangement would be useless. I pray you to attend to this point particularly, and to give such orders relative thereto, as to preclude a possibility of the Indians, in case they join us, being injured by our own citizens: for, if such an event should happen, the Six Nations must and will be our enemies. _ 1 am satisfied.that Mr. Hodgdon will answer the public expectation as quartermaster, and that, by his actual sup-plies, credit, and resources, there will not be a deficiency of any sort or kind. Before you receive this letter, it is probable that you will have received ultimate orders from Major General St Clair, relative to forwarding the troops. Ills orders you will obey. But in case you should not receive them, it will be proper that you should forward the troops down !o fort Washington. The collection of them at that point, will   awe the Wabash Indians, and prevent their striking the upper parts of the Ohio; and they will probably have the same effect On the Wyandots and Delawares, if they should continue refractory. Before the troops depart, it will be highly proper that an arrangement should be made for the defensive protection of the exposed counties; you, being on the spot, will be the judge of the proportions each county ought to be permitted to have, at the expense of the United States. But the number nlight to be limited to the state of things; and all those called out under the authority of the United States, must be regulated according to my letter of the 10th of March last, written by order of the President of the United States. This matter of the defensive protection, therefore, is hereby confided to you, and you are requested to make the arrangements accordingly. Forllie detachments which shall be so called out, and belonging to counties not before supplied with ammunition, it would be proper to issue a reasonable quantity of powder and ball. The contractor who carries the mail to Pittsburg agrees that the mail shall arrive there at ten o'clock in the morning, and stay until three in the afternoon, and that, upon your special request, he shall stay until five o’clock. 1 enclose you a copy of my last letter, dated Kith instant. I am. See. Major General Richard Butler. War Department. 30tk June, 1791. Sir: I enclose you a duplicate of my letter dated the 23d instant, and transmitted by the last post, and I have the honor to acknowledge your favor ot the 23d instant I am satisfied at your opinion, that an additional battalion can be raised upon the frontiers. I have directed Mr. Howell, by this post, to forward Mr. Hodgdon a month’s pay for the commissioned and non-commissioned officers and privates, and the bounties for the non-commissioned and privates of a complete battalion. This money will be paid to your order. The two hundred powder horns, and two hundred bullet or shot pouches, which you request, shall be forwarded immediately. The four bugle horns are gone forward. As the clothing for nearly two hundred levies is in store, it shall be completed to that number; and as it may be uncertain whether you obtain a full battalion, I shall forward no more clothing. But if you should be fortunate in raising a full battalion, yon will be able to get them clothed at fort Washington, out of the clothing of the regulars, of which there are at that place several hundred spare suits. 25 * 1 mention this as a resource; but, perhaps, if you succeed, it may, upon further consideration, be proper to procure here an additional quantity, which may be done in a few days. 1 Two thousand pair of large shoes are in hand, and will be forwarded as soon as finished. Yon mention the levies have only one pair of overalls; this was indeed the oiiginal arrangement; but afterwards, an additional pair was furnished, of sheeting, to be deducted from the pay of the men. Please to inquire of Mr. Hodgdon upon this subject. Apprehending that the levies might require some, more pay, 1 had directed a sum, equal to a month’s pay, to be forwarded by Captain Beatty to Mr. Hodgdon, to be by him issued, as' Major General St. Clair may direct! This money will, therefore, be delivered at head quarters. J should apprehend some embarrassment if it should be delivered before; but if it should, in your judgment, be indispensable to advance some small sum on account, and you can arrange it with Mr. Hodgdon, so as to avoid confusion, I shall have no objection. Arms and accoutrements for the additional battalion, are at fort T*itt. I leave the one hundred riflemen to your judgment. The arrangement you make of paying for the. rifles in case of being lost, and also of their lieing repaired, is l ight; but each person ought to have something for the use of.it. I shall have no objection to your taking some shoes from the parcel you mention, belonging to Mr. Duer, if they, arc good, and at a,reasonable price; but they must be deducted from the pay of the levies. Brigadier General Sevier writes me on the 5th instant, that three companies of the Southern battalion were raised, and about to march. These were all riflemen. 'File arrangement of your force appears highly judicious for the object; and l am persuaded, you will not suffer a moment to elapse, longer than necessary, before you make the troops descend the Ohio; but the time has arrived, which renders the collection of the force, at head quarters, necessary. The regulars and levies are designed for active and offensive operations, and are! therefore,' excepting a few guards at the posts, all to descend the Ohio to fort Washington. If the frontiers, on.the upper parts of the Ohio, require defensive protection, the militia of the respective counties must perform that service. On this point, I wrote you fully on the 23d instant, the duplicate being herein enclosed, and constituted you the judge.of- the number to he permitted at the expense of the Union. I am persuaded the public will find sufficient security in your character, and in your intelligence, that this power will be exercised with entire discretion and judgment. For the militia, who shall be. so called out for guards, it will be proper that the county lieutenants make arrangements to furnish the rations, agreeably to my letter of the 10th of March last. 'I have informed Mr. Duer, regularly, of the complaints relating to the beef, lie is expected here daily, when, it is to be presumed, he will make more perfect arrangements. About one hundred and seventy-five regulars, from New England, have probably arrived at Brunswick, and about commencing their march. I have no information from Major Ilutler by this post, relative to the deficiency of the Carlisle battalion of this State. There is, also, a deficiency of the Jersey battalion, of about fifty, which are recruiting slowly. I have not heard of the last part of the Maryland battalion being forwarded. Brigadier General Scott, with a body of about eight hundred mounted volunteers, crossed the Ohio, on the 23d of last month, and was expected to strike the Ouiatanon towns, on or about the 30th of May; we may, therefore, expect to hear from him hourly. . 1 I am, sir, &c. Major General Richard Butler. r 1 War Department, July 7, 1791. Sir;   . . I have the honor to acknowledge your favor of the 30th ultimo, and enclose a duplicate of mine of the same date. ... 1 , I am happy to learn the state of the Ohio, as I am persuaded it will be improved to the utmost. J enclose you a schedule of the troops, which you will keep to yourself. Captain Phelon, with nearly two hundred regulars, will march from Trenton this day. The deficiencies of the levies, and the one hundred regulars, will all, 1 hope, move forward in a few days. This schedule does not include the additional which you are authorized to raise; but pray make it certain that you can raise the additional levies, before you incur any expense. If they cannot be raised, and Major General St. Clair should think proper, he will raise a corps of volunteers, from Kentucky, to join, or act collaterally with the main expedition; therefore, pray inform him of the certainty of the prospects, relative to the additional levies, as his measures will depend upon your information. 1 have regularly stated to Mr. Duer, the deficiencies, and urged him to take the proper measures to remedy (he defects. A Mr. Mitchell passed through here a day or two ago, and informed me, that he was charged with money, to a large amount, for the contractor’s agents; and I have learned, that a Mr. Wilkie is charged with the transportation of the provisions, and that he is furnished by the contractor with the means of purchasing or hiring the pack-horses, for that purpose. . ‘ J have forwarded a copy of the contract for provisions to Mr. Hodgdon, agreeably to his request, by which it will appear, that the contractor is to furnish, at the places therein mentioned/the rations specified. If he executes it well, it will be for his interest; if he does not, lie must sustain the consequences* But the public service must neither be delayed or injured, for want of provisions, and I have written to the quartermaster to this effect; but any interposition on his part, or of any of the generals, must be only in cases of extremity. I am highly satisfied, that Mr. Hodgdon meets your approbation; I am persuaded, from long experience of him, that he will amply fulfil the expectations formed of him. The colors are not sufficiently dry to send yet, hut they will be forwarded very soon. The clothing, and all the other supplies,are forwarded. . _ ’ I have received a letter from Major General St. Clair, dated the 26th May.   But I have not yet heard of the issue of General Scott’s expedition. It has now become important that the troops should immediately descend the Ohio. I depend upon your executing the transportation of them as fast as possible; and that; you make the arrangements for calling out the guards for the counties, as mentioned in my former letters. In order that every part of the arrangements' may harmonize, and to avoid repetitions, I transmit to Major General St. Clair copies of my letters to you. - Major Patterson is about setting out for fort Pitt. Major Butler I have ordered to go on as soon as possible. , I am, sir, &c. Major General Richard Butler. War Department, July 12, 1791. Sir; Yesterday morning, at eight o'clock, I received your favor of the 2d instant, by the express, James McClellan. ‘ ... . The information of Thomas Rhea, whose affidavit you transmitted, was, indeed, of the importance to justify a special express. It has been submitted to the President of the United States, who will take it into his most serious consideration. To quarrel, and come to an open rupture with the crown of Britain, would, in the present situation of this country, be a very serious affair, and to be avoided, if possible, consistently with national honor and dignity. There is a time for all things; and it may happen, hereafter, that .the conduct of the British, in the present case, will amount to a heavy charge, which must he paid with interest. Indeed, it is hardly to be doubted, if the facts alleged by Rhea be true, but this instance of aid to the Indians, will be followed by others, which must also be minuted down: for it cannot be supposed that the aid has been dictated by the spontaneous impulse of the commanding officer. It will be proper, that you obtain attestations of Rhea’s credibility, from respectable and known characters. It must be our duty to mind our business, and accomplish the objects of the campaign; which, if as successful as all things promise, will gi\e a new aspect to the security of the frontiers. Captain Phelon, with about two hundred men, mostly regulars, is at Reading, and will move on steadily to join you. Continue to forward the troops with all possible despatch, to head-quarters. I presume you have communicated Rhea’s information to Major General St. Clair, to whom, 1 pray you, send also a copy of tins letter. I shall write you more particularly by the post, on the 14th instant. In the meantime, I am, sir, with great respect, yours, &c. Major General Richard Butler. War Department, July 14, 1791. S[r: I have received your two letters of the 7th instant. I am happy to learn, that all arrangements are in the promising train you state. You will report, particularly, the arrangements you make with the county lieutenants, during the absence of the army. The defects relative to beef, I am assured, have been remedied. I hope the reports relative to General Scott’s success maybe true to the utmost extent: but I am ignorant of what they are, not having received any information upon the subject. Captain Phelon did not march on the day I expected; lie will probably halt to day at Reading, and move on to-morrow. He will take tinder bis orders, at Carlisle, all the levies who may be there. Atiy deficiencies in Major Butler’s battalion must be attempted to be completed by Captain Smith, who may continue recruiting until (be 25th, when he must march. I write by this post to Major Butler to repair immediately to fort Pitt. Major Patterson having left this city some days ago, will be at fort Pitt before this letter. About one hundred recruits of the regulars from the eastward, are directed to move on. But they cannot arrive at fort Washington much before the first of September, therefore I do not estimate them for the expedition. The deficiency must be made up by the general, from the district of Kentucky, ol such species of troops as he shall judge proper. All the Jersey levies who shall he recruited by the 25th, shall, at that time, move forward; perhaps they may amount to twenty-five or thirty. Doctor Slough having resigned, you will appoint a successor, and inform ine. thereof. I really believe Dr. Brown, one of the mates, would well answer the purpose. I presume the Maryland and Virginia battalions have mates. I am, sir, &c. Major General Richard Butler. War Department, July 21, 1791. Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 14tli instant, and to enclose a duplicate of mine of the same day. I have also received a letter from Major General St. Clair, of the 15th of June, at which time no troops had arrived. But, on the 14tli and 15th, Major Ferguson, with Kirkwood's and Armstrong’s companies, and alsoMont-I’ort’s, from North Carolina, arrived. It affords me great satisfaction Ur learn of the detachment’s.descending the river, under Major Gaither, on the 13th instant. I most earnestly request that all the troops be instantly collected and embarked for head quarters, with all possible despatch. Captain Beatty will have reached you by this time. Captain Phelon, with about two hundred and fifty regulars and levies, will leave Carlisle to-morrow. Captain Newman, with about sixty regulars- and levies, will leave this city on or about the 25th, and about one hundred more will arrive at Brunswick in a few days. But I do not estimate that these will arrive in time for the expedition. Major Heart will set out from this city to-morrow. The. shoes and colors will also leave this to-morrow. I have urged Mr. Duer, the contractor, to take all necessary measures relative to provisions, which I have been assured has been done. Major General St. Clair, in liis letter of the 13th. writes thus: _ _ x The contractors have got forward about a thousand barrels of Hour, ami Elliott and Williams have likewise about a thousand at this place, which, should it he wanted, 1 consider as so much in the hands of the public, and the contractor’s agent is gone to Kentucky to purchase beef, in which he will meet with no dilliculty. How they propose to transport the Hour, by and by, I know not, nor have they any person here who can inform me. Major Heart has in formed me that John Rhea’s character is truly infamous, ami no dependence to he placed f thereon. Were one to form a judgment of the conduct of the British, by what appears to he their true interest, they cannot urge the Indians to a war with the United States, and their agent here is pretty strenuous in asserting the contrary of Rhea's information. Dc Bart/.chi’s information, as transmitted by Captain Slough, appears probable; there cannot be any doubt, from Colonel Procter’s information, hut that Brandt went to the Miami towns, and probably for the object of peace; and it is not improbable but Sir John Johnson’s proposed treaty is to the same effect. Colonel Pickering informs me, that, as it would he impossible for the Indians to he at fort Franklin by the 20th instant, lie shall not attempt to influence any of them to join our army, and that lie has understood that any such attempt would be ill received. The great object of Colonel Pickering’s treaty was, to keep the Six Nations quiet, and to prevent their joining the opposite side, by drawing them a different way. It was, indeed, added, that it might he an additional cement to obtain a party of sixty or seventy of their young warriors, who could with difficulty he restrained from joining one side or the other. We have yet no official news from Scott; the reports from Kentucky are, that lie lias succeeded, which I sincerely hope may he the case. 'I am persuaded you will descend the Ohio at the earliest moment the service will require. Indeed, it ivill be proper that both you and the quartermaster slioidd be at head-quarters as soon as possible. Colonel Gibson or Colonel Darke may be left to superintend the remaining embarkation. But every sort of stores for the campaign, which shall he arrived at fort Pitt, must precede or accompany Captain Phelon. The President of the United States, to whom I have submitted your letter of the 14th instant, is exceedingly anxious that Major General St. Clair should commence his operations at as early a period as possible; and lie has commanded me to urge that you, and all the troops within your orders, descend the Ohio immediately. I have heard nothing from Brigadier General Sevier since the 5th of June, when lie informed me of three companies being raised, and soon to march. I am, sir, yours, &c. Major General Richard Butler. v War Department, July 21 at, 1791.'Sir: The bearer, Doctor Grasson, is one of tlie emigrants from France, and is recommended to me as a gentleman of science and professional knowledge.   _ ' . I request that you would be pleased to cause him to'be examined by professional characters, and if the. report, should.be favorable, that you would appoint him a surgeon’s mate to any of the vacant battalions; and if there should not be any vacancy, that you would permit him to repair to head-quarters. I am, sir, &c. Major General Richard Butler. War Department, .August 4, 1791: Sm: _ This morning I have been honored with the receipt of yours of the 28th ultimo. It affords great satisfaction to learn that all the troops and stores are in readiness, and will descend the Ohio immediately. The President of the United States is extremely anxious that the troops should be immediately assembled at fort Washington. I am persuaded, from your former letter, that they have all descended the Ohio; and, therefore, I shall be very brief in this letter. I calculate that Captain Phelon will be at fort Pitt about the 6th or 8th. Captain Newman marched, with about eighty-three non-commissioned and privates, from this city, on the 30th ultimo; and Captain Buell will probably march from New Brunswick on the 8th or 10th instant. But neither of these are estimated forthe campaign. The recruiting sen ice for the regulars will still be continued, and the recruits forwarded by companies. _ I enclose you the certified Iist_you request. As a board of officers will adjust the rank of all the officers, I conceive it would be improper to give any opinion relative to the. rank of Colonels Darke and Gibson. I hope you have taken effectual measures to suppress the officious interference of De Bartzchi, the Frenchman, or any other person, with the Indians; such conduct is pernicious, and no good can result therefrom. Colonel Pickering’s treaty is finished satisfactorily. I have not received the particulars, but I expect him in town daily. _ _ >, '' ■ 1 Colonel Pickering did not propose that any of the warriors should accompany our army; he found that such proposition would not be acceptable. ■ It is probable Sir John Johnson has called the Indians to a treaty at Buffalo creek. The object we shall endeavor to learn. , It is well Brandt has returned; and if it be true, he lias brought some Western Indians with him, it is most probable we shall soon hear from them. . . With great respect, sir, &c. Major General Butler. "War Department, .August'11th, 1791. Sir: I have received your letter of the 4th instant. It is considered by the President of the United States as an unhappy omen, that all the troops for the campaign had not descended the Ohio at the time you wrote. No retardment of the essential objects of the campaign should be permitted under the idea of defensive protection of the frontiers, against a few straggling Indians. The counties are sufficiently strong for that purpose. If you should, therefore, be still at fort Pitt, it is the decided'.orders of the President of the Uuited States that you repair to head-quarters with all possible'despatch, together with all the troops, officers, and stores, destined for the campaign. _ - _ ■ ■ It has been constantly intimated that Captain Phelon was the rear of the troops for the campaign; and that no dependence would be placed on those who should arrive after him. Captain Newman will be at fort Pitt in less than fifteen days from the present time, and Captain Buell in not less than one month, as he only marched from Brunswick this day. Colonel Gibson, therefore, cannot have any object at fort Pitt, and he must instantly repair to head-quarters, r If there should be any deficiencies, the commanding general has the authority for supplying them. Any levies raised by Captain Falkner, or any other person, after the present moment, will not be of any service, and are, therefore, to be suspended. I send a commission for. Doctor Brown. Three blank commissions shall be prepared and forwarded by the next post. The same sort of defensive protection is to be provided for Marietta and Gallipolis, in proportion to their numbers, as the other exposed places. N . I am, sir, &c. Major General Butler. 'War Department, August 18th, 1791. Sir: " , ’ _ I have received your letter of the lltli instant, and which has been submitted to the President of the United States. I enclose a duplicate of mine to you of the same date. ‘ _ . You will receive, herewith, the commissions for Major Clarke’s battalion, according to the list you sent, of which the enclosed is a copy; and, also, the blank commissions for the additional company which, it is presumed, has gone down the Ohio with you. _ ) . As you will probably receive this at head quarters, I shall not have any thing to add to my former'communications. ■ The information you transmitted in your last, of the harmony among the troops, is highly pleasing, and, it is to be hoped, will pervade all the army. I most sincerely hope that the campaign will be conducted with the highest vigor and success, so as to cover all concerned, from the General, down to the private, with glory and satisfaction. I have the honor to be, sir, &c. Major General Richard Butler. W ar Department! August 25, 1791. Sir: _ i _ _ I have received your letter of the 18th instant, which has been submitted fo the President of the United States, ,and I am commanded to inform you that he is by no means satisfied with the long detention of the troops on the A upper parts of the Ohio, which he considers as unnecessary and improper. And, that it is his opinion, unless the highest exertions be made by all parts of the army, to repair the loss of the season, that the expenses which have been made forthe campaign, will be altogether lost, and that the measures, from which so much has been expected, will issue in disgrace. I have the honor, &c. Major General Richard Butler. W.\u Department, September Is/, 1791. StR: I have received your favor of the 25th ultimo, and I now enclose you a duplicate of mine of the same date. As Captain Newman marched from Bedford, on the 20th of August, it is a little surprising that he had not arrived at fort Pitt, the time your letter was written; but it is presumed he would arrive before your departure from that place. The several objects of your letter will be attended to. and the name of your nephew will be placed on the list, and submitted to the President of the United States, with the other candidates. It is devoutly to be hoped, that you will have a speedy passage down the Ohio, so that the remaining part of the season may be embraced for effective operations. 1 have the honor to be. &c. Major General Butler. W ar Department. September 9th. 1791. Sir: In the absence of the Secretary of War. i have the honor to acknowledge die receipt of your letter of the 50th of August; and I now transmit you a duplicate 'of his letter of the 1st instant. 1 have the honor. &c. JNO. STAGG. Jun. Chief Clerk. Major General Richard Butler. War Department. September 2-2(1. 1791. Sir: I acknowledge to have received your letter of the 5th of September, but, as this letter will not reach you for some time. I shall not add any thing more. 1 am. Kc. Major General Butler. War Department. October Myth, 1791. Sir:. I have received your favor of the 18th ultimo. I am happy that you all have arrived safely, and I pray God that the operations of the army may be adequate to the object proposed, which is, the establishment of a peace upon the terms of moderation and justice. The President of the United States has been exceedingly apprehensive, that the detention of the troops on the upper parts of the Ohio, might frustrate the campaign. It is hoped, however, that the army will have sufficient time to make the necessary establishments. I am. sir. with great respect. &c. Major General Richard Butler. Instructions to Samuel I fodgdon. Quartermaster to the t roops of the United States. Sir: You. having forwarded the most material articles in the quartermaster and ordnance departments, are immediately to repair to fort Pitt, in order to prosecute all further preparations in the quartermaster's line. The first great objects which must engross your attention, are, the completion of the hundred horses for the cavalry, with an overplus of ten. making, in all. one hundred and ten cavalry horses; the boats, for the transportation of the troops, and ordnance. and military stores, down the Ohio: the pack-horses for the campaign. From all the information I have received. Kentucky will be the most proper place in which to purchase these horses. The number which I. have estimated as necessary for the transportation of the baggage of the army, the artillei y, and the hospital stores, may amount to about three hundred. But this number is independent of the transportation of provisions. which will be provided for by the contractor. But. if. in the opinion of the General, it should be too small, the number ought to be increased accordingly to his directions. For all the other objects of the quartermaster, or other staff’departments, the duties of which are assigned to you by the commanding officer of the troops on the Ohio, you will receive his directions. It will, therefore, be necessary that you should descend the Ohio from fort Pitt, as soon as effective arrangements shall be made for the transportation of the troops and stores from that place. You will keep all your accounts in a fair and clear manner, so dtat they may be settled after the campaign, in a manner entirely satisfactory to the public, and honorable to your ow n character. You will, therefore, constantly bear in your mind, that the greatest economy must be observed in all expenditures. The important station in w hich you are placed, of Quartermaster to an army destined to great activity in a w ilderness, will call for the exercise of your highest exertions, and all your talents for resource. The moving the army in due season, and its ultimate success, will depend materially upon your arrangements; and your reputation for ever stands pledged for the perfect performance of your duty. The money which is placed in your hands, being the sum of twenty thousand dollars, will be sufficient, it is presumed, for the purposes of the campaign; if. however, it should be otherwise, you will be enabled to draw for such further sums as the general commanding the troops shall certify, taking care, always, to specify the objects for which all sums, so drawn for. shall be required. Your bills on the paymaster to be drawn at ten days sight. Given at the War Office of the United States, this thirty-first day of May, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one. II. KNOX, Secretary of War. War Depa rtment, 9th June. 1791. Sir: I received yours from Carlisle, dated the sixth instant. I pray you to revise all the preparations for the campaign, before you descend the Ohio. If there should be any deficiencies, inform me thereof, and the articles wanting shall be forwarded. I shall order a sufficient number of knapsacks, lor all the troops marched forward, to be painted and strapped. General Butler complains much upon this article. I shall also send forward, port.wine, sugar, tea and coffee, as hospital stores. Hasten the collection of the cavalry horses, and send them to head quarters, with cavalry equipments, under a <afe escort. Consult Major General Butler upon the objects of the preparations, and as soon as possible repair to head quarters. I am, sir, &c. Samuel Hodgdon, Quartermaster. War Department, 23rf June, 1791. Sir; I have received yours of the sixteenth from Pittsburg. Acquainted, as.you .are, with the objects of the campaign, and furnished as you are with the means, I possess the highest confidence that no part of the necessary preparations will languish. Every thing which you have written for, and which may not have been anticipated, shall be forwarded. I enclose a list of articles, which have lately been transported, as given by your assistant. We have had made one hundred common and twenty horsemen’s tents additional; and also the boots for the cavalry. I shall send to you Captain Houdin, for employment.. He is a very honest man,; was a Captain in the service during the late war, and has suffered greatly. You will avail the public of his services in the ordnance, or quarter master’s departments, at a moderate rate, of pay. Let me know when you descend the Ohio., I am, sir, &c. Samuel Hodgdon, Quartermaster. War Department, 30th June, 1791. Sir: _ ■ I have received your letters by the post of this day, dated the seventeenth, nineteenth, and twenty third of June, for which I thank you. You will find that the post is arranged as you desired. All the Indian goods are to be forwarded to head quarters. The contractor is to transport the provisions upon the expedition. , 1 I have not calculated that you will have to furnish more than three hundred pack and artillery horses at the extent. If you do purchase more, they must be for the transportation of provisions in case of the failure of the contractors. Rut for tins you must have the special warrant of the commander-in-chief. The paymaster has forwarded to you a large sum of money, for the pay of the troops, to be paid to the warrants of the commanding General. General Butler requests that the levies may have some money advanced them on account. I am apprehensive of confusion in this business, unless it be issued at head quarters; but I have informed him, that, if lie conceives it indispensable to advance a small sum on account, and can arrange it with you, so as to avoid confusion, I cannot have any objection. The paymaster has also by this post forwarded two thousand two hundred and twenty-four dollars and sixty cents, being intended for the bounty of three dollars and the advanced pay of an additional battalion of levies. This money you will pay to (heoflicers who may be appointed, to the order of Major-General Butler. , As soon as Mr. Swan shall return from Maryland, 1 shall direct him to repair to head quarters, as an auditor to the army accounts, and to settle the advances which have been made. He will report to the commanding officer of the troops, and you will act as paymaster, paying only on the warrants of the commanding General. This arrangement will save you trouble and avoid confusion.   * . ', I am, sir, &c. Samuel Hodgdon, Quartermaster. War Department, 7th July, 1791. Sir: I have received your letter of the twenty-eighth of June, which is highly satisfactory. I enclose you a copy of my last, of the thirtieth, and also, agreeably to your .request, a copy of the contract for- provisions. I am decisively of opinion, that the purchase of the pack-horses is greatly preferable to the hiring of them, having no doubt on this point, f rom having weighed the subject. I request you, with the approbation of the commander-in-chief and Major-General Butler, while you are at fort Pitt, to proceed accordingly. The contractor is to deliver the provisions for the time which the army shall operate; of course, he must be at the expense and trouble of the transportation. / I hope, for the public interests, as well its his own, that there will be no deficiencies of his agents, from any cause whatever. But in case there should be, I rely upon it that you will administer the proper remedies. But there must not beany interposition on your part, unless in cases of extremity; you will then interfere upon the orders of the commander-in-chief; and the advances you make must be settled at the treasury, with the contractor, according to the contract. I learn that a Mr. Wilkie is to furnish the pack-horses for the contractor, and that he is provided with the means for that purpose. The price of rations of forage is fixed by law; on the expedition it will be furnished by the public, or not at all; in the first case,the public will pay for the forage, and in the other, the officers will be paid by the paymaster. I am highly pleased that Major General Butler entirely approves your conduct. I am persuaded it will be the same with the commander-in-chief and the public. I am, sir, &c. Samuel Hodgdon, Quartermaster. War Department, 14tli July, 1791. Sir: I have received your letter of the seventh instant. The information which you transmit is peculiarly satisfactory. I am confident all things will be well arranged in your department. The clothing has gone forward, and I believe every other thing; the additional shoes and colors excepted, which will be in motion in a few days. Mr. Swan has not yet returned from Maryland, but I expect him daily; upon his arrival, if the employment is agreeable to him, he soon will join you. Captain Houdin .will set out to-day. I hope all good reports respecting General Scott may prove true, but I am ignorant of what they are. As you soon will descend the Ohio, if the pack-horses should be deficient, the General will direct you to furnish the number which shall be necessary. I am, sir, &c. Samuel Hodgdon, Quartermaster. War Department, Hist July, 1791. Sir: ' ^ I have received yours of the fourteenth instant. The advances you have made to the contractor’s agent must be repaid to you again; all payments are made for provisions at the Treasury. One Mr. Mitchell passed through here, time enough to have been at fort Pitt, when you wrote your last, with money for the contractor’s agent. The point is simply this: the contractor has entered into engagements with the Secretary of the Treasury, to furnish provisions to the troops on the frontiers. If he executes it well, he will be paid the sum stipulated; if he does notj he will be subjected to the consequences of the penalty. Buttne public service must not be delayed or injured by the contractors’ deficiencies. But'any interference, must be by the express orders of the General, to whose charge the public interests are committed. I shall hope next post'to learn, that all the troops arrived at fort Pitt, have descended to fort Washington. I have written to Major General Butler that it will be necessary for him, and you also, to repair to head quarters, as soon as the public interest will admit. You will make arrangements, before you leave fort Pitt, for the transportation of Captain Pheloirs detachment, which may consist ot about two hundred and fifty. He will leave Carlisle to-morrow. In addition to his detachment, there may be transportation to be provided tor about three hundred more troops; Major Craig will, I presume, be empowered by you on the subject. I am, sir, &c. Samuel Hodgdox, Quartermaster. '■ War Department. 4th August, 1791. Sir: I have received your letter ol the twenty-eighth ultimo, by the post, and also yours of the ninth ultimo, which has been lately received. The bills for twelve hundred dollars, which you have drawn, shall be duly paid. It is an unfortunate circumstance, to be sure, that any additional stores should be required at this time. The shells cannot be obtained in season for the campaign, but every thing possible shall be attempted. The dependence upon Turnbull & Marmie’s furnace has turned out ill. 1 shall be unhappy it you receive this letter at Pittsburg. The President of the United States, the commanding general, and the public service, ail unite in requiring that all the troops and stores shall have descended the Ohio. Captain Phelon, I expect, will arrive about the eighth or tenth at fort Pitt. I am, sir, &c. Samuel Hodgdon, Quartermaster. War Department, August 11th, 1791. Sir: I enclose you a duplicate of my letter to yoBof the fourth instant. I have nothing material to write. It will afford me the greatest pleasure to hear of your safe arrival at head quarters, and that the stores have descended the Ohio, to fort Washington, without any accident. I need not repeat to you, that much is expected from your exertions and activity, and that the greatest reliance is placed upon the good dispositions to be made in your department. I am, sir, &e Samuel Hodgdon. Quartermaster. War Department, August 18///, 1791. Sir: I have received your two favors of the Gth and 11th instant. I have nothing material to add to mv former communications, excepting that all the stores have been ordered on which have been written for, agreeably to the within schedule.(«.) Hut it is extremely doubtful whether any 51 inch shells can be obtained, on this side West Point, fiom which place I expect some hourly, and they shall be forwarded instantly, but they cannot be in readiness for the campaign. I am, &c. Samuel Hodgdon. Quartermaster. (a.)lieturn of stores, forwurded to Pittsburg, from August 4th to 9th, 1791. WILLIAM KNOX, for SAMUEL 1IQDGDON, Q. 31. War Department, August '25th, 1791. Sin: I have received your letter of---. The troops were detained on the upper parts of the Ohio too long; they arrived in readiness to descend, and would require nothing but boats and provisions. If boats have been wanting, it will be unfortunate for you, as well as the public. I have ventured to assert, that nothing has been delayed in your department, and I hope it will prove so, but you ought personally to have been at head quarters long ago, and of which, the commander-in-chief complains. Samuel Hodgdon, Quartermaster. War Department, September 1st, 1791. Sir: Your letter of the 25th has been received. Your bill, in favor of Major Craig, shall be paid; but, for all hills, estimates ought to be forwarded, in order that a judgment should be iormed ol the expenses, which seem to exceed the previous estimates. I hope in God that the troops may not have been detained at fort Pitt, for want of boats or any other thing in your department. I am, &c. Samuel IIodgdon, Quartermaster. Sir: In the absence of the Secretary of War. 50 th ultimo. War Department, September 9th. 1791. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the I am, &c. Samuel Hodcdon, Quartermaster. JNO. STAGG, Chief Clerk. Sir: Your letter of the 5th instant has been received. Samuel IIodgdon, Esq. Quartermaster. War Department, September 22d, 1791. I am, sir, &c. A view of the troops authorized by the acts of Congress, for the, campaign of 1791. Regulars.—By virtue of the act of the 30th April, 1790: One battalion of artillery - - - 304 First regiment of infantry - - - 912 Act of 3d March, 1791: Second additional regiment ditto ' - - 912 . . -------------------------------------------------------------2,128 A corps of levies, for six months, consisting of - - ■- - - 2,000 A ______ Establishment of regulars and levies, non-commissioned and privates - - - - 4,128 Actually in service, of regulars - : - - - - - - . -1,634 Levies - -- -- - ------1,674 -3,308 Deficient - - - - - - - - - - - 820 Regulars and levies - - - - - - - 1 - - 4,128 Distribution of regulars and levies, on'the Ohio, 27th September - - .- - ' (a.)2,699 in Georgia - - -   - ^ - - 219 recruited at the respective rendezvous, and on the march to the frontiers - - - -~ - - . - 373 at West Point ------- 17 ----3,308 (fl.)Of the troops on the Ohio, amounting to 2,699, deduct for sick, garrisons,artificers, and non-eft’ec- tives, 699, which leaves non-commissioned and privates for the expedition - - - 2,000 Add Kentucky militia, taken from the musters   - - - . - - 418 Total non-commissioned and privates   - - - - -2,418 War Department, December 26th, 1791. H. KNOX, Secretary of War. Narrative of Air. Thomas Rhea, who arrived at Pittsburg, from captivity, the 30th of June 1791. On the 5th day of May, 1791,1 was taken prisoner at a place called Cussawaga, and plundered of seven horses, by a party of five Indians, partly Delawares, partly Mnnsees, among w hom was one called Captain Peter, a Munsee, and one called Jacob Philips, who both talk'English; Philips is well known .at Detroit as a Delaware. They also took, at the same time, Cornelius Van Horne, and two horses, part of the above seven, and killed and scalped William Gregg. They proceeded with us to Sandusky, by the way of the mouth of.Cayahoga river, and the Moravian town, which is evacuated, and the people moved beyond the Detroit.river, to a spot near one Captain Elliott’s, of the Indian department, where they have planted corn. We arrived at Sandusky the 12th day, which made it the 16th of May. At this town was a Captain Coon, with from one hundred and fifty to two hundred Indians, beside some war parties, who had brought in negroes, horses, and other property, also a white prisoner, who was left at a village seven miles up the Sandusky. During my stay at Sandusky, which w'as seven days, I was chiefly employed in planting corn; the eighth day, which was the 24th of May, an Indian came in with the news-hallool and information that a large body ofitroops were discovered, moving, he said, towards the Miami towns, in three, columns; on w hich the Indians were, much alarmed, and immediately destroyed the corn which had been planted, burned their houses, and moved to the great crossing of the Miami or Ottawa river, called Roche-de-boo, where we arrived the fourth day. This made it the 2Sth of May. During the eight days I was at Sandusky, several war parties came in with prisoners and scalps. At this place, the Miami, were Colonels Brandt and McKee, with his son Thomas: ami Captains Bunbury and. Silvie, of the British troops.' These officers, &c. were all encamped on the south side of the Miami, or Ottawa river, at the rapids above .lakewErie, about eighteen miles; they had clever.houses, built chiefly by the Pattawatamies and other Indians; in these they had stores of goods, with arms, ammunition, and provision, which they issued to the Indians in great abundance, viz: corn, pork, peas, &c. The Indians came to this place in parties of one, two, three, four, and five hundred at a time, from different quarters, and received from Mr. McKee, and the Indian officers, clothing, arms, ammunition, provision, &c. and set out immediately for the Upper Miami towns, where they understood the forces of the United States were bending their course, and in order .to supply the Indians from other quarters collected there. Pirogues, loaded with the above mentioned articles,-were sent up the Miami river, wrought by French Canadians. About the last of May. Captain Sil vie purchased me from the Indian's, qnd I staid'with him at this place till the 4th of June, (the king’s birth day) when I was sent to Detroit. Previous to leaving the Miami river. I saw one Mr. Dick, who, with his wife, was taken prisoner near Pittsburg, in the spring—I believe by the Wyandots.'. Mr. McKee was about purchasing Mr. Dick from the Indians, but found it. difficult. Mrs. Dick wms separated from him, and left at a village at some distance from this place. I also saw a young boy, named Brittle, who w'as taken in the spring, from near a mill, (Captain O’Hara’s) .near Pittsburg; his hair was cut, and lie was dressed and armed for war; could not get speaking to him. About -the 5th June, in the Detroit river, I met from sixty to one hundred canoes, in three parties, containing a large body of Indians, who appeared to be very wild and uncivilized; they were dressed chiefly in buffalo and other skin blankets, with otter skin and other fur breech cloths, armed with hows, and arrows, and spears; they had no guns, and seemed to set no stoic by thein( or know little of their use, nor had they any inclination to receive them, though offered to them. They said they were three moons on their w'ay. The other Indians called them Alannitoos. About this time there was a field clay of the troops at Detroit, which I think is from five to six hundred in number; the next clay a field day of the French militia took place, and one hundred and fifty of the Canadians, with some others, turned out volunteers to join the Indians, and were to set off' the 8th for the Miami village, with their own horses, after being plentifully supplied with arms and ammunition, clothing, and provision, &c. to fit them for the inarch. While I was at the Miami, or Ottawa river, as they call it. I had mentioned to Colonel McKee, and the other officers, that I had seen Colonel Procter^ on his way to Fort Franklin; that I understood he was on his way to the Miami, or Sandusky, with some of the Senecas, and that he expected the Cornplanter would accompany him, in order to settle matters with the hostile nations; and that he expected to get shipping at Fort Erie, to bring him and these people to the Miami, or Sandusky, &c. That the officers, in their conversation with each other, said, if they were at fort Erie, he should get no shipping there, &c. That the Mohawks and other Indians, that could speak English, declare that if he, (meaning Colonel Procter) or any other Yankee messenger, came there, they should never carry messages back. This was frequently expressed by the Indians; and Simon Girty, and a certain Patt Hill, declared Procter should not return, if he had a hundred Senecas with him; and many other such threats were used, and every movement, appearance, and declaration, seemed hostile to the United States. And I understood that Colonel McKee, and the other officers, intended only to stay at the Miami till they had furnished the war parties of Indians with the necessaries mentioned above, to fit them for war, and then would return to Detroit. That Elliott had returned to Detroit, and Simon Girty, and that Girty declared he would go and join the Indians, and that Captain Elliott told him he was going the next day, with a boat load of goods, for the Indians, and that Girty might have a passage with him. That, on the 7th of June, the ship Dunmore sailed for fort Erie, in which I got a passage. We arrived there in four days. About the 12th June, I saw taken into this vessel, a number of cannon, eighteen-pounders, with other military stores, and better than two companies of artillery troops, destined, as I understood, for Detroit and the upper posts; some of the artillery-men had to remain behind, for want of room in the vessel. I have just recollected that, while I was at the Ottawa river, 1 saw a party of warriors come in with the arms, accoutrements, clothing, &c. of a sergeant, corporal, (and they said) twelve men, whom they had killed in some of the lower posts on the Ohio; that a man of the Indian department offered me a coat, which had a number of bullet and other, holes in it, and was all bloody, which I refused to take, and Colonel McKee then ordered me clothes out of the Indian store. Alleghany County, 7 Pittsburg, July 2f/, 1791. j ‘ Personally appeared before me, one of the justices of the court of common pleas, in and for the aforesaid county, the subscriber, Thomas Rhea, and being sworn, according to law, deposeth. that the above narrative is a true state of facts, to the best of his knowledge and recollection. THOMAS RHEA. JAMES PRISON. B. Statement relative to the Frontiers Northwest of the Ohio. In obedience to the commands of the President of the United States, the Secretary of War respectfully submits the following statement relatively to the frontiers northwest of the Ohio; and also a plan of such further measures as the existing state of affairs, and the national interest, seem to require. That, in order to obtain a general know ledge of this subject, it would be proper to review, in a summary manner, the conduct which the United States have observed to the neighboring Indian tribes, both during the late war, and since the peace with Great Britain. This inquiry seems necessary, to enable the mind to form a judgment how far a further prosecution of hostilities against the Indians would comport with that justice and dignity, which ought to be the pride and ornament of every free government. That it will appear by the journals of Congress, in the earliest stages of the late war, how solicitous the United States were to live upon terms of peace and friendship with all the bordering Indian tribes. That, although the public endeavors were then unsuccessful in preventing the depredations which desolated the frontiers, from Georgia to Canada, yet, as soon as circumstances would permit, those endeavors were rev ived, with great ardor and better effect. That, in the year 1784, a treaty was formed with the hostile part of the Six Nations, at fort Stanwix, That, in the commencement of the year 1785, a treaty was Conned at fort McIntosh, with the Wyandots, Delawares, Ottawas, and.Chippewas; that, during t Ire same year, treaties w ere formed at Hopewell, on the Keowee, with the Cherokees, Chickasaws, and Choctaws, to the southward: and that, in the early part of the year 1786, a treaty wras formed with the Shawanese, at the mouth of the Great Miami of the Ohio. That it appears that certain malignant and turbulent characters excited uneasiness and complaints among some of the Northern and Western Indians, against the said treaties of fort Stanw ix and fort McIntosh. That it appears that Congress, in order 1o accommodate all differences satisfactorily to the said Northern and Western Indians, did, in 1788, direct that another treaty should lie held, to which all the said Indians should be invited. That a new' treaty was accordingly held and concluded at fort Ilarmar, in January, 1789. with a representation of all the Six Nations, the Mohawks excepted, and with the representatives of the Wyandot, Delaware, Ottawa, Chippewa, l’atti watima, and Sac nations, in which nearly the same boundaries, stipulated by the prior treaties, were recognised and confirmed. That it is, however, to be understood, that, although the Miami and Wabash Indians were invited to this treaty, they did not attend. That, notwithstanding the said Wabash and Miami Indians, with certain other banditti, formed of the remnants of the Shawnese. with some outcast Cherokees, still continued their depredations, they were warned, by directions of the President of the United States, to abstain from any further violence, and invited to repair to a place appointed by the Governor of the Western territory, in order to adjust all differences, in an amicable manner. At the same time, the people of Kentucky, who, in consequence of repeated depredations, were meditating a blow against the said Indians, were prohibited from crossing the Ohio. That the invitations of the United States, which were delivered to all the tribes residing upon the river Wabash, and the Miami towns, were treated not only with neglect, but outrages were renewed with still greater violence than ever, and. in some of their towns, the most shocking cruelties were exercised upon their prisoners. In this state of things, it became necessary to make an experiment ol the effect of coercion. Accordingly, the operation under Brigadier General Harmar was directed, but w ithout having the desired success. A larger force was raised for the year 1791, and the command thereof given to Major General St.Clair, to be employed (alt other means failing) to bring the said Indians to a just sense of their situation. That pacific measures were attempted, and strong assurances given, through the Cornplanter. an influential chief of the Six Nations; by the intended mission of Colonel Procter; and the instructions to General St. Clair; that we wanted nothing from them but peace, and were disposed to do them strict justice. But, being unable to succeed in this object, and the event of this expedition having also proved unfortunate, it may be proper to inquire into its object, the cause of its failure, and the probable consequences thereof. It will appear, by a reference to report A, which accompanies this report, that the great object of the late campaign was to establish a strong military post at the Miami village, lying upon the river of that name, which communicates with lake Erie; and that subordinate posts were also to be erected, as well on tire Wabash as on the said river Miami. That, by an examination of the position of the said Miami village, and its contiguity to, or connexion with. Ihe waters of the river St. Joseph’s of Lake Michigan, and the river Illinois, and thereby the Mississippi; the; 'Wabash, and, thereby, with the Ohio; the Miami, and, thereby, lake Erie; its short distance from the Miami of the Ohio, which, at times, may afford considerable facility to transportation; it will appear that the said position, with its proper communications, is greatly superior to any other, in order to serve as a barrier to protect essentially a frontier ol upwards of eleven hundred miles, stretching from the upper parts of the Alleghany to the lower parts of the Ohio. _ _ That it was intended to garrison the said post at the Miami village and its communications with one thousand or twelve hundred troops, and have it always well stored with provisions, &c. That, from the said number, a detachment generally might be spared, of sufficient magnitude to chastise any of the neighboring villages or tribes, separately, who might have dared to commit depredations; or be a place to which mounted militia might suddenly repair, draw supplies, and act in conjunction, in case of a combination of the several towns or tiibes in acts of hostility. 26 * 198 [1792. INDIAN AFFAIRS. 1 That, by having such a force, so circumstanced, and always in readiness to fall upon the refractory tribes, it was conceived that it would awe, and mostly, if not entirely, restrain, any further depredations. That the principal causes of the failure of the expedition appear to have been as follows: 1st. The deficient number of good troops, according to the expectation, in the early part of the year. 2d. Their want of sufficient discipline, according to the nature of the service. 3d. The lateness of the season. That these several causes are explained in the aforesaid collateral papers accompanying the report A. That, in addition thereto, another cause may be added, which was not originally estimated, to wit: an increased number of Indians: for information has been received, by three separate channels, that the Indian warriors who opposed our army may be estimated at a number somewhere about three thousand. I'lie hostile Indians were before estimated at twelve hundred, and to them it was possible might.be added the Wyandots, Delawares, and Pattiwatimies, in all amounting to about one thousand more. The excess of these two numbers probably came from the waters of lakes Superior, Michigan, and Huron, and are denominated Ottawas and Chippewas. That, in contemplating the probable consequences of the late defeat, the situation of the Southern tribes deserves consideration. 'Flic number of warriors of the Choctaws, Chickasaws, Creeks, and-Cherokees, are about fifteen thousand. The hostile Indians can easily, and will, probably, repeat their invitations to the Southern tribes during /the present winter. It is true, the United States have treaties with all the Southern tribes, and that all of them appear at. present tranquil, except the Creeks. This nation has lately had disturbances excited among them by an adventurer of the name of Bowles, who has acquired a sufficient inlluence to prevent the boundary being marked, agreeably to the treaty. It is at present difficult to conjecture the turn which Bowles’ interference at this crisis may give to the affairs of the Southern frontier. But, although the United States have treaties witli the Southern tribes, yet, it is to be remembered, that the flames of war have been but recently extinguished with the Creeks and Cherokees. That the new peace is irksome, not only to the young warriors, whose education and habits make them pant ardently for war, but also to a number of malignant whites, who either reside among the Indians or upon our frontiers, and who are. from some sinister motives, ever desirous of confusion. That the emissaries of the hostile Indians will he disseminated among all the Southern tribes. Councils will be held, and the passions of the young men will be inflamed with the tales of prowess and glory acquired by the hostile Indians. If these ideas be just, it may become extremely difficult, if not impracticable, to restrain the young warriors of the south from aiding directly or collaterally with the hostile Indians of the West. To the danger of the Southern tribes joining the hostile Indians, may be added the danger from part of the Northern, or Six Nations. The danger from the latter, however, is far less than from the former; and, besides, is under circumstances more manageable. These circumstances are mentioned in this place as evils which will probably spring out of the late disasters, and for which a remedy will be mentioned hereafter. Hence, it will appear that an Indian war, of considerable extent, has been excited, not only contrary to the interests and intention of the General Government, but by means altogether without its control. That it is the public interest to terminate this disagreeable war, as speedily as possible, cannot be doubted; and it will be important to devise and execute the best means to effect that end. That, upon due deliberation, it will appear that it is by an ample conviction of our superior force only, that the Indians can be brought to listen to the dictates of peace, which have been sincerely and repeatedly offered to them. The pride of victory is too strong at present for them to receive the offers of peace on reasonable terms: They .would probably insist upon a relinquishment of territory, to which they have no just claim, and which has been confirmed by the several before recited treaties. 'Fhe United States could not make this relinquishment, under present circumstances, consistently with a proper regard to national character. ' 'But, considering the dignity and superior intelligence, as well as power of the United States, compared with the said Indian tribes; weighing the probable opinion of the disinterested, but perhaps uninformed part of mankind ’upon this subject, who may be apt to consider the Indians as oppressed, it is submitted, that every reasonable expedient be again taken to induce the said hostile Indians to peace, that the nature of the case, and a just regard to the national reputation, will admit. But.'at the same time, it is suggested, that it would be altogether improper to expect any favorable result from such expedients. That the United States, having a frontier of immense extent, surrounded by barbarous Indians, are bound, by all the sacred obligations of sovereignty, to protect effectually their exposed citizens against the cruel inroads of such an enemy. That defensive measures only, in the present case, appear utterly inadequate to such protection, but that it would require a strong coercive force. That previously, however, to any conclusion upon the policy of raising such a force, it may be necessary to examine whether the prosecution of the war with the Indians is supported by the principles of justice. It will appear clearly, by a recurrence to the severally before-recited treaties, and the documents relatively thereto, that neither the Miami, Wabash, or banditti Indians, composed of some Shawanese and outcast Cherokees-, had, or have, any just claim to the land contained within the boundaries recapitulated and confirmed by the treaty of fort Ilarmar, in January, 1789. Nor does it appear, by any information possessed by the subscriber, that any such claim has been urged by the said Wabash, Miami, or banditti Indians. That, instead of a claim of boundaries, it will appear that the source of the present hostilities originated in the war with Great Britain, and that the said hostilities nave continued, in different degrees, from that to the present time, and that, in no instance, have we passed the boundaries ascertained by the atoresaid treaties; that ever since the peace with Great Britain, there has been an unceasing train of depredations upon the frontiers lying along the Ohio; that these have generally been committed by the Wabash and Miami Indians and the aforesaid banditti; that the plunder and trophies acquired (generally with impunity) by the said Indians, have gradually drawn the other neighboring tribes, who had formed treaties with us, into a participation of the sweets and guilt of their incursions. Hence it would appear, that the principles of justice as well as policy, and, it may be added, the principles of economy, all combine to dictate, that an adequate military force should be raised as soon as possible, placed upon the frontiers, and disciplined according to the nature of the service, in order to meet, with a prospect of success, the greatest probable combination of the Indian enemy. Although the precise manner in which the force to be raised should be employed, cannot be pointed out with propriety at this time, as it will depend on the circumstances of the moment, yet it may not be improper to observe, that, upon a review of the merits of the main object of the late campaign, to wit: the establishmsnt of a strong military postat die Miami village, with the necessary posts of communication, the necessity and propriety thereof remain the same; that this necessity will probably continue until we shall be possessed of the posts upon Lake Michigan, of Detroit, and Niagara, withheld from us by Great Britain, contrary to treaty. Without remarking upon the principles of this conduct, it may be observed generally, that every arrangement in the power of the United States, for establishing the tranquillity of the frontiers, will be inferior to the possession of said posts. That it is, however, considered, that, if the said posts were in our possession, we ought also to have a strong post at the Miami village, in order to render the protection effectual, and that the posts above-mentioned will require garrisons whensoever they shall be given up. 'Flic subscriber having deliberately contemplated the present state of affairs upon the frontiers, from the south to the north, having recurred to the past in order to estimate the probable [future events, finds himself constrained, by his public duty, although with great reluctance, to state, as the result of his judgment, that the public service requires an increase of the military force, according to the following arrangement: THE PLAN. That the military establishment of the United States shall, during the pleasure of Congress, consist of five thousand one hundred and sixty-eight non-commissioned, privates, and musicians. That the said non-commissioned officers and privates shall be enlisted to serve three years, unless sooner discharged. , That the pay of the said non-commissioned and privates shall be as follows, clear of all deductions, to wit: A sergeant-major and quartermaster sergeant to each battalion, - - - $6 per month. A sergeant and chief musician, each, - - - - - - 5 do Corporal, - -- -- -- -- -4 do Private, ---------- 3 do Musician, ---------- 3 do That the said troops be organized as follows: One squadron of cavalry, of four troops, each of 76 non-commissioned and privates, - - - 304 It should be a stipulation in the engagements of these men, that they should serve on foot whenever the service requires the measure. One battalion of artillery, of four companies each, to consist of 76 non-commissioned and privates, 304 Each company of artillery to have, as part of its composition, ten artificers each, including the pay of artillerists to have 10 dollars per month. Five regiments of infantry, one of w hi ch to be riflemen entirely, each of three battalions; each battalion of four companies: each company of 76 non-commissioned and privates; amounting, for each regiment, to 912, ------------ - - 4,560 5,168 The annual expense of pay, clothing, subsistence, and forage, for such an army, according to the estimate hereunto annexed: No. 1 would be ---------- - $782,197 42 That for the extraordinary expense of equipments, transportation. &c. for the campaign, would amount, as per estimate No. 2, to --------- 244,279 63 $1,026,477 5 That from these sums are to be deducted for appropriations to the War Department, for the year 1792,........................................: - -....................................... 350,526 97 Balance. - - $675,950 8 That, in addition to the foregoing arrangement, it would he proper that the President of the United States should be authorized, besides the employment of militia, to take such measures, for the defensive'protection of the exposed parts of the frontiers, by calling into service expert woodsmen, as patrols or scouts, upon such terms as lie may judge proper. That he be further authorized, in case he should deem the measure expedient, to engage mounted militia for defensive operations, for such time, and on such tenhs, as he may judge equitable. That Tie be further authorized, in case he should deem the measure expedient, to employ a body of Indians belonging to tribes inalliance with the United States, to act against the hostile Indians; and that he he authorized to stipulate such terms as he shall judge right. That it does not seem essential, at this time, that there should be any special appropriations for the defensive protection, the mounted militia, or the employment of Indians, although the actual expenses for those objects may amount to considerable sums, because the estimates, before mentioned, comprehend the entire expense, for one year, of the proposed establishment as complete. But, let the exertions to complete it be ever so great, yet it is E reliable a deficiency will exist, which will of course occasion a less expense. The moneys, therefore, which may e appropriated to the establishment, and not expended, may be applied to the extra objects above mentioned. It, however, there should be a deficiency, it may hereafter be provided for. 'That the nett pay of the private soldier, at present, free of all deductions, is two dollars per month. But, as the experience of the recruiting service, of the present year, evinces that the inducement is insufficient, it seems necessary to raise the pay to three dollars per month, free of all deductions; and the non-commissioned officers in proportion. The rifle corps will require more. But whether, under present circumstances, even the additional pay, and an extension of bounty to eight dollars, would give such an impulse to the recruiting service, as to fill the battalions immediately, remains to be trieiT. Nothing has been said upon an increased pay to the commissioned officers, because a memorial upon that subject has been presented to Congress. But it cannot be doubted that a small increase would be highly grateful to the officers, and probably beneficial to the service. The mounted militia is suggested to be. used during the preparation for the main expedition, (and afterwards, if circumstances should render it indispensable.) The effect of such desultory operations upon the. Indians will, by occupying them for their own safety, and that of their families, prevent their spreading terror and destruction along the frontiers. These sort of expeditions had that precise effect during the last season, and Kentucky enjoyed more repose, and sustained less injury, than for any year since the war with Great Britain. This single effect, independent of the injury done to the force of the Indians, is worth greatly more than the actual expense of such expeditions. But, while it is acknowledged that mounted militia may be very proper for sudden enterprises, of short duration, it is conceived that militia are utterly unsuitable to carry on and terminate the war in which we are engaged, with honor and success. And besides, it would be ruinous to the purposes of husbandry, to keep them out long, if it were practicable to accomplish it. Good troops, enlisted for a considerable period, armed and well disciplined in a suitable manner, for the nature of the service, will be equal, individually, to the best militia; but, when it is considered to these qualities are added, the obedience, the patience, the promptness, the economy of discipline, and the inestimable value of good officers, possessing a proper pride of reputation, the comparison no longer holds, and disciplined troops attain in the mind, and in actual execution, that ascendancy over the militia, which is the result of a just comparative view of their rclativeforce, and the experience of all nations and ages. The expediency of employing the Indians in alliance with us, against the hostile Indians, cannot be doubted. It has been shown before, how difficult, and even impracticable, it will probably be, to restrain the young men of the friendly tribes from action, anti that, if we do not employ them, they will be employed against us. The justice of engaging them would depend upon the justice of the war. If the war be just on our part, it will certainly bear the test of examination, to use the same sort of means in our defence, as are used against us. The subscriber, therefore, submits it as his opinion, that it would be proper to employ judiciously, as to time and circumstances, as many of the friendly Indians as may be obtained, not exceeding one thousand in number. All which is submitted to the President of the United States. H. KNOX, Secretary of War. War Department, December 26, 1791. An Estimate of the expenses of an army of five thousand one hundred and sixty-eight officers, non-commissioned and privates, organized to the following arrangement: No. 1. PAY. 1 Major General, 2 Aids-de-Camp, 1 Adjutant Generals, 2 Inspectors, 2 Brigadier Generals, 2 Aids-de-Camp, 1 Quartermaster General, 4 Assistants, 2 Deputies, 2 Chaplains, - Five regiments, each to consist of 1 Lieutenant Colonel-commandant, 3 Majors, 12 Captains, ... 12 Lieutenants, 12 Ensigns, 1 Paymaster, 1 Adjutant, - 3 Quartermasters, 1 Surgeon, 4 Surgeon’s mates, 3 Sergeant-majors, 3 Quartermaster-sergeants 48 Sergeants, - - 48 Corporals, 3 Senior musicians, 21 Musicians, - - - 792 Privates   - ONE BATTALION OF ARTILLERY. 1 Major-commandant, - - - - 4 Captains, ------- 8 Lieutenants, ...... 1 Adjutant, -------'1 Quartermaster, ------ 1 Paymaster, ------- 1 Surgeon’s mate, ------ 1 Sergeant-major, ------ 1 Quartermaster-sergeant, ,----- 16 Sergeants, ------- 16 Corporals, ------- 1 Senior musician, ------ 7 Musicians, ------- 224 Privates, ------- 40 Artificers, ------- CAVALRY. INFANTRY. Is, tor five regiments, 1 Major-commandant, 4 Captains, 4 Lieutenants, 4 Cornets, - - r- 16 Sergeants, 4 Farriers, 4 Saddlers, - - - 4 Trumpeters, 276 Privates, Per month. Per annum. $125 $1,500 40 960 60 720 30 720 94 2,256 40 960 60 720 40 1,920 30 720 50 1,200 - $60 $720 40 1,440 -   SO 4,320 22 3,168 18 2,592 5 . 60 10 120 5 180 30 360 24 1,152 6 216 6 216 5 2,880 - ' 4 2,304 5 180 s 756 5 28,512 $49,176, $45 $540 30 1,440 _ 22 2,112 10 120 5 60 5 60 04 288 6 72 6 72 5 960 4 768 5 60 .rt O 252 3 . 8,064 - 10 480 $45 $540 SO 1,440 22 1.056 18 864 5 960 12 576 12 576 3 144 3 9,936 $11,676 245,880 15,348 16,092 HOSPITAL. 1 Director, 4 Surgeons, 8 Surgeon’s mates, 1 Purveyor, 12 Matrons, $60 < $720 45 2,160 24 2,304 40 'ISO 8 1.152 6,816 qUAKTERMASTEK’s DEPARTMENT. 1 Principal artificer, ------ 2 Second do. ----- - 50 Artificers, - ------ $30 22 12 $360 528 720 _____ 1,608 Total $297,420 SUBSISTENCE, 1 Major General, - 2 Aids-de-Camp, ------ 1 Adjutant General, ------ 2 Inspectors, 2 Brigadier Generals, ------ 2 Aids-de-Camp, ------ 1 Quartermaster General, -----4 Assistants, ------- 2 Deputies, ------- I Lieutenant Colonel-commandant, with the emoluments of a Brig. 4 Lieutenant Colonels-commandant, - - . IT Majors, - - - - - - 69 Captains, including cavalry, and one principal artificer, 74 Lieutenants, including cavalry, and two second artificers. 64 Ensigns, including four cornets. - - ■= fl Director, - - - - ■a J 4 Surgeons, ------- 8 Mates, ------- p U Purveyor, ------- 5 Surgeons, ------- 21 Surgeon’s mates. - - ltations per day.  Per year, - 15 5,475 - 4 2,920 * 6 2,190 - 3 2,190 - 12 8.760 - 4 2,920 - 6 2,190 - 4 5,840 - 3 2.190 Gen. 12 4.380 - 6 8,760 - 4 24.820 - 3 75,555 - 2 54.020 - o 46.720 - 6 2,190 - 4 5,840 3 8i760 - 4 2.920 - 3 5.475 - 2 15.330 289,445, Rations, or money in lieu thereof, at the option of said officers, at the contract price, at the ports, respectively, where the rations shall become due. 4,560 Infantry, non-commissioned officers and privates. 304 Artillery, do. do. 504 Cavalry, do.   do. 50 Artificers and quartermasters. 12 Matrons, hospital. ------ C 2,920 5.230. one ration per day. ------- £ 1.907,490 2.199,855 Rations, at thirteen and a half cents per ration, - - $296.985 42 FORAGE. 1 0 1 o 0 1 2 2 I 4 16 1 n Major General. Aids-de-Camp, Adjutant General. Inspectors. Brigadier Generals, Aids-de-Camp -Quartermaster General, Assistants, Deputies, IV'Lieutenant Colonels-commandant, Majors, Director, Surgeons, ~ t 8 Surgeon’s mates, “ Li Purveyor, - 5 Surgeons, ... 21 Surgeon’s mates, 5 Adjutants, 16 Quartermasters, 6 Paymasters. - 1 Major. - - 12 Commissioned officers. 504 Non-commissioned and privates. FOR CAVALRY. Per month. Per year. $2(1 $240 10 240 12 144 10 240 16 584 10 240 12 144 10 240 10 240 Brigadier General, 16 192 12 576 10 1.920 12 144 10 480 6 376 10 120 10 600 6 1,512 -   6 36(1 6 1.152 6 432 s $10 (20 6 864 6 21,888 i $, CLOTHING. 4,560 Infantry. 304 Artillery. 304 Cavalry. 50 Artificers, quartermasters. 5,218 432 contingencies. 5,650 suits, at twenty dollars per suit, BOUNTY, 4560 Infantry. 304 Artillery. 304 Cavalry. 50 Artificers, Quartermasters, at $10.176 22,872 $53,048 $113,000 00 5218 - $ 8 $41,744 No. 2. HORSES EOR CAVALRY. 20 For commissioned officers, ------ $100 $2,000 304 For non-commissioned officers and privates, 80 24,320 -------- $26,320 EQUIPMENTS EOR CAVALRY. 13 Officers, ------- 304 Saddles, ------- 304 Bridles, ------- 304 Cartouch boxes, - - - : - 304 Sword belts, ------ 12 Bugle horns, - . .. 304 Pairs of holsters, ------ 304 Bags, - - - - 304 Swords. ------- 304 Pairs of pistols, ------ 304 Horsemen’s caps, - 304 Pairs of boots and spurs, - ORDNANCE. 1.000 Rifle guns, - Equipments for 12 pieces of cannon, and stores for ditto, 5.000 New cartridge boxes, - $ 18 25 $237 25 7 33 2.229 33 2 00 608 00 66 202 66 60 182 40 8 00 96 00 3 33 1,013 33 66 202 66 10 00 3,040 00 6 00 1,824 00 4 00 1,216 00 2 00 608 00 $12 $12,000 00 2,000 00 , 1 50 7,500 00 ------------ $2,1500 00 HOSPITAL DEPARTMENT. For medicines, instruments, furniture, and stores for the Hospital, - quartermaster’s department. 1.000 Pack-horses, ------ $25 00 (Perhaps oxen, or other means, may be adopted in lieu of horses, which may lessen the expenses.) _ - 1.000 Common tents, - - - - - 6 00 100 Horsemen’s tents, - - - - - 12 00 12 Marquees, - - - - - - 30 00 100 Boats, - - - - - - - 50 00 The transportation of the recruits, ordnance, and military stores, clothing, and all the articles in the Quartermaster’s and Hospital departments, to the frontiers: the purchase of axes, camp-kettles, pack-saddles, iron, fuel, boards, nails, paint, company books, stationary, and every other article in the Quartermaster’s department, ------- $15,000 00 $25,000 00 6,000 00 1,200 00 360 00 5.000 00 82,440 00 . ---------$120,000 00 contingencies or the war department. For the loss of stores and objects which cannot be foreseen, estimated at, It is to be observed upon this article, as well as every other of this estimate, that, for every cent expended in pursuance thereof, vouchers mut be produced at the treasury, excepting, perhaps, the sums which might be expended for secret intelligence, whereof the names might be important to be concealed: but, for the propriety.of the small sums which might be so expended, the reputation of the commanding officer is pledged to the public. RECAPITULATION. Pay, - - - - - Subsistence, - - - 1 - - - ■ Forage, ----------- Clothing, ----------- Bounty. ----------- Horses for cavalry, -------- r equipments for cavalry, --------- Ordnance, ---------- Hospital Department, - - Quartermaster’s Department, -------- Contingencies of the War Department, - - - - $50,000 00 $297,420 00 296.985 42 33,048 00 113.000 00 41,744 00 26,320 00 11,459 63 21,500 00 15.000 00 120.000 00 50.000 00 $1,026,477 05 TO BE DEDUCTED, INCLUDED IN THE ESTIMATE FOR 1792. Pay of the troops, -Subsistence, - Forage, - Clothing, - - - - Hospital Department, r Quartermaster's Department, Contingencies of the War Department, $102,686 00 119.688 97 4,152 00 48.000 00 6,000 00 50.000 00 20.000 00 ____________ $350,526 97 To be be provided for, $675,950 08 War Department, December 26//;, 1791. II. KNOX, Secretary of War. 1792.] THE CHEROKEES 203 2nd Congress.] 
