No. 109. [1st Session. CIIEROKEES AND OTHERS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER'23, 1805. War Department, December *31, 1805. Sir: In compliance with your note of the 19th instant, you will herewith receiv e copies of such instructions as have been given from this Department to the different commissioners for treating with the Cherokee?, the Choctaws and Chickasaw s. and the several tribes of Northern Indians; of which you will please to make such disposition as may be deemed expedient. 1 have the honor to he, &e. II. DEARBORN. Honorable A. Baldwin, Senator U. S. War Department, April 4, 1804. Gentlemen: The President of the United States having appointed you joint commissioners for holding a treaty or conference with such chief men of the Cherokee nation of Indians as may be designated by the nation for that purpose, you will please to take such measures for opening said conference, and such time and place, as you shall judge expedient; and when a meeting of the parties shall have been effected, you will pursue such measures as, in your opinion, are best calculated to obtain such cessions of lands, claimed by said nation, within the limits of the State of Tennessee, Kentucky, or Georgia, as can be done on reasonable terms; more especially, the land situated between East and West Tennessee, and the land near Currahee mountain, including the settlement of Colonel AVooford, and the other white inhabitants within his immediate neighborhood. Yon are authorized to stipulate to pay the said nation, in money or goods, for such lands, within the limits aforesaid, as the Cherokees shall agree to cede, such a sum or sums as you may Ihink reasonable, not exceeding fourteen thousand dollars for any cession which may be obtained within the limits of the State of Tennessee and Kentucky, together with a reasonable annual stipend, not exceeding three Ihousanil dollars. And, for such cession as you may obtain from said nation, within the limits of Georgia, in the. vicinity of Currahee mountain, including Colonel AYoo-lbrd’s settlement, and the other white inhabitants in his neighborhood, any sum you may think reasonable, not exceeding five thouand dollars, with an annual stipend not exceeding one thousand dollars. If one or two thousand dollars' worth of goods will, in your opinion, be useful to be had at the place of holding the treaty, you are hereby authorized to call on Mr. Hooker, at Tellico factory, therefor. 'Phe sums stipulated to be paid as a consideration for cessions obtained, will be forwarded in money or goods, at the time you shall agree on. For expenses in procuring provisions, &c. you will draw on this Department. Your compensation will be six dollars per day, while actually employed in the conference or treaty, and in travelling to and from the place of holding the same, together with your reasonable and necessary expenses. H. DEARBORN. R. J. Meigs and Daniel Smith. South AYest Point, November 2d, 1805. Sin: The conference at Tellico has ended. 'Phe result is, two treaties, which are herewith enclosed. It has cost much labor and attention to effect them. But we hope they will be approved by the Government. AVe are, sir. with great respect, &c. DANIEL SMITH. RETURN J. MEIGS. Henry Dearborn, Esquire, Secretary of Jf'ar. Wah Department, March 20, 1805. Gentle,men: The object of the proposed treaties with the Choctaw and Chickasaw nations of Indians, being highly interesting, not only to the United States, but to the State of Tennessee and the Mississippi territory, it is confidently expected that no exertions, on your part, will be wanting, in conducting the business confided to your direction, in , such manner as will be best calculated for securing, by all the fair and honorable means in your power, the object in view. _ _ ... .... You will find, herewith enclosed, a petition from the principal chiefs of the Choctaw nation, requesting the President of the United States to purchase so much of their lands, between the mouth of the Yazoo river and the Chickasaw nation, as will satisfy a demand, which the house of Panton, Leslie, & Co. have against them. The lands to be ceded are to extend from the Mississippi, at the mouth of the Yazoo, along (he present boundary, to the Big Black river, and then, carrying the whole width of the said tract, between those two rivers, viz: the Mississippi and the Big Black, so far as to contain a sufficient quantity for the payment of the debt abovementioned, amounting, as stated in the enclosed account from said house of Panton, Leslie, & Co. to the sum of $4(5, 091 -j-fj. But, should a cession be obtained, amounting in value to this sum,and, on investigation, it be found that the Choctaws, themselves, do not, in fact, owe the whole, then, whatever balance may be left, after the payment of the debts, actually and justly due from them to the said house, shall be paid to the Choctaw nation. You will endeavor to extend the cession, from the main source of the Big Black, say north or north northeast, and up the Mississippi, to the Chickasaw boundary; and if the whole tract shall exceed what would be reasonable to demand, for the sum abovementioned, and the expense of the treaty, you will stipulate for the payment of such annuity to the Choctaws, in goods or money, as may be reasonable, but which shall not exceed the interest of such a capital, as, together with the debt aforesaid, and the expense of the treaty, will make the average price of the cession proposed, more than at the rate of two cents per acre. It may not be improper, when estimating the value of the lands with the Indians, to have particular reference to the probable annual profit, which they actually derive from them, in peltries and furs, as a data, by which you may enable the Indians to understand their present value, but which is constantly diminishing from the decrease of the game. The average price paid for the Indian'lands, within the last four years, does not amount to one cent per acre. It is not, however, the wish of the Government to insist on such average price with the Choctaws or Chickasaws. The whole amount of the tract, claimed by the Choctaws, and bounded as above, may probably amount to from three and a half to four and a half millions of acres, allowing their boundary on the Mississippi to be, as stated by their chiefs, when at this place, in the winter of 1804, viz: above the mouth of the river St. Francis, running from thence, southeastwardly, so as to strike a certain branch' of the Tombigby. near their Upper towns or settlements. It is presumed that a considerable proportion of the proposed cession is overflown every year, and of course, of but very little value, except for hunting; and, until it shall be inhabited, which will probably never be the ease, the Indians will be allowed to hunt on it as heretofore, as long as they continue friendly to the United States. Two thousand dollars, by way of annuity, which will be equal to thirty-two thousand dollars prompt pay. is considered the highest sum which ought to be given as an annuity, in addition to the debt abovementioned, together with the expense of treating for the whole tract, as before described. The treaty will be held at such time and place as Mr. Dinsmoor shall have decided on, which, it is honed, will not, in point of time, exceed the first of next June. The object of the proposed treaty with the Chickasaws, is to obtain a cession of all the land claimed by that nation, north of the Tennessee river, or so much thereof as they consent to cede; and, if practicable, all their lands to the north of a line to be drawn from the month of Duck river, due west, to the Mississippi. But, if the last mentioned cession cannot be obtained, then you will endeavor to obtain, in addition to their lands north of the Tennessee river, their lands north of the south line of Kentucky, between the Tennessee, the Mississippi, and Ohio rivers.. The whole of the lands claimed by the Chickasaws, north of the Tennessee, will probably amount to from three and a half to four and a half millions of acres. But it must be observed that a very large proportion of this land is also claimed by the Cherokces; and that their respective titles are so vague and undefined, as to render it extremely difficult to determine, with any certainty, whose title is best. It is highly probable that we shall find it expedient to allow each nation some compensation; and, of course, the Chickasaws ought not to demand, or receive, the same price for the lands, as they would he entitled to, were their claims undisputed. The price of such lands as the Chickasaws have an uncontested title to, may be estimated on the same principles, and calculated at the same rate, as is proposed in negotiating with the Choctaws. The disputed title extends to all the lands between Duck river and the Tennessee, to some distance above the Muscle Shoals, and, consequently, embraces a very large proportion of the whole north of the Tennessee. The piiee of the Chickasaw title to these lands ought not to be more than from two-thirds to three-fourths of what would be proper to give if their title were clear and undisputable. If the whole of the lands north of the Tennessee, claimed by the Chickasaws, be estimated at about four millions of acres, and there should be three-fourths of a million, to which their title is undisputed, you will be authorized to agree to pay them, not exceeding twelve thousand dollars, in money, to enable them to pay their debts, and ten thousand dollars in goods, for their own use, as soon as the treaty shall be duly ratified, and appropriations made to carry it into effect; and an annunity of two thousand dollars, to be delivered annually, either at Chickasaw blufi’s, or at their principal town. In addition to the general stipulation for pay, you may make a separate article, with the king of the nation, to pay him one hundred dollars,annually, during his life; and with George Colbert, a principal chief, to pay him a sum not exceeding two thousand dolars, for relinquishing the privilege of keeping the ferries over Tennessee and Duck rivers, and an annual present for his life, of a sum not exceeding sixty dollars, or, the sum of one thousand dollars, in money or goods, and an annual present, in money, for his life time, of one bundl ed and twenty dollars. it may not be improper to let the king and Colbert know, in the early part of the negotiation, that you contemplate making them separate allowances for their friendly disposition, and for Colbert’s right to the ferries. But, if Colbert should oppose the cession of the ferries, it may not be improper to endeavor to induce the king and other chiefs to assert their, or the nation’s, right to the ferries, in opposition to Colbert’s exclusive claim. If a cession can be obtained, of a larger or smaller quantity of land, between the Tennessee and the Mississippi, you will be authorized in agreeing to similar terms, in point of price, as for the other land, where the title is undisputed. If a line be drawn from the mouth of Duck river to the Mississippi, the lands, north of that line, including what is in Kentucky, as well as in Tennessee, will probably amount to near two millions of acres. The lands north of the south line of Kentucky, between the Tennessee, the Mississippi, and the Ohio, will probably amount to three-fourths of a million of acres. The price, for the former tract, should not exceed twelve thousand dollars in goods or money, and an annuity of one thousand six hundred dollars; and, for the latter tract alone, in like proportion. The Chickasaw treaty should be holden at the principal Chickasaw town, and as soon as practicable alter the conclusion of the treaty with the Choctaws. For any necessary expenses for yourselves, and for provisions for the Indians who attend the treaties, and for interpreters, your bills on this Department will be paid on sight. Your compensation will be six dollars per day, while actually employed, and while travelling to and from the respective treaties; and all your necessary expenses will be paid, on the receipt of regular accounts, stated and certified by each of you; which accounts should include, not only your own time and expenses,'but, also, all other expenses incurred under your direction. II. DEARBORN. General James Robertson and Silas Dinsmoor, Esq. Extracts of letters from the Secretary of War to Governor Harrison. War Department, 21s/ February, 1803. With this, you will receive a commission, authorizing you to act as a commissioner, on the part of the United States, for holding such treaties, with the -Indian nations, as the President may direct. You will take the earliest opportunity for conferring with the chiefs of the nation or nations, who claim the lands in the vicinity of the Kaskaskias. and a tract bordering on the Mississippi and Ohio, from their junction, up each river, a considerable distance, for a cession of those lands. Wien you shall have satisfied yourself of the practi cability of obtaining those lands, or any given quantity thereof, and the probable sum for which any such cession maybe obtained, you will communicate the same to this Department, and the necessary measures will be taken for enabling you to complete such arrangements as may be found practicable, on reasonable terms. Conditional stipulations may be made, (if the terms'appear reasonable and moderate) to be referred to the President for his approbation. War Department, June 27. 1804. It may not be improper to procure from the Sacs, such cessions, on both sides of the Illinois, as may entitle them to an annual compensation of five or six hundred dollars: they ought to relinquish all pretensions to any land on the southern side of the Illinois, and a considerable tract on the other side. And if any of the principal chicls of the other nations shall discover an inclination to follow the example of the old Kaskaskia chief, they ought to be encouraged, more especially the Piankeshaws. whose lands divide the Vincennes territory, on the Wabash, from the cessions of the Kaskaskias. It would, also, be desirable to obtain the tract between the southern line of the Vincennes territory and the Ohio. You will, of course, embrace every favorable opportunity for obtaining cessions of such parts of the above mentioned tract as may occur, by a fair and satisfactory bargain. Tt is suggested, by the President of the United States, for your consideration, whether it would not be expedient to give certain annuities to each actual family, during the existence of said family, even if the aggregate to a nation should be increased fifteen or twenty per cent. For instance, we give the Piankeshaws live hundred dollars per annum? suppose they have fifty families, we agree to give the nation twelve dollars for each family, annually, and when a family becomes extinct, the annuity to cease, or if, when its members decrease, the annuity to decrease in proportion. War Department, May 21, 1805. It is the opinion of the President of the United States, that you ought, with as little delay as possible, to cause a meeting of the Delaware chiefs, and some of the principal chiefs of the Miamies and Pattawatamies, for the purpose of such an explanation of the doings, so much complained of, as will satisfy the chiefs, generally, that the transaction was not only open and fair, but such as they have no right to object to. Such of the Delaware chiefs as were present at the treaty, and who have made false or improper representations of your conduct, in negotiating the treaty, ought to be severely reprimanded, and made to acknowledge, in the presence of the other chiefs, the impropriety of their conduct: and they ought to be told. that, in future, no chiefs, who so far degrade themselves as to deny their own doings, will be considered as deserving any of the confidence of their father, the President of the United States, or admitted to any conference with him. or any of his principal officers or agents. Vincennes, 26th Hugust, 1805. Sir: The distance between us is so great, and the communication so irregular, as to render it impossible to recur to you for advice and instructions, in many cases of importance, where I feel myself much at a loss to know how to act without them. Thus it has been in the late conference with the Indians, which resulted in the treaty that I have now the honor to enclose. The first object that engaged my attention, at the opening of the council, was, to satisfy the Indians of our right to make the treaty with the Delawares, that has been so much complained of; and I found lit tie difficulty to getting them to recognise every part of that treaty, excepting the article which guaranties to the Delawares the country between the White river and the Ohio. As the information upon which that article was founded was derived from the Delawares themselves, agood opportunity was offered to ascertain the truth of the cession said to have been made by the Miainies, at fort Wayne, in the year 1803. The latter strenuously contended, that the declaration which they made, on that occasion, meant nothing more than an assurance to the Delawares, that they should occupy the. country as long as they pleased, but that they had no intention to convey an exclusive right. During the whole contest between these tribes, which lasted several days. I observed the most exact neutrality. I made the Delawares perfectly comprehend, tliat (he guarantee of the United States depended upon their being able to make the Miamies acknowledge the cession of fort Wayne. This acknowledgment, however, the Miamies would not make, and the Delawares finally gave up the contest, although it was evident to me. that the declaration made by the Owl. on behalf of the Miainies, at fort 'Wayne, was fully as strong as the Delaware chiefs had reported it to be. At the commencement of the council, the .Miami and Pattawatamy chiefs had hinted at the necessity of increasing their annuities, so as to put them on a footing with the Delawares. Ilut I soon put an end to their hopes, by assuring them, in the most positive terms, that, as the United States had made a fair bargain with the Delawares and Piankeshaws, who were the owners of the land that had been ceded, not a six pence would be given to any other tribe, in consideration of that purchase: but, that they might obtain a further annuity, by a further cession of land? and this brought on the negotiation for the tract ceded by the enclosed treaty. The consideration is greater than I could have wished, but it was not possible to reduce it one single cent? indeed, they insisted, for several days, on having their former annuity doubled for a much smaller tract than that which was finally given up. A knowledge of the value of land is fast gaining ground amongst the Indians, and, in the course of the negotiation, one of the chiefs observed, that he knew that a great part of the land was worth six dollars per acre. The admission of the Pattawatamies, as a party to the treaty, could not well be avoided, under the circumstances which gave rise to the conference, and I am confident that it will, eventually, be highly advantageous to us. They have given up all right to interfere in any i'uture sales of lands by the Miamies. on the Wabash and its waters. The guarantee ol those lands to the three tribes, who call themselves Miamies, could not be avoided, as they insisted upon it with the most persevering obstinacy. Rut, 1 conceive that it will be no difficult matter to get them, in the course of a few years, to make a division of the land that they now hold in common. At any rate, a point of much consequence has been gained, by getting the other tribes to acknowledge their exclusive title to the country on the 'Wabash, above the Vincennes tract. 'Phe Miami chiefs Mere extremely desirous to have the Piankeshaws included in the treaty, but this I would on no account suffer, reserving to the United States the right of purchasing the remaining Piankeshaws' lands, at any time that they could agree for them with that tribe. This affair is now in a prosperous train, and can be completed, on the most advantageous terms, whenever the President shall think proper to direct it. I think, upon the whole, that it would be as well to postpone the purchase a short time, perhaps until next spring? but, if it should be determined otherwise, 1 can venture to promise that all the lands which lie between the Wabash and the lands ceded by the Kaskaskias treaty, and below a continuation of the line running through Point Coupee, will be the property of the United States in ten days after I shall receive your instructions for that purpose, and for a consideration, too, which will compensate for any excess in that given by the present treaty. From the best calculation that I have been able to make, the tract which has now been ceded contains at least two millions of acres, and embraces 89 some of the finest land in the Western country. I shall do myself the honor to write to you by the next mail, and give a particular account of the bills I have drawn for the purposes of the treaty. In'pursuance of the President’s directions, I have promised-the Turtle fifty dollars, per annum, in addition to his pension; and I have, also, directed Captain Wells to purchase a negro man for him, in Kentucky, and draw on you for the amount. I have the honor to be, most respectfully, your humble servant, WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON. The Hon. Henry Dearborn. 9th Congress.] 
