NO. 181.	[1st SESSION, CIVILIZATION OF THE INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 28, 1822. To the Senate and Home of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled: The undersigned beg leave to approach your honorable body on a subject which deeply affects, io their apprehension, the cause of humanity and the honor of their country. They will not dwell before the representatives of the nation on the state of the population of this country at its first settlement. It is well known that, when our fathers landed on these shores, they found the whole seaboard washed by the Atlantic inhabited by a race of intelligent and brave men, living in the state of uncivilized hunters and warriors. By purchase or by conquest, we now inherit the soil of these red men. Wasted and wasting by their wars with the whites, or with each other, and still more by the baneful effects of an intoxicating poison industriously introduced among them by unprincipled traders, they have been driven before the tide of our rapidly increasing population, until they are found standing, even in their own apprehension, upon the very verge of political, and even of physical annihilation. Attempts have been made, from time to time, by high and noble-minded individuals, to enlighten their red brethren, and not without effect. The Indian mind has shown itself capable of culture, and their instructors have merited and received the only enviable title amongst freemen—that of benefactors of mankind. The labors of these insulated individuals, however, when brought to bear upon our whole aboriginal population, could produce but a feeble and transient impression; like inscriptions on sand, they were seen, they were read, they were admired, and were then obliterated forever. Never, till the Government had acquired a powerful influence over Indian councils, could any feasible plan be devised for ameliorating their condition on a large scale. That time, however, has at length arrived. To the everlasting honor of the Government, it has projected a plan to save the scattered tribes from extinction, and eventually to incorporate them in the great American family. By occupying an intermediate space in the fur trade between them and men whose private interest has ever been at war with Indian happiness, and even with their very existence, they have thrown a shield over them worthy of the Government; a shield which, in preventing war and bloodshed, in advancing their moral culture, and in obviously promoting, in many other respects, the interests of these United States, is, in the view of your memorialists, of incalculable advantage. This plan of the Government, combining in itself much practical wisdom and sound philanthropy, has partially been carried into effect. Under the auspices of Heaven, and patronized by Government, societies have been organized in various parts of the United States, to send the Gospel, together with the arts of civilized life, to the impoverished children of the forest. Missionary families, invited by the Indians themselves, and composed of artificers, agriculturists, and teachers of various descriptions, have left their firesides, with all the enjoyments of civilized society, and, with their lives in their hands, and surrendering up all hope of temporal advantage, have bent their steps towards, and are now located in, the wilderness. The efforts of these missionaries and their friends, connected with other wise arrangements of the Government, are now in the full tide of successful experiment. In confirmation of the above, we refer to the Cherokees. That tribe have recently divided their country into several districts; have laid a tax on their people to build a court-house in each; have appointed four circuit judges; and in other respects are rapidly adopting the laws and manners of civilized life. Like the plan now in operation,_nothing has ever before been attempted in the country; and the rapidly growing popularity of the measures pursued in it clearly and strongly evinces a firm decision in its favor of a very large part of the American community. Under these circumstances, the undersigned have learned with regret that attempts have recently been made to arrest this whole business in its course, and that, too, before even time has been given to test its advantages, or to bring its fruits to maturity. Your memorialists cannot but view any resolution that should effect such an object as a deep wound to our country’s honor, as grievously militating against its best interests, and as sealing in one death-warrant the fate of its whole Indian population. With these views of the subject, and earnestly deprecating such an act, as well as the awful consequences that must ensue, the undersigned respectfully approach the bar of the national representatives, and pray that they will not suffer a plan which has commenced with such fair prospects of success to be ruined in the morning of its increase; that the Indians may be saved from the cruel destiny which avarice stands ready to inflict; and that enough of the governmental funds may be appropriated to embrace the entire wants of these people in their commercial operations, that they may be thus freed from the necessity of having a destructive intercourse with their worst enemies. If, in addition to the above, efficient measures can be taken by Congress to prevent the Indian wars with each other, it will save from interruption, and very much facilitate, the whole governmental plan. In submitting these things, yuur memorialists beg leave respectfully to observe, that, if Congress shall continue to pursue and to cherish its present course of policy towards the Indians, they will receive the cordial thanks of all good men; and these, connected with the heart-cheering reflection that they have added to the moral and physical strength of their country, and saved thousands, perhaps millions, of their fellow beings from irredeemable destruction. WILLIAM J. WILLIAMS, and others. PHILADELPHIA, November, 1821. 17th CONGRESS.]	
