NO. 207.	[1st SESSION. EXTINGUISHMENT OF INDIAN TITLE TO LANDS IN GEORGIA. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, APRIL 15, 1824. Mr. FORSYTH made the following report: The select committee to whom was referred the President’s message of the 30th of March, with the documents accompanying it, relating to the compact of 1802 between the United States and the State of Georgia, submit to the House, on that message, and on the memorial of the Legislature of the State of Georgia, also referred to them, [See Nos. 204 aud 205,] the following report: The State of Georgia claimed, on the establishment of the independence of the United States, all the lands now forming the States of Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi, with the exception of those portions of the two last States which formed a part of Florida and Louisiana. This claim was founded upon the charter of incorporation of the proprietary government—on the royal commissions issued to the Governors of the State, after the proprietors had surrendered their charter to the Crown. The claim was disputed by South Carolina and by the United States. The conflicting claims of South Carolina and Georgia were adjusted by a convention between them, in 1787. The United States recognised, by the treaty with Spain of the year 1795, the claim of Georgia;* having refused, in 1788, a cession from the State, on account of the remoteness of the lands and of the terms proposed by Georgia.	, In April, 1798, Congress passed a lawt in relation to the western part of the territory of Georgia, with a reservation of the rights of Georgia to the jurisdiction and soil. In May, 1800, another act| was passed, containing a similar reservation. In December, 1800, Georgia remonstrated against these acts, as a violation of her right of sovereignty and soil.§ The compact of 1802 put an end to the disputes which were likely to arise out of this collision between the General and State Governments. By this compact, the United States obtained a surrender of the right of Georgia to the sovereignty and soil of two States, containing, by estimate, 86,000,000 of acres of land, for the paltry consideration of the payment of $1,250,000, out of the proceeds of that land, and a promise to extinguish the Indian title to the land within the territorial limits not ceded to the United States, as soon as it could be done peaceably and on reasonable terms. The execution of this compact produced no change in the right of Georgia to the sovereignty and soil of the land within her newly defined boundaries. Its only effect was to throw upon the United States the expense which might attend the extinguishment of the Indian title; an expense which, but for this compact, must have been borne by the State. Nor did this compact, in the slightest circumstance, add to the title of the Indians; it recognised only the claim which they, as Indians, were allowed to have, according to the usages of the States, and the liberal policy adopted towards them by the General Government. * Journals of old Congress, vol. 13, p. 49, 50.	t Laws of United States, vol. 3, p. 380. f Laws of United States, vol. 3, p. 39.	§ Public Lands, vol. 1, No. 206. In relation to the Cherokees, the principal topic of the President’s message, it would appear that new doctrines are permitted to be entertained of them, in the opinion of the committee, neither consistent with the opinions heretofore entertained, with the practices of the Government, nor with the interests of the Union. The Cherokees claim to be an independent tribe. The President avows the belief that the articles of cession of 1802 are a full proof that the Indians had a right to the territory, in the disposal of which they were to be regarded as free agents. The acts of the General Government, in 1814, in relation to the Creeks; the language of the President of the United States in 1817; the language of the Secretary of War in 1818; of the agent of the Government in that year, in treating with the Cherokees; and of the agent treating with them in 1823, do not correspond with the opinions now expressed. In 1814, General Jackson, acting under the authority of the Government, took from the Creek Indians, for an equivalent, named by himself, all the land the United States chose to require, to effect a great object of national policy in regard to the Indian tribes. It cannot be alleged that this was done by virtue of conquest. The letter of the late Indian agent, Colonel Hawkins, of the 11th of August, 1815, laid before the House of Representatives§§ on the 5th of April, 1824, shows that nearly 8,000,000 of acres were taken from the friendly Indians, (our allies in the war,) over and above all the hunting grounds of the upper friendly Creeks, for what was called an equivalent, but which the Indians did not deem such. In 1817, in his message at the opening of Congress, the President says: “ The hunter state can exist only in the vast uncultivated desert. It yields to the more dense and compact form and greater force of civilized population; and, of right, it ought to yield, for the earth was given to mankind to support the greatest number of which it is capable; and no tribe or people have a right to withhold from the wants of others more than is necessary for their own support and comfort.”! Io a letter of the 29th July, 1818, the Secretary of War says to Mr. McMinn, (speaking of the attempts to prevent the Cherokees from going to Arkansas,) “ the United States will not permit the treaty to be defeated by such means. Those who choose to remain, are permitted to do so in quiet; those who choose to emigrate, must be equally free.” And further: “ It is in vain for the Cherokees to hold the high tone which they do as to their independence as a nation; for daily proof is exhibited that, were it not for the protecting arm of the United States, they would become the victims of fraud and violence.” Mr. McMinn tells the Cherokees, in conformity with this declaration, in his talk to the chiefs of the 23d November, 1818: “ It must surely be, my brothers, that you view me as an impostor, acting upon my own authority, with a view to deceive your nation; or that you flatter yourselves with the empty expectation that the United States cannot execute a measure of general defence for the safety of her citizens which shall, in the slightest degree, affect your interest or your wishes.” The agents of 1823 assert an unqualified right in the United States to take from the Indians any of their lands for public use. It is asserted, however, by the Secretary of War, that there were treaties existing with the Cherokees in 1802, which guarantied their lands. These guaranties were only of the Indian title, as understood by all at the date of the execution of these treaties—a title of mere occupancy for the purposes of hunting. The idea of title to the soil was, until lately, unknown to the Indians. Their lands were overrun by them, not inhabited; their rights not transferred, but extinguished; dependant upon the will of the power to whom the sovereignty over them belongs. This sovereign power was Georgia prior to the adoption of the constitution of the United States. That constitution gave to the United States the authority to manage the affairs of the Indians, for the peace of the Union and the eventual benefit of Georgia. The Indians had mere occupation; the United States were the agents of Georgia for the extinguishment of this allowed possession. The compact of 1802 required this to be effected out of the general fund. No act of the United States, nor of the Indians, nor of both, could, without her consent, impair the rights of Georgia to the jurisdiction and soil of the territory in question, whenever the Indians should be removed from it by accident, by contract, or by force. This doctrine is confirmed by the decision of the Supreme Court of the United Slates, which has declared sales made by States of Indian territory valid prior to the extinguishment of Indian title:| that there is a species of seisin in fee, which enables a State to grant to individuals. In fact, the compact of 1802 is the acknowledgment of the United States of this doctrine, as their only title to the soil of Alabama and Mississippi is founded upon it. The Secretary of War, in his attention to the treaties guarantying the Indian title, has entirely omitted to notice the firstand most important document in relation to this subject—the treaty of Hopewell of 1785; a document sustaining the opinion of the committee, and giving to it what is now deemed important—the sanction of Indian acquiescence. The fourth article of the treaty of Hopewell§ says, “ The boundary allotted to the Cherokees for their hunting grounds is, and shall be, the following.” The Indians acknowledge by that treaty the United States as their sovereign; and by the ninth article Congress assume, for the interest and comfort of the Indians, the power to regulate their trade, and manage all their affairs as they may deem proper. This treaty existed at the adoption of the constitution of the United States; and Georgia, as a member of the Union, was vested with the sovereignty and soil of the Cherokee lands, subject only to the Indian right of hunting within the allotted limits; which right the General Government was bound to extinguish as early as the general convenience would permit. The duty of the General Government was to do all acts which would accelerate this event; to refrain from all acts which would retard it. Over the territories of the United States the General Government could rightfully exercise unlimited power in relation to the Indian tribes. Within a particular State, the sole power was that of agency, for the preservation of peace, the regulation of trade, and the extinguishment of title. To this genera) obligation, imposed by the constitution on all the States, a special promise was added in favor of Georgia, in 1802, partially executed; but, to the complete execution of which, difficulties are alleged to exist which' require the interposition of the power of Congress. How far this promise has been complied with, is attempted to be shown by two documents (marked A and B) sent to Congress by the President. By the document A, it appears that the Indian title to 15,744,000 acres has been extinguished, and that there remain 10,240,000 acres yet in their possession as hunting grounds. The first quantity is alleged to be all that could be peaceably obtained on reasonable terms.	, The document No. 1, accompanying this report, will show that since 1802 the United States have been able to obtain, for their own use, more than 30,000,000 of acres in Alabama and Mississippi, in addition to 7,633,400 obtained in 1801; to 5,006,880, obtained for Tennessee by treaty from the Chickasaw Indians, subsequently confirmed by a treaty with the Cherokees; 700,000 for North Carolina; and a quantity, an estimate of which is not in the hands of the committee, for South Carolina. No satisfactory explanation is afforded to show how this difference in the quantity of lands procured by the United States for their own account, and in compliance with their promise to Georgia, has occurred. The document B is intended to show the expense incurred in the execution of the compact of 1802. It is defective and delusive. It contains no credit for the money received at the treasury of Georgia, viz: the Yazoo fund.* It is omitted to be stated that the $1,250,000 was paid out of the proceeds of the property acquired. It charges the Yazoo compromise as a benefit to Georgia, who had no interest in the settlement but a common interest with the other States. The land procured for the Cherokees on the Arkansas is charged at the minimum value of lands surveyed and offered for sale by the United States, and not at its trifling actual cost, about $25,000. The committee are at a loss to know what bearing this defective document has on the question of the Cherokee lands. As, however, they presume it has a relation not well understood, they conceive it proper to show, by the statement No. 2, what pecuniary advantages have accrued, and will accrue to the United States, under the compact with Georgia. By this statement it appears that $4,512,850 23, exclusive of Mississippi stock, have been received into the public treasury; that $6,444,821 51 are due from sales made; that the land ceded by the. Indians, and not yet sold, is 27,588,800 acres, which, at the minimum price, is $34,486,000. That there remain yet, as hunting, grounds for the Indians, 22,977,576 acres. The balance of profit is sufficiently with the United States to justify contracts for the extinguishment of Indian title for the benefit of Georgia, without great scrutiny as to the amount of expense incurred. The committee agree with the Secretary of War “ that no opportunity of extinguishing the Indian title, on reasonable terms, has been neglected by the General Government,” for its own use; but they do not perceive that the same zeal has been successfully exerted for the State of Georgia. The treaty of 1814, with the Creeks, was dictated by General Jackson to the Creeks, by order of the Department of War. As has been already seen, a large territory was taken from the Creeks.	< The policy of the United States, as explained by the Secretary, required a separation of the tribes of Indians from each other, and from the ocean. To this policy a compliance with the promise to Georgia was sacrificed. It is alleged that the obligation to Georgia extends only to the purchase of lands, &c. The term “ purchase” is an interpolation; it is not found in the articles of cession of 1802. It is alleged, also, that this land was obtained by conquest; and therefore the nation was at liberty, laying the contract with Georgia ont of view, to pursue its plan of policy. Without entering into any considerations to show that the United States, having obtained by force, not used for that purpose, but defensively,, the opportunity to extinguish the Indian title within the limits of Georgia, was bound in good faith to use it, it is deemed sufficient to refer the House to the facts disclosed by the extract from Colonel Hawkins’s letter, already quoted, that this acquisition by conquest was an acquisition of lands from friends and allies, for an equivalent named by the United States. The propriety of accommodating the State of Georgia was suggested to the commissioner of the United States by the Indian agent; but the answer was, that the instructions of the Government would not permit a compliance with this suggestion. (See Colonel Hawkins’s letter p. 493.) The committee are of opinion that an acquisition of land to Georgia, to any extent, could have been obtained from the Creeks in 1814. The attention of Congress has been called to the arrangements made with the Cherokees in 1817 and 1819. The arrangement of 1817 was for the purpose of carrying into effect the wishes of the Cherokees, as declared to Mr. Jefferson in 1808, by a deputation from the upper aod lower towns. According to the preamble of the arrangement of 1817, the upper towns desired to remain fixed above the Highwassee river, to contract their society within narrow limits, and begin the establishment of fixed laws and a regular government. The lower towns desired to continue the hunter life, and for that purpose wished to remove across the Mississippi. The wishes of the upper and lower towns were granted, and arrangements made for the removal of the latter across the Mississippi. No line was drawn between the upper and lower towns, although a request was made of the Indians that it should be done by the United States. The arrangement of 1817 provides for the fulfilment of the wishes expressed in 1808, and the promises of the Government of 1809. The wish of the lower towns was a removal beyond the Mississippi; that of the upper, a contraction, of their society within narrower limits. By the third and fourth articles, it was agreed that a census should be taken of the population beyond the Mississippi, and of those who chose to migrate thither; and a census of those who chose to remain in their present location. The territory occupied hy them on this side of the Mississippi was to be divided according to the relative numbers of those who had migrated, and would migrate, to the remainder; and that portion which fell to the migrators was to be received by the United States, in place of the lands furnished to the Cherokees beyond the Mississippi. From this plan, the extinguishment of the title of the Cherokee Indians was anticipated, and would have taken place had it been executed in its spirit by the General Government. (See No. 3, extracts from Mr. McMinn’s letter.) It appears, however, that the census was never taken, and that, in 1819, a deputation.of Cherokees ■was permitted to come to Washington, to adjust, finally, the difficulties arising out of the treaty of 1817. The lower Cherokee towns, in the limits of Georgia, did not remove beyond the Mississippi. Most of the removals took place from the upper towns, out of the limits of Georgia. In place of the proportion of lands to be abandoned according to the treaty of'1817, a fixed quantity was accepted; a very small and worthless part of which is in Georgia. It is alleged by the Secretary of War that the desire of Government was to have a cession in such form as would separate the Creeks and Cherokees; but that it was found impossible to induce the Cherokees to yield to that proposition, or to any other more favorable to Georgia than that which was adopted. He does not, however, state that any other was made, with a view to comply with the compact of 1802. The proposition made for the separation of the Creeks and Cherokees was not for the benefit of Georgia, had it been acceded to, although the interests of the State would have been more advanced than by the actual arrangement; yet, even in that case, the United States would have sacrificed the obligations of the compact to the policy of separating the Indian tribes, and to the consequent acquisition of lands for their own use in the State of Alabama. The committee cannot understand why a cession of the whole quantity of land in Georgia could not have been obtained. The obligation of the Indians was simple—a line, a boundary; and the United States had only to insist upon fixing that boundary, according to the preamble of the arrangement of 1817. The Secretary of War, however, states that the Indians would not yield, and it seems that the United States did yield. It is obvious to the committee that the interest of Georgia was considered a mere secondary object, from the terms of the arrangement of 1819. The preamble to that arrangement is a satisfactory evidence of the entire forgetfulness of the obligations of the compact of 1802. The treaty is made in consequence of the earnest desire of a great part of the Cherokee nation to remain on this side of the Mississippi, to commence the measures necessary to the civilization and preservation of the nation. The committee are surprised that the occasion was not taken to satisfy the Indians that their continuance in Georgia was impossible, unless Georgia consented to it; and still more so, that the Indians should be encouraged, by this preamble of a treaty, made at the seat of Government, under the eyes of the President, to entertain that expectation. The treaty of 1817, and that of 1819, show a strange forgetfulness of the limited extent of the power of the United States over the land in question. The Secretary of War, acting under the direction of the Executive Magistrate, and pursuing the example set in 1817, seems to have imagined that the United States and the Indians could do, lawfully, whatever suited their mutual convenience, without regard to the State of Georgia; an error which had been previously committed, in treaties with the Creeks. No difference was made between Indian lands within the limits of the State claiming the eventual jurisdiction and soil, and the Indian lands where the soil is the property of the United States. Provisions are made, in both treaties, for vesting individuals with fee-simple titles to land, and to convert them, by a short process, into citizens. The right of the United States to do either is absolutely denied by the committee. The General Government can take tho property of individuals for public use, but the constitution withholds the power even to prejudice the claims of any State. Congress can establish a uniform rule of naturalization: the Executive Magistrate cannot make, by an Indian treaty, special exceptions to the established rule. The effect of such acts on the part of the General Government was to be anticipated. The Indians were taught the value of separate property, and the advantages to be obtained by a continuance in their present position. The General Government authorized, also, the establishment of missionaries among the Cherokees, to instruct their children, and to give them a taste for the cultivation of the soil. The committee are not informed that the influence acquired by these missionaries has been exerted to induce the Indians to seek a residence beyond the Mississippi, nor are they informed that the Government has e.ver thought it necessary to impose upon them such a task. The committee are not to be understood as expressing any disapprobation of the policy of the United States for the civilization of the Indian tribes; they confine themselves to the policy, as it has affected the performance of the promises of the United States under the compact of 1802. As it relates to that compact, they express their decided conviction that the attempts which have been made to civilize and permanently fix the Cherokees in Georgia are in direct violation of the promise to extinguish their title, as soon as it could be done peaceably and on reasonable terms; nor do the committee perceive the necessity of holding out the idea of permanent settlement in Georgia as a prelude to the establishment of a regular government for the Indians. As it regards expense, it would certainly be, for the United States, tfie cheapest mode of effecting this object, as the cost would be paid by Georgia, and the United States would be saved from the onerous obligation of removing the Indians for the benefit of that State; a saving of expense which, however, the United States will not desire, as it involves a breach of their faith.	'From the circumstances thus detailed, the House will not be surprised at the present pretensions of the Cherokees to be regarded as independent, or their declarations that they will neither sell nor quit the lands occupied by them. Some surprise cannot but be felt at the acquiescence of the United States in the substitution of diplomatic correspondence for Indian talks, and af the manner in which the subject of the Cherokees is presented to Congress. The Legislature of Georgia, at their last session, sent to the Chief Magistrate a memorial on the subject of the compact of 1802. The President of the United States has not laid that memorial before Congress, but has preferred to present to the legislative body a correspondence of the Secretary of War with certain Cherokee chiefs, which begins, on their part, by a declaration that they would sell no more land; contains a request that no more appropriations should be made for that purpose, and a suggestion that the United States should in some other way satisfy Georgia, as by a cession in Florida. To the formal answer of the Secretary of War a rejoinder is given, and, on this rejoinder, Congress are informed that its power must be exerted, as it is obvious that the Executive can do nothing further without the intervention of Congress. The President has given his opinion, that the use of force would be unjust, and that without force nothing can be done. What should be done by Congress, is a subject of the most serious and important concern. The parties to the compact of 1802 anticipated the extinguishment of the Indian title to all the lands in Georgia. The United States agreed to extinguish it, as soon as it could be done peaceably, and on reasonable terms. The compact imposed upon the General Government the obligation to use all the means necessary to accomplish the end in view. It was especially their duty to refrain from doing any thing calculated even to retard, much less to render impracticable, the attainment of that end. If the committee have not deceived themselves, it must be apparent that the United States have omitted to embrace two occasions when a fuller performance of the .conditions of the compact was in their power. It is equally'apparent that the United States have not only omitted to express constantly, and with firmness, to the Cherokees, the necessity of their ultimate removal from Georgia, but have held out to them the idea of a permanent residence, as citizens, in that State; have taught them the value of their position, and intimated that it depended upon themselves to remain or to remove; and have attempted to vest in individuals a permanent property in the soil. From these causes, every day .increasing in their effect upon the inclination of the Cherokees, has arisen the determination of the Cherokees, as made known to the President. It is the policy of the United States which has created the difficulties; if peaceable acquisition is impossible, that impossibility is the work of the General Government. In this state of things, encountering contradictory obligations, the course for the Government is plain and obvious. Justice should be done to Georgia. The Indian claim should be extinguished, even should force be required for that purpose; or the consent of the State must be obtained to some arrangement which will free the United States from the embarrassments arising from its regard to the unhappy condition of the Indians, from a respect to the expectations they have erroneously permitted this tribe to entertain, and from their formal and solemn obligation to a member of the Union.	• The committee do not, however, believe that any serious difficulty now exists to the peaceable extinguishment of the Indian title, on reasonable terms. An order from the General Government for their removal would be cheerfully acquiesced in, if accompanied by the necessary preparation for the prosperity of the tribe, and a just equivalent for the temporary inconveniences they might suffer. The committee agree with the President, that it would promote essentially the security and happiness of the tribes of Indians if they could he prevailed on to retire beyond the limits of the States; but they cannot see the injustice of any measure, short of actual hostility, which would essentially promote the security and happiness of the Cherokees. There is another consideration which should be brought into view. The only plausible objection to the proposed order is its injustice and inhumanity to the Indians. That it is just to promote their essential security and happiness, even by means not agreeable to their wishes, cannot be denied; that it is humane to preserve them from dangers to which they will be exposed by an obstinate adherence to their own opinions, is equally true. Their present position is incompatible with the claims of the State of Georgia. The knowledge of the fact that the United States will not, in consequence of the perverseness of the Cherokees, comply with the obligations of the compact of 1802, will necessarily produce irritations and resentments, the consequences of which may be easily foreseen: the United States may be under the fatal necessity of seeing the Cherokees annihilated, or of defending them against their own citizens. The committee offer to the House the following resolutions, under a full conviction that the adoption of them will not be followed by any consequences injurious to the Cherokee tribe, or to the character of the General Government, for justice and humanity. Resolved, That the United States are bound by their obligations to Georgia to take, immediately, the necessary measures for the removal of the Cherokee Indians beyond the limits of that State. Resolved, That such an arrangement with the State of Georgia should be made as may lead to the final adjustment of the claims of that State, under the compact of 1802, with the least possible inconvenience to the Cherokee and Creek Indians within the boundaries of the State. Resolved, That the sum of	dollars should be appropriated for the purposes expressed in the above resolutions.	ire No. 1. Estimate of the land ceded by the Creeks, Cherokees, Choctaws, and Chickasaws, to the United States, in Tennessee, North Carolina, Alabama, and Mississippi, with the dates of the treaties under which the several quantities in each State, respectively, were obtained. X In Tennessee.—From the Chickasaws, treaty 19th October, 1818, North Carolina.—From the Cherokees,	“ 8th July, 1817,	- Alabama.—From the Choctaws,	“	17th October, 1802, From the Cherokees,	“	7th January, 1806,	1 From the Creeks,	“	9th August, 1814,	| From the Cherokees,	“	27th February, 1819,	3 Acres, -	44,241,330 DEAR SIR:	TOPOGRAPHICAL BUREAU, April 7, 1824. There are no maps or other documents in this Department sufficiently accurate to form a correct estimate of the quantity of land ceded by .the Indians to the States you mentioned. That of North Carolina is taken from an estimate of Governor Holmes; the others are computed from maps and other papers in the Land Office. The scale on which they are made is not such as to afford the means of very accurate calculation, but I hope it may answer your purpose.	I have the honor, &c.	I. RÔBERDEAU, Maj. Top. Engineers. To the Hon. JOHN FORSYTH, &c. No. 2. SIR:	TREASURY DEPARTMENT, GENERAL LAND OFFICE, April 8, 1824. In reply to your note, requesting to be informed of the quantities of certain Indian cessions of lands to the United States, I have the honor to state as follows, viz: 1st inquiry. “ Of the quantity of land, in acres, ceded by the Indians to the United States, in the State of Alabama, (exclusive of Florida,) since the articles of cession between the State of Georgia and the United States, in 1802.” Answer. There has been ceded in Alabama, since the period alluded to, (viz: 24th April, 1802,) the quantity of 21,057,022 acres, north of 31° of latitude. 2d inquiry. “ Of the quantity of land, in acres, ceded by the Indians to the United States, in the State of Mississippi, (Florida excluded,) since the same period.” Answer. The following lands, viz: Acres. 1st. That part of the cession under the treaty of Fort Confederation, of October 17, 1802, situate in Mississippi, -------	133,000 2d. Quantity ceded by the treaty of Mount Dexter, of November 16, 1805,	-	- 4,142,720 3d. Quantity ceded by the Choctaws, treaty of October 18, 1820,	-	-	- 5,169,788 4th. That part of the cession under the treaty of Fort Jackson, of August 9, 1814, situate in Missis- , sippi,	-	-	' -	-	-	-	-	393,520 Total, - 9,839,028 4th inquiry. “ Of the quantity of land yet remaining in the possession of the Indians, in Alabama and Mississippi, respectively, (Florida excluded.)” Answer. The quantity of land to which the Indian title has not been extinguished in the State's above men Total,	-	- 7,272,576 In Mississippi, the quantity of lands yet remaining in the possession of the Indians is. estimated at 15,705,000 Aggregate of both States, -	- 22,977,576 5th inquiry. “ Of the number of acres of land which have been sold, and which remain to be sold, of lands ceded by the Indians to the United States, since the same period, in the States of Alabama and Mississippi, respectively.” Answered by the following statement: Statement showing the number of acres of land sold, and the quantity which remains to be sold, in the now States of Mississippi and Alabama, north of 31° of latitude, since the articles of cession executed between the State of Georgia and the United States, (viz. 24th April, 1802,) after deducting the lands reverted; and, also, those relinquished to the United States, under the act of March 2, 1821, up to the SWi day of June, 1823. Acrer. Quantity of land sold, ------	4,649,816 Purchase money, '	-	-	-	-	- $14,348,748 Quantity of land remaining unsold, of land surveyed, -	-	-	-	24,460,480 .Add quantity of land unsurveyed, ...	-	-	3,128,320 Total quantity of land remaining to be sold, 6th inquiry. “ A statement showing the amount of money received and receivable by the United States, for lands sold in Alabama and Mississippi since the same period, calculating the lands sold at the prices they brought, and also calculating the lands which remain to be sold at the minimum price fixed by law.” Answered by the following statement: Mississippi and Alabama, north of3\.° of latitude. Acres. Money received into the treasury for lands sold up to June 30, 1823,	-	$4,512,850	23 Balance due from individuals under credit system, September 30, 1822,	-	6,444,821	51 Estimated quantity of land remaining to be sold of what is now ceded,	-	-	27,588,800 Value of the remaining land to be sold, calculated at the minimum price,	-	34,486,000	00 In reply to your last inquiry, 1 have to state that the land contained in that part of Georgia which forms the counties of Early, Irwin, and Appling, is estimated (from Tanner’s atlas) to contain 7,298,000 acres. The means of complying with your request in the third inquiry, respecting the quantity of land ceded by the Cherokees in the States of Tennessee and North Carolina, are not in the possession of this office. I am, very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, G. GRAHAM. P. S.—It should be remarked, that the quantity of the cessions in Mississippi has been calculated from Melish’s map of the United States. No. 3. .	Extracts of Mr. McMinn's letter, dated Sir:	JANUARY 26, 1819. ’ As it has become impracticable for me to attend at the city with the Cherokees, I trust it will not be unacceptable for me to transmit to you some of the views which I expected to have explained in a personal interview. With me they have always urged, as I presume they will with you, a division of their country, by which those who did not choose to remove should be permitted to remain in the full exercise of all their savage customs during their pleasure. But all applications of this kind being entirely inadmissible, I have met every advance with the most positive refusal; alleging that, by the most clear and explicit ,terms of the treaty, it would be kept open until an entire extinguishment of their claim, by reservation and migration, would take place. To this construction of the treaty, the whole council gave their silent assent, although they were frequently invited to bring forward arguments in support of their former opinions. The Cherokee country east of the Mississippi is estimated, hy the best calculators, to contain upwards of (14,000,000) fourteen millions of acres; a great porportion of which is rich land, and well watered, particularly in the Alabama Territory, which certainly contains the most valuable part of the Cherokee country. Should a failure ensue in the anticipated negotiations at the city, (which we trust is not probable,) I think I can venture to state that $300,000, including all former expenditures, will cover every necessary expense attending their removal, on the terms stipulated by the treaty, which will be but little more than two cents per acre; but this calculation is predicated solely upon an expectation that the Government will pursue her measures with an unabating ardor. Indeed, to relax now, (unless by entering into a general agreement with them,) would be attended with the most serious consequences, as it would not only check the progress of enrolling, but would certainly prevent those from removing who have enrolled. Now is the auspicious moment; the most violent opposition is silenced, and the friends of an exchange have at last assumed an air of independence, and an unalterable determination to acquiesce in the views of Government. This spirit of conformity will certainly increase from this circumstance, if from no other—that at present we claim one-half of the whole population; hence, (says one of our Cherokee friends,) we see, with great pleasure, that the name of Cherokee nation is fast migrating towards our western settlements; and those who have hitherto been inimical to the views of Government (say our friends) are gone; and, to retain our present standingas to wealth and .power, we must follow. But, independent of this, they possess a degree of national attachment for each other, not surpassed by the population of any country; and, although you may hear much about reservations, yet I hope I feel authorized in saying their object, for the greater part, is to secure them for purposes of speculation, as few, if any, will remain east of the Mississippi. Sin:	HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, April 9, 1824. On the back of the copy of your letter to Joseph McMinn, of the date of the 29th of July, 1818, sent to Congress by the President with his message of the 30th of March, there is a memorandum that no copy of the arrangement referred to in lhe letter is on file in the War Department, and that, consequently, no copy of it could be furnished. I am instructed by the committee, to whom the message of the President has been referred, to ask for as accurate a statement of the contents of the lost document as your recollection of it will enable you to give. I am, sir, with great respect, your most obedient servant, JOHN FORSYTH, Chairman of the Select Committee, Sfc. Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, April 12, 1824. I have received your letter of the 9th instant, and, in reply, have to state, that it is impossible, at this period, to state particularly “ the contents of the lost document,” referred to in the copy of my letter of the 29th of July, 1818, which accompanied the message of the President of the 30th ultimo to Congress; but my impressions are, (and of the correctness of which I have no doubt, from the correspondence of Governor McMinn and of this Department, copies of which are before the committee of which you are chairman,) that it contained propositions to be submitted to the Cherokee nation, having for their object the gradual, and ultimately the entire extinguishment of the Cherokee title east of the Mississippi. I think it proper to observe, that the document in question accompanied the letter from Governor McMinn of the 4th or that of the 7th of July, 1818, the receipt of both of which is acknowledged in my letter of the 29th of the same month, and was submitted by him for the consideration of this Department, and was subsequently copied and returned to him in the form of instructions. These letters have been searched for in vain; and the memorandum to which you refer, endorsed on the copy of my letter of the 29th, was intended as information why copies of them, and of the documents which accompanied them, were not furnished. Since the receipt of your letter, another search has been made, but with no better success.	I have the honor to be, &c.	J. C. CALHOUN. Hon. J. FORSYTH, Chairman, fyc. fyc. SIR;'	‘	HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, April 13, 1824. I have just received your answer to my letter. The object of the arrangement proposed through Colonel McMinn was understood. The committee desire to know what were the measures proposed to effect that object. If yoor recollection permits, I shall be obliged if you will satisfy the committee on that point. I am, sir, with great respect, your most obedient servant, JOHN FORSYTH, Chairman of the Select Committee, fyc. The Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, April 14, 1S24. I have received your letter of yesterday, and, in answer to the inquiry—What were the measures proposed to effect the object of the arrangement proposed to the Cherokee nation, through Governor McMinn, in 1818? I have to state, that it is impossible, at this distance of time, to give from recollection a more accurate view of the measures proposed to effect the object of that arrangement than may be inferred from the correspondence between Governor McMinn and the Department, and Governor McMinn and the Cherokee council. I have written to Governor McMinn for a copy of the arrangement, and of his letters of the 4th and 7th of July, 1818, which have been mislaid; and it is hoped they may be received in time to furnish copies for the information of the committee. I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, J. C. CALHOUN. Hon. JOHN FORSYTH, Chairman, fyc. TREASURY DEPARTMENT, AUDITOR’S OFFICE, January 13, 1818. I have examined and adjusted an account between the United States and the State of Georgia, in relation to the Mississippi lands, and find that the said State is entitled to credit on said account: By amount payable as a consideration for lands south of Tennessee, ceded by said State to the United States, agreeably to “ articles of agreement and cession between the United States and the State of Georgia,” bearing date the 24th of April, 1802,	-	-	-	-	- $1,250,000 00 Deduct this sum, being the balance of the money deposited in the treasury of the State, on account of purchases previously made of said State by individuals, and which is set over in part payment, pursuant to a report made by the commissioners appointed under the act entitled “ An act supplementary to the act providingjfor the indemnification of certain claimants of public lands in the Mississippi Territory," and approved by the President on the 15th of March, 1817, as per copy herewith, ------	184,515 94 $1,065,484 06 I also find that the said State is chargeable on said account:— To treasury warrants, for amount of the following, viz: No. 6,821, dated 12ih January, 1814, -	-	-	-	$80,696 02 7,160, dated 13th April, 1814,	-	-	-	-	-	15,526 92 9,253, dated 30th September, 1815,	_	.	-	.	170,885 69 301, dated 27th February, 1817, -	-	-	-	-	375,000 00 To State of Georgia, in relation to arms sold for amount of that account transferred to this, being the value of 4,000 muskets, with bayonets, &c. delivered by the superintendent of military stores at Philadelphia to their agent, William Robertson, on the 3d March, 1808, per report No. 23,609, -------	46,332 70 Leaving a balance of three hundred and seventy-seven thousand and forty-two dollars and seventy- three cents due from the United States unto the said State of Georgia, -	-	377,042 73 $1,065,484 06 As appears from the statement and vouchers herewith transmitted for the decision of the Comptroller of the Treasury thereon. R. HARRISON, Auditor. J. ANDERSON, Esq. Comptroller. TREASURY DEPARTMENT, COMPTROLLER’S OFFICE. Admitted and certified this 14th day of January, 1818. JOSEPH ANDERSON. TREASURY DEPARTMENT, REGISTER’S OFFICE, April 17, 1824. Pursuant to “ An act to provide more effectually for the settlement of accounts between the United States and receivers of public money,” I, Joseph Nourse, Register of the Treasury of the United States, do hereby certify that the foregoing account is a true copy of the original on file in this office. JOSEPH NOURSE, Register of the Treasury. 18th CONGRESS.]	
