
No. 139. [3d Session. THE CREEKS, VVY AN DOTS, AND OTHERS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, NOVEMBER 18, 1814. I v To the Senate of the United States: I lay before the Senate, for their consideration whether they will advise and consent to the ratification thereof, a treaty concluded on the twenty-second day of July last, with the tribes of Indians called the Wyandots, Delawares, Shawanese, Senecas, and Miamies. I lay before the Senate, also, for the like purpose, an instrument, entitled articles of agreement and capitulation, made and concluded on the ninth day of August last, between Major General Jackson and the chiefs, deputies, and warriors, of the Creek nation of Indians. These communications are accompanied by documents having relation to them. JAMES MADISON. November 18 th, 1814. A Treaty ofpeace andfriendship between the United States of America and the tribes of Indians called the JVyandots, Delawares, Shawanese, Senecas, and Miamies. The said United States of America, by William Henry Harrison, late a Major General in the army of the United States, and Lewis Cass, Governor of the Michigan territory, duly authorized and appointed commissioners for the purpose, and the said tribes, by their.head-men, chiefs, and warriors, assembled at Greenville, in the State of Ohio, have agreed to the following articles; which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, shall be binding upon them and the said tribes: Article 1. The United States and the Wyandots, Delawares, Shawanese, and Senecas, give peace to the Miami nation of Indians, formerly designated as the Miami, Eel river, and Wea tribes; they extend this indulgence, also, to the bands of the Pattawatamies, which adhere to the grand sachem Tobinipee, and to the chief Onoxa; to the Ottawas, of Blanchard’s creek, who have attached themselves to the Shawanese tribe, and to such of the said tribe as adhere to the chief called the Wing, in the neighborhood of Detroit, and to the Kickapoos under the direction of the chiefs who sign this treaty. Article 2. The tribes and bands abovementioned, engage to give their aid to the United States, in prosecuting the war against Great Britain, and such of the Indian tribes as still continue hostile, and to make no peace with either, without the consent of the United States. The assistance herein stipulated for, is to consist of such a number of their warriors, from each tribe, as the President of the United States, or any officer having his authority therefor, may require. Article 3. The Wyandot tribe, and the Senecas of Sandusky and Stony creek, the Delaware and Shawanese tribes, who have preserved their fidelity to the United States, throughout the war, again acknowledge theinseves under the protection of the said States, and of no other Power whatever, and agree to aid the United States in the manner stipulated for in the former article, and to make no peace but with the consent of the said States. Article 4. In the event of a faithful performance of the conditions of this treaty, the United States will confirm and establish all the boundaries between their lands, and those of the Wyandots, Delawares, Shawanese, and Miamies, as they existed previously to the commencement of the war. In testimony whereof, the said commissioners, and the said head-men, chiefs, and warriors, of the before-mentioned tribes of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, and affixed their seals. Done at Greenville, in the State of Ohio, this twenty-second day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fourteen, and of the independence of the United States the thirty-ninth. WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON, LEWIS CASS. [Signed, also, by a number of chiefs and warriors of the tribes enumerated in the title.] Articles of agreement and capitulation, made and concluded this ninth day of August, one thousand^ eight hundred and fourteen, between Major General Andrew Jackson, on behalf of the President of the United States of America, and the chiefs, deputies, and warriors, of the Creek nation. Whereas an unprovoked, inhuman, and sanguiuary war, waged by the hostile Creeks against the United States, hath been repelled, prosecuted, and determined, successfully on the part of the said States, in conformity with principles of national justice and honorable warfare: And whereas consideration is due to the rectitude of proceeding, dictated by instructions relating to the re-establishment of peace: Be it remembered, that, prior to the conquest of that part of the Creek nation, hostile to the United States, numberless agressions baa been committed against the peace, the property, and the lives, of citizens of the United States, and those of the Creek nation in amity with her, at the mouth of Duck river, lbrt Minims, and elsewhere, contrary to the national faith, and the regard due to an article of the treaty concluded at New York, in the year 1790, between the two nations; that the United States, previous to the perpetration of such outrages, did, in order to ensure future amity and concord between the Creek nation and the said States, in conformity with the stipulations of former treaties, fulfil, with punctuality and good faith, her engagements to the said nation; that more than-two thirds of the whole number of chiefs and warriors of the Creek nation, disregarding the genuine spirit of existing treaties, suffered themselves to be instigated to violations of their national honor, and the respect clue to a part of their own nation, faithful to the United States and the principles of humanity, by impostors denominating themselves prophets, and by the duplicity and misrepresentation of foreign emissaries, whose governments are at war, open or understood, with the United States: _ ' .   . Wherefore, 1st. The United States demand an equivalent for all expenses incurred in prosecuting the war to its termination, by a cession of all the territory belonging to the Creek nation, within the territories of the United States, lying west, south, and southeastwardly, of a line to be run and described by persons duly authorized and appointed by the President of the United States: Beginning at a point on the eastern bank of the Coosa river, where the south boundary line of the Cherokee nation crosses the same; running from thence, down the said Coosa river, with its eastern bank, according to its various meanders, to a point one mile above the mouth of Cedar creek, at fort Williams; thence, east two miles, thence south two miles, thence west to the eastern bank of the said Coosa river; thence, down the eastern bank thereof, according to its various meanders, to a point opposite the upper end of the great falls, (called by the natives Woetumka;) thence, east from a true meridian line, to a point clue north of the Oakfuskee; thence, south by a like meridian line, to the mouth ofOakfuskee, on the south side of the Tallapoosa river; thence, up the same, according to its various meanders, to a point where a direct course will cross the same, at the distance of ten miles from the mouth thereof; thence, a direct line to the mouth of Summochico creek, which empties into the Chatahoochee river, on the east side thereof, below the Eufaulau town; thence, east from a true meridian line, to a point which shall intersect the line now dividing the lands claimed by the said Creek nation from those claimed and owned by the State of Georgia: Provided, nevertheless, That, w'here any possession of any chief or warrior of the Creek nation, who shall have been friendly to the United States during the war, and taken an active part therein, shall be within the territory ceded by these articles to the United States, every such person shall be entitled to a reservation of land within the said territory, of one utile square, to include his improvements, as near the centre thereof as may be, which shall inure to the said chief, or warrior, and his decendants, so long as he, or they, shall continue to occupy the same; who shall be protected by, and subject to, the laws of the United States; but, upon the voluntary abandonment thereof, by such possessor or his descendants, the right of occupancy, or possession of said lands, shall devolve to the United States, and be identified with the right of property ceded hereby. Art. 2. The United States will guaranty to the Creek nation, the integrity of all their territory, eastwardly and northwardly of the said line, to be run and described as mentioned in the first article. . Art. 3. The United States demand that the Creek nation abandon all communication, and cease to hold any intercourse, with any British or Spanish post, garrison, or town; and that they shall not admit among them any agent, or trader, who shall not derive authority to hold commercial or other intercourse with them, by licence from the President, or authorized agent of the United States. Art. 4. The United States^ demand an acknowledgment of the right to establish military posts and trading houses, and to open roads within the territory, guarantied to the Creek nation by the second article, and a right to the free navigation of all its waters. Art. 5. The United States demand that a surrender be immediately made, of all the persons and property taken from the citizens of the United States, the friendly part of the Creek nation, the Cherokee, Chickasaw, and Choctaw nations, to the respective owners; and the United States will cause to be immediately restored to the formerly hostile Creeks, all the property taken from them since their submission, either by the United States, or by any Indian nation in amity with the United States, together with all the prisoners taken from them during the war. Art. 6. The United States demand the caption and surrender of all the prophets and instigators of the war, whether foreigners or natives, who have not submitted to the arms of the United States, and become parties to these articles of capitulation, if ever they shall be found within the territory guarantied to the Creek nation by the second article. Art. 7. The Creek nation being reduced to extreme want, and not at present having the means of subsistence, the United States, from motives of humanity, will continue to furnish, gratuitously, the necessaries of life, until the crops of corn can be considered competent to yield the nation a supply, and will establish trading houses in the nation, at the discretion of the President of the United States, and at such places as he shall direct, to enable the nation, by industry and economy, to procure clothing. Art. 8. A permanent peace shall ensue from the date of these presents, forever, between the Creek nation and the United States, and between the Creek nation and the Cherokee, Chickasaw, and Choctaw nations. Art. 9. If, in running east from the mouth of Suimnochico creek, it shall so happen, that the settlement of the Kinnards falls within the lines of the territory hereby ceded, then, and in that case, the line shall be run east, in a true meridian, to Kitchofoonee creek, thence, down the middle of said creek, to its junction with Flint river, immediately below the Oakmulgee town; thence, up the middle of Flint river, to a point due east of that at which the above line struck the Kitchofoonee creek; thence, east to the old line, hereinbefore mentioned: to wit, the line dividing the lands claimed by the Creek nation from those claimed and owned by the State of Georgia. The parties to these presents, after due consideration, for themselves and their constituents, agree to ratify and confirm the preceding articles, and constitute them the basis of a permanent peace between the two nations; and they do hereby solemnly bind themselves, and all the parties concerned and interested, to a faithful performance of every stipulation contained therein. In testimony whereof, they have hereunto, interchangeably, set their hands and affixed their seals, the day and date above written. ANDREW JACKSON, Major General Commanding Ike 7th Military District. [Signed, also, by a number of Creek chiefs, deputies, and warriors.] Copy of Instructions to treat with the Indians at Greenville, Ohio, in 1814. War Department, June 11, 1814. Sir: The President of the United States has been pleased to appoint you commissioner to confer with the Indian nations of the west and north, and to conclude w ith them a treaty of peace and alliance. The treaty will be held at Greenville, in the State of Ohio, and at such time as may have been fixed in the invitation given to the Indians by General Harrison. The objects to be attained will be indicated under the following heads, viz: 1st. A peace, sincere and lasting, between the contracting parties. 2d. An alliance between the said parties, in prosecuting the present war against Great Britain; and, 3d. An arrangement for the extinction of the Indian title to the tract of land lying between the Michigan territory, on the north, the w estern limits of the State of Ohio on the west, the Indian boundary line, as settled by Gen. Wayne, on the south, and the line by the treaty of the 4th July, 1805, on the east. In the 1st of these objects, the parties have a common and obvious interest. To engage the Indians in the second, their warriors w ill be taken into the service of the United States, and will receive the monthly pay and subsistence of soldiers of our army. Such as bring good and sufficient arms will be. entitled to a reasonable compensation for their use. Such as have not arms of this description to bring, will be supplied with muskets. To those serving faithfully, certain articles of clothing will be furnished, viz: Blankets, and cloth for leggins and breech-clouts. They will be specially commanded by their own chiefs, (who will be subject to the orders of the general officer, and officers of the United States’ army, assigned to the command of the division or brigade with which they may act, &c.) who will be commissioned by medals, presented to them by order of the President. The arrangement with regard to the exchange of lands is deemed important by some of the inhabitants of the State of Ohio. I! the suggestion can be made, and the arrangement effected, without exciting in the Indians any disagreeable sensations, this object may be prosecuted, otherwise, it is not to be touched. The land proposed to be given in exchange is a tract of equal dimensions, lying between lake Michigan and the Mississippi. I have die honor to be, &c. &c. JOHN ARMSTRONG. P. S. On more mature deliberation, two alterations in these instructions have been adopted, viz: 1st. That, instead of an article stipulating alliance and subsidy by pay, &c. one shall be substituted, simply obligatory on the Indians to assist in prosecuting the war against Great Britain, if so required to do by the United States; and, 2d. That nothing be said or stipulated with regard to exchange of lands or opening roads. Under these modifications, the treaty, if concluded, will consist of two articles: one, stipulating peace and friendship; the other, military aid to the United States, on the part of the Indians, if required. JOHN ARMSTRONG. To His Exc’y Isaac Sherry, Commissioner, <$r. A similar letter to General Harrison and Governor L. Cass, Brothers of the TFyandots, Shawanese, <mcZ Delaware tribes: Brothers: Your Father, the President, has heard of the courage and fidelity with which you haveadhered to the United States during the present war. He instructs me to make known to you his approbation of your past, and confidence in your future conduct. You will go forth with your white brothers to battle, and share with them in the glory of conquering your common enemy. [l. s. ] Given under my hand, and the seal of the War Department, this 15th June, 1814. JOHN ARMSTRONG, Sec'y of War. Journal of the proceedings of the commissioners plenipotentiary, appointed on behalf of the United States of America, to treat with the Northwestern tribes of Indians. Friday, July 1st, 1814. Major General William Henry Harrison, having been appointed by the President of the United States, jointly and severally with Governor Shelby, of Kentucky, and Governor Cass, of the Michigan territory, as commissioners plenipotentiary to negotiate a treaty with the Northwestern tribes of Indians, left Cincinnati about one o’clock on Friday, the 1st day of July, 1814, (accompanied by James Dill, as secretary to the said commissioners) for Greenville, wliere it had previously been appointed to hold the said treaty; at which place he arrived on Sunday, the 3d of July, about four o’clock, P. M. and found about 3,000 Indians had already collected, and that the chiefs of the Wyandot, Seneca, Delaware, Miami, Eel river, and Wea tribes of Indians were assembled in council: upon which the General informed them, by their interpreters, that he would (after taking some refreshment) meet them in council. Accordingly. about five o’clock, the General repaired to the council house, where, after the mutual congratulations had passed, (which appeared to have been delivered by many of the chiefs with great cordiality and friendship) he addressed them as follows: Friends and Brothers: I have been informed by Mr. Stickney, that it had been agreed upon between Mr. Johnston and himself, on the recommendation of the Wyandot and Delaware chiefs, to send off runners, again to invite the attendance of the tribes west of the Wabash. I am not much pleased with this plan: those tribes have already had sufficient notice of the council, and have been invited to attend it; we will not again ask them to come; they must take the consequences of their neglect or refusal of the terms offered to them by the Seventeen Fires. The principal of the Wyandots and Delaware tribes, Crane and Anderson, then replied to the General: That they had been informed a number of the Pattawatamies and Kickapoos were afraid to come in, as it had been impressed upon their minds, by the British and their agents, that this council was only intended as a snare, to entice them into our country, for the purpose of destroying them: but that, were they to receive a message from the chiefs now assembled here, that they nad been received with cordiality and friendship by their fathers, the Seventeen Fires, and that there was no danger in coming here, they would certainly attend. Upon which tne General agreed that runners should be despatched to those tribes who had failed to attend, with a message to the foregoing effect; and also to inform them, if they came in at any time before the council broke up, they would be received and treated as friends. And the council then adjourned until Monday. Monday, July 4, 1814. It commenced raining about 8 o’clock in the morning, and rained incessantly until about 4 o’clock in the afternoon. No business was, therefore, attempted. Tuesday, July 5, 1814. The council house, or rather the bowery erected for that purpose, having been placed about thirty rods southwest of where the council house formerly stood, in which the justly celebrated treaty of Greenville was made and signed by General Wayne, on behalf of the United States, with the Northwestern tribes of Indians, in 1795, General Harrison gave instructions for its removal to the same spot where General Wayne’s council house formerly stood; and the work commenced this morning, accordingly. Wednesday, July G, 1814. The council house being unfinished, and several of the Indians not having yet arrived, no business was attempted. Governor Lewis Cass, one of the commissioners plenipotentiary, arrived this day, about 5 o’clock in the afternoon. Thursday, 7th July, 1814. The council house being nearly complete, the commissioners notified the chiefs of the different tribes present that they would meet them in council to-morrow, at 10 o’clock. The Shawanee tribe of Indians arrived this day, about 12 o’clock, and saluted the commissioners and troops as they passed, which salute was returned by some of the troops in camp. Friday, 8th July, 1814. This day the commissioners, to wit: General Harrison and Governor Cass, proceeded to the council house, where were assembled the chiefs of the Wyandot, Seneca, Delaware, Shawanee, Miami, Eel River, Wea, Patta-watainy, Ottawa, and a few of the Kickapoo, tribes of Indians, together with a number of their young men and warriors. The council commenced by the commissioners smoking, and presenting, to the different chiefs, the pipe of peace; after which, the commission, appointing General William Henry Harrison, Governor Isaac Shelby, and Governor Lewis Cass, jointly and severally, commissioners plenipotentiary to negotiate a treaty with the Northwestern tribes of Indians, was produced, read, and explained to them, when General Harrison addressed them as follows: My Brothers: Before we proceed to the business for which we have nowr assembled, I will communicate to you a message from our Great Father, the President of the United States, directed specially to those of our red brethren who have faithfully and honestly supported the interests of the United States during the present war. [He then read and explained to them, a message from the President ot the united States, directed to the Wyandot, Seneca, Delaware, and Shawanee tribes of Indians, acknowledging their faithful services, and assuring them of the high estimation in which those services were held by their Father, the President of the United States; after which, he presented to the Wyandot, Delaware, and Shawanee tribes, each, a large silver pipe, elegantly ornamented, and engraved with devices emblematic of the protection and friendship of the United States; and, after explaining to them the meaning of those devices, and tne reasons why the United States had conferred on those tribes so distinguished a mark of favor, he addressed them as follows: Brothers of the Wyandot, Seneca, Delaware, Shawanee, Miami, Eel Jtiver, Wea, Pattaicatamy, Ottoioa, and Kickapoos: The performance of the act of justice which I have just now finished, is not the sole cause which induced us to kindle the council fire on this spot. This place has long been looked on with veneration, not only by our red brethren, but by the whites, also, because this is the very spot where that great chain was first formed which has so long been the bond of union between you and the Seventeen Fires. It is said, my children, that there are, in the other world, evil spirits, who are ever employed in endeavoring to counteract the mercies and beneficent intentions of the Great and Good Spirit towards his creatures here below; so, on this earth, there is a nation, in sowing dissensions, and kindling wars and discord amongst their neighbors? their etlbrts have been but too successful in breaking thfr chain which had hitherto bound in friendship the Seventeen Fires with their red brethren; but we are now met to connect those broken links, once more, and, we may hope, with the assistance of the Good Spirit, we shall be able to cement them so strong, that neither the devil, nor his friends, the British, will again be able, to interrupt that harmony and friendship which ought to subsist between the United States and their brethren of the forest. It is well known, that the first manifestation of dissatisfaction from the red brethren towards the citizens of the United States, originated at this place; it was here that the combination against the Seventeen Fires was first formed, which was afterwards brought to maturity at Tippecanoe. So just and generous, how ever, had been tne conduct of the Seventeen Ffires towards their red brethren and children, that much time was required to create bad impressions against them, and to obliterate the direful effects of British perfidy, which they had experienced in the war that was terminated by General Wayne’s treaty. The treaty made at fort Wayne, in the year 1809, furnished, at length, a subject for the Prophet, and other British emissaries, upon w hich to impeach the good intentions of the United States towards the Indians. It was alleged, that the tribes who were parties to that treaty, had been defrauded. The two tribes who were most interested, and who were the proprietors of'the lands then sold, are now present, and, is there one of them, Delaware or Miami, who will not bear witness to the falsehood of these assertions? After the treaty was made, the Prophet, and his brother, who had no right to participate in it, began to propagate the principle, that the whole of the lands on this continent were the common property of all the tribes, and that no sale could take place, or would be valid, unless all the tribes were parties to it. This idea is so absurd, and so new', too, that it could never be admitted by the Seventeen Fires, either on their own account, or on that of the tribes w ho live near to them, and whose rights they have guarantied; and you all know, for you were present at the discussion between Tecumseh and myself, on the subject of those lands, that this was the only claim he was able, or ever attempted to set up. The Delawares and Miamics, who are now here present, can not only testify to the fairness with which the treaty of fort Wayne was conducted, but, they they can also witness the pains w hich were taken by me, to prevent a recurrence to arms, even after the perpetration of innumerable murders and aggressions, by the Prophetand his party. .It was not until every hope of obtaining the delivery of the murderers was extinguished, and after tiie Miamies, who were the proprietors of the lands on the Wabash, and who were bound, by the treaty of Greenville, to deliver up those murderers, had declared their inability to do so, that the army under my command, commenced its march up the Wabash. Pacific overtures were not. even then, suspended; the army halted within our own boundary* and I permitted the Delawares and Miamies once more to go on a mission of peace; some of your wisest and best men were selected to carry the terms? these were so reasonable that they met the entire approbation of those, who carried them. They were instructed to say, that, upon the delivery of the murderers, and an arrangement being entered into to send off the Winnebagoes. and other savages from the lakes, whose presence upon the Wabash had alarmed the Miamies, as well as the white people, the army would immediately return. Upon the return of those chiefs, several of whom are now present, I was informed there was no hope of eltect-ingthe desired arrangement; that they had been received and treated with insult and scorn, and that, in order to put an end to the negotiation, the Prophet had despatched a war party to take scalps. This party was met by the Delaware chiefs, to whom they boasted that they had efleeted their great object, bv firing at and wounding one of our sentinels, although they had not been able to scalp him. Thus was the first blood drawn, not by us, who had every provocation to commence hostilities, but by those, of whom we were asking redress for the innumerable injuries they had already heaped upon us, and which redress they had bound themselves, by the treaty of Greenville, to give. I should have been unworthy the command of an army, if, after this outrage, I had longer hesitated. I ordered it to march: but. even then, 1 permitted the whole body of the Miami chiefs to go ahead of me, and make one more effort to bring the deluded followers of the Prophet to listen to reason. It was not, however, until my arrival with the aniiy, in front of their village, that they manifested the least disposition to do so. Some chiefs were then sent out to me with peaceable professions in their months, but villany and treachery iu their hearts. You all know' the result. The Great Spirit, who always punishes perfidy, specially interposed in our favor; a bloody battle was terminated by the loss of their best warriors, and the destruction of their whole establishment. You, my children, are equally well acquainted with the events which followed the battle of Tippecanoe. You know that the impostor and his followers pretended to have repented of their conduct towards the Seventeen Fires; that they sent to me and sued for peace; that peace was granted to them, and the tomahawk solemnly buried at Vincennes. about five months alter the battle. You know, also, that these faithless and perfidious men again took up the tomahawk in the succeeding summer, upon the first invitation from the British. I must now, my children, say something on the subject of our war with the British nation. Y ou have been told, that the Seventeen Fires declared war against the British. Such is the fact; but, it was done inconsequence of a long succession of injuries, which were no longer to be borne. My children, the Seventeen Fires love peace; but they are not afraid of war. Look at the bird which they have, chosen as their emblem; he holds in his right talon the olive branch, the emblem of peace, which he presents first, to all; but, in his left talon, he. grasps the bunch of arrows, to shew, that (although he wishes peace) he is able and willing to fight, when his pacific overtures are rejected. YYith the quarrel between the Seventeen Fires and the British, the red people had nothing to do, and it was the wish of the President, your Great Father, that they would take no part in it. Ibis sentiment of his was communicated to every tribe; unfortunately, however, our enemies pursued a different course, and many of the tribes who had been cherished by the United States, as their children, took up the tomahawk against them. It was not till some time after your Father, the President, discovered that your young men were determined to take one side or the other, in the war, that he permitted any of the red warriors to join our army : and not even then, until he had received from the YYyandots, Senecas, Delawares, and Shawanese, repeated solicitations to that effect. I have thus given you a true history of the commencement of the war. If untrue, there are hundreds of you here present, who call detect its falsity. There are many of you present, my children, who recollect me since I was a boy, sitting on this spot, alongside of General Wayne; most of you know me, however, only as Governor of the Indiana territory; and if, in all my transactions with you, or any of you, you can say I have ever deceived you, or told you a falsehood, come now forward and boldly declare it; it shall be put on this paper, and faithfully transmitted to our Great Father, the President of the United States. No, my children, I have never deceived you, and I now tell you that Great Britain never can conquer the Seventeen Fires. I will not say the Seventeen Fires can conquer Great Britain, but, I do say, we can and will, at least, take airUpper Canada, and the country occupied by the tribes of Indians who now adhere to the British. Some disaster may, however, again, as heretofore, happen to our armies; we may lose a battle, or an important post may be given up, as Hull gave up Detroit; but. it is not more certain that the sun,_ which is now enveloped in clouds, will again recover its splendor, than that the arms of the United States will, in this Western country, ultimately prevail. My children, the object of this council is to bury the hatchet with such of the tribes as have lately borne arms against us, and who have accepted the invitation to come here, upon condition of receiving that which we shal l offer them, to make war upon the British. Those who accept this proposition will be cherished by their Father, the President of the United States, as they were before the war. And the council then adjourned, to meet to-morrow morning, 10 o'clock. Saturday, 0th July, 1814. The commissioners again met the Indians in council, and notified all the tribes present, that they could now speak, if they thought proper. After some time had elapsed, and none of the Indians appearing inclined to speak, 105 * the Miamies, Pattawatamies, and Kickapoos, present, were particularly notified, that, if they had an inclination to speak, they would now be heard in their justification. After some consultation together, Charley, a principal war chief amongst the Miamies, got up and observed to the commissioners, that they were rather taken at a non plus; they were not yet prepared, as they had not yet consulted together, what answer to make, owing to one of their principal chiefs being fame, and unable to attend; but they would hold a consultation, and return an answer to-morrow. Sunday, 10//t July, 1814. The council was opened by Genera! Harrison addressing the various tribes present, and observing to them, that the Miamies, Pattawatamies, and Kickapoos, had expressed a desire to bury the hatchet, and again embrace the friendship of the United States, and they had now met to listen to what these nations had to say; and that, if they had a sincere wish!to bury the hatchet, it could now be done. Captain Charley, an Eel River Miami chief, then spake as follows, to wit: Listen Iiig Knife, my Father: You have requested to hear us, and you shall now hear. Listen, Father: I want you to listen attentively, and let none go away till you hear all I have to say. Big Knii e Father: You have told the truth in all you have said; when I heard you at fort Wayne, you then said a great deal which was for the benefit of the Indians; again, father, when you were going on to Tippecanoe, for fear any interruptions should take place, I thought I would go and meet you there, in order to prevent any .quarrel or misunderstanding. You then sent us on ahead of the army, to the red brethren at Tippecanoe,and told us to return with an answer. I went to Tippecanoe as you directed, and left that place to return yon their answer, accompanied by two Pattawatamies, one Miami, and one Delaware chief; I did not see you, because you had crossed the Wabash, and taken another road from that I expected, and we did not overtake you, until the night of the battle of Tippecanoe; we got near you. before the battle began, but finding the battle had begun, we scattered. The not meeting you before that battle, father, was the cause of the confusion which followed; we then concluded the Great Spirit had given us up, and we all scattered. As you mentioned these things, I thought it best to mention them too, atid to recapitulate the circumstances which happened, but we will now talk of other matters.. Father: At fort Wayne, when I again heard you speak, when our grandfather, the Delawares, were there, our brothers, the Shawanese and Pattawatamies, together with the Miamies, were invited to take a.seat with you. It was at fort Wayne, when I heard you point out the lands where pur younger brothers, the Weas, were settled, saying you wished to purchase those lands, I again consulted my grandfather, the. Delawares, who answered, that whatever their grandchildren, the Pattawatamies, agreed to, they would acquiesce in. When you spoke at'that treaty, of the lands you wanted, we told you those lands belonged to our younger brother, the Weas, and to consult them, for the lands you wanted belonged to them, and if they were willing to sell it, we would agree to the sale. After the treaty, they pointed out to you the way home, through those lands. When the treaty commenced, you and us consulted the Weas, for, had they disagreed to it, it was to be no treaty! As you recapitulated wKat had passed, and stated facts, we thought it right to do so too. After our council chiefs and war chiefs had consulted on these things, we held a council with Mr. Stickney, at fort Wayne. We there mentioned to him, that our elder brother, the Wyandots, had recommended it to the whole of us eleven tribes, that it was best to be quiet and remain peaceable, and not to go to war by any means. After we had heard our elder brother, the Wyandots, we told them they gave good advice, and we would follow it; that we agreed to all they had said, for they had said the things that were good, about our women and children, and as to those who thought proper not to listen to this good advice, they' might act for themselves, but we would adhere to it. We, the Miamies, are determined to fulfil all our engagements with you and the Pattawatamies. After we had concluded on this, we looked aside and saw the tomahawk a-wavingin the air; we looked around for the cause, but could see none. After these things, we settled our chiefs and tied them fast together at Massasinaway. Again, after we had collected our families, our women and children, together at the Little Turtle’s town, we found our property destroyed, and our young men and warriors wounded, but could not tell who done those things. After all this, we even then concluded we would bear our loss, and put up with what had happened. After that, when we were all together, you endeavored to pull us one way, and the others endeavored to pull us another way. After we had heard the voice of our red brethren, who endeavored to"draw us into the war, we abandoned them, and determined we would not be drawn in by them. After those red people had sent us their speeches, anil found we did not attend to them, they murdered some of our young men, and even killed some of our grandfathers, the Delawares, before our eyes. Again. Father: I was at a loss to know which way to move, after these depredations. 1 thought, if our red brethren acted in this way, while we were away ir.om them, it would be worse for us, if we went amongst them. We have, therefore, concluded it best, to stay' where we were. One morning, when we looked up where the Munsees lived, we saw our grandfathers, the Delawares, packing up their property, as if they intended to run away. It was when our grandfathers, the Munsees, told us they had unloosed their warriors to hunt; we then heard the firing of a gun, and found war had already begun; we tried, but could no longer restrain our young men from joining in the fight. Then, Big Knife, I thought you were wrong; I still heard you speak of peace, and finding you acted in this way, I thought you acted wrong: for these reasons, I concluded we were in a precarious situation; it resembled a wild horse, surrounded on every side by people, endeavoring to catch him, and at last, all fall on him and kill him. When we saw you coming, and found you made the stroke on us, we concluded we were no longer at liberty to choose. After mature deliberation on these things, we could find no other cause for your conduct, but, that we had not come to you, when you asked us. You had told us to remain at home, and we had done so. After that, we took into consideration our women and children; we looked with compassion on them, and concluded we were no longer at liberty to choose; we were no longer our own men; that the Great Author of nature had placed us in this situation, and not we ourselves. After viewing our young men, women, and children, and perceiving all our red brethren Hocking towards the British, we looked around also, and concluded we were unable to stand against you, and, therefore, we determined to follow those others of our red brethren who took their course towards the British. N. B. As it must appear, that there are a great many contradictions and repetitions in the foregoing speech, it may be proper to observe, that it was substantially taken down as delivered or rendered by the interpreters, and, indeed, almost word for word. ■ After Charley had concluded his speech, General Harrison addressed the Indians, in substance, as follows, viz: That, in his speech to them, he had purposely avoided saying any thing which might wound the feelings of his children, the Miamies, Pattawatamies, and Kickapoos; that he was sorry to find they had pursued a different course; that they well knew, while he was Governor of the Indiana territory, he had treated them with every mark of friendship and attachment; that he treated them as if they were his own children; and, such was their intimacy with them, that he could call every man, woman,and child, in the nation, almost,by name; that, even after they had discovered symptoms of disaffection towards the United States, he had invited them to the council at Piqua, and informed them, if they attended that council, and listened to the voice of the Seventeen Fires, it would be considered as an evidence of their friendship, and their having a wish to take shelter under the protection of the United States; but even this they refused; that when the voice of his country and Government hail called him to the command of the'Northwestern army, and he marched to the relief of fort Wayne, which was besieged, he was at a loss for words to express his astonishment, at finding his own children, the Miamies, amongst the besiegers of the place; from whence they had, for many years, drawn all their supplies, nourishment, and clothing; that the destruction of their town, which followed the siege of fort Wayne, was the necessary consequence of that event; and that, had the Miamies even been friendly disposed towards the United States; had they been whites, and in the strictest alliance with the United States, good policy required that their corn should be destroyed, to prevent its supplying the hostile tribes with food; that, after all these things had taken place, and when they sent in their princpal chiefs to him, he informed them the door of reconciliation was still open to them, and that peace would still be granted them, whenever they shewed, by their conduct, a sincere desire for that event; that their brothers, (he Wyandots, Senecas. Delawares, and Shawanese. could inform them. that, by listening to his voice and following his council, they had received and secured to themselves, the protection and friendship of the United States, and were now in a prosperous and flourishing condition: that, even after the United States had. with the assistance of their red brethren, thrown their enemies, the British, on their backs, and had put down that notorious impostor, the Prophet and his party, he still held out to his red children the hand of friendship, which' ought, certainly, to be conclusive evidence to them, of the regard which the United States had for their red children. That, as it regarded the treaty of fort Wayne, there were hundreds of the Indians, now present, who could testify to the fairness with which it was conducted, and how cheerfully the Miamies had. entered into that treaty. That it was painful for him to mention these circumstances, but justice required it of him. more especially, a? the Miamies and Pattawatamies appeared to have forgotten who they were addressing: that they appeared to have dreamt themselves into a belief, they were speaking to a British commander, instead of the representatives of the American nation; that duty, not inclination, compelled hint to remind them of all these things, but he would now drop the subject: that, as they had now come forward on an invitation to make peace, the Seventeen Fires, generous as they were just, were still willing to bury the pjst in oblivion, and extend their friendship and protection to their women and children, provided they become convinced of the sincerity of the red people. And the council then adjourned till to-morrow morning. Moxdav, 1 Uh July, 1*1 i. The council again convened, when Picon, the principal chief of the Miami tribe, addressed the commissioners as follows, to wit: Father: You who are now seated before me. listen; I am glad and happy that you have invited us, the Miamies, to meet you here: I expect it is the same with you. father, and that, as you have invited us, our women, and children, to meet you here, you are equally glad to see us._ Father: I rejoice to see you here; I expect it is the voice of our Great Father, the President of the Seventeen Fires, we shall hear, and we reciprocate or acquiesce with him in his sentiments and views. Listen-, Father: We are glad to hear your voice; we are glad to hear the voice of our Father, the President; we expect you want to hear what your red children has to say. and. for this reason, have we come here. Listen. Father: When we came here, we expected to hear something good from our Father at this time, and to join with him in w hatever be may say or do. After a considerable time bad elapsed, and no other Indian showing any disposition to speak. Governor Cass addressed the Miamies, Pattawatamies, and Kiekapoos. as follows, to-wit: Friends and Brothers of the Miamies, Pattawatamies, and Kiekapoos: At the commencemt of the present war between the United States and Great Britain, it was the w ish of your Father, the President of the Seventeen Fires, that you should remain neutral; the war did not concern you, it concerned us alone; messages were, therefore, sent to the different tribes, as yon all know, requesting them to remain quiet at home, and take no part in the war; instead of listening to us. however, your ears were open to the lies of the British, and you took up the tomahawk in their behalf, and you fought on their side until we had thrown them on their backs. Your Great Father, the President of the United States, has found that you cannot remain neutral; that you cannot or will not, remain at peace, but must fight on one side or the other; and that, if you were not for us. you would be against us. ' . Your Father, the President, is anxious for your happiness and prosperity; and if the British had been equally so. and equally friendly disposed towards you, there would have been no necessity for calling on you at this time, to take up the tomahawk. The Americans are strong enough to fight their own battles: but the British, knowing their weakness, were compelled to call on you for assistance. Y ou have now come forward to take us by the hand; we are equally anxious and willing to take you by the hand, butyou must take up the tomahawk, and with us, strike our enemies; then your Great Father, the President, will forgive the past. By this means, the blood which has been spilt between us will be covered, and you will have an opportunity of revenging yourselves on your enemies and ours. AYe shall expect your answer to-morrow, and from that answer we shall know what is hereafter to take place between us. The Miamies. Pattawatamies. and Kiekapoos, were then informed, that the foregoing were not only the sentiments of the Seventeen Fires, but that they were also the sentiments and w ishes of the AYyandots, Senecas, Delawares, and Shawanese. And the council then adjourned to meet to-morrow. Tuesday, July 12th, 1814. The council convened, and. after sitting a considerable time, and none of the Pattawatamies, Miamies, or Kickapoos, evincing a disposition to speak or reply to the speech of yesterday, Crane, the head chief of the "Wyandot tribe, came forward, and commenced as follows: My Fiuends and Brothers of the Shawanese, Pattawatamies, Delawares. Senecas, Ottawa?, and Kiekapoos: I return thanks to you all; it appears that this was the day appointed by the Great Spirit, for us to meet in council here; it appears that this is the day appointed by our Great Creator, for us to meet; and I am happy that he has brought so many of different tongues, face to face, together. My friends and brothers, I wish you to listen to what I am nojv going to say ; it is the voice of the four nations, here present in friendship with me, and it is the voice of our Great Father, the President of the Seventeen Fires: my friends and brothers, as I before told you, I wish you to listen. We have kindled a council fire three days ago. and yet there is nothing done; it is time we should proceed to the business, for which we have met together in council; my opinion is, you are very backward in speaking your sentiments: and there is an urgent necessity you should make them known at once, but I think ami believe, the reason of your backwardness is. that you have some things lie in your hearts, which you are afraid to let out. Here Crane was interrupted by Five Medals, a chief of the Pattawatamy tribe, who arose and spoke as follows, viz: Friend and Brother: You appear very impatient; I wish you to sit down; I was just going to speak when you commenced. Do you think your younger brother wishes to hide any thing from his Father? Sit down, and we will speak for ourselves. Crane then sat down; when Picon, principal chief of the Miami tribe, commenced as follow s, to wit: Mv Father, and all the tribes present, listen to me, I wish to speak to you. My father, you ask the reason why your children will not speak, and we know not what you wish us to say; but let us know what you have to propose, and then we will answer. . Well, my father; when you came to Detroit, you saw me there; I was there with my women and children; the British gave me the tomahawk, and I took it from them; but still I withheld my young men and warriors from doing mischief. My father, when I went to the British, it was one thing, when I came here, it was one thing; still the same; I found myself betw een two fires; both pointed to me the same road; I wished to do the best for my women and children; I looked to my red brethren, but could see no safety there. I took the hatchet from the British, it is true, but it remained in my hands unused. Mv Father, when I looked this way. I dreaded; 1 was between two fires; when I looked the other way. 1 dreaded also; I went to seek relief, and when I arrived there, they put the hatchet in my hands, and I took it up. My Father, you have frequently told us you loved us, we hat e also loved you, but you have deceived us, as has also the people on the other side; when we moved away, however, we found our elder brothers, the Wyandots, were following us. Father: After we had removed to Brownstown, we saw you coming; we then moved to one side to let you pass; we moved to one side of our own accord, no one solicited us to do this. Again, Father: As soon as I had.moved from the place, and you passed by, you called to your red children to come to you, and they came; you held the tomahawk in your hand, and gave it to them, and they took it up. Again, Father: At Detroit, when we heard you there, we expected when we heard you again here now, you would do the same; we then concluded, we had received the tomahawk from your hands, and we now expect to receive it. Again, Father: I heard from you at Dayton; Mr. Johnston spoke to us there, but I did not explain anything to him at that time; but as he returned home, 1 explained to him a few things of my mind. I there stated to Mr. Johnston, not to be in too great a hurry to force the tomahawk into our hands: that we had appointed a time for all the red brethren to meet together; and that I was a warrior, and would then take it.up. Father: Since we have come together here, you have not come to the point with us; you too, seem not to speak plain to us; but since 1 have been at Detroit, 1 have lost a number of my family, and 1 am displeased at the cause of my going there; and now, lather, I have told you the minds of our warriors; the Kickapoos and Pattawatamy warriors are of the same mind as the Miamies; this was their voice to Mr. Johnston. I have spoke what 1 have to say at this time. General Harrison then called upon Picon, to declare how, in what manner, at what time, and by whom, he had been deceived. He replied, if he nad been understood to say he was deceived, it was a mistake; he neither said nor meant to say, the Seventeen Fires had deceived him; and if he had said so, it was a mistake, he was misunderstood. Five Medals, or Onocksey, a chief of the Pattawatamy tribe, then came forward, and spoke as follows: Father, listen! You want to hear from your children the Pattawatamies, the voice of their warriors. I never, when I have any thing to say, tell it as stories; I speak seriously, and hide nothing; I speak plain, and direct to the point. Father, we know the situation we were in, when the British left us at Detroit, and you took us by the hand; it is this has brought us together at this time. Our younger brothers, the Miamies, have been mistaken in saying they kept their warriors and people together; it was me, Father, who kept them all together. Father, the Great'Spint hears me; he knows I tell the truth; he knows I do not hide what I have to say, but I speak right out. I have found great difficulty in speaking about the things which have passed during the war; it would be better to drop that subject at once, and speak ot it no more. Last fall, father, when we' took you by the hand at Detroit, many of the Kickapoos, Miamies, and Pattawatamies, were afraid to speak to yon; they asked me to speak to you, and beg you to have pity on their women and children, and I did so. Father, I remember well what I said to you; it is fresh in my mind; you then presented the hatehet to us, and we took it up. Father: I then told you we were not afraid to receive the hatchet and war mallet; we looked at our organs of generation, and found we were men; we told you we were men and warriors; we know not why our brethren, the Miamies, are trying to hide these things, and do not speak out boldly. Father, the time we met at Dayton, I advised Mr. Johnston not to present the tomahawk'then, as then: would be more of your red children collected here; it would be better to present the hatehet here, and that the Pattawatamies and Miamies would receive it here. Now is the time, father; if you raise the hatchet and present it to us, we will take fast hob1 of it. If you now present the hatchet, none of your red children will refuse it; 1 am certain your views will meet with general.approbation. 1 speak plain. I thank the Great Spirit I hide nothing. - Feendoo, one of the chiefs of die Wyandots, who had joined the British, then arose and spoke as follows, viz: Father: I am now going to speak; I now return thanks to you and all these; we congratulate you, and we thank the Great Spirit, that we have been permitted to live, to meet together this good day, and see each other face to face. Father: I shall not take the same steps my brothers thePattawatamies.did; I shall be short, and speak out plain at once. He lias said too much; I shall not do so. Father: 1 tell you, our chiefs, at the commencement of the war, made every exertion they could to keep peace: they failed in this. Our chiefs adhered faithfully to the Seventeen Fires, and to all they had engaged to do; but they could not restrain their young.men; their attempts to do so were unsuccessful. Father: We were taken prisoners by the British: we were actually in their power; they forced the tomahawk into our hands, and we were compelled to take it up, or our situation would have been much’Worse. We will notv, father, tell you the minds of our people, as we suppose you wish to know it. Father, as to our having hold of the British tomahawk, it is true, we had hold of it; but we have let it go, and will hold it no longer;'some evil spirit brought us into that situation; but I will venture to say it shall never be the case again. Father: Here is a number of the Wyandots from Brownstown; we thank the Great Spirit for bringing so many of us together here. Father, we, the Wyandots, are happy to meet v< a; we take fast hold of your hand as your children; now father you have heard the sentiments of your children the Wyandots; it is from their hearts, from their souls, and do not suppose it to be merely lip deep; this is all I have to say at present. As to examining our organs of generation, to see if we are men, we have not done so. The council then adjourned until Thursday, to allow time to prepare the necessary war belt, &e. Thursday, WtliJuly, 1814. The emblematical war belt not being yet prepared, the council met, but as only a few of the chiefs attended, the council, without proceeding to any business, adjourned. .Friday, 15th July, 1814. The council met about 19 o'clock: Present, nearly all the chiefs of the Wyandots, Senecas, Delawares, Shawa-nese, Miamies, Pattawatamies, Kickapoos, and Ottawas. Charley, a Miami chief, advanced to the. centre of the council house, and commenced, as follows: Listen, Big-knife Father, to the voice of our council chiefs, our war chiefs, and young men. I heard your voice, Big Knife. You pointed out to me the voice of the Seventeen Fires. You told me it was their counsel for us to sit still, and be neutral; we heard your voice pointing out to us to be quiet at home, and remain neutral. W hen we heard your voice to us, you told us. Brothers, be quiet; the war concerns you not: remain at peace, be neutral; we call you children,1 but we are all the work of the same Creator; therefore sit still,be peaceable. This was your eounsel to us. It was a great while a»o, at this place, when the great council sat here, and when we were all sitting here, that you gave ns this advice. You then told us the way we should go, and how we should act; from that time, and from that situation, until lately, you kept drawing us this way. You had seated us at home, and you kept drawing us away from it; our council chiefs, and our war chiefs, were at a loss to know the reason of this; after some time elapsed, perhaps you took us into consideration; you eame towards us; you made several encampments, and never considered until you came to us. . 'You came on until you reached where our grandfathers were seated; our young men were there a-sleep; they heard the bring of a gun, they awoke suddenly, seized their guns, and fired at random.- You were the first shed-ders of blood, and not us. Listen! my warriors never crossed your line, or your boundary, to kill your people. Here, Charley was interrupted by Mr. Johnston, Indian agent; who observed to him, he could prove what he had asserted, to be false; that before, a single Miami Indian was molested by the whites, the Miamies had killed his (Johnston’s! brother, at fort Wayne, and that he could prove, by a number of Indians, now present, that the Miamies had assisted in the siege of fort Wayne. General Harrison then addressed the Miamies, and called upon the chiefs of that nation to avow or disavow the speech of Charley; that his intention was, evidently, to interrupt the harmony which now exists between the United States and the friendly tribes present, and to prevent the conclusion of a treaty; as every word he said was THE CREEKS, WYANDOTS. AND OTHERS. 833 calculated to rouse the passions and prejudices of the friendly tribes, against the United States. He therefore called on them explicitly to declare, whether they intended to join the United States or not,: that if they thought proper not to join, they had come here in peace, under the sanction of a treaty, and might depart in peace, but that they must mnv explicitly declare, what course they meant to pursue. The General then addressed all the Indians present, and observed to them that it must be evident to all, that the Miamies ye re endeavoring to excite in the breasts of the friendly tribes, sentiments unfavorable to the United States, lie then proceeded to explain to them, that Colonel Campbell's expedition was intended solely against Te-cumseh, supposed to be at Massasinaway, and such of the Miamies as adhered to him: and that CampbelTwas particularly enjoined, not to molest Silver Heels, but to shew him every mark of attention and kindness in his power, because lie was known to be our friend; that Colonel Campbell, unable to discriminate between those who were our friends and enemies, had unfortunately and inadvertently struck some of our friends, when the blow was only intended against our enemies; that the way to avoid disasters of this kind, in future, is. and must be, for the friendly Indians to separate from those who were unfriendly to the United States, and have no communication with them: that by this means the Seventeen Fires would be able to discriminate, and would be enabled to aft'urd to our friends that protection which they felt so willing and anxious to do. That the Miamies ought to have pursued this course, if they were so averse to war, as they now pretend; but that he was extremely sorry to find the Miamies appeared determined to harrow up every past transaction, which was calculated to excite impressions and sentiments unfavorable to the United States, when lie had hoped these things would be hurried in oblivion, and a permanent peace and friendship established betw een them; that if they thought proper to pursue this course lie had no objection, but there wrere a number of Indians now' present, who could prove the falsehood of Charley’s assertions; and that he would now' prove the Miamies were the aggressors; that he wished no more altercation or prevarication, but wished them explicitly to declare whether they intended to take the United States by the hand or not. Charley then again proceeded. Father: You have said I told falsehoods; my council chiefs and war chiefs have told me to come forward again and speak. Listen, to me, father Big Knife! 1, Miami, am white all over, there is no spot in me; as 1 before told you, I tell you again, 1 cannot take hold of any thing bad and lix it on myself. You know, father, that lie who has created bad, or been 1 lie cause of bad, it will follow him, his works will show it; 1 tell you again, lather, we Miamies have not scattered; we hold ourselves all together. Again, father, our conduct lias proved to you. that our intentions are not bad; wre have brought our women and children with us. which will prove our intentions are not bad. 1 again repeat that 1 love you ; 1 do not intend to take bold of the tip of your finger, but to take fast hold of your whole hand, the-hand nearest the heart; but 1 now teli you, I wish to remain at peace? 1 wish to remain neutral. Again,father, you told us to go away; I do not wish to do this; 1 wish to remain neutral alongside of you. I have told you our sincere wishes and desires; if you do not approve of it, I cannot help it; we wish to claim the ancient promise of remaining neutral. 1 have nothing more to say, father; I have told you all. General Cass then observed to the Miamies, in substance, that their propositions of neutrality could not be accepted, nor were such propositions expected by the Government, especially as the Miamies had evinced, by their conduct at the commencement of the war, that they could not remain neutral. That, as it regarded their conduct, he knew nothing personally, but had every reason to believe they were the aggressors, and not the Americans; that he w ell knew propositions had been made to them to remain at home at peace, and to follow- their ordinary occupations; that they bad rejected those propositions, and had taken up the tomahawk on the side of the British: and continued to do the Americans all the injury in their power, until the British were throw n on their backs. That when they came to Detroit, last fall, they were in a deplorable situation; their friends the British had left them to their fate; had left them to perish. That, even then, miserable as their condition was, and much as they had injured the Americans, the Seventeen Fires had generously taken them by the hand, and relieved their wants; that the Miamies then voluntarily ottered their services, and promised to take up the tomahawk and strike our enemies. That the United States had since fed and clothed them, and that at Dayton, last spring, they had again renewed their promises to Mr. Johnston: that they must now be sensible it was them, and not the Seventeen Fires had used deception. That as to their having forgotten these things, it was impossible; their promises were voluntarily and solemnly given at Detroit, and he was w itness to it. That notwithstanding these solemn promises, thus voluntarily made, if they now felt a reluctance in complying with them, they were at liberty to recede; that the United States w ished no assistance from them but such as should be voluntary. That they (the United States) had, thirty years ago, when in a state of infancy, put the British on their backs: that we were now- a powerful nation, had attained to manhood, and could, without assistance, and with ease, throw- them again on their backs. That the Miamies were not asked to take up the tomahawk in behalf of the Seventeen Fires, because we needed their assistance, but that, knowing their restless di-po.-itions, that they could not remain neutral, that their young men and warriors could not he restrained, and if not for ns, would be against us. That the anxiety of the Seventeen Fires, for the happiness of their red brethren, was real and sincere, and not like the British, who resided three thousand miles from them, and who only pretended to care for them when they wanted to make use of them. The Seventeen Fires, oti the contrary, wished to establish with them a solid and lasting friendship. That the Government of the United States had authorized General Harrison and him (Governor Cass) to conclude a firm and lasting treaty: that the propositions for a treaty had come from themselves, and had been forwarded to the President, who believed them sincere; that the United States wished for none of their lands; they merely wished to be in friendship with them : but that. if. after their ow n free offer and solicitations, they thought proper to treat on the terms proposed by themselves, which was, to take up the tomahawk and strike our enemies, we would give them the friendship and protection of the United States: it was well: but. if these were rejected, they (the commissioners) had no other terms to offer. lie conjured them, whatever their decision might be, to give it freely: for that, if they were determined on neutrality, or even on becoming enemies to us. they were sale here: they had come here under the sanction of a treaty, and might depart in peace; and concluded hj- hoping the Great Spirit, who directed all things, would direct them for the best. General Harrison then addressed himself to the Wyandot.-. Delaw ares, Senecas. Shawanese, and the Pattawa-tamies, Kickapoos, and Ottawas. present, in substance as follows: That he had hoped, this day, to have encircled in one strong chain of friendship with the Seventeen Fires, all those tribes present. That it was not so much a wish to gain their services as to secure their lasting friendship and permanent happiness, that the Seventeen Fires were anxious to cement this bond of union with their red brethren. That the United States were sufficiently strong to fight their ow n battles against Great Britain, without the aid of their red children, but that, knowing the restless disposition of their red brethren, and that, if not for us, they would be against us, they had a wish to secure their friendship. That the United States recollects with gratitude, the services rendered by the friendly tribes, at a time when, by treachery or cowardice, her affairs were reduced to a very low-ebb, and a gloomy aspect; and even after the loss of some important battles, these tribes had faithfully adhered to the Seventeen Fires. That it was not because he doubted the sincerity or feared the defection of those tribes, that he should, at this time, again put the tomahawk in their hands, but in order again to renew' those symbols of friendship, between the Seventeen Fires and their red children, which had heretofore been productive of so many benefits to both sides. That when the war belt was presented to the Wyandot-. Senecas, Delawares, Shawanese. and those of the Pattaw'atamies, Kickapoos, and Ottawas, present, any individual or number of Miamies. present, who thought proper to take hold of the belt, would be received into the friendship and protection of the United States. It being now too late in the afternoon to go through the usual ceremonies of presenting the war belt, &c. the council adjourned till to-morrow. ■ ■   Saturday, 16th July, 1814. The council met. Present, the chiefs of all the tribes. __ . Ronioness, one of the chiefs of the Brownstown band of Wyandots, addressed the commissioners as follows: Father: Listen to what I am going to say to you. We thankthe Great Spirit that we are met together in council this day: but, we believe, under great difficulties, as none of oilr principal civil chiefs are here now. However, father, a day or two ago, we Wyanuots, of Brownstown, let you know our minds. We are of the same mind now. Father, listen. It is probable you know the situation we were in at Brownstown. You know we were forced by the British to act as we did, and that it was far from.our wish or intention to join the British; but we were compelled to do so, Father. Listen! We have now got clear of the scrape; we have let go the British tomahawk, and we never intend to take it up again. Father: We from Brownstown have talked together; we are determined to adhere to the Seventeen Fires, and take part with them; we are determined to take hold of their tomahawk, and support their cause. Father, listen! It would be extraordinary, if we from Brownstown should act otherwise than our brothers do. Here is our principal chief (Crane) has taken your tomahawk; we will do'so too.   _ . Father, listen! When you offered the tomahawk to the four nations who fought on your side, you offered it as is usual to do on such occasions. They took it voluntarily; we will do so too. Father, listen! When the British offered their tomahawks, it was different from your method. They told us if we did not take-it up, to beware of the consequences. They even forced cripples, and aged men, who were not able to fight, to take up their tomahawk; but, you leave it to our own free choice. We therefore more voluntarily come forward, and take up the tomahawk with the Seventeen Fires, and w ith them w e will strike their enemies. Father, listen! I come forward voluntarily, and take your hand with my whole heart, and nothing shall again part us. Father: This is the. speech sent to us by Walk-in-the-Water, our principal chief. He is too sick to come here; but this is his speech, and his sentiments, and they are ours too. [He then presented a string of wampum from Walk-in-the-Water.] _ General Harrison then addressed the Wyandots, Senecas, Delawares, Shawanese, Miamies, Pattawatamies, Kickapoos, and Ottawas, as friends, brothers, and children, and observed to them, that his friend \vho was joined with him in commission, had agreed that they should explain to the Miamies why their neutrality could not be accepted. He then observed to them, that, was their neutrality even to be accepted of by the United States, it would be unsafe for the Miamies, and be the eventual means of' their destruction. That people who were wise, always take example by the past, to regulate their future conduct: that their own experience of late events, must have taught them there was no safety in neutrality on the frontiers; and their brothers, the Delawares, could also attest this fact. That, if. their neutrality was agreed to. the enemy would take immediate measures to defeat it, by sending parties of depredators on the frontiers, and after plundering and murdering the defenceless inhabitants, returning home in a direction so as to fix the blame on the neutrals; that, suppose the intentions of the Miamies to remain neutral were sincere, and that they were to settle down.quietly and peaceably on their lands near fort Wayne, or elsewhere, how easy would it be for the hostile Indians to send their plundering parties on our frontier, and after devastating and murdering our inhabitants, to return in a direction to the Miami camps: our people would of course follow, and pursuing the trace no longer than the first Indians they met with, and being unable to discriminate between friends and foes, the Miamies would of course not only be suspected, but fallen upon, and treated as the murderers and depredators. Nothing could save them from slaughter; and that this was the case, the Delawares would attest; and that their (the Miamies) adopting a neutral course, as they themselves must well know, from experience, would be the certain means of their destruction. That the Miami chief who spoke yesterday, (Charley) seemed to possess a wonderful faculty of forgetting the depredations committed by the Miamies, but took care to recollect every thing, and more than every thing, that was committed by us against them. That he was well convinced of the goodness of the chief’s heart, and how much he wished to remain neutral, and prevent his young people from mischief; but that this could not be done, and the consequence would be, the first aggressions would be punished by our people following the aggressors; and not being able to distinguish between guilty and innocent, indiscriminate slaughter would be the consequence. . . He therefore observed to them, that their propositions of neutrality could not be accepted, because lie believed it would be the sure means of their own destruction, and because .he thought, also, that, should the British but for a moment gain the upper hand, as was possible, all those who now.pretended a wish to remain neutral, would instantly join them, and that, as the Miamies had rejected the propositions made to them by the United States, (a proposition which originally came from the Miamies themselves, too) of taking up the hatchet, and striking our enemies, we have no further propositions to make to them. Crane, principal chief of the Wyandots, then got up, and commenced as follows: Father, the President of the United States, and you fathers now sitting before me, listen! Brothers Shawanese, Delawares, Senecas, and all our ancient brothers, listen to the tew words I have to say. It is a long time  since I determined to abandon the British Government and their interest, and to join the United States. Here is this British silver I hold in my hand; (holding in his hand two British medals) I kept it, not because I thought it afforded me protection. I will now cut it to pieces, (striking the medals with a large knife) and give it up to my father the .President. I have long been in friendship with the United States, and here (pointing to a large medal with the United States’ coat of arms, which hung on his breast) is what I shall hold to in future. [He then handed to the commissioners, with every mark of' contempt for the British medals, two valuable ones he had received from that Government.] . . General Harrison then informed the Crane, that the commissioners were highly pleased with his conduct on this occasion;, that it was the conduct of a sincere friend; that it had ever been the policy of the British Government to divide the citizens of those countries they had determined to conquer and oppress, and to instigate one tribe to the destruction of another; that (hey had pursued this policy in the East Indies, to the destruction of millions of the unsuspecting and inoffensive inhabitants; that whole principalities, districts, anu kingdoms, were there laid waste by their rapacity and warice, and that all history could attest this fact. Picon, the principal chief of the Miamies, then spoke as follows: Father Big Knife, grand fathers the Delaw'ares, brothers Wyandots, Shawanese, Senecas, Pattawatamies, and Ottawas, listen! Through the kind providence of him who made all things, .we.are permitted to riieet together in peace. Listen, brothers: when I see you all lay fast hold of our father's hand with one consent, I join with you against our enemies the British. Listen, father Big Knife: You wish to be acquainted with me: you wish to know me. Front-what we have heard, all must be agreed with you. I now, father, together with all my brothers the Wyandots, Senecas, Delawares, Shawanese, Pattawatamies, Kickapoos, and Ottawas, join with you and them. I see you all joined together in one, 1 now come in and join with you. I embrace your measures, and what you may do, 1 will do also. I am glad to sec you all take fast hold of each other’s hands, and I take fast hold with you, to strengthen that chain which binds you all together in one common band. I now petition the great spirit to strengthen those bands, and to keep us firmly together for the future. You have now heard my sentiments; you shall hear the sentiments of the others. Chief of the Weu band of Miamies. Father, listen! My elder brother Wyandots, grand father Delawares, brother Senecas, Pattawatamies, and Kickapoos, listen! Our brother has laid down these medals he received from the British Government : I have none to lay down. Our father, here, knows I never had any of their medals. For this cause, elder brother Wyandots, when you were speaking to us to-day. and stating that our fathers the British had run away, and left us at the Rapids, then I lost confidence in them, and was glad to hear you say you no longer placed confidence in the British, and I join with you in this sentiment. And now, elder brothers, the Wyandots, when we saw you lay down those medals, those instruments of deception, then did your younger brother the Weas really believe you, and that you had determined to cast off and expose the deception which they had practised on you. Now, elder brother Wyandots, you have long known me, and I known you. You called to" me to come to Detroit. I have now come forward, and we see one another face to face. Your voice was extended to us; you called us together at Detroit, and then you deceived us, and led us astray. Now, Father Big Knife, listen! When I heard your voice, I wondered at the cause. You appeared to look on us as if we were British: or perhaps yon had forgot us. 1 heard you speak first, father; you told us of the British. You told us if the tomahawk was presented from any quarter, not to receive if; to look to you, to confide in you, and to listen to none but you. Again, father, it was at Detroit, where I had lost my own flesh, it was there 1 thought of the ail vice you had before given me. When we got to Detroit, and was sitting there, the British pointed at us, and called us Americans, and now we have come here to you, you call us British. Again, father: When I see you hold up the tomahawk to me. you tell me, if I take it. our blood shall be no more spilt by the Americans; that, if I do this, and look to you, and confide in you, all will be well with me. I therefore take hold of your tomahawk now, father,and 1 look to you to fulfil your words. Now, father, when I come forward to fake hold of your tomahawk, you see me, and are acquainted with me. I am not (he beginner, I am a younger brother, and for this reason I’come in amongst the last. '   * Now, listen! I particularly address the Kentucky militia, and all the people who plant, I take hold of your hands for this cause: when the Kentucky militia spoke to me, I listened to what they said: I take fast hold of your hands. And now, my elder brothers Kentucky militia, and Pattawatamies, I want you to listen to me. You are seated where 1 was once seated. You are now in the place, and on the lands I once occupied. And now, elder brothers Kentucky militia, I do. not speak to you alone, I speak to the Pattawatamies also. 1 wishyou.to listen to me. I hope you will attend better to what I say than they do: for they never grant what task. What I have heretofore said, was more lor amusement than any thing else. Now. Father, listen: You have pointed out every thing which was good—and, in the middle of all, you have raised up the tomahawk. When I laid aside the tomahawk of the British, I never expected to take up a tomahawk again; but f now take fast hold of your tomahawk. I do not know what the result may be; it may be the destruction of all us red people, but the Great Spirit knows best, and he will direct. 1 understand you have been sent by our Great Father, the President, and that you expected to meet all your red children here; but, as many have not attended, I suppose you will be disappointed. Now, Fathers, listen: We have come here together; you are acquainted with we Weas. I am one of the younger brothers; I am not the beginner; 1 have come in at the last, and cas't my lot in with yours. Wabacheeky, or White Fish, an Ottawa chief, then spoke as follows: Fathers: It is ordered by the Great Spirit that we meet here to-day, and talk together. You would have heard our voice long ago, but we waited to bear the voice of our elder brothers, the Sliawauese, and they tell us to speak for ourselves. I remember what I told you on hoard the vessel at Erie; I then took hold of your hand. I remember I then begged you to have pity on us—to have pity on your red children; and all you see here now are friends. When you first spoke of the hatchet, we were ready to take it up; we want nothing said on the subject now. Here is a Clnppewa chief, too, who is ready to take it up. . We are all ready and willing to take up your tomahawk; Ave want nothing more said on the subject. Here is also a chief from the heads of Grand river come to. this council, and has brought a speech, and a belt of wampum from his people; they are ready to join with you. The Pattawatamies, who are here, are all of the same mind as avc are: they are all ready to take hold of your tomahawk. Father: The reason you see our young men, and not our chief, here, is. that our chief is sick: Ave left him very sick, and notable to ride. These papers (handing some papers) belong to the OttaAvas; these will sIioav they are friends of yours; they have not changed their minds, and have kept these papers as an evidence of their friendship for you. Toonqui-ish, an Ottawa, then came fonvard, and said: Father: f do not like to hold this niece of property (holding in his hand a British medal) Avliich I received from the Red Coats. I see iny brothers, the Wyandots. have thrown theirs away; and I hoav throw mine away, or give it to you. Little Otter, a Kickapoo chief, then came fonvard and proceeded: Noav Father: Seated at this place with your red children, you have heard all their voices. Father: When I hear you all, Avhen I see you all agree on one thing, and with one voice speak one tiling, Avliy should I turn aside Avhen I see you all agree on one thing, and take measures to make the bonus of friendship more strong between your I cast in my lot with you ns. Listen, Father: I discovered myself in a pitiful situation. When 1 saw all my red brethren flocking towards Detroit. I thought to get relief there, and I followed hind most of all. And now, Father Harrison, listen: T often thought of the Avords you had spoken to me at Vincennes, but it Avas too late. After 1 had got seated at Detroit, I saAy the British move off from there; 1 thought it AA’ould not do to folloAv them. I saAV you coming, Father, and 1 remained there. And hoav, you have heard all I have to say, I salute you all; and I have with reverence to the Great Spirit. General Harrison then, after some introductory observations, presented the war belt. &c. Avliich Avas accepted with great enthusiasm by the Wyandots, Senecas, Delawares, ShaAvanese, Pattawatamies, Kickapoos, OttaAvas, and a part of the Miamies present; and Avas carried round by the chief’s of each of the tribes in their turn, singing the war song, and dancing the war dance. And the council adjourned, after giving instructions to the agents to furnish the Indians with whiskey, to whet their hatchets, &c. Sunday, 17Ih July, 1814. Despatches on various subjects relative to the’mission, and to Indian aftiiirs, generally, Avere this day made out by the commissioners, and forwarded, by express, to Chillicothe, from thence to be conveyed by mail to Washington city, directed to the Secretary of War. Monday,'18//t July, 1814. The Indians having received a quantity of Avliiskey, in order to sharpen their hatchets, as they expressed it, Av.erc unfit for any business this day. Tuesday, 19th July, 1814. This day the council house was cleared out, and a war post erected therein, round Avliich the Indians, at their own request, had a great war dance, which continued the greater part of the day. Wednesday, 2Oth July, 1814. An invitation came from the Crane, head chief of the Wyandots, to the commissioners, asking them to attend a religious dance Avliich their red children were to perform early in the afternoon, and no other business Avas attempted. Thursday, 21st July, 1814. The council met. Present: The chiefs of the Wyandots, Senecas, Delawares, Shawanese, PattaAvatamies, Miamies, Kickapoos, and OttaAvas. General Harrison then addressed all the nations present: and, informing them that lie had understood the British were spreading the infermation amongst them, that they had been at war with France for a number of years, and had finally subdued that nation, and succeeded in placing on the throne of France the brother of (lie former King, Avho was the friend of the British, ami who would join them in the war against'America; as, also, that several other of the Powers, on the continent of Rurope, would assist them in the war against this country, and that the Americans must be beaten in the contest; the greater part of which was fabricated by' them, to answer their usual purposes of deception,—lie then went on to explain to them the situation of affairs on the continent of Europe, and th. t the present King of France was not only our friend, but that all the great Powers engaged in his cause, (the British excepted) were friendly to us; that they would take no part in the war between us and Great Britain, but would leave them and us to fight our own battles; that many- of the Powers of Europe had the same jealousy of British usurpations as we had; but that, admitting they could send against us all the force of the kingdoms in friendship with them, they would be unable to conquer the United States. That the truth was, the French people themselves got tired of Bonaparte, because they found, under him, their taxes increased, their young men sacrificed to his ambition, and that, so long as he governed them, there was little probability of their ever being restored to peace. That the great council of the nation seeing this, and being joined by the people, they, with one voice, agreed to throw Bonaparte oft', and to reinstate their former line of Kings; and that, so far from the British'bringing all these things about, by their armies, they never were able, but in one instance, to penetrate France with their army; and that, even then, this army of theirs was several hundred .miles distant from where those transactions above mentioned took place, and had no act or part in them. That our people, and the red people, were the only nations on earth who were really free, and governed by men of their own choice, and that this ought to induce them to be on terms of friendship with each other; because, when we fight, we fight to protect our rights, our women, and children, but, when the British fight, they feel no interest in the contest; they were compelled to light as their King directed, and hail no choice; they were, in fact, slaves, and obliged to obey the commands of their master; and the vast number of soldiers who deserted from the British, whenever opportunity offered, would go to prove how unwillingly they served, and how glad they were to escape. He then explained to them an affair which lately took place, on, or near, the river Thames, in Upper Canada, where thirty of our militia had surprised arid beaten sixty British militia; had killed their officer, and taken all their baggage, horses, &c. He also informed them that a runner had just arrived from Walk'-in-the-Water, with a speech, expressive of his abhorrence of the British cause, and his determination to adhere, in future, to the United States; that sickness had rendered him unable to attend, but that he would be governed by any agreement Crane might enter into; and would, in all events, support the cause of the United States, and embark his all with them; and that no circumstances whatever should induce him, in future, to join the British. He then informed all the tribes that a treaty would be prepared, expressive of the friendship of the United States and their red children towards each other, and all who thought proper, might come forward and sign it; that it would be ready by to-morrow, and would then be explained to them. Al’fer which, Picon, head chief of the Miami nation, spoke as follows: Fatii£r Big Knife, listen! Grandfather, Delawares; brothers Wyandots, Senecas, Shawanese, and all present, listen to what I have to say. You Wish me, Miami, to make reply—listen. Father, when I heard you present the tomahawk to me, I took hold of it with all my might, and I join you, with my grandfather, the Delawares; brothers, Wyandots, Senecas, Shawanese, Pattawatamies, Kickapoos, and Ottawas. and will strike with you and them. Father: You said you wished to hear us, and to know whether we Miamies should be included in the treaty. Why should we not be included? Father, our young men are all agreed with us. When you spoke of our lands last year, at Detroit, we laid fast hold of the tomahawk with you; we do the same now. Now, Father: I was glad to hear you speak of including us in the treaty, and that our lands should be secured to us so long as the sun shone on them. All our people are glad with me, Father, that you confirm to us our lands, and that you will not deduct from us our victualling. Anti now, Father: It is unnecessary for me to multiply words. I will do my best to comply with every thing I have engaged to do. The Great Spirit sees what we are doing, and he will be the judge of our actions, and see if we fulfil our engagements. And the council adjourned until to-morrow. Friday, 22il July, 1814. The.council met. The treaty was submitted, and explained, particularly, sentence by sentence. The interpreters were each sworn to explain it faithfully and correctly, and, after being so explained, was signed by a number of chiefs of each nation, therein named, and by most of them with great apparent willingness and satisfaction. After which, the council adjourned till to-morrow. I certify that the foregoing is a correct and impartial journal of the proceedings of the commissioners, in the late negotiation with the Northwestern Indian tribes, and that, when the speeches are given at full length, they are nearly verbatim as delivered by the speaker, or, as rendered by the interpreter; and that, where the substance merely is given, the ideas of the speaker are preserved, as near as may be, allowing for the difference of style. JAMES DILL, Secretary to the Commissioners. Greenville, 23c/ July, 1814. ■ . Extract of a letter from General Harrison and Governor Cass to the Secretary of War. Greenville, 23d July, 1814. We have the honor to enclose you a treaty, which was yesterday concluded with the several tribes of Indians assembled at this place. We flatter ourselves that both the matter and manner of the instrument will be satifac-tory; two or three Miami chiefs only, refuse to sign, of all that were preseut. One is a half Frenchman, whom we know to have been in British pay, with the rank of Captain in the Indian Department. His objection was, that he wished to remain neutral. We gave them alt distinctly to understand, that no neutrals would be permitted unless they would remain within the settlements. If they object to this, it is our decided opinion that they ought to be seized and taken to a place where they can do no injury. The Secretary of War to Major General Pinckney. \ War Department, March 17, 1814. Sir: The policy dictated, as well by the unprovoked, and unjustifiable conduct of the hostile Creeks, ashy a due regard to the future safety of the Southwestern frontier, may be brought under the following heads, viz. 1st. An indemnification (for expenses incurred by the United States in prosecuting the war) by such cession or cessions of land, as may be deemed an equivalent for said expenses. 2d. A stipulation, on their part, that they will cease all intercourse with any Spanish post, garrison, or town, and that they will not admit among them, any agent or trader, who does not derive his authority or licence from, the United States. 3d. An acknowledgment of a right in the United States to open roads through their territory; to navigate all waters and streams within the same, and also to establish therein, such military posts and trading houses as may be deemed necessary and jproper. And, 4th. A surrender of the prophets and other instigators of the war, who will be held subject to the orders of the President. With these outlines as your guide, you are authorized, in conjunction with Colonel Ilawkins, to open and conclude a treaty of peace with the hostile Creeks, so soon as they shall express a desire to put an end to the war. I have the honor to be. sir. very respectfully, your obedient servant, JOHN ARMSTRONG. Major General Pixckxey. M ar Department, March 20, 1814. Sir: Since the date of my last letter, it has occurred to me, that the proposed treaty with the Creeks should take a form altogether military, and he in die nature of a capitulation; in which case the whole authority of making and concluding the term- will rest with you. exclusively, as commanding General. In this transaction, should it take place. Colonel Hawkins, as agent, may be'usefully employed. . I am. &c. JOHN ARMSTRONG.  Major General Pinckney. August 8, 1814. The chiefs of the Creek nation assembled at their square, and sent for General Jackson and Colonel Hawkins, to visit them. Onarriving there, the Speaker, Tustunnuggee Thlucco, likewise said he wished to confer with the General on some points relative to the boundary up Coosa river, particularly to accommodate Au-ba-coo-che, at the solicitation of Is-ho-loh-tee. by giving back some lands west of Coosa. The General objected to the accommodation, as the people in that quarter had been already sufficiently provided for, and the ground asked for had been the thoroughfare of the murderers. The Speaker then addressed the General: The points now about boundary are pretty well settled, and we shall sign it: but, before we do it, and yield it up. we have something to say to you. We are a poor distressed people, involved in min, which we have brought on ourselves. It is not caused by any foreign people among us. but of our own color, of our own land, and who speak our tongue. They rose against us to destroy us. and we could not help ourselves. Me called on three brothers, Cherokees. Chickasaw's, and Choctaws, to help, but they did not come. MY then called on Colonel Hawkins for our white friends and brothers to help, and you came. You have seen our red and white brothers mix' their blood in battle: you have risked your own life for us, and came here: and here we meet. You have saved my life, and I am thankful for it. We have put our heads together and counselled on it, and have come to one opinion about it. and what we should do. M e, the Creek nation, give you three miles square of land, to be chosen where you like, from that we are going to give up. Mre wish you to take it where you like, and as near us as you can, as, if we have need of you, you will be near to aid and advise us. M’e give you this in remembrance of the important services you have done us, and our token of the gratitude of the nation. _ - There is a man near you, Colonel Hawkins, the same, we give him three miles square. He has long been among us, helping of us. and doing good for our nation, and is their friend. He and 1 met at Coleraine, and were young men, and are now old: his children are born in our land. He is to' select his land we give, where he chooses, on the land we are about to give.up, and to sit down on it; and, if he dies, his children will have a place to live on. \Ye do this as a token of the gratitude of the nation. There is standing by you, George Mayfield, a white man. raised in our land, a good and true man, an interpreter; we give him one mile square of land, near you, that you may have an interpreter at hand, if we have need of you to talk with you. - Here is an old interpreter, thirty years in our service, Alexander Cornells: we give him one mile square of land to sit down on, where he selects, and near Colonel Hawkins, that he may continue his usefulness to us. General Jackson replied, he should accept of this national mark of their regard for him, if approved of by the President, and he, the President, would appropriate its value to aid in clothing their naked women and children. He was well pleased they had noticed their old friend Colonel Hawkins, and his children born among them; and their conduct on this head, towards him and them, was much to the credit of the nation. Colonel Hawkins replied.T have been long among you, and grown gray in your service. ' 1 shall not much longer be your agent. You all know me, that, when applied to by red. white, or black, 1 looked not to color, but to the justice of the claim. 3 shall continue to be friendly and useful to you while 1 live, and my children, born among you, will be so brought up as to do the same. 1 accept your present, and esteem it the more highly by the manner of bestowing it, as it resulted from the impulse of your own minds, and not from any intimation from the General or me. Interpreted by Alexander Cornells. Georoe Levett. I certify the preceding named in my presence. to be the substance of what passed on the subjects embraced therein, between the parties CHARLES CASSEDY, Acting Secretary. Eight E. M. This morning the chiefs expressed to Colonel Hawkins they did not give to General Jackson the land to day to give it back to them in clothing, and other things; they want him to live on it, and when he is gone (dead) his family may have it. anil that it may always be known what the nation gave it to him fo . They say in the instrument to convey their intentions, expressed this day, it must be plainly expressed which are the towns, masters of the land; that they have been uniformerly friendly to the United States, and faithful to their engagements in peace and war? that they consider the extending the line through their lands in the Lower Creeks as taking from them more than the equivalent offered, and they have claims which should be attended to. But as the General has no power about them, they will sign the line with him, it being demanded by him, and advised by their friend Colonel Hawkins, and there being no Red Club chiefs, master- of land, to do business with him. Mrs. Ilawkins must be put in, with her children, as she has had much trouble, to teach the Indians to spin and weave. The instrument of conveyance was drawn accordingly, under the interpretation of Mr. Cornells and Major McIntosh. BENJAMIN IIAM’KINS, Agent for Indian Affairs. M'c, the undersigned, chiefs of the Creek nation, now assembled at the treaty held between the friendly and hostile Indians, on the one part, and Major General Andrew Jackson, for the United States, of the other part, make known to all whom it may concern: That Cussetah and Coweta are the head towns of the Creeks, and. with Tuckaubat* chee and Ooseooche, the owners of the Creek lands; and call ourselves, as we are, masters of the land. Mre have adhered faithfully, in peace and war, to our treaty stipulations with the United States. Finding that General Jack-son. in drawing the lines around our country, to retain as much of that conquered from the hostile Indians as he deemed just, found it necessary, for political motives and purposes, to run a line from Oakfuskee. through our lands, which commences on the dividing ridge between the waters of the Upper and Lower Creeks, to Chattahoochee, and thence, ea-twardly to the boundary of Georgia, within which there is a great quantity of lands actually our property, for which, he, as an equivalent, leaves to the conquered Indians lands between Coosa and Tallapoosa, we do not deem the exchange an equivalent. It shall not. however, interfere with the running the line, as we rely on the justice of the United States to cause justice to be done us. and on these conditions: lUb We request that General Pinckney’s letter of the 23d April to Colonel Hawkins, and the answer thereto, of the 05th, be sent on with the treaty, which we will sign after delivering this instrument. ' , 1st. Wisiring to give a national mark of gratitude to Major General Andrew Jackson, for his distinguished services rendered at the head of the army from Tennessee, we give and grant to him, and his heirs, forever, three miles square of land, at such place as he may select, out of the retained lands. Od. Our nation feel under obligations to Colonel Benjamin Hawkins,,our agent, and to Mrs. Lavinia Hawkins, his wife, for, the unwearied pains they have taken, both of them, for a long time, to introduce the plan of civilization among us, and to be useful to us; and as their children are born in our land, we, as a token of gratitude, give .and grant to Colonel Hawkins, for himself, his wife, and children, three miles square of land, to him. and his heirs, forever, to be located in such part of the retained land as Colonel Hawkins may select, in one tract, or surveys of one mile square each. ' \ . J . ’ A.   ■. . 3d. We give and grant to George Mayfield, our interpreter with General Jackson, a white man, raised in our land, one mile square of land, to him and his heirs, forever, where he may select, as a mark of our respect for his honesty and useful ness to us as interpreter.- , . 4thly and lastly. We give, and grant to Alexander Cornells, a half-breed, our old and faithful interpreter, who has long been in the public service, one mile square of land, at his option, in the retained land or lands of the Creeks, at his option to be located by him. We finally request, that the Government,of the United States will ratify the foregoing acts of national gratitude, and by suitable deeds of conveyance to enable the parties to receive and hold the said lands, agreeable to our intentions, as herein expressed. Giyen. under our hands and seals, at the treaty ground, fort Jackson, 9th August, 1814. >* ■ [Signed by Tustunnuggce Tblneco, Speaker of the nation, Upper Creeks, and a number of other chiefs.] .. y \ Extract of a letter from Major General Jackson to the Secretary of War, dated Foht Jackson, \0th August, 1814. Sir: _ *. On yesterday evening my negotiations with the Creek nation were closed, by a cession to the United States of a territory, which will be considered an ample indemnification for all expenses incurred in prosecuting the war on this frontier. Considerations, interesting to the United States, relative to'the Spanish dominions immediately south of us, induced me to procure the cession of all the Creek lands of consequence, bounding on foreign claims of territory, in order to prevent future connexions, injurious to our tranquillity. The documents which are evidence of this cession, I do not think proper to,trust to ordinary means of conveyance, and therefore transmit them by Mr. Cassady, from whom every explanatory information can be had, who will, as soon as practicable, hand them to the War Department. , «t ** ——* Creek Agency, Mill January, 1813.- I have not heard of the arrival of the annuity of the Creeks for the last year, and it should have been paid them by the end of the year. General Mason informed me of his having sent,on that part called for in iron, steel, and cotton cards, by inland navigation.- I have written to him to day; I have not heard of its arrival, and that I know of no inland navigation from Washington city to Georgia. ■ Travelling continues safe through the agency. I have had only one complaint for the'last quarter; from a man robbed of small things on the public road, to the amount of nineteen dollars and a half, which, on application, I have paid, and charged to their stipend. Our chiefs are perfectly willing, and I am determined, that such complaints shall be satisfied in like manner. . General Hampton left here yesterday for the West, accompanied by Mr. Brown, the Senator from Louisiana, and his lady. The Senator on his way to Congress. I am, very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. The Secretary of War. . ' . Creek Agency, 18th January, 1813. I have not heard from you on my communication of the 7th ult. I received from an Indian of note? low down on Flint river, the following information, which I have communicated to General Flournoy: “Paine is dead of his wounds; the warring Indians have quit this settlement, and gone down toTellaugue Chapcopopeau, a creek which enters the ocean south of Moscheto river, at a place called the Fishery. Such of their stock as they could command had been driven in that direction, and he believed the negroes were going the same way. The lands beyond the creek towards Florida point, were, for a considerable distance, open savannas, with ponds; and, still beyond the land, stony, to the point.” I have been kept too much in the dark relative to occurrences in East Florida. The political error of General Mathews embarrassed every thing. I attribute the darkness here to your being pretty-much so yourselves, owing to your knowledge that something should be done, and not being authorized to act with effect. ’ On the 20th September, I recommended the report from the deputation to the Seminoles, in which the Spanish commandant at St. Marks was explicit as to the expected arrival of British troops. Some Indians below and near the fol ks of this river have received like information from Providence, and a British force is expected some where to the South and West. Our chiefs are, at times, murh alarmed, from foolish reports circulated among them by idle worthless white people. Mr. Cornells, our assistant agent and interpreter for the UpperCreeks, and one of our most distinguished chiefs, writes me on the lfitli: “ 1 never saw nor heard so many lies as white people bring from Georgia: they disturb our chiefs very much. If there could be a stop put to these white liars, it would be a good thing, but. I am afraid if will be our min.” This dreadful mania seems to pervade our.country, and is a serious alarming evil. Travelling through the agency is perfectly safe, and the mails regular. The contractor's are going on to complete the.bridges. Captain' Moore, with his command, was one hundred and seventy miles in advance on, the lt!th, and Captain Nix at tort Hawkins, waiting for the contract. I am, with great personal regard, dear sir, your obedient servant, - BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Colonel M onroe, acting as Secretary of Wav. ’ * ' ' Creek Agency, la? March, 1813. ' ’ I have been much afflicted of late, with a cough and rheumatism. Our winter has been very severe, and of long duration. Here, in hit. 32° 39', every thing has still a winterly appearance, except our wheat fields. Mr. Barnard, the assistant agent and interpreter for the Lower Creeks, has just returned, after accompanying the troops to the Upper towns, and visiting the executive council of the nation. He has seen and conversed with most of our distinguished chiefs, who expressed to him a unanimous determination tube and remain with us, if they can. They complain “that the current of misrepresentation against them, from their white neighbors, seems to be generating hostility towards them, which is to jeopardise their peace and safety, unless it can be checked by the President of the United States: That their nation is not only charged with what their wicked young people do, although they, with- » out cjelay, give satisfaction for it; but with whatever every idle worthless vagabond chooses to invent ami circulate against them."   . Travelling, and the passage of the mail, is perfectly safe through the agency. We have three mails due from the city of \\ ashington, which leaves us in the dark as to occurrences there. We have heard nothing of the stipend for the last year. ' . i am, respectfullv. and with great personal regard, dear sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong, Secretary of War. Creek Agency, -10th March, 1813. I have sent Mr. Doyell up to you with a talk for the chiefs of the Creek nation. The subject is a serious one. Let me know the name of the Tuskegee warrior, whose name 1 cannot find out from the spelling of General Robertson. If your chiefs cannot fulfil their engagements, we shall be involved in ruin. We must do more than talk and promise. The killing,.in a most barbarous manner, seven families, in a time of peace, and by chiefs, and their associates, sent on the business of the nation, makes this an act of the nation; and the nation must clear themselves of the guilt, by delivering up the culprits to the laws of the United States. Last year vve solemnly promised to do justice to the white people, if they would give us a little time, and we executed eight for murder. There remains some yet alive, but they had lied our country. This year commences with the murder of seven families of our white friends, and war talks from the Northern nations to the four nations, to join in the war against the United States. The war talk comes with beads and hair, and our party kill seven families to hurry on the war. The Northern nations have a back country to go to, we have none. M hat do we want to do with war? Do we expect to drive the United States and take their country? This is impossible. Have the United States taken any land, or threatened to take any from us? They have not. Have they done us any injury for sixteen years that I have been among you? They have not. They have secured our lands so that it can only be purchased fairly from us; they have, at great expense, taught us to clothe and feed ourselves? all who have listened to my talks, can make their clothing, have hogs, cattle, farms, and money, and many of you have1 peaches, and might have other fruits, such as is common to white people. You have a public road through the country, on which the travellers leave a great deal of money every year. If you have any thing for sale, you can get money for it; and you now know what money is; all this is to be exchanged for war; and what will war bring us? An army, who will destroy our towns, killour warriors, drive our women and children into the swamps to perish, and take our whole country to pay the expenses. The United States are great, powerful, and just. If we are friends, we have nothing to fear; their justice will preserve all our rights. If we make ourselves their enemies, their power will destroy us. All our old chiefs remember the last war with the British, when the Indians helped their friends, the British. The United States were then young, few in number, and unable to make their arms and other munitions of war; they have now more than doubled their numbers, can make their clothing, and every thing necessary in war. If .the British and Indians could do nothing with them then, what can we do with them now? Our countiy is an open one; armies can come among us, any season of the year. They can bring their cattle and hogs for food with them; can find a great many cattle among us; will establish their forts atall suitable places, and keep the country; and what are we to do? We are brave men, and can die in battle; but is it not better to live, and enjoy our own property and the fine prospects before us, arising out of the plan of civilization? Is it not better to take murderers and thieves, and deliver them up to the laws of the United States, to answer for their own crimes, than for us to die in battle for them, to lose our country, and bring destruction on our women and children? I have sent a talk to the chiefs of the Lower Creeks to help you if they can. 1 have stated your difficulties, and some which they are under themselves. I do not know what they can do. The love of rum has almost destroyed Cussctahand Uchee: whole families live by stealing from me. They even kill my cattle, to get the ski ns to buy whiskey. I have mentioned these things to the chiefs, and shall wait a little to see what they will do. I am here ready to help, but what can I do if the chiefs will not do their duty? _ How can 1 say one word in favor of a people, who, for want of doing.their-duty, encourage murderers to kill our friends, and the thieves to steal property from those who are placed here to save the nation?' Are a few thieves to destroy the character of our nation? You are one of the great chiefs of this nation, and an officer of the United States. It is through you. principally, all my talks have gone to the nation. You have labored with me for their good; we know each other well. I have had no secrets in the affairs of your nation, or tricks to play off against you; all was public, fair, open, and above board. After all we have done, notwithstanding the murders of the last year, and the enmitv manifested against us by some white people, hostile to our rights, I had. confidence in the promises of the chiefs; I liad confidence in their good sense, and boldly came forward in the defence of their transactions. . You must exert yourself on the present trying occasion. You must cause justice to be done as it is demanded, and you must, as soon as you can, come down to see us. Your cards and iron is come to fort Hawkins. 1 have hired a man to wagon it up to your house, and he will be there as soon as the road gets a little firm. I write you as one of your chiefs. I am, your friend, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Mr. Alexaxder Cornells, Assistant Agent and Interpreter. Upper Creeks. Colonel Hawkins, Agent for Indian Affairs, to Tustiomuggce Thlucco, Oche llavjo, and every chief of the Upper Creek Agencv, 29//t March, 1813. I have received a communication from General Robertson, Agent of the Chickasaws, oi the 5th of this month, from which I send you the following: Seven families have been murdered near the mouth of Ohio, and most cru- elly mangled, shewing all the savage barbarity that could be invented. One woman cut open, a child taken out and stuck on a stake. The Chickasaws were charged with the murder; but it has since so happened, that the Creeks were seen pas-ing near Bear creek settlement, on their way home, and acknowledged they had committed the murder; that they had been with the Shawanee prophet, and had hairs and beads, with talks, trom the Prophet and the Northern tribes, to these four Southern nations, to take up the hatchet against the United States. Two of the principal men of the Creek nation were along, leaders of the party, one named Tustunnuggee Ooche, of Wewocau, who lives at the Black Warrior; the other, Oosetcnaule Keicli Tustkey. living in Tuskegee. These are the people who brought the invitation to the Chickasaws to attend the grand council at Tuckaubatchee, after the Creeks had reported they had killed the party who murdered the people at the mouth of Duck river.” The name of the Tuskegee warrior is not spelt right, but yon know him. Of all the murderous acts committed by savages against the people of the United States, this is the most outrageous. It is not done by thoughtless, wild young men, but deliberately, by a party under the command of two 'chiefs: and, what makes it still'worse, by chiefs sent by the Creek nation on a public mission of peace and friendship to the Chickasaws, with the nation’s talks, and a letter from the assistant agent and the Creeks—a great nation, in peace and friendship with the United States, and daily giving assurances to me of their determination to remain so. It now becomes my duty to inform you, this murderous outrage must be settled immediately, and in a friendly way. You must get together, one and all; turn out your warriors: apprehend the two chiefs and their associates, and deliver them to me, or some officer of the United States commanding on the frontiers, to be punished according to the laws of the United States. This you are bound to do, by the eighth article of the treaty of New York. Nothing less than this trill satisfy the Government of the United Slates. Let me hear from you, as soon as you get together. This aftair will not admit delay. The guilty must suffer for their crimes, or your nation will be involved in their guilt. ■ Creek Agency; 25th Mureli, 1813. The enclosed communication will exhibit a recent complaint against the Creeks,'as well as the course I have taken, in relation to it, to cause justice to be done. I have taken for-granted the statement of General Robertson is true, although we have no instance, in the recollection of the oldest men among us, of chiefs, sent on a public pacific mission, ever having acted in so outrageous a manner. I received, to-day, a letter from Mr. Cornells, the interpreter for the Upper Creeks, and one ot our most distinguished chiefs, of the 26th. He says, “ I returned yesterday evening from a council of the chiefs: the Little Warrior, (one of the chiefs who led the party charged with the murders) who made a visit last winter to the tribes on the Northern lakes, returned 'home.a few days since, and reported to our people that he had brought on talks from the, Shawanese and from the British. The council held yesterday was in consequence of the reports, and to investigate'the nature of the talks brought from the northward* but, on finding the purport of these several talks was to engage this tribe in a war with the whites, the Little Warrior was severely reprimanded by the rest of the chiefs, and ordered immediately to leave the council house, as a man unworthy to have a seat in it. ” , I have heard of the arrival of the cards and iron at. fort Hawkins. I have delivered five hundred spinning wheels for the last year, and shall distribute the cards in the course of the ensuing week. I have ribt heard of the arrival of the money for the Creek stipend for the last year; the chiefs express some surprise at its being so long withheld from them. I am, very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. I have made a like communication to General Pinckney. General Armstrong, Secretary of War. Fort ,Hawkins, 6th .April, 1813. An express is just arrived from the chiefs of the Upper Creeks, to inform me a white man is murdered, and one wounded, on the post road, about 200 miles from this. 1 believe, the murder near the mouth of Ohio, will be proved in'the nation on the persons charged by General Robertson. The chiefs are to meet on the 9th, and request my advice and direction, as they are determined to be friends with the white people,-their friends and neighbors, if they can, and will exert themselves with all their strength to this end; The Lower Creeks have promised to aid them. I have advised them to call out their warriors immediately, and, if not sufficient, to call out the warriors of the Lower Creeks, and, if diey are not sufficient, to call on me, and I will assist them. I have,directed them to deliver the murderers to me, and punish the mischief makers themselves. It is certain, runners arc in the Upper Creeks from the Indians of the lakes, with war talks from them and the British. They are promised arms and ammunition, to be delivered to them at Pensacola, if they will take them against the United States. The chiefs are more alarmed than I have ever known them to be before. The mischief-makers seem determined to try their strength. As soon as I hear from the meeting of the nation, I will give you all I get, in detail, and an opinion founded bn it. As the mail is soon to pass, I can only add, I am, very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong, Secretary of War. , ^ Creek Agency, 24th April, 1813. Estimate of the stipend to the Creeks, for the year 1813, to be furnished in money. Treaty of New York, ’ - .- ’ - - $1,500 Treaty of fort’Wilkinson, . .. - - - - - - - - -3,000 Convention of the City of Washington, eighth instalment, ..... 12,000 . ■ 16,500 Secret treaty with Alexander McGillivray, at New York, Great Medal chief, and associates, Hoboheilthle Micco, of Tallassee, - - - - - - 100 Cussetah Micco, of Cussetah, - - -' ’ - - - 100 ---- 200 $16,700 Efau Kaujo, of Tuckaubatehee, died last year: these two are all remaining of those provided for by that treaty. Under the Road convention, the Creeks are to receive 500 spinning wheels, and 500 pair cotton cards, for the present year; the contracts for the whole are made to be delivered at the end of the year, at three dollars per wheel, 1,500 dollars. _ . There are three bridges and one flat to be finished this year, and some iron and steel to be wagoned toa the agency and to Tuckanbatchee. This, with the bridges and flats made last year, cards sent on, 500 spinning wheels delivered that year, closes the contracts under that convention. - Cotton cards should be No. 10, or upwards: some numbered'4, 5, 6, sent on last year, are of ho account. - BENJAMIN HAWKINS, Agent for I. A. ' * ' - . . The.chiefs are much in want of their annuity for the last year. As I know' of no cause why it is suspended, I have none to assign them. They have, as usual, made due bills for the part assigned themselves, which they have negotiated with the U. States’ factory. But the remainder is wanted to pay tlieir warriors, and other contingencies of the nation, and to assist their old people in distress. , - - Creek Agency,'26/A April, 1813. Mr. Halsted has sent me your letter to him of the 6th. You have not had a correct statement before you, of the subject to which it relates. General Hampton had the road opened through the agency, but built no bridges over the large creeks, or flats for the three rivers. By the convention,' entered into at Tuckaubatchee, relative to the road, the United States were to build,the bridges and flats, to regulate the tolls, and to give one thousand spinning wheels, one thousand pair cotton cards, half in 1812, half in the present year, &c. Your predecessor ordered the convention to be carried into effect. The spinning wheels for the last year have been made, paid for, and mostly delivered. The cards are received at the United States’trading house. Four bridges, over large creeks, and two flats, w’ere made and paid for in that year; the.three for which the draught in question was given, were also made. There remains one flat, and three bridges over large creeks, to be made, to complete this part of the convention. Contracts are also entered into for the five hundred spinning wheels, to be made by the end of the year. As soon as I received orders to carry the convention into effect, I requested Mr. Halsted to advertise for contractors, in the usual form, and, on his report, to close- the contracts. This was done. The rule has been, when a bridge wras finished, inspected, and received, to raise an account in the usual form, on Which a draft was given to Mr. Halsted to pay the same by a draft on you, at ten day’s sight. The whole of the bridges and the flats would have been finished last year, but for the general sickness which pervaded all parts of our southern country. This retarded the work people of our contractors, until the rainy season put a stop to their labor. They were to resume it again the first of May, anil finish the three remaining, to complete the number required by the convention. I am, respectfully, and witn great persona! regard, dear sir, your obedient servant, 'BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong, Secretary of I Tar. Creek Agency, April 2G, 1813. In my communications of the 20;h March, oth and 10th April, you have, in detail, the measures deemed proper by me, in relation to the outrageous conduct of some of the Creeks, mentioned therein. I now send you the result. No. 1, the report of the chiefs assembled in council .; No. 2, my reply. I have, in my reply, availed myself of the occasion to present to the view of the Creek chiefs the necessity of viewing the navigation, of Coosa river as a common right to all persons within the United States. This is alarming, in a high degree, to the Creeks, as they are fearful the w hiskey trade down that river will bring ruin on their nation. But it must be got over some way, as, very soon, Tennessee must be gratified on this point. Air. Doyell, the assistant agent who accompanied the warriors, says he saw the four they killed at the Hickory ground: the Tuskegee warrior, one of the leaders of the murderers, was one. They could not lake any alive; they fought till they were killed. Mr. Cornells, the assistant agent and interpreter for the Upper Creeks, and who is, in fact, the second chief of the nation, says he thinks the measures taken by the chiefs will apprehend or put to death the whole party. He is of opinion the reply of the chiefs is sincere, and may be relied on as such. I am, respectfully, and with great persona! regard, dear sir, your obedient servant, ' BENJ. HAWKINS. General Armstrong. Tuckaebatchee, April 2G, 1813. B e, chiefs. now in council, of the Upper Creeks, to Col. Hawkins: Y*ou sent me a talk, and I received it. Colonel Hawkins, agent, and friend of the nation: you requested of us Upper towns to collect together, and to put to death our murderers. It is true, we have had people amongst us bringing mischief on us. Those people that committed the murder on the white people do not come in our old towns, tmt keep out on our frontiers, in the woods, that gives the old chiefs a great deal of trouble; and we were detained a long time, and could not get through it as quick as we wished. You mentioned the treaty of New York, made by Washington. The old chiefs turned out the young wanders; the old chiefs kept in their council; the young warriors found part of them at the Hickory ground, in a house, and they were obliged to attack them like as their enemy: they exchanged fire, and wounded one of our men: they killed four of the murderers. We thought they were all in one house, but the head of them was not, but in another house over the river. One made his escape; that party divided: one part went to the Hoithlewaulee’s town; they were joined there by their brothers; and there the young warriors put to death three of the murderers. You told us that we must take them alive, and deliver them up to (he laws of the United States; but that party at the Hoitlilewaulee could not be taken alive, for they fought until they were killed. This is the case with all of them: for they all fight till they drop. The laws of the white people are, that they can take your people alive; but ours is not so: it is different from ours. The last murder was committed against the white people at or near the mouth of the Ohio. We old chiefs have killed seven of them; the old chiefs turned out their warriors, and punished that number; and that is all of the party that they could lay their hands on. The nation owed one file for last year: the murder that was committed on Duck river. We have been in search of this murderer ever since Iasi Fall, lint could not find him: he joined the party that committed the murder.and thought that his aunt was killed by the white people; but, since that, she has come in. and she would not let her nephew lie killed; and we found out it was her fault, and we mil her to death. The Little Warrior had six fellows, and lie made seven, and three joined after they came in; all three we laid alongside of them; that makes seven of them. We heard of the murder that was committed on the big road, near the Wolf Path, but we could not tell, at that time, who had done it—whether it was white or red people of Oakfuskee. As soon as we found out the truth, we sent out our warriors, and had them put to death. There was two of them that committed the murder, and we killed both of them. This day we give you the account of the murderers that we have punished; and we shall make our law stronger concerning the murderers. This day we stated what we have done; and we arc going to break up this day. We have been in council seventeen days. You was sent here by the United States to be agent for the Greek nation, and you was to be at the centre of the nation, near where they hold theircouncil; and we ere satisfied, when you was with us, that, when any trouble came on us, that we could be close together, and settle the business sooner; but. instead of that, von have settled off in one corner, a long way off, and we look upon you asone of our old chiefs, and you call yourself so. You sent me word that you wanted to send mean agent here; but one agent is enough for this nation. I have now given you an answer on that. Our council considers that you are a distance from us, and that we have got some of our people who have got learning from white people. This man that I want to write for us is not to be made agent of, but to write the talks of the nation. Now I am going to state to you: You think that the Creek nation, in their mind anil heart—you think that we lean to the Shawanee tribes, because you saw Tecuinseh and his party dance in our square, around our fire, and some of our foolish people believed their foolish talks. It is true, they have punished white people, and we take their lives to pay, according to law. Our old chiefs and fathers have been fooled by the British. We are not a-going tofollow their steps. Yon need not be jealous that we shall take up arms against the United States: we mean to kill all of our red people that spill the blood of our white friends. If all of the nations was a-going to make war on the white people, we would tell you that we wanted war, and not keep it as a secret; but we don’t want war. The young warriors is a making of laws, the more mischief is done the more force to punish. You send a talk to the Lower Towns as well as the Upper Towns.- Air. McIntosh, of Cowetah, he brought warriors with him, and joined the Upper Towns. Air. McIntosh’s nephew was badly wounded; he was. wounded at the Hickory Ground; and the other party that went to the Tekeewaulees, one of them was wounded in two places; lie belongs to this town. This is all we have done on this allair. Now, I will state another affair; we ask your opinion on the occasion: We have poor people, some, may have cow hides, and some have other tilings, such as small fur and beeswax, to change for clothing. It appears as if all of the frontiers is blocked up, that is in Tennessee and on Tombigby settlement; some go by water. If you think but to let us know if there is no danger, that we may go to market. The Upper Towns hail rather go to Tennessee, and the lower part had rather go to Bigby, by water and land, to trade. They have not got much to carry, only a little to buy some clothing ,aml a little powder to carry about to kill a little game, even if it is birds, not to consider it to spill blood of no color. When you think there is no danger, and send me word, then 1 can let the Upper Towns know. Wc saw the accounts of Grierson’s sons and grandsons. We old chiefs have considered the best to send them down to you, and then you can get the white people and them face to face, and settle their affairl and if they wont go, die chiefs must go and take property to satisfy the debt. Old chiefs, your friends. BIG WARRIOR, his + mark, Speaker of the Upper Towns, ALEX. CORNELL, his + mark, Ass-t Agent and Interpreter. william McIntosh, Speaker of the Lower downs. Written by Nimrod Doyell, Ass't Agent. Colonel Hawkins, Agent for Indian Affairs, to Tustunnuggce Thlucco'.| Mr. Cornells. and Mr. McIntosh, chiefs of the Upper and Lower Creeks. . , - » ' . ■ ‘ Crekk Agency, April 24, 1813. I have received your communication of the,21st: your conduct does you great credit, and will give your Father, the President, pleasure. I have been of opinion that the Creek chiefs had too much understanding to meddle in the wars witli white people. I never expected they would join the British against the United States; but I have expected, unless they exerted themselves, and put a stop to the murdering of our white neighbors, they Avould bring war and ruin on themselves. You have taken the right Avay to prevent tins, by punishing immediately every man aviio violates your laws, by murdering and plundering your white neighbors. I expected you would have been able to take these fellows alive; but, as they made battle, your warriors could not do otherwise than what they have done. You must use all the measures in your power to apprehend and punish those who have escaped. If they, can be taken, deliver them to me. It is not an equal number the white people want, it is the guilty; and they want no innocent person to sutler. When people join murderers to defend them,’they are guilty, and it is right to punish them also. Our armies are gathering, and I expect you will hear of a great de’al of lighting this summer; take care that none, of our people are engaged in it. .It has been a fortunate thing that you have found jut and punished the two Oakfuskee men who committed the murder and robbery on the post-road. I expect we are now in possession of Mobile, and that the Spaniards are gone off. Mobile is a part of the United States: you can go there to trade, and w ill be treated kindly. There is nothing to prevent your going to fort Hawkins, and the stores in the neighborhood; and your trading path to Pensacola has no obstructions. The Spaniards are our friends. In the present situation of affairs between you and Tennessee,I would hot advise you to let your peoplegoon that frontier. They are exposed on one side to the incursions of Indian war parties from the northwest, and are strongly prejudiced against you, Avhich your people have giA'en cause for; and, when jealousy is once up among one people against another, it requires some, time to remove it. The people of Tennessee did not-ask you to help them against their enemies; they looked on you as friends, and were Avilling to assist you to become a great people, by paying a part of the expenses necessary to the plan of civilization. While this was the case, a part of your people murdered their women and children at Duck, river; and, before you settled this outrageous act, another party murdered some of their near neighbors. These things puts them to expense to raise and support armies to punish the transgressors. One complaint they have against you is, Avhen you know these things you are slow; you do not apprehend or punish such transgressors, until it is found out among white people, and a demand made on you. As you are. front your situation, the first to know of their murdering, you should not wait to be called on, Avhich gives an opportunity to the guilty to escape, but seize on immediately, and deliver them up to the laws of the country they have violated. As we are now in possession of Mobile, you will soon see people from Tennessee coming down Coosa, w ith their produce, to market; when you see that, you will see you are friends, and you may go that water path together to trade, either to Tennessee or Mobile. It is a natural right you both have; you both live in the United States; you can use the Avaters any Avhere; and roads for trade or travelling, and the white people Avill do the same. You have, both, your land marks: touch not the land of one another, but use your Avaters and roads as friends. When this is the case you will be friends, and not before. When this is the case, all jealousy Avill be removed. All watercourses were intended for the use, coinfort, and accommodation, of those who live on them: those who live at the mouth use them, those who live half Avay up use c them, and those Avho live on the head use them; all can make use of them, without injury to the waters or to oneano-ther. And, when.that is the case, and each take care to punish transgressors, the rvater-path is safe and free. No one has a right to prevent the Alabama people from going to Mobile and New Orleans, through any of the Avatersof the United States, or the people of the Black Warrior 1‘rom going the same way. It is time for us to understand these things, and to act on them. . . 1 shall send your talk tp.General Pinckney, to the Secretary of War, to the Governor of Georgia, and- to-the Governor of the territory where the murder was committed. . - I am your friend, and* the friend of your nation. It is honorable for your warriors to be Avounded in obeying the orders of their chiefs. Copy of a letter from Benjamin Hawkins to.General Armstrong. ' , 5 Cheer Agency, 3d of May. 18)3. " ■ Since my communication of the 26th uit. I har'e received the enclosed ansAver of the chiefs to my address to them of the 24th, in which I had introduced the probability of Coosa river soon being used for the purpose of trade. I have received, also, the detailed report of Mr. Doyell. The chiefs expect, as you see, a party of the Sliaivanese front the northwest, and are alarmed for the consequences. I am informed the Spanish commandant at,St. Marks has recently issued out some powder to the Seminoles. 0‘Kelly, a half breed, of property, recently from Pensacola, says be saw and dined with a British officer there, who informed him he had a ship there, loaded with powder and arms, ior the red people, and that, having heard the Americans had surrounded Mobile," be should go immediately and drive them off. O'Kelly had much conversation with the officer about getting drunk; he has not a distinct recollection of any thing further.   , An invitation lias been sent up to Tallassee. one of the largest of our Upper towns, from the Governor of Pensacola, to the British officer, to come down to Pensacola, and they have gone, iibout three hundred men. I-know not Avhether this movement has originated from the information detailed by O’Kelly, or in our occupancy of Mobile; it being understood here, our troops Avere to take'it on the 10th u!t. In the measures adopted here, I have in no instance countermanded the idea, that Indians Avould.be employed in our wars with white people. 1 called on the chiefs of the Lower Creeks to aid their brethren ol the Upper Creeks with their warriors, and advised their sending not less than fifty, nor more than one hundred, under their most distinguished leaders. This I Avas induced to do from an opinion, jthat, if these murderers were not1 punished on the first attempt, they and their adherents Avould gain strength; but, that a respectable force from below, under our greatest leaders,.going forth, and acting promptly, and with effect, Avould stimulate their brethren, intimidate the adherents to war, and, if not effectually crush such abominable doings, at least give time to the chiefs to make ready to oppose with force the evils with Avhich they Avere threatened. The packet from the British, and war talks from the Indians of the -lakes, Avere hid out by the murderers Avho came as runners. The speaker of the nation thinks they can be found, and in the event of their being so, shall be sent on to me.* The leader of the party said lie had been in one battle against the Americans, probably that against General Winchester, and came immediately thereafter to this country. The-fourteen towns of the Lower Creeks, are to convene on the 5th. at Coweta, to ascertain, if ihey can, the object of the Spaniards in issuing out powSer.to the Seminoles, and what can be the object of the invitation to Pensacola, and to take measures accordingly. The chiefs never A'ere in greater need of their funds than at present, to pay their warriors, and contingent expenses of their government. 1 liaA'e told them 1 know not why it is withheld. It is not presumable that the calumnious reports against the Creeks, or their agent, fabricated in Tennessee and Toinbigby, aided by a mite from the frontiers of Georgia, could have had any weight with the Government. I do not know what Ave shall do about the stoppage of the mail in this direction. The sub-contractors and riders haA-e been so long without money, they are discouraged, and unable to procure horses or food. I have apprised the postmaster of this on the 39th March, and subsequently. I am. respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, r _ . * ‘ BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Genera) Armstrong, Secretary of War. 'Tuckaubatchee, 20//i April, 1813. Sir: . .... You have given your talks to the chiefs of the nation. They considered on it, and they give you an answer, with a runner, to let you know what they had done, and you gave them an answer, and received it. At sunset a runner came to one of the party in pursuit of the Little Warrior, of We-wo-cau: when the meeting broke lip, the chiefs ordered three men, appointed to find the Little Warrior; Captain Isaac was one, Ta-lo-see Fix-i-co, Is-poak-oke Iiaujo, was the party. One of the party discovered where he was, in the swamp, and at last they got him out of the swamp; he was well armed with arrows, gun, and pistols, and he was determined to kill any person that would oppose him. You told us the treaty was to deliver the murderers up to the law of the United States: when we punished the others, he knew that he had to die. and it was out of our power to take him alive, and we had to put him to immediate death. You told us. that he had talks for the nation, and I told you he had no orders for these talks from the nation; what 1 tell you is the ■truth. Last night, about 10 o'clock, he was killed by Is-poak-oke Han jo, and his party, on the sunrise side, about one quarter of a mile from the. Coosa river; the first and second man's gun snapped at him, but the third man's gun tired and killed; Tallitick Iiaujo, he is the man that killed him; he is one of the We-wo-cau: four men, that had on pouches, kept them shaking, following alter him, so that he could not hear the gun snap; it" he had found out that, he would have wounded a good many with his arrows; when they put him to death, they burned his arrows. When the chiefs kept in council, they made strong laws; we have killed eight for the murder at the mouth of the Ohio; two for the murder at the Wolf-path; one for last year, for the murder at Duck river; in all eleven, since the the 16th of this month. The Shawanese sent the Little Warrior, as a runner, to inform this nation that they were a-coming; if they should come in this nation, they will distract the nation; I wish you would keep them back. I wish you would inform the agent of the Chickasawa not to let them come in, or through their land; and, likewise, the people of Tennessee; for, if they should come, it will not be for our good, and I leave it to you, for to keep a watch and a look out; this is the notice that I give you; do as you please with it. There is one thing I am going to mention to you; the talks that we received from you this day, we have considered on it; we have done all we could to punish our murderers; you have told us, that if we did not punish all ol them, that we should lose our land to Chattahoochee, and to Coosa waters. The chiefs thought best to save their land, and they Hid all in their power, and punished all they could: that no nation was to come and cross in our laud by land or water, to bring trouble in our rights. Now, you white people have large, and a great many people to surround us; you have told us that there was no enemy to come and disturb us: that if you saw any, you would be able to keep them back; that nothing should fret the nation. Now. Colonel Hawkins, you say you are a friend to the nation, and one of the old chiefs; if any people of any nation should use the waters of the Coosa, it will bring trouble on us, and I hope you will inform the people of Tennessee, and Cherokees, of these talks; that if any thing should happen, I shall tell you I told you of it. 1 have stated this to you: the nation was obliged to give up the public road, and they knew that would bring trouble.on them, and since that, the nation have spilt blood, and we had to give satisfaction. If they have give up the waters of the Coosa, it will hurt the feelings of the Creeks: it will not do. You thought you would mention this waters to them, to bring trouble on them, and destruction at once; you mean to destroy us, on these waters, in trying to make use of it, when we don’t allow of it. You have mentioned nothing of the horses that I mentioned to you, and about the.native that we want to write for us. . ,   1 am, your’s, -   ' RIG WARRIOR, + Ids mark. ALEXANDER CORNELLS,  + his mark, AssistanPand Interpreter. Written as interpreted. ‘ . '■ NIMROD DOYELL, Assistant Agent. Colonel Benjamin- Hawkins. * Report of Nimrod Doycll, Assistant Agent for Indian Affairs, to Colonel Hawkins, the Agent. On the 16th of April, the chiefs of the Creek nation assembled in their council house, at Tuckaubatchee: requested .me, with James Cornells and David Tate, to accompany the warriors, to witness their conduct in executing the orders of the nation, on the demand for satisfaction of the 25th March. The orders to the warriors was strictly in ■ conformity to the demand. The chiefs McIntosh, of Coweta, and Tustunnuggee Hopoie, of Tuckaubatchee, commanded the party sent after the Little Warrior, and his part.v . w ho committed the murder near the mouth of Ohio, in Febmarj. The warriors inarched that day, expecting to find them at the Kahowlaw village. We followed in the morning, to overtake them that day. In the evening, information was received, that the murderers, or a part of them, were at the Hickory ground.-and a part gone to HdTthlewaulee; upon which, the warriors divided, marched all night, and, before day, the party going to the Hickory ground surrounded the house they occupied, and attempted to force the door.. The murderers having discovered them, fastened the door, gave the war whoop, began their war danee, and fired on the warriors. It was returned, and the firing continued as long as the murderers had any balls. Eire was put to the house; the Tuskegee warrior was wounded, ‘and burnt in the house: two olhers wounded, who requested to be taken out of the fire; having crawled to the door, were taken out twenty yards from-the house, and there put to death with tomahawks. They were brothers of the Tuskegee warrior, and young men. Two broke from the house and run to get off'; one was wounded and got oft’. The other, Ilocolen, overtaken and killed at the  l iver side. These two were from Tuckaubatchee, and both young men. During the light, the Tuskegee warrior said he had killed and eaten white people, and he had killed and cut open the white woman near the mouth of the Ohio. These four we saw after they were dead; some we knew of ourselves, and the one in the house then burning, was reported to us by the warriors, who knew and reported his conversation. The Little Warrior had that night remained the other side of the river,, and escaped for the present. Three chiefs. Captain Isaacs, Ta-lo-see Fix-i-co, and Is-poak-oke Iiaujo, were ordered by the chiefs, each ■them, to take a party and pursue him. They found where he was, in a swamp, decoyed him out, and put him to death; he was well armed with pistols, a gun, bow and aiHtws, and fought till lie was killed. Two of the warriors in the affair at the Hickory ground, were wounded: one. a nephew of Mr. McIntosh, had his-left arm broke, and the ball entered his side: and Washington, son of Mr. Cornells, wounded in the hand. The party sent to Hoithlewaulee, was commanded Dy Enchaw Micco, of Coweta, and Noocoose Iiaujo, of Tuckaubatchee. They found one of the murderers, and his brother, who defended themselves, and made battle until they were killed; the other made his escape. As there were hut two guilty in the town, brothers, and one killed helping his brother, the warriors were told by the king, the debt was satisfied. The one who thus escaped could speak English pretty well. This fellow got his gun and set out the morning after, to kill white people. The women hid the canoes. The old Miceo Iiutkeo of that town communicated this to me, and I to the chiefs. Upon reading to them your communication of the 24th April, I told them you say, ‘‘it is not an equal number the white people want, it is the guilty; and they want ho innocent person to suffer.” Upon reflecting on tliis, they determined on lus execution, and sent Nagomau, of Tuckaubatchee, with warriors to apprehend or put him to death. He made battle, fired at the warriors, and was near killing one; the bullet passed near his ear. lie then drew his knife and tomahawk, defended himself, and the Warriors shot three balls through him. lie fell, retained the power of speech till next day, and died. He said he had been to the Shawanes'e helping of them, and lAd got fat eating white people’s flesh. Every one, to the very last, called- on the Shawanee General Tecumseh. This fellow had been five years with the Northwestern waaring Indians, and after he was wounded, told the town people, the nation would be ruined for killing him, and not taking the PropheCs talk. Here one of the leaders of the warriors, Noocoose Iiaujo, received two wounds; one in the hand, and one in the thigh. This fellow, who spoke English, and his brother, one of the murderers, upon returning to Hoithlewaulee, received a frolic from their town. The morning after, they loaded their rifles and went off, saying we will go on the road, kill some white people, and give yon a frolic. Upon getting to the road, they were met by some of their town "acquaintances with arms, coming from Pensacola,"and returned witti them. They repeated their attempt, and were brought; back in like manner. They contiuuedto persist in this Intention till the> were executed. The two men who committed the murder on the road near the Wolf warrior’s path, did it for property. One of the murderers, upon returning from Pensacola,.with a saddle belonging to the murdered man, got a little drunk, and said, the master of this saddle I have.left on the road dead, and have a heap of money, hard money and paper; they were both Oakfuskee people. The chiefs sent two parties alter them; one they found and killed at Inrmookfau, and the other at Kinhijee. Their uncles went with the warriors and pointed them out; one was arrested at Kinhijee. and when tying him, he slipped out a knife to defend himself, when a warrior standing before him. with a knife in his hand, cut across his belly, let out his guts, and killed him. 'The woman killed was in their way; site had been out with a party hunting, and report catne, she arid all her party were killed by people of Tennessee. Her nephew, believing the account, went with a party, and was one who did the mischief at Duck river. Site afterwards returned, being, in this Indian’s way, the cause of the murder, and charged with'harboring her nephew; the chiefs ordered her execution. Kendal Lewis, who is a smith for the Upper Creeks, accompanied ine, and is knowing to all I know. NIMROD DOYELL, Assistant Agent. Creek Agency, 3d May. 1813. - 'Letter from Benjamin Hawkins to General Armstrong. \ - Creek Agency, 10th May, 1813. The sub-contractor, Mr. Sheriey, who accompanied General Flournoy through the agency, returned on the 8th, with two mails, leaving two on the way. He reports, “ I did not see one rider who had any fears on account of the murder on the post-road, any more than if it had happened in the white people's country. I am certain the murderers are put to death, and all concerned with me are under the opinion they are so; and as the chiefs have acted with spirit in putting their murderers to death, we think it will have the. effect of deterring others from the commission of similar crimes.” 1 have sent his report,’ accounting for failures in the transportation of the mail, to the Postmaster General. I am informed by an aid-de-camp of General Wilkinson, our troops took possession of Mobile peaceably, on the 14th ultimo. I am. respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong. Letter from Benjamin Hawkins to General Armstrong. « *»,, / . Creek Agency, 17th May, 1813. > The invitation to the Tallasees to goto Pensacola, turns out to be a bubble. They have returned without receiving any thing from .the commandant there. They saw no British officer with arms and munitions ol war1 for Indians. They say they were informed.the Governor of that [place was at Havana, and on his arrival would leave presents for the red people. ' ; . , ''I have received your commands of the 1st; you will, ere»tliis, have received the proceedings of the chiefs and warriors in relation to my demand of the 25th March, which was in conformity with yours. The lower chiefs have, on the 8th, unanimously determined to conform themselves strictly to the orders of the agent for Indian affairs. ’ ' * - * Mr. Fromentin, a Senator of the United States, and lady, are here, having come through the' agency, on their way to the seat of Government. Captain Woodruff passed us with his command, (about fifty) going westwardly, a few days pasf. -   . . . ’ * I have the honor to be, respectfully, and with great personal regard, dear sir, your obedient servant, . 1 BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong, Secretary of JJ'ar. ' A f Letter from Benjamin Hawkins to General Armstrong. * * » ’ f f . * Creek Agency, 7th June, 1813. I received a letter of the 24th ultimo, from the Governor of Georgia, introducing a General Harris, a patriot of East Florida, to me. The general came with an associate, Major Sanchez; .they said the object of their visit, to me was to know the present disposition of the Indians towards them. They could not submit to the present order of things at St. Augustine. The military force there being of that description, of people, mostly blacks or mulattoes, abhorrent to them, and from whom they were not to expect justice. They now had friends, money, and supplies, and. if the Indians would not interfere, they could do very welt for themselves; and as the Indians had made overtures of peace to me, they came for mv advice, if 1 felt’free to give it. I replied, “ I had not heard from Government,. or any officer of it, how our occupancy of East Florida had terminated. I could inform them, the Indians would not renew hostilities, unless provoked thereto by the cow and horse thieves in their neighborhood; pointed out to them how they might ascertain their disposition for peace, and gave them a short note to Mr. Kinnard, and the "Wolf warrior, who, upon seeing them, would know what to say to them. ” They left me,’ arid I received this note from them of 3 tst of May: “ We met the Wolf warrior, Mr. Kinnard, the Cussetah'king, and several other chiefs, among which was a deputation from Kinhijee, (king of the.Seminoles) quite a providential meeting. We were treated with much respect, and every arrangement agreed on, so that we conclude our journey will be productive ofniuch good. We go home satisfied. I. write without a pen, and no more paper, or 1 would detail further particulars.” - Finding the Governor of Georgia had received some information which he required to he explained,-relative to hostile appearances among the Indians, and that lie had established a scout party on the frontier,' I wrote him the 31st ult. .“ From the present disposition of the Creeks, there is nothing hostile to be apprehended from them. The chiefs are as well convinced as I am, that their existence as a nation depends on their observance oi their treaty stipulations with the United States. They have a national, as well as town government, and haj e found, by the recent experiment, it is efficient to a certain extent. They have put.to death eleven between 16th and 26th April, for murder. I have a communication, directly or indirectly, with every town in-this extensive agency; a daily intercourse with some of the chiefs, and in the habit of rendering acts of kindness .to many. Situated as the agency now is, it is more likely to obtain, and to give correct’ information, than by any other mode. If I find any symptoms of hostility among them, 1 shall apprise you of it without delay. If my fellow citizens on the frontiers will withdraw their intrusions on Indian rights, and be honest, they have but little to apprehend. If they will but only lend their confidence to the officers of Government, and co-operate with them for the public peace and happiness, we should go on very well, and ease the timid mind of a frightiul load.” ... „ Upon a paragraph of a letter from Governor Blount to- W. G. Blount, who, on the.authority of two volunteers, says, they have found three hundred.fresh scalps of men, women, and children, at.Aulotchewau, which proves the hostility of the Indians. I say to the Governor of Georgia, 1 believe you will not take upon yourself to say more than on'e of these was taken from vour frontier during the hist year.’’ I have been under some apprehensions that the Creeks would he involved in difficulties by some of their neighbors hostile to their rights; but these apprehensions were removed by the arrangement of military districts, and placing all military force under an officer of the United States. As soon as I saw this, I commenced reporting the situation of Indian affairs to the commandants of No. 0 and No. 7. I have the honor to be, respectfully,'and with great personal regard, dear sir. your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong, Secretary of War. Colonel Hawkins, Agent for Indian Affairs, to the Bis? Warrior, Little Prince, and other chiefs of the Creek nation. Creek Agency, 16th Jane, 1814. I have received your talk relative to the execution of Auttossee Emautla and son, as prophets or instigators "of the war. You say the white people at the posts will kill you, if you kill the prophets. _ There is a mistake iu this statement. The officers who take prophets and instigators of the war, will keep them prisoners until they hear from the President of the United States; such as is delivered up to them by the Reel Sticks, will be kept in like manner. Those yon take, you will try, and if guilty, punish your own way. Women, children, and others, should be forgiven; The white people have forgiven them. 1 expect Yauholo Cliapco, and Hopoie Yauholo, are prisoners of General Graham, and in possession of his guard; if so, let them alone, tdl you hear from the President. If they are not delivered up, you can hunt them, and all like them, and put them to death. But they would not be near the Fork unless they were delivered up by their party, or by their own consent; and of course, are prisoners to our army. As your corn is now planted, we must begin to look about us. If the enemy are not conquered, we must go alter them again, and follow them up, until we conquer them. It matters not who comes to help them. British or Spaniards; the United States will help us. and we shall be an over match for them. We fight on our own ground, and they are foreigners, who, if they come, it will be to deprive us of our rights. The British have tried us before, wlien we were not half so powerful as we are now, within our recollection, and found us strong enough to defend our rights. You should keep a look out towards the Seminoles, and see what they are about. 1 expect they are friendly to ti.-: we are so to them, and wish them well. If they are going to war against the people who are trespassing on their rights, at Aulotchewau, let them do so; we have no objection to their claiming and supporting their rights. They are Spanish Indians, and if the Spaniards help them with arms and ammunition, we have nothing to object to it. The Spaniards and the United States are friends. If the Spaniards help the Creeks, who are fighting us, they will break the chain of friendship between us, and we must treat them accordingly. I do not expect the Spaniards will help our enemy. They may. as an act of charity, give them something to eat; and this we will do ourselves, and forgive them their past transgressions, if they will apply to our military posts, and deliver up their prophets and leaders in mischief. Since writing the foregoing.-1 received your reports from the Wolf warrior. Tullaupau llaujo, and John Sted-am. It appears the British have landed some men on Deer Island, and are in possession of it. Their talk is perfectly in character with their usual mode of deceiving and using Indians, for their own wild projects of ambition. They come to see if any of the hostile Indians were left alive, and to help them. What is their help lor? To destroy the old chiefs and friendly Indians. They say so. " They do not help them against the United States: they and the United States are to be friends this summer; and if they war against the United States they will he ruined.'’ They have talks for Cussetah and Coweta, and the four nations: what have they to do with the four nations? The British have no lauds here. What did they send Bowles among us for? To shew our women and children how to spin and weave, to plough, to raise hogs, horses and cattle? No! he told you to throw all these things away. Your father, the British king, did not want his red children to work; his white children would work lor them. What did your father, the British, tell the prophets, the beginning of this war? Tecumleli, in the square of Tuekaubatehee, delivered their talk. They told the Creeks not to do any injury to the Americans; to be in.peace and friendship with them; not to steal even a bell from any one of any color. Let the white people on this continent manage, their affiiirs their ow n way. Let the red people manage their affairs their own way. and this, too, in the name of the British. What was the actual meaning of this British talk? Your w hole nation can answer this question. Kill the old chiefs, friends to peace; kill the cattle, the hogs, and fowls; do not work, destroy the wheels and looms, throw away your ploughs, and every thing used by the Americans. Sing "the sung of the Indians of the northern lakes, and dance their dance.'’ Shake your war clubs, shake yourselves: you will frighten the Americans; their arms " ill drop from their hands, the ground will become a bog, and mire them, and yon may knock them on the head with your war clubs. I will he with you with my Shawauese, as soon as our friends the British are ready for ns. Lift up the war club with your right hand, be strong, and 1 will come and shew you how to use it. Has this proved true? Go to the fields of Talletlega, and New-yau-eau, and see them whitened \\ ith the bones of the Red Clubs. Look to the towns, not a living tiling in them; the inhabitants scattered through the woods, dying with hunger, or fed by the Americans. When this was done, the Americans destroyed, your stock, and every thing coming from them, destroyed, how were you to live? Were the British people to work and make food for you? No! the buffalo, bear, elk. deer, turkeys, ducks, wild geese, with dumplins growing on the trees; these were to be your food. Is this true? I will explain to you this talk; its meaning is clear. When you have thrown away every thing in your country, and cannot. live there, go to the British, if you he but skin and bones; they will fatten you; they will feed you for your blood. They want you like blood-hounds for their purposes. As long as you will fight for them, they will give you arms, ammunition, and food. When they are driven from our country, they get on board their vessels, and leave you to be destroyed by your enemy. When the American armies, under Washington, drove the British from this country, what did the British King do for his red children? All you old people can answer this question. I le did not name you iu the treaty of peace, and gave away all the hinds of his red children, this side of the. Mississippi. W hat did W ashington, at the head o! the American people, do for you? Your old people can answer (lie question. He made the treaty ol New York with you, which saved your country, ami sent the plan of civilization among you, to feed and clothe you. When the British want war. they are your fathers, and give you arms and ammunition for blood, in time of peace, you are a set of naked, mangy dogs, not worth their notice. You have done right in keeping to Coweta, as the head quarters of the nation: it is so; and all public business must he done there, till the nation meets and appoints some other place. Invite the Seminole chiefs to come there, and attend to them. They are one people with us. Let the chiefs of Tuttallasee, and Okete Yoeanne come, also, and treat them kindly. They have left us, we did not (have them away. If they have done no mischief, they have nothing to fear; if they have, they must give up the guilty. And, whether guilty or not, they mud be -ale in coming to see and talk with us. Report of Alexander Cornells. interpreter, Upper ('recks Jo Colonel Hawkins. Creek Agency, iUdJune, 1*13. Tustunmiggee Thlucco, (speaker for the nation) and two other chiefs, came to accompany me to meet you on die Kith,as we had appointed. We met at my house. The \ Lit was by order of the Upper Creek chiefs. Me had heard of nothing hostile, from any quarter. Yauholo Cliapco, and his prophets, kept, as usual, their fooleries; and 107'some idle young people repeated what they had heard. Just as we were ready to set out, we heard that' Peter McQueen, and the old lloboheil title Micco had given an ear to these idle tales, and we sent a distinguished messenger to them, Tustunnuggee Hopoie, of'Tuckaubatchee, toknow the truth. They denied any knowledge of them. However, the report coming from other quarters, the speaker returned to Tuckaubatchee, called the chiefs together, and sent a runner to the prophets, notifying them, that, in twelve days, a number of chiefs would be with you, and sent this message: " You are but a few Alabama people. You say that, the’Great Spirit visits you frequently; that he comes in the sun, and speaks to you; that the sun comes down just above your beads. Now, we want to see and hear what you say you have.seen and heard. Let us have the same proof you have had, and we w ill believe what we see and hear. You have nothing to fear; the people who committed murders have suffered for their crimes, and there is an end of it.” The messenger sent was one of the warriors who aided in executing the murderers. They instantly put him to death, and scalped him; and sent his scalp up to the forks of the river, where there was a small collection of followers of the Prophet. They went over to the house of Captain Isaacs, plundered, and burnt it. They executed two of his warriors who aided him to punish the murderers. After this, they gave out they would destroy Tuckaubatchee and Coweta, with every person in them; then kill Mr. Cornells, Tustunnuggee Thlucco, Mr. Hawkins, and the old chiefs who had taken his talks; after this war among themselves, they would be readyr for the white people. They had power to destroy them by an earthquake, or rendering the ground soft and miry, and thunder. The chiefs of Tuckaubatchee called in all their people, and sent for the neighboring towns. Seven of the nearest refused to Oppose the prophets. I was then ordered off to the Lower towns, and to you. 1 called on the Little Prince, who marched next day with fifty of his people, leaving orders for others to follow al ter him, as they arrived. On coming to Cussetah, 1 found them consulting in the woods; and, instead of aiding to suppress the prophets, seemed willing to apologize for their conduct. The prophets denied to them they had killed the men charged on them, and said they made circles, into one of which, reserved for their prophet, they entered without leave, and were immediately seized with madness, and died. Hoboheilthle Micco, the old medal chief, he sent the denial of the murder by the prophets to Cussetah, and directed the Cussetah Micco to send it-to all the towns below him. which he had done. The chiefs are much surprised that the plan of the prophets should have been so long kept a secret from them. They looked on it as a sort of madness and amusement for idle people. But, during this period, it was secretly gaining strength and converts, and where least expected, bursten forth in acts of murder, confident of its strength: and this, too, just after the chiefs had called out their warriors, exhibited the strength and ability of the nation to punish, and had executed eleven for murder. The plan, whatever it is, must have come from the Lake Indians. YYe have not yet been able to find the talks brought from the Prophet of the lakes. The party who accompanied the Little Warrior of VYowocau, (executed as a leader of the murderers at Ohio) went to the Northern lakes; wras carried over them to a British officer, who, in his public talks, which all heard, expressed friendship for the Creeks, and their settled mode of living; regretted his being surrounded with a bad sort of wandering Indians, some of them “ man eaters.” Said he used them in war, but they were so wild, he could not govern them. They warred with every body, as well the British, at times, as the Americans. They would sometimes refuse to go to war; he was afraid of them. Had to find and give them presents. The officer advised them to go home, gave them arms and clothing, and ammunition, and put them'over the lakes back again. After this, Tecumseh, the Prophet, took the Little Warrior aside, and had much conversation with him, which he never communicated to the two lads, the survivors of the party. We now believe the public talk was to deceive the old chiefs, always opposed to war, and that the talk of Tecumseh was the plan for the prophets. It was well known the Creeks were a settled people, and their chiefs occupied in peaceful pursuits; of course, the chiefs were enemies to war. Hence a determination to keep the whole plan secret from them, and let.it mature itself among the opposers of civilization and the young people. From the confidence with which the prophets speak of their power, and the source of it, their ability to punish all who reveal their secret, which they have ways of knowing, prevents the young people from even communicating any thing to their own families. The prophets are, for the present, confined to the Alabamas, who, although of the Creek confederacy, are not Creeks. The towns of the Creeks who are saiil to have taken their talks, have not done it actively; their people are dancing their dances, but no man has moved to assist them. The prophets are enemies to the plan of civilization. and advocates for the wild Indian mode of living. It appears they are first to put to death every chief and warrior- who aided to execute the murderers, then the old chiefs, friends to peace, who had taken the talks of Col. Hawkins, from whom the orders for punishing the murderers came, then Mr. Cornells, because he was the interpreter, and if they could, at the same time, to put Colonel Hawkins to death. But having killed all the others, it he escaped, it would be of no consequence, as then none would be left alive to receive and communicate his talks; and the nation could fix their affairs their own way. After this they would be ready for the white people, who could do them no injury, if they came among them, as the prophets would draw circles around their abode, and render the earth quaggy and impassable. If any Indian towns refused their aid to the prophets, they should be sunk with earthquake's, or hills should be turned over them. They had also the aid of the lightning whenever they wanted. The chiefs sent a guard with me from Tuckaubatchee. being apprehensive for my personal safety; and ordered me to travel by night, till I saw and reported to you. Since they have begun to murder, they give out, Tecumseh is to be here this fall. Having done what I was ordered to do, your judgment will direct for the future. I have directed runners to be sent after us. to let us know what is doing. As I came on receiving information from you that General Wilkinson was on the road, with a guard.coining through. I sent after the Little Prince, to send notice to him immediately, if he heard of any hostility against white people on the road. 1 have done the same to the Cus-setahs. his ALEXANDER + CORNELLS, Public Interpreter. mark. June 23.—Two runners arrived; one to inform us. Tu*keenohau of Cussetah had reprimanded the Micco for his pusillanimous conduct, and gone on with his warriors to help the chiefs; the other, Talmas Haujo, from the ohl chiefs, at Tuckaubatchee. “ The prophets have put to death two more of our warriors; we have about 190 here, and expect more. We are of opinion, if the prophets cannot be crushed, they will bring ruin on us. and war against the. wliite people. We have need of assistance, and we wish you, Colonel Hawkins, to assist us, by joining the white warriors with ours. Yours can come the post road opposite to us; we will then join them, go with our forces united, march on both sides of Alabama, and put an end to these hatchers of war and mischief. By showing them they are both feeble and ignorant, they will be crushed; as neither thunder, quagmire, or the sun, will come to their aid. They can soon be conquered, and those who support them at the lakes, be disappointed in their hopes of war. If your troops are so situated you cannot send them, write to our friend the Governor of Georgia. We hope he will help us, and then we shall have peace. Making peace here in this way, is making peace for our white neighbors as well as for ourselves.” Talmas Haujo, the runner, said, in discussing among the chiefs, the singular and sudden embarrassment of their affairs. they were satisfied, to a man, its source was among the British beyond the lakes.” Captain Snake, one of the prophets, being present when a part of the above was communicated to Colonel Hawkins, and believing, from what he heard, that tire plan was discovered, observed, with warmth. ” the prophets of Alabama had begun prematurely. They were to go on with their magic until Tecumseh arrived, who was to put the plan in motion, and he would come when his triends the British were ready for him.” 24//t.—Communicated the foregoing to the Governor of Georgia. Capt. Carr’s, near Fort Hawkins, 22t/ Jane, 1818. I. by express from Mr. Cornells, have received this information: ” The divisions among the Indians of the Upper Creeks arc coining fast to a crisis. The opposition have attacked Captain Isaacs, one of the chiefs who led the warriors against the murderers of the white families on Ohio. They have killed him,-his nephew, and three more of his party. Mr. Cornells says their numbers are accumulating; and lie is of opinion they will destroy all his property, fie is on his way to see me; expected to be at the agency yesterday, and probably wdl be here to-day.” I expected a meeting of the chiefs at the agency on the 16th, on their own appointment, and on difficulties and embarrassments among themselves, f waited for them till the lOtli. Some of the Lower chiefs informed me, they had appointed some chiefs to go to St. Mary's, to aid the patriots to settle their misunderstandings w ith the Aulotche-wan Indians. The other chief? did not attend. It is not improbable but the opposition will be strengthened by the friends of those executed last year for their crimes, as well as those in April, a? their attack has commenced on the chiefs and warriors who executed the orders of the Executive council. As soon as Mr. Cornells arrives. I will ascertain how far the division? among themselves are likely to affect us. and if it cannot be directed to our advantage, and should it prove hostile, a military corrective must be applied. I write this, for the mail is expected momently to pass. I am. respectfully, dear sir. your obedient servant. BEN JAM 1N H AM KINS. Gen. Armstrong. Secretary of JVur. Near Fort Hawkins, '27th June, 1813. The enclosed communication will exhibit to you a scene of embarrassment which has developed itself suddenly among the Creek chiefs. You see pretty plainly the source and object of this fanaticism. If it could tontine itself to a contest among the chiefs for power, and not interfere with the friendly relations between the Creek nation and the United States.ffit might be policy in us to look on. and let it be settled among themselves; but, as there seems to be another object coupled with it. and that of hostility to us eventually, we must be ready to apply a military corrective in due time. Mr. Cornells w as very desirous of obtaining some aid from us. and has gone on to Milledgeville to visit the Governor of Georgia. I did not object to his going, as it might be agreeable to the Governor to see and converse with him on the communication 1 made him. 1 am on my vyay to the agency, and probably towards the scene of confusion. 1 have just received a letter from General Wilkinson, of the 22d. coming through with his family; he was near McNair’s, 157 miles from fort Hawkins. He had received a message from the speaker of the nation, requesting asli&tancc from him. He has some ladies with him, who will be alarmed, and render his situation unpleasant. 1 have the honor to be. very respectfully, dear sir, your obedient servant. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Gen. Armstrong. Creek Agency. 28th June, 1813. I give you some more information from the prophetic source. *k The rising of all the Indians was not to have commenced at all sooner than the beginning of autumn, nor then, unless the British were ready. But it is probable an order had come on, from Tecumseh.the Prophet of the lakes, to put to death the persons who executed the murderers. to prevent the party being dispirited. 'I hey were not to disturb the travellers on the road, as it might give alarm to the white people too soon." The Alabamas have a pretty good supply of powder. The other Indians badly y.rmed and supplied with ammunition, flic Alabamas-were the most industrious and best behaved of all our Indians. Their fields were the granary of the upper towns, and furnished considerable supplies, by water, to Mobile. But this fanaticism has rendered them quite the reverse. Some of the Shawanese are soon to arrive from the lakes. The Auttossees, lately converted, have driven off their chiefs. They lately said to a halt-breed: You think the white jieople strong and numerous: we shall soon try their strength. Two sons of the late Speaker of the nation apprehended an Alabama lad. and were taking him to Tuckaubatchee. who told them be had seen some of the Shawanese lately coming on. A party of the fanatics saw Them, fired on them, killed one, and released the lad. Such is the degree of frenzy to which some of these people have arrived, that the brother, brother in marriage, and son, of some maniac, actually burnt his- houses and destroyed much of his property. I keep the Governor of Georgia correctly informed of occurrences here, as it may probably be prudent to aid the well-disposed to punish the fanatics without delay, and before their plans are matured, as we now know them. 1 am, respectfully, sir, vour obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong. Tcdoscc Fixico, a runner,from Tuekaulutehee, to Colonel Hawkins. Creek Agency. 5th July, 1813. The chiefs have sent me to state to you that their difficulties continue to increase. Their opponents have killed, in all. nine of their people: one of them a woman. Fooscehaujo, of Auttossee, is missing; supposed to be murdered, as blood was seen in one of his houses. He was a good man, and opposed to mischief-makers. The chiefs sent two of their great men, Tiiskeeiioliau. of Cussetali. and Atehau llaujo, of Coweta, to Ilobolieilthle Micco, oi Tal-kissee, to induce him to have the war sticks and projects thrown aside, and repeated their message. But the old man rejected every thing, declared his determination to persevere until he destroyed all who aided and assisted to put the murderers to death. He looked on them as people of the United States, lie would march from Tuckaubatchee to Coweta, destroy all of them, and move on for the white people, and would not stop till lie had marched toOgeeehee. There he would pause and rest, then put oft’ for the sea coast. All north of this line of march would be destroyed by tbe British, lie bad been plotting this secretly for some time, and now having brought it to bear, he was determined not to stop. He had his bows, bis arrows, and war clubs, and. with the magic powers he possessed, aided by the British and Shawanese. who were now coining from the northwest, and were now more than halfway to him, be was able to crush the Americans, and would do it. The chiefs say they have brought themselves into their present embarrassments by their fidelity to their treaty stipulations with Washington. In giving satisfaction for the murders on the post road, on Duck and Ohio, which it was the duty of their nation to do, they are placed in a war attitude by their opponents. By doing justice to the white people, they are to be punished with death. They have about thirty lit. for war, but badly armed, and without ammunition. They fear not death, although they are in a dangerous situation, and may expect it. The Prophet’s party have burnt the village of Hatchechubbau and several detached settlements, anti destroyed cattle, Imgs, horses, and corn. All who arc friends to the United States are doomed to destruction. This is our true situation: we ask for aid from the white people. If you. Colonel Hawkins, cannot afford it from the troops of the United States, who we hear are towards the sea coast, ask the Governor of Georgia to aid us. If they could send from six hundred to eight hundred mounted men in two divisions, one on the old, the other on the new post road, to unite near the bridges, on Uchee creek, and.then along the mail road, we would join them with two hundred horsemen, point out and attack our enemies. A number of well-disposed Indians would join. \Ye know, when Ibis is done, vye shall conquer them. AVe are willing the lands on Alabama should go to pay our white friends, who. although in aiding us, will effectual!)'aid themselves. AVe have sent to the Cherokees for aid, but know not the success. If we are destroyed before you aid us, you will have, the work to do yourselves, which will be bloody, and attended with difficulties, as you do not know as well as tts the swamps and hiding places of those people. \Ve cannot find that the Spaniards have any hand in this, but can clearly trace it to the British on the lakes. JfYttten as interpreted by .Alexander Cornells, Public Interpreter. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Creek Agency, 6th July, 1813. The enclosed exhibits to you a further detail of occurrences with us. I have informed Air. Cornells and the runner, that 1 can procure eleven rifles, thirty pounds of powder, some lead and flints, on the credit of their annuity, which is ready to their order. A message will go from me, to-morrow, to the principal fanatical chiefs, demanding an explanation of their conduct. I shall communicate every thing to General Pinckney, and to-morrow go for an interview with the Governor of Georgia, in company with General Wilkinson, who has arrived safe, and is on his wav to you. I have advised the council, repeatedly, to order a party to attack and destroy the prophets, without delay, but they seem not equal, in their present state of alarm and confusion, to such an enterprise. They have fortified themselves at Tuckaubatchee, and have seventeen hundred bushels of corn. _ A great number of Indians seem to be astonished exceedingly; alarmed, and timid, at the sudden explosion of this fanaticism. Its boasted magic powers deters them from obeying the calls of their chiefs: and the chiefs, themselves opposed to it, timid, distrustful, and incapable of estimating and resisting its effects, as they should do. Their reports relative to it, of course, cannot be true in all their details. I am, very respectfully, dear sir. your obedient servant. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong, Secretary of War. Creek Agency, 13th July, 1813. Enclosed I send you my demand of an explanation of conduct of the fanatical chiefs,* my letter to General Pinckney, of 9th July,; and the report of the Cussetah king, to whom I sent the demand, to be sent by four of his great chiefs, t had previously ordered him to send off a detachment of his warriors, and hold all the remainder ready to obey the orders of the chiefs. His report shews you the state of things to the 10th. The Wolf warrior is at the head of our Seminole towns. I sent to him and W. Kinnard to go up to aid the chiefs, with their counsels, and they are gone. The fanatical fright seems to subside a little among the Lower Creeks, and all of them, apparently, are again friendly. But some of the Upper towns remain under its influence; and, if they do not explain themselves satisfactorily, and make peace with those friendly to us, it will be proper to furnish the requisite supply of powder and arms to them, to compel the fanatics to deliver up their prophets and leaders in war and mischief. The passage of our mail is suspended for the present. By the expression “ Lower Creeks,” is meant those on the waters of Flint and Chattahoochee; and “Upper Creeks,” those on the waters of Tallapoosa, Coosa, and Alabama. I am, very respectfully, dear sir. your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong. Ji demand on the fanatical chiefs and their associates, for an explanation of their conduct. Colonel Hawkins, agent for Indian affairs, to Hoboheilthle Micco, Peter McQueen, the chiefs of Tallassee, Aut-tossee, Foosee Hatchee, and all other chiefs who have taken the talks of the prophets: I hear you are preparing yourselves for war; I hear you have taken part with the prophets. The prophets have put to death nine people, because they helped the chiefs to save their country, by putting the murderers ot our white friends to death, which they were bound to do by their treaty with Washington. 1 hear you have be,gun the war dance, made your war clubs, and are for war with the white people. What is this for? What injury have the white people done you? You know who 1 am; I have been long among you. My talks have been always for peace, anti they have been the saving of your country. Are you going to divide your nation, and to destroy it? Do you not know the prophets’ talks will be the destruction of the Creeks, and give joy to your enemies? You have threatened the life of my interpreter, and to destroy his property. What has he done? Delivered you my friendly talks. If you do him any injury, you do it to me and all the people of the United States. I never will forgive the murderers of white people, or red people friendly to them. You threaten Kialijee, Tuckaubatchee, and Coweta. What is this for? Speak plain to me. I have ordered four great chiefs of Cussetah to carry this talk, and bring your answer. We can settle things much better now than when you see me with an army. I am now your friend; I shall then be your enemy. You may frighten one another with the power of your prophets to make thunder, earthquakes, and to sink the earth. These things cannot frighten the American soldiers. The American soldiers are now your friends, and 1 hope will always be so. Take care how you make them your enemy. The thunder of their cannon, their rifles, and their swords, will be more terrible than the works of your prophets. If you are friendly, you have nothing to fear. If the white man is safe in your land, you are safe. If the white man is in danger in your land, you are in danger; and war with the white people will be your ruin. Creek Agency, 6th July, 1813. Milledgeviele, Oth July, 1813. Finding the conveyance by mail to you is circuitous, I determined to send this communication by express. The Governor of Georgia will lend to the chiefs, on the credit of their annuity, forty muskets and one hundred and fifty pounds powder: he has no lead. The chiefs are very urgent for some military aid to act with their warriors; and if their ex parte representations are true, they should have it. But these, coupled with the political divisions among themselves, renders them liable to abatement. To judge from the fright among the Indians, and Indian countrymen, they are true in all their parts. As soon as I receive the reply to the explanation demanded from the fanatical chiefs, we shall be better able to judge what is proper to be done on our part. As the nation, generally, are badly armed, and much reliance placed by the opposition on their bows, arrows, war clubs, and magic, I shall be sparing in the supply of arms, although procured with their own funds, until I see they use them with effect; which I am apprehensive they cannot do without the aid of a military force from us. A sincere desire and willingness is manifested by the militia officers in this neighborhood, and on the frontiers, to aid the friendly Indians. The Governor is, of course, ready, on application, to furnish the requisite force. He has powder and arms, but no lead. We have discussed this subject freely, accompanied by General Wilkinson. We know the importance of peace with these people, particularly in the present situation of our affairs, and that war should be avoided, if possible; therefore, if I can prevail on them to accommodate among themselves, I will do so: and, if I cannot, I recommend that a detachment of mounted infantry be sent to co-operate with the warriors of Tuckaubatchee against the Alabama party. Whether you will give orders lor such an eventual movement, or whether you will wait the result of the further expected information, depends with yourself. I shall give you that information as soon as I obtain it. As the chiefs, with the warriors of three towns, are in Tuckaubatchee, and a want of provisions may render their situation desperate, they may require some aid before orders can be received front you. The Cherokees have promised assistance, from one hundred to two hundredj and have been sent for; but, front what I hear, it is probable the messenger was intercepted. I shall return towards the Agency to-day. I have drawn from Captain Cook twelve muskets and rifles, for the people there, which 1 deem sufficient for the present. If indications of hostility should increase, it will be proper to occupy it as a military post. I am, respectfully, and with great personal regard. General Pinckney. With this letter was sent all information received in relation to the subject of it. Cussetah Micco to Colonel Hawkins. Agent for Indian Affairs. Cussf.tah, July 10//?, 1813. Dear Friend: I have arrived from the Tuckaubatchee, and they are in great distress. I have sent two hundred and some odd warriors to their assistance. The talk you sent on to the Prophet man. I sent on with the warriors, to take it to Tuckaubatchee. and try to get it to them from there. I heard they were around Tuckaubatchee. and I sent on my men to get in and save them; and if the enemy fired on them, to return the fire: and if they were for peace, to return again. The Prophet’s men want the Big Warrior, his son. and tiie Mad Dog’s son, Tuskamuggee Hopoie: and ii they only give them up. they would make peace with the nation. The answer is. what is the reason they are killing cattle arid people, when they want only these three men? But they need not try to fool all of us, for they say they will battle with all who take the white people's talk. 1 learn again, that peace is not to be made, until they destroy Tuckaubatchee, Coweta, and Cussetah. The men in Tuckaubatchee are bail off for powder, and. for that reason, they cannot turn out to fight, but keep it until the war-party charges on the fort, to defend it. The war party have taken pow der from two men, that were carrying it into the fort. The war party are strong in powder. It they will not see the talk you sent them, 1 expect it will be the worse for them. The Chattahoochee people have heard the Tame king’s talk. William Kinnard and the Wolf warrior have done all they can to get their people good, when they left them, and these two are gone to Tuckaubatchee. The war talk is gone to the Seminoles, but I expect peace will be made with them and the white people. I have received your talks, and sent them, and you must look for an answer: and if you do not see or hear of an answer in a few days, you may think it is bad times. I hold you as my father: 1 have not forgot the talks you gave me: we were all friends, but it is not so now. I have given all the ammunition out to go and assist my friends. If they don’t make peace, they will fight until all of it is gone, and one party or the other will be conquered. You have sent them a good and friendly talk, and we have done the same. 1 am afraid it will do no good, for them to save their country. I have sent on yours: if they will not receive this talk, we must look for protection. Before we lose the Big Warrior, we w ill all die for him, or get him from them. Perhaps, when the war party see all my men, it may pitta fright on them. and. by that means, take your talk. A great many people, who took the Prophet’s talk, have since thrown it away. Kialijee, to a child, has come to the Big Warrior. The Hillaubee took the talk?, but the Cherokee* turned them, by telling them, take care we do not frighten your children. And they are yet at peace, I expect, for I have not heard from them since. This is the talk that I know, but in a few days I expect to get more. If they will not take the talks, news will come dav and night. ' CUSSETAH KING. John Ward, Public Interpreter. Nimrod Doyell, Assistant Agent. Extract, l-2th July.—Messrs. Doyell and Hood's report. “We have delivered Colonel Hawkins’ talk to the Cussetah king, on the 10th: they all appeared to be very friendly in our presence: we saw two hundred and odd warriors started from Cussetah for Tuckaubatchee. to assist the Big Warrior. They were all well supplied with ammunition, and if they had success, they aimed at. Tuckaubatchee yesterday? they had orders to fight their way into Tuckaubatchee.*’ Creek Agency, *30tb July, 1 =?13. I have not received an answer to the demand I made on the Prophet’s party, to explain their conduct. I have -ent three white men direct to Hoboheilthle Micco. the head of the party, and reiterated the demand. 1 expect they will have delivered it to him this evening: they are to wait two days only, for an answer. They have burnt all the houses at Mr. Cornell's, (a half breed) our interpreter for the Upper Creeks, and taken his cattle, hogs, horses, sheep, and goats. The Cussetah w arrior arrived in Tuckaubatchee the 4th. A spy from the Prophet was with me on the 17th. 11 is object is to ascertain the movements of our troop.': alter examining him. 1 sent him back. But hear- ing afterwards, lie was accompanied by a white man. 1 sent after them, and apprehended the latter—a soldier, deserted from fort Stoddart. The spy said, when Peter McQueen set out for Pensacola, he expressed his apprehensions that the Spaniards, being afraid of the Americans, would not give him powder: he had four hundred dollars. As the Spaniards had demanded back Mobile, and were ol themselves unable to take it. he hoped their friends, the British, would be there to help them, and that, from them, he should get powder. Upon the arrival of a runner, who said he heard the Cherokees were coming to assist Tuckaubatchee. Hoboheilthle Micco. the head of the Prophet’s party, said, I am not at war with any nations of people: I am settling an affair with my ow n chiefs. I am, iStc. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong. Secretary of H'ar. Creek Agency, 36th July, ISIS. The Indians of Tuckaubatchee have all removed, under a guard of Cussetah and Coweta warriors, to Coweta, and in great distress. ! have ordered them a supply nf one hundred pounds of powder, two hundred pounds of lead, one hundred flints, twenty-five mu-ket-s, borrowed from the State of Georgia, and ten rifles, purchased on their annuity. The chiefs say, several friendly chiefs have recently been murdered. The Governor of Georgia lias offered them assistance, and they have sent to him for it. Tins they have informed me of. I have heard nothing from the Governor.. I have ordered the Lower towns to convene the 3d next month, at Coweta. The chiefs having arrived just as the mail was starting out, I can only add, I am. &c. BENJAMIN IIAWKINS. General Armstrong. Creek Agency, 38tli July, 1813. The enclosed communication to tiie Governor of Georgia, will show the result of my deliberate judgment on our Indian affairs. My demand on the hostile Indians, for an explanation of conduct, was offered to them in sight of Tuckaubatchee, by the Cussetah chiefs, with a declaration it was friendly. Yauflco Emautla Haujo, chief of Auttotsee said, ** I will not receive it or any other talk from Colonel Hawkins, or the white people. I am done with him and his talks. Where are you going? You shall not enter Tuckaubatchee." The warriors replied: we are going into Tuckaubatchee, to our chief, for orders, and if you oppose us, we will fire on you. On the second attempt to send a message, direct to the head of the party, on the 13th. they were met by the Cussetah and Cow-eta warriors, who advised their return, as, in the present rage of frenzy, they could not be safe. The Prophet’s party have destroyed, in several places of the Upper towns, all the cattle, hogs, and fowls. They have moved out of their towns into the woods, where they are dancing “ the dance of the Indians of the lakes.” Letecau, a Prophet, eighteen years of age, native of Aubecooche, raised in Alabama, went up to Coosa, with eight young followers, sent an invitation to the chiefs of his native town to come, and witness for themselves, his magical powers. They went, accompanied by a crowd of both sexes. _ The Prophet ranged them in a line on the bank of Coosa river, and directed them to sit down; made his circle in front, and began “the dance of the Indians of the lakes/’ After exerting themselves for some time, the Prophet gave the war-whoop, attacked, and killed three of the chiefs, and wounded the fourth. The others took to the river, swam oyer, went up and recrossed to their towns, collected their warriors, sent after the murderers, and found them dancing. A-chief went into their circle; they knocked him down with their war clubs, and put him to death with bows and arrows. The warriors put the party to death, and scalped the Prophet. They then went to Oakfuskec, a small village, where they had taken the Prophet’s talks, and were dancing their dance, and put them to death. In Oakfuskee, the Prophet’s party killed five chiefs, and destroyed almost all the cattle in town. Mrs. Grayson, invited there by the chief of the town, to teach the women to spin and weave, had much of her stock, her loom, and web of cloth destroyed. She moved to Mil -laubeee, where her husband’s family lived, where she had resided twelve years, taught more than twenty women to weave, and most of those of the town to spin, and where she was .universally esteemed before, was stripped of all her clothing, except the shift and petticoat on her back, and all her cattle and hogs. Mr. Grayson, a worthy Scotch gentleman, her father-in-law, had all his negroes, (seventy-three) and every eatable living thing, taken from him. Kialijee, a peaceable friendly town, in the heart of the Upper Creeks, has been destroyed, several of its inhabitants wounded, and all their hogs, cattle, and fowls killed. Two chiefs, with a party, went out foraging, from Tttckan-batchee. in the cattle range of that town; some hogs and cattle killed, and was in the stench of them for fifteen miles. Josiah Francis, a Prophet, half brother of Sam Macnac, John Macnac, his brother, and Sam’s son, destroyed all his property, and burnt his houses. The declaration of the Prophets is, to destroy every thing received from the Americans; all the chiefs and their adherents who are friendly to the customs and ways of the white people; to put to death every man who w ill not join them; and, by those means, to unite the nation in aid of the British, and Indians of the lakes, against their white neighbors, as soon as their friends, the British, will be ready for them. I ordered the Cussetah and Coweta warriors, if the chiefs should not order them to make battle, and their enemy would not explain, satisfactorily, their conduct, to bring off all the people of Tuckaubatchee, and to notify all in distress to fly to Chattahoochee, and to make a stand at Coweta. Here their women and children were to be left, and their warriors to return and make battle. I had some arms and ammunition for them; an occurrence, unexpected, and not under my control, has prevented it. The Governor of Georgia, actuated, no doubt, by the purest motives, and not recollecting he was acting out of his sphere, was carrying on a correspondence with the chiefs, and, as they say, actually promised them aid. _ As soon as they received this promise, they determined not to make battle themselves, but wait the promised aid. Finding the chiefs in opposition, who availed themselves of this fanaticism, were unable to control it, and having all the information likely soon to be obtained, I last evening made up my opinion. 'I nave not heard from you on the communications on this subject. I am, & c. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Secretary of War. 2d Jhigust, 5 P. M.—I am this moment informed an action has commenced, at Coweta; that two hundred Cherokees had come to the assistance of the friendly Indians. The runner was sent after the women and children, on Flint river, and heard the firing long after he lett the town. Nashville, July 13, 1813. Dear Sir: From a letter received from the Honorable S. W. Campbell, last mail, I am advised that Government has come to a determination to inarch an expedition against the Creeks: the writer further observes, “ that part of the troops will be from West Tennessee, under your command it is presumed; this will afford employ for your detachment, should they still be disposed to be engaged in active service.” From the above, it appears that I may have some part in the contemplated expedition, and from which I take the liberty of giving you my idea on the subject; and. first, it is my duty to make known to you, that the volunteers composing my detachment in the late expedition down the Mississippi, two thousand strong, stand ready at the call of their country, to march at a moment’s warning. There can be no doubt but the Creeks and Lower Choctaws are excited to hostilities by the influence of the British; if so, there is no doubt but we will have to fight the combined powers of both. There is no instance, within iny recollection, wherein’an Indian tribe, or nation, has been invaded, but they united their whole force against the invaders: therefore, in the calculation of the force to be employed by the United States, against the Creeks and their allies, no calculation ought to be made on the division of the nation. The force employed may either unite them or create divisions; if an incompetent force is employed against them, they will be united, and, on the first reverse of our arms in that quarter, we will not only have to fight the whole Creek nation, but the greater part of the Choctaws: if a competent force is employed to ensure success, the Creek nation will be divided, to secure their territory and their property. The scenes in the Northwest is an awful lesson on this subject, to the Government, and to every beholder, and from which we ought to learn, from experience, that the true way to economize is to employ sufficient force to ensure success, and crush all opposition in that quarter at one blow. The question, therefore, wall occur. what force will be competent to the object? Will the number pointed out by the Secretary of War, say fifteen hundred from Tennessse and fifteen hundred from Georgia, with the third United States^ regiment, say five hundred strong, be sufficient force to ensure success, anti crush the hostile Indians and their allies in that quarter? I answer in the negative. If it was intended to barely make an incursion through their towns, burn their houses, destroy their crops, and hastily to return, this force would be more than competent for a flying camp; but I understand the object of the expedition to be different; that is, to crush all hostility in that quarter; this, then, will require fortified places in the heart of the Creek nation, and a military campaign. It is a large calculation to say that three-fourths of any military force will be any length of time fit for service: It will take one-fourth to guard the baggage. &c. &c.; one-half, therefore, of the force ordered into the field may be calculated on to be a disposable force; we can therefore count, with certainty, only on a disposable force of seventeen hundred and fifty men, after a junction is formed in the Creek or Cherokee country. I will hazard an opinion that no military man, impressed with a belief that the Indians are excited to hostilities by the British, and knowing their contiguity tu Pensacola, and the ease with which Britain can land a reinforcement, and co-operate with the Indians, will say that the above force is competent to ensure success. The experience ot the Northwestern armies forbids such a belief; and when any force, that may be required, can be had, I am of opinion that, from three to five thousand from this State, ought to be employed on this expedition; the latter perhaps the better calculation; these, with the third United States’ regiment, anil a brigade from Georgia, would be amply sufficient to drive the Indians and their allies into the ocean; and should the Spaniards give our enemies an asylum in Pensacola, would be sufficient to take possession of that place, cut off all supplies from the straggling Indians, and put an end to hostility in that quarter. . As soon as the expedition is determined on, I shall do myself the pleasure of submitting some ideas on the details of the campaign; the field ordnance necessary : the proportion of cavalry and mounted men to that of the infantry; the point of concentration; the site for a garrison, and depot for provisions, magazine stores, &c. At present I shall close these remarks, by observing that four thousand men can be rendezvoused, in my division, in twenty days from the promulgation of the order. My brave volunteers, two thousand strong, stand ready for the call. I am, sir, with due consideration and respect, ANDREW JACKSON. His Excellency Willie Blount. Creek Agency, 10/A August, 1613. The enclosed report will show you the state of parties with us. The sixteen towns are on the waters of Flint and Chatahoochee; Tuckabautchee is with them. The others are on Coosa, Tallapoosa, anil Alabama. It is thirty miles from fort Hawkins to the Creek Agency; thence, sixty miles to Coweta, the present barrier between the frontiers of Georgia and the hostile Indians. A number of families, in great distress, have tied from the Upper towns to Coweta, and to the agency, where I have to feed them. There were five hundred warriors at Cowet3 on the 5th, w aiting the orders of their chief. The account of the battle is probably true, but the account of ammunition is greatly exaggerated. 1 am, respectfully, dear sir, your obedient servant, BENJ. HAWKINS. The Secretary of War. Big Warrior and Tustunnuggce Ilopoic, head chiefs of the Upper and Lower Creeks, their talks to Col. Benjamin Hawkins, Agent for Indian Affairs. Coweta, 4th August. 1813. Colonel Hawkins, you have requested to know the number of towns that are friendly. There are sixteen towms down Chatahoochee, from Coweta, are friendly: there are sixteen towns have met here: there are a few small villages, which are not come in; when they go out from the meeting we will know their whole strength. The number of men we cannot give any certainty for the present: a great many are sick, which we cannot account for. We have made the broken days to go on an expedition against the hostile Indians. In twelve days from to day, we are in hopes you will be able to join ns here at this place. We have a great many villages down this river and Flint river; and, in that time, we expect to have them all collected. We told you at your house, that w e were in haste; we now send you the appointed time to go on this expedition. We told you to be in readiness, and we hope you are, to accompany your soldiers, as you are appointed to have the care of the Indians; we hope you will be with ns; we wish you to be expeditious. Let your heavy baggage come along, as you have a public road to come in our nation. We are scarce in arms and ammunition; we hope you will bring that along to furnish our people with it: we have told you our distresses and our grievance. We hope you will make all the haste you can to come to our assistance. The war party has nearly destroyed all our cattle: we will not trouble you with a long talk; we talked the whole over at your house; only come as soon as possible. We cannot give you a true account of the strength of the warring Indians; we suppose it to -be at least two thousand five hundred, or thereabouts. There are, in the whole. tvrenty-nine towns and villages of the Upper Creeks has joined the war party; there are but five towns of the Upper Creeks that are for peace. BIG WARRIOR, his + mark. Speaker of the nation. TUSTUNNUGGEE IIOPOIE, his + mark. of Coweta, and head chief of the Lower Creeks. James Dc Rolzeaux, Interpreter pro tern. Nimrod Doyell, Assistant Agent. Written as interpreted. CHRISTIAN LIMBAUGH. Assistant Agent for Indian Affairs, Big TT’arrior to Colonel Hawkins. William McIntosh's, 9 o'clock at night, 4th August. 1813. After our meeting this day, we received information from Hardy Read's wife, which is a red woman of Hoithle waulee; she. is straight from that town, who gives the following information: She saw two white men’s scalps; they were brought there shortly before she left that town. Peter McQueen went to Pensacola to obtain ammunition; as he passed James Cornell’s house, he took James Cornell's wife prisoner oft' to Pensacola; at the same time there was a white man at Cornell's house; McQueen and his party did beat him almost to death, and also a negro at Cornell’s, and went on their journey to Pensacola: now. on their return, they were met by James Cornell and David Tate, and a small party of white people, where the old furrow path turned oil'to Pensacola; an engagement took place; there were five Indians and one negro of McQueen's party killed, and a great many wounded: of Mr. Cornell’s company there w'ere two white men killed, and several wounded: the battle lasted nearly three hours. McQueen’s party kept the ground; his force was three hundred and fifty strong. Cornell's party is not ascertained to be but a small number. It is supposed that Janies Cornell and Tate are wounded. McQueen got Tate's horse. They scalped the two white men and brought them to Iloithlewaulee. Hardy Read’s wife saw the two scalps with her own eyes. She says that Peter McQueen had one hundred horse loads of ammunition, which lie received at Pensacola from the Spaniards. After we had made the broken days, this day this information came on. It is our sincere w ish for you to come on to our assistance in three or four days, if it is only two hundred men, and let the rest of the army follow' as fast as they can. This is the day appointed for the war party to make an attack on us here at this place. We are all under arms, and expect every moment to be all attacked by the warring Indians. BIG WARRIOR. Iris + mark. James Dr Roczeaux. Interpreter pro lem. Nimrod Doyell. Assistant Agent. Written as interpreted. CHRISTIAN LIMBAUGH, Assistant Agent for Indian Affairs. Creek Agency, August ‘23, ISIS. Sir: This department has long been assailed by calumny and misrepresentation; but it has been left to the Governor of Georgia to usurp alt authority of the General Government, except what relates to commerce, as you will see in the enclosed correspondence between us. As he is a man of legal knowledge, he must be operated on by a policy of his own. 1 have, from an intelligent chief, this information: -£ I saw the Little Warrior near the Chickasaws. returning with his party from the Northern Indians. He said he had a talk from Tecumseh to his chiefs, and a letter from the British, lor Pensacola; that when he left Tecumseh, iie told him, as soon as they had taken one fort more from the Americans, which would be some time this summer, lie should come on to join the Creeks. The Little Warrior’s party must spill the blood of white people on their return; and when they delivered the talk to the Creeks, to report the number killed; he said he had killed two families.” The whole party were shy, and I could get nothing further from them. The fort, probably, is Meigs. Mr. Grayson, of Hillaubee (a hostile town of the Upper Creeks) a wealthy Scotchman in the British service during the war of the Revolution, informs me, the Spaniards have given a horse load of ammunition to every town. with a promise of a full supply to be brought from the Havana, of arms and ammunition, to enable them to prose-cute the war with the United States, to be landed on Escambia. The destruction of every American is the song of the day. A chief of a village of the same town informs me, they received a small bag of powder each, for ten towns, and live bullets to each man. He conversed not with the Governor, but Peter McQueen (the head of the opposition) said to a chief in his hearing, the Governor promised a supply of arms and ammunition from Havana, if the Indians went to war with the United States; they must not come to Pensacola, for he would deliver it to them at Miller’s place (up Konecau, forty miles above Pensacola.) If I hear any thing from you by the mail of to-morrow, I shall send an express to the Governor of Pensacola, demanding an explanation of his conduct. The numerous friendly offices rendered my Spanish neighbors, particularly in quelling the hostile attacks on them by Bowles, entitles me to a frank and explicit answer, independent of our treaty stipulations with them. A war party of twenty-three have been out from Coweta, killed three, and wounded one of the hostile Indians, and brought the scalps into the public square; oneother party has taken four negroes from Peter McQueen, and a third party have taken a lad of his family, twelve years old, prisoner. The chiefs continue to solicit the aid of arms, munitions of war, and men. The Big Warrior dreads the conflict, and is much under the influence of fear; he lends a willing car to every frighful tale. I har e ordered them to place their warriors under proper commanders, and send strong detachments out to attack their enemy, a town at a time, and to collect cattle and horses. They have requested me to accompany them, and to take the direction of them; this I shall do, as soon as our stock of munitions of war will afford the requisite supply; and this I should have done ere now, had not the promise of aid, gratis, paralyzed their efforts. I am, very respectfully, dear sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. The Secretary of War, Since writing, I am informed, two parties I ordered out on the 18th, to attack Peter McQueen’s town (Chattuk-chufaule) surrounded it, and found it just evacuated. They left all their property in their tort, and a good deal of salt in their houses; the warriors took the property, burnt the fort, all their houses, and destroyed their corn. Creek Agency, September G, 1813. Sib: The chiefs in opposition are exerting themselves to get the prophets under their control, but without effect. Hitherto, Peter McQueen, and Hoboheilthle Micco, whose town was destroyed by a detachment under McIntosh, have moved to Auttossee, and are there dancing “ the dance of the Indians of the lakes.” Those friendly, are forted at Coweta, ninety miles from fort Hawkins. Four towns are there united, and desirous a detachment of our troops would come forward, and build block houses, “ to keep the ground, and have all clear in front and rear.” They continue to send out detachments, and, to the first of this month, had taken twTo hundred cattle and some horses. Several parties are still out, but more for plunder than war. The chiefs continue excessively alarmed, and under apprehensions some of the Lower Creeks and Seminoles will join the prophets; they meet to day, at Ooseoochee, on this subject. 1 have not received any thing from you to my communications on this civil war. I am, respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong. Sir: Creek Agency, September 13. 1813. From the meeting of Ooseoochee, the chiefs on Chattahoochee and Flint rivers report themselves unanimously friendly to the white people. The prophets have recently killed two distinguished chiefs of Wewocau. Peter McQueen, and Hoboheilthle Micco, the leaders of the opposition, recently sent an invitation to thirteen of the Uppertowns, to come forward with all their warriors, for an expedition against the white people, saying their whole number would be three thousand. Four of the towns, the Fish Ponds, Wewocau, Kialijee, and Hootchoee, answered, they had one thousand one hundred warriors, but were not going to light against the Americans. The prophets were liars. Our chiefs are so much under the influence of fear, I no longer rely on their reports, but with great limitation. We have here, one company of regular troops, under Captain Cunningham. I yesterday furnished the escort of General Wilkinson with muskets, and sent them to fort Stoddart, as a guard to the sub-contractor, who has a pilot for an unfrequented route, and all the letters at this office, and fort Hawkins, belonging westwardly. I am, respectfully, dear sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong, Secretary of War. Creek Agency, October 11, 1813. Sir: . The head quarters of the friendly Indians are still at Coweta. We have some Seminoles, of Miccasooky, near St. Marks; about one hundred have crossed Chattahoochee, and been joined by some Uchees and Creeks of Tut-tallosee. They gave out they were on the way to join the Prophet’s party, for a combined attack on Coweta, and then the white people; the friendly Indians have sent a strong party from five towns to meet them. It is probable they met yesterday; and if their object is as stated, they will be attacked. A chief of the Upper towns informs me, he saw and conversed with a Wewocau chief, who informed him his warriors led the attack on Mimms’s fort, had fifteen killed, and many wounded; there were thirteen towns in the attack, and lost many men, but would not give him their numbers; he rushed up with his party, and got under the port holes of the pickets, and on looking around, saw a great many shot ([own. The prophets told them, in a hard fought battle, they would loose two only; and a very severe one, three at most. One of the prophets led the way, lushed into thefort, to destroy it with his magical powers, and he heard the white people cutting him to pieces with their swords. The friendly Indians have lately taken and brought in some scalps. I am, respectfully, dear sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. The Secretary of I Tar. Creek Agency, September 14, 1813. Sir: As I hear nothing from you relative to the communications I have made you on Indian aftiiirs, I have judged it advisable to have an understanding with myself on my situation here. I have not been concerned directly or indirectly, in commerce, or speculations of any kind, to accumulate money. From all the savings arising from my appointment, I have not made three thousand dollars. I have considered my public standing with the Indians as public property, and to be used as such, under the orders of Government, and for no other purpose; and I believe the period is arrived, when it is essential to that interest. Yet, if the President can lind a man, who can fill this office, in his judgment, more for the public interest or convenience than I have done, he owes it to his high standing, and to me, to send him on; in doing so, he will do me no injury, or excite the least resentment. My friendship for him cannot be greater than it is, ana will never be lessened. I have, and always shall have, entire confidence in the purity of his republican administration, and will co-operate with him, as well in private as public life, with zeal arid fidelity. This department has always been strewed with thorns. It was first assailed by the late Governor Blount and associates, in Tennessee, and the recoil on himself destroyed his public character. It was then assailed by the British, through their agent General Bowles. The Government authorized me to arrest him with a military toree, and to command it, when he was in East Florida. Under an authority vested in me by the chiefs, I sent him in irons to the Governor, General Salcedo, at New Orleans, to answer for his crimes. The calumny which hovered around, and assailed the Indians and their agent, I disregarded, as it originated from base sources', filled by dishonest motives. I am, respectfully, and with great personal regard, Dear sir, your obedent servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong, Secretary of liar. Extract of a communication from the chiefs at Coiecta to Colonel Hawkins. Creek Agency, lGt/t September, 1813. We have a negro, which we will send to you; he says. " he was in Sam Mimms's fort at Tensaw. w hich was taken by the Indians about the 28th August. There were one thousand Indians; they attacked the fort about ten o’clock in the morning, and took it about one o'clock. That Siras, a negro man, cut down the pickets. The Indians lost forty, some ot them saiil fifty. After the battle, the Indians encamped about a mile from the. fort, until next day twelve o’clock, during which time, they were busy hunting negroes, horses, and cattle, and brought off'a great .many. A number of Indians were wounded, and two died on the road. He thinks there were sixty people in the fort. Among the killed, are McGirth, Jones, McCarty, Sam Smith, Dixon Baily, his two brothers, Mnnms and his family, Captain Melton, John Randall and all his family, except Peter Durant, and one of his daughters. These are all the names he recollects. There were a great many he knew not. McGirth's wife and Jones’ wife, and all their children, except one of McGirth's, killed in the fort, were taken, with the reporter, prisoners to the nation. He was taken by Russels, .son of Hoithlewaulee; and a daughter of Mr. Cornells told him to make his escape to her father, and tell him w hat the Indians have done, and that they meant to come to Coweta, after the friendly Indians, as soon as their wounded were better. He further says, about one hundred Indians went into the fork of Alabama, but does not know what they have done. They were going to send a letter to their friends, the Spaniards, to let them know what they have done; he understands the Indian tongue.” Creek Agency, ITth September, 1813. Upon hearing of the escape of the negro, w ho was to be sent on here, I received from Mr. O’Riley, a respectable rosidenter of this country, and the express, the following report: “I had the negro under guard one night, with Messrs lloyel I and Mosely; we examined him repeatedly. Mr. M osely knew him personally; wre were unanimously of-an opinion, the report as made by him is substantially true. He said, he was in Mimms’s house when it was taken and destroyed. An Indian seeing him in the corner, said, count out, the Master of Breath has ordered us not to kill any but w hite people and half breeds. An Indian woman, who was in the house, was ordered out, and to go home. Dixon Bailey’s sister was asked what family she was of? She answered, pointing to her brother, I am the sister to that great man you have murdered there; upon which they knocked her down, cut her open, strewed her entrails around. They threw several dead bodies into the fire, and some who were wounded. Peter Durant and Vincy Randall had left the fort but a short time before the attack, to cross the river, after grapes. He supposes they heard the firing and communicated to the people there. There was much silver money in the house melted and run about, and some dollars blacked only. Jo, and two other of McGirth’s negroes, had been sent up to this plantation, in a boat, after corn, and taken by the Indians, and probably communicated w here the half-breeds were, and the situation of the place. Just before the attack, the men in the fort were sitting in two circles, in the yard, talking what they would do if Indians should come. In this situation, the first they heard, was the war whoop at the pickets. They fired the houses with cotton matches fixed to arrows. Mrs. McGirth, on her way up to the nation, was excessively distressed, and cried out aloud, on being threatened by some of the w arriors, that they would put her to death. She urged then; to do it. as, in the situation of her family, she wished to die. She and Mrs. Jones, with their families, were sent to Wewocau. From the number of wounded, and plundered property, thev were eight days on the path returning, and met no interruption.” ‘ BENJAMIN HAM KINS. Fort Hawkins, 21 si September, 10 A. M. I have a runner from Coweta, who left there on the 19th at 10 P. M. ninety miles from this. The report of the negro is true, in substance; the Indians had thirty killed, and a number wounded. ^ They put all the white people to death in the fort, made prisoners only of some half-breed women and children. The one hundred Indians who went in the fork of Alabama, under Josiah Francis, a prophet, went to a fort, were fired on, had five killed, and retreated. The Prophet’s party are great boasters, which has the effect expected on weak minds. I hope I shall obtain four hundred men to move on to Coweta. The chiefs are very importunate for arms and ammunition. Their warriors are determined to give battle. The runner is one of the last scouts; he saw several trails ol about forty horsemen, which appeal'd to have been waylaying the post road, forty miles beyond Coweta. When their w ounded are recovered a little, they say they shall come there. Dixon Bailey, and all his half-breeds, fought desperately. . Fort Hawkins. 21s/ September. 1813. I received letters from Judge Toulinin, and General Claiborne, of the 13th, 14th, and 15th ultimo, acknowledging the receipt by Congress, of several letters from me to the public officers in that quarter; apprising them of the nostile appearances among the Indians, directing the half-breeds there to unite with their white brethren, and that the people in the fork of Alabama should put themselves into the best situation they could, to resist our attack. In the General’sletter, he details his state of preparation, and closes with saying, “ I only wait orders and the arrival of the 7th regiment, to enter the nation.’’ Under impressions arising from this state of readiness, for offensive operations, 1 received the enclosed account of the fate of the party at Mimms’s fort, which has much the appearance of being true. Yet, how such a party should get there, when there were a great many half-breeds, and negroes, w ho speak the Indian language, and have commissions in the hostile towns, and the party to go to die lowest settlement, and return as they did, undiscovered, and unmolested, is to me a very extraordinary thing. The chiefs, on thereceipt of the intelligence, sent runners to me, and several warriors, for arms and ammunition, ' that they may be able to defend themselves at Coweta, until our army advance. I gave them eight muskets, and what ammunition I had at the agency, and came on here, to obtain some for them; I have sent them 100 pounds powder, and 100 pounds lead. Our powder here, is unfit for service. We hear of some more on the road. I have just seen General Floyd, who appears to be a brave active intelligent officer; 1 told him I should apply for three or four companies, to go with me to Coweta, to erect some block-houses, in aid of the fortifications ot the friendly Indians, and where I would organize a corps of five hundred, to co-operate with our troops. He replied he had, as yet, no orders. We, in fact, are all in the same situation, but must continue to do as our judgment directs, until we hear from you. 108 * A half-breed Uchee, from Pensacola, says: the Spaniards told him to tell his chiefs to quit their hostility to each other, unite against the Americans, and come there; they should have arms and ammunition. Upon this, several Uchees set out, and were pursued by the Ooscooches, robbed of their horses, and told, if any of them dared to go there for supplies, tliey should be put to death. - . 'I have the honor to be, respectfully, dear sir, your obedient servant, ■   . BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Secretary of War. Ckf.ek Agency, ZMh September, 1813. An express mail has arrived from Mobile, in which you have, I hope, a detail of the melancholy occurrence at Minims’s fort, on the 30th ultimo. I have by Mr. Cornells’ express, from the chiefs low down Chattahooche. . “ Notwithstanding the loss the.Prophets have sustained, they express confidence in the successful issue of their plan. Several of their party have lately been down on Chattahoochee, encouraging the Indians, within a nr} without our limits, to join them; and urge an immediate junction of all their forces, for an attack on Coweta, which was determined on by the Prophets, and to take place on Friday next. They are determined, if they can, to destroy Coweta, and Tuckaubatchee, in terrorem. After that, they should go towards Savannah river, andwere determined to give Colonel Hawkins a chace and take him, unless he was on a fleet horse, before he got there. Whilst they came this way, the British were to attack New Orleans, and Mobile, and probably Savannah; they boasted much, ami declared the inability of the white people to light them in (be field, or from their forts; boasted of the immense slaughter they made at Mimms’s fort, and quantity ol property taken in that expedition; if'the red people would unite, nothing could withstand them: and those who would not join, were to be put to death, and this was (he last warning (hey were to have. The chiefs of Eufaulau, having made this discovery, gave notice to Coweta, they should be with them with their warriors, and those of four other towns; and if they could gel ammunition, would make common cause with them and their white brethren. They directed that Mr. Cornells should be sent off immediately to Colonel Hawkins, with this information; and added, if our white friends can come soon, the Indians,pnboth sides of our line of limits will join them, and if delayed, they, from their fears, will be compelled to join the Red Clubs.” I have apprised General Floyd of similar information received, direct-froin (he hostile Indians, and of the necessity to arm a detachment to Coweta. He informed me he had,sent to the Governor of Georgia, for orders, and as soon as a movement can be made with a part of the troops, lie shall send them to a situation between the agency and the enemy. The information I received to day goes also by express to him. I am, respectfully, dear sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. The Secretary qf War. Creek Agency, 30th September, 1813. Since my communication of the 26th, I have received something further, which you ought to know. When the war party went to Pensacola, they informed the Governor of the object of their visit; they had 4,800 gun-men. Their plan first was, to force their own nation to join them, and then to make war upon the Americans, and the Spaniards must assist them. The answer was: “ We will supply you with some arms and ammunition, and if the Americans should prove too hard for you, send your women anti children here, and I wiil send them to the Havana; and if you should be compelled to fly here yourselves, and the Americans should prove too hard for both of us, I shall have vessels enough to take us all off'together.” They received 25 small arms, in addition to what has been stated of ammunition, and after the attack on these by the half-breeds and people of Tombigby, they came home and appointed twenty days for an attack on Coweta. But the families of the killed and wounded, and. those who were plundered of the. Governor’s present, forced the leaders to change the attack to that of the half-breeds and their assistants. On the way down they were informed the former were at Miinms’s fort, and the latter at a fort in the fork of Tombigby, and they directed their attacks accordingly. The following thirteen towns, furnished warriors for the expedition: Hoithlewaulce. Fooschatchee, Coolooma, Ecanhutkee, Sauannogee, Mooklausan, Alabama, Hookchoiooche. Ocheubofau, Wewocau; Pucciintallauhassee, Woccocoie, Pochusehatche. Three towns, Oakfuskee, Tallassee, Auttossec; formed a front of observation towards Coweta, to conceal the movement. Three towns, Thlotlogulgau. Eufaulau, Kialijee, remained neuter. When you are ready to move, I will give you a topographical description of the country. Since writing the foregoing, I have a runner from Coweta, who left there yesterday. Three men from Eufaulau, and three from Kialijee, came in with a flag, from whom the most interesting part of the enclosed was obtained; (that an attack on Coweta was determined oil, to take place on or about the 1st October.) Mr. O’Riley, the express, is an intelligent old man, speaks the Indian tongue, and attended the examination of the bearers of the flag. What wasobtained from them, was corroborated by a negro from Coolooma, and from various other quarters. The Uchees having fled to the Prophets, the friendly Indians sent eighty women and boys to gather in their corn. The boasted power of the Prophet to take American forts with bows and arrows, to know the secrets of their enemies, and their determination to put to death every red man who does not join them, has given to many much terror, which nothing but the presence of our army will remove. .They say they want now to see uS with our wagons well loaded, that they may enrich themselves with the plunder. The Master of Breath has permitted a con-' quering spirit to arise among them like a storm, and it shall ravage like a storm. Their number is 2,500, without the newr converts. I request you to communicate this to the Governor, and any thing else I may send you interesting to him to learn. ■ I am, sir, &c. < B. HAWKINS. General Floyix Creek Agency, 3d October, 1813. The hostile Indians appear very active. From concurrent testimony from various quarters, they meditated an attack, yesterday or to-day, on Coweta. I am apprehensive Tombigby is again to feel, or the upper frontier of Georgia will soon feel, the force of their fanaticism and murderous warfare. The friendly Indians have done all they can, hitherto, by their concentration of force on Chattahoochee, extending strong patrols up that river, and foraging as far as Tallapoosa, to keep them off' from our frontiers,until our armed force collects and moves on. But now, believing they have to contend for their existence, they have called in all their patrols but those in front of their enemy. Uchee had fled from their old town, and has joined the prophet, through terror. The friendly chiefs have sent a party who destroyed their towns, and removed every living eatable thing belonging to them. I wish you would send out a box of muskets, fifty pounds good powder, one hundred pounds lead or bullets,' fifty flints, and some cartridge paper. I wish to be prepared for events, as well as we can. If the friendly Indians are routed from Coweta, or, Item necessity, constrained to come on terms with their enemy, the latter will certainly be on us, and attempt to verify their threats against the frontiers of Georgia. I have hoped, till lately, we should have no fighting on this side Chattahochee, as I expected we should move on to support the warriors there.' By this want of orders, changes my opinion'. I am, &c. Captain Cook, Commanding fort Haivkins. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Cheek Agency, 4th October. 1813. Tuskeenehau, one ot the executive council, and the second man of all the Lower Creeks, is come to see me to communicate more correctly what has been obtained by the flag, and what they have further discovered. The hostile Indians were drinking their war physic, (their boosketau) making their war food, and had appointed the day for their movement, and runners were passing night and day among them. The invitation was in these words to all the Upper towns: “We have had a successful enterprise westwardly.' We now point our course to the east, after red and white people. We shall destroy Ooseoochee and Cussetah, and then surround Tuckaubatchee and Coweta. Their destruction is certain, and will detain.us but a short while. We then take the post road, enter Georgia, ravage all before us, out round by the Hog mountain.’'Hoboheilthle Hanjo, of Thlotlogulgau, answered, by two runners, “ My town’s people are, sonie of them, foolish, but they have not killed me and other old chiefs, as many of you have done: and we are determined not not to kill red and white people, l our prophets said, that in battle you would not lose more than two men: if a severe battle, three at most; and you have lost*much blood by listening to them.” To this there has been no reply. The war party have killed several of the negro men captured at and near Mimms’s fort. Two of our patrols have come in, who went up to Ilillaubee, in a line between the Hog mountain and the hostile Indians. They saw about one hundred; fifty of them with bows and arrows only, and took some of their horses. They took charge of a letter from Mr. Grierson, which is expected here to-day, and will, probably, give very interesting information. 1 believe all the regiments arrived from Hartford to Hog mountain, on the frontiers, should be apprised of the threats of the hostile Indians. I was in hopes all our fighting would have been at, or west of, Chattahochee; that we should have joined and co-operated there with the friendly Indians, and fought westwardly. Rut I am apprehensive, from delays, inseparable from your situation, and the celerity of the hostile Indians, it will be brought to our doors. lam. respectfully, dear sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Floyd. Creek Agency, 4th October, 1813. The three enclosed letters will shew you the hazardous situation of affairs among us. 1 can hear nothing from you. If our friendly Indians are overpowered at Coweta, and the uplifted tomahawk, with the war whoop, is to move the army near foil Hawkins, they will soon have it. I shall send the return express to Mobile, on the arrival of the mail expected the 6th. I am, respeetfullv. dear sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong. Nashville, October 15th, 1813. Sir; I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your interesting letter to me of the 15th September, by last mail, prior to the receipt of which. I had been informed, through various correct channels, of the hostile intentions of a portion (probably nine tenths) of the Creek Indians, and that Government had determined to chastise them. I had also received formal information from the Creek agent, of their intention to invade this State, as well as the State of Georgia, and the Mississippi territory: that they had actually attacked fort Minims, that they had taken it, and had spared neither man, woman, or child; after which, that they had broken up the once flourishing settlements on the Tombigby and Mobile rivers; that the people there had fled from their homes to the forts, and that the Indians were in full possession of that fine country, laying it waste; that they were living on the crops and stocks of the farmers there; that a large body were approaching the frontier of this State; that a like force had set a time for the invasion of Georgia, and, that a similar one was actually on the march to invade the county of Madison, which information had caused a large majority of the population of that once flourishing settlement to abandon their farms. All the above information was possessed, and as many as three applications made, by express, in one day, from the people of Madison county, and several from the settlers on Tombigby. requesting that this State would afford them aid to repel approaching invasions, which they had every reason to believe would be made by the Creeks, before I had obtained the necessary authority to provide the means for the supply of a competent force to repel invasion, or was at liberty to afford our suffering neighboring settlements the aid they had so repeatedly solicited. Such a state of things gave me sensations which I have not language to describe; and such as 1 hope never again to experience. The moving causes which lead to the prospect of so much depredation, were not, as I believe, so fully understood by the President at an early period of those commotions among the Creeks, as they now’ are; but I had very satisfactory evidence, to my mind at least, that the above mentioned movements of the Creeks were planned and excited by the British, and Pensacola Spaniards, who. as there is reason to believe, have, for a long time, and from time to time, recently, supplied, and are now supplying, those Indians with arms, with munitions of war, with presents, and promising them future supplies, thb better to enable and encourage them to disturb the whole southwestern frontier of the United States, which frontier relies mostly on Tennessee for immediate aid, in such cases ot emergency: which evidences of their conduct have been, as they were received here, transmitted without delay to the War Department, for the information of Government, so as to apprise the President of the plans and machinations of our enemies, and hoping to be enabled, through his orders, prepared, not only for defence, and to repel invasion, but to assist iii teaching these savages, of all colors, the impropriety of their conduct, by subduing them, in a great measure, before the coming in of w inter, when, my calculation is, that the British will make a bold attempt to spread desolation through the Southern States, through the medium of their fleet, and by their emissaries, and to commit, with the aid of those Creeks, Spaniards, &c. S:c. depredations on the whole southwestern frontier. This has been my impression of their views, thinking that the Canadas would, in considerable part, be ours before the severity of winter sets in. and. if so, believing that the British would, in that case, change the seat of war, during winter, from the northeast to the southwest, where, from the difference in climate, and irom the present exposed situation of our extensive frontier, they might hope to operate more successfully, lrom that time, than in struggling for the repossession of Canada, which, if once ours, with good management on our part, they never can again possess. We see that the British Government is increasing their naval armament for the American coast; what is it for but to effect, if they can, something of the abovementioned kind ? 'Phis has been my course of reflection since the disturbances among the Creeks took rise, fully believing, as I do, that the much formerly talked of civil war, said, by the agent, to be raging among the Creek Indians, and his opinion that that nation was pretty equally marshalled against itself, in that trying contest, which I never thought them seriously engaged in, so as to produce the destruction of either paVty by the violence of the other, was altogether fudge—a mere tub for the whale—thrown out by the hostile party of the Creeks, through the contrivance and suggestion ol the British and Spaniards at Pensacola, as a blind to the credulous, who are too apt to believe every idle talc they hear. It is not reasonable, under all circumstances, as they relate to the supplies of those Indians, to suppose the contrary; for, certainly, the British, who have it in view to do all the injury they can to the United States, count more largely from the expenses they are at, upon receiving greater aid through the.exertions of the Creeks, and from some ot their emissaries and followers near them, than such as would grow out of a civil war between parties in that nation, created and fomented by the British, to serve themselves. To use best exertions to render this section of the Union safeaiul secure from foreign and neighboring intrigue and invasion, as well as from domestic insurrection: to render our frontier settlers secure at their homes; to promote the growth and prosperity of it. in all laudable ways; and to guard, as much as possible, against any mischiefs we might, through neglect, experience from such invasions, &c. as might be made by the Indians and their aiders and abettors on our borders, whose movements have, tor a long time, been secretly planned and directed by our enemies; has, and ever wHI, afford me pleasure: a pleasure felt, just in proportion to my regard for independence, and in proportion to the abomination, indignation, and resentment, I feel against workers of iniquity, levelled at the destruction of the best of Governments, administered by men of our own choice, and, of course, by such as we confide in. The American People are composed of too pure materials; they feel too much self respect; they are influenced in their conduct towards other Powers by too strong a sense of justice; they have too noble pursuits in view, both morally, religiously, and politically, to permit theipselves to be.insulted with impunity, or to sutler their country, which is the only known asylum for freemen, to be overrun, or to have their peace and their holy altars disturbed long, by savages or by their allies. I entertain the hope and belief, that the administrators of our Government are actuated by, and that they possess too.high ideas of, the value of national honor and interest; and that they feel too ardent a desire for the general improvement of the face of the country inhabited by the hostile Creeks, and that they feel too little inclination, after knowing the present and the past conduct of these people, to permit their longer residence thereon, whereby they impede the growth of this section of the Union, so important to the United States, and which looks up to the Government for the use of those natural channels, leading through that tract of country, as outlets for our redundancies, arid as inlets to many .comforts, to consent to their continuance there any longer than they can be ousted by our arms. Therefore. 1 persuade myself to believe, that, in the course of the coining fall and winter, that the Creeks will be not only whipped, but that the Floridas, from whence they derive their counsel and support, to mar our frontier, will-be ours. That Tennessee will cheerfully aid in the well doing of the first, with the,hope that the latter will follow, tinder the order of our Government, as a necessary consequence; whereby, to effect the future security, and to promote the prosperity of the Southwestern section of the United States, five thousand men, and upwards, from this State, are under marching orders against the hostile Creeks and their coadjutors. They are to be joined and aided by some thousands from Georgia, now embodied at fort Hawkins, and to act separately, or in concert, with the regular troops there. If those troops do their duty, of which fact I have no doubt, they being brave and well commanded, they, in conjunction with the forces under your command, together with the people south and west, may, tinder the regulations of Government, soon become the cultivators*ot the rich soil, which they may. in that time, soon become possessed of by their valor; and they will thereafter enjoy the blessings of the mild Government of the United States, now only partially spread over that delightful tract, at this time inhabited by savages, and which is now the thoroughfare leading to the interruption of our peace, through the machinations of the British and their Pensacola allies, enforced by those deluded and turbtG lent Creeks, and those who take up arms, and co-operate with them. To aid in bringing about such a change for the better, Tennesseeans, at the call of Government, will turn out by the ten, twenty, and thirty thousand, or more, in addition to the five thousand now in motion. These objects once effected, each southern and western inhabitant will cultivate his own garden of Eden, and will, through the natural channels placed by a wise and just Creator, convenient for his use, export his own produce, and import such comforts as he may think desirable,’by the shortest routes of communication with, the ocean. And, moreover, he will be no longer disturbed, either by the British. Spaniards, or Indians. Until those objects shall have been effected, the Western people, who live plentifully anti well, will be, as they now are, cramped in their trade and intercourse with the Atlantic world; and desirable general improvement at their homes, and in the vicinity thereof, will be retarded, to the injury, not only of the Western population, but the growth and prosperity of this best part of the United States, will be kept on the back ground of improvement, which Government heretofore has only submitted to, for the preservation of peace, which is now broken by the enemy. I have ever viewed the possession of West Florida, by the United States, and the settlements on Tombigby and Mobile, as the beginning of gieat benefits to this section of the Union, both in a national point of view, and as leading towards individual enjoyments to be experienced by the people of the West, as the channels of rivers lending from this to that quarter, are plainly in onr view; this being the fact, together with an ardent desire, universally felt here, to contribute every aid in our power towards affording those suffering fellow-citizens on those rivers, relief from savage pressure, the best means of this State have been put in motion, to effect-so desirable an object as would be the expulsion of the enemy from that quarter, to the end, that the condition of that important tract of country may be bettered, and that those worthy, but_ suffering people, may return to their homes, to rationally enjoy the comforts of life, as all Americans should be privileged to do. The march of the troops from this, thither, has only been retarded by the common attendant difficulties in getting the necessary force supplied for a inarch of at least four hundred miles, and in making arrangements to repel meditated invasion of the State, and for a campaign against the Creeks. I trust, however, that you will very soon be relieved by the troops now on their march to the Toinbigby settlements, from this State, which have lately been put in motion, under the very laudable provisions of an act lately, almost unanimously, passed by the General Assembly, for tin- purpose of providing for the repulsion of invasion, aiding the Mississippi territory, and for chastising the hostile Creeks in their nation. The meeting of the General Assembly at so important a crisis, (remote as we are from the seat of the General Government) with their prompt and patriotic attention to the promotion of the public interest, by providing, in anticipation of the wishes of the Government, the necessary means for the preservation of the thinly settled and much exposed extensive frontier, lias seemed, to me, like an occurrence and measure provided by providential interference, in behalf of those most exposed to savage depredation. For this patriotic act of the Legislature, they deserve well of their country. Before the passage of that act, there existed no legal provision here for supplying troops called out to repel invasion, whilst in service, neither was there any authority vested in any person here, to afford aid to the people of your territory, against attacks by the enemy, and, of course, no provision made for affording supplies to such forces as were disposed voluntarily to go to your relief, on their own expenses: some hundreds of whom were actually in motion tor that purpose, before the passage ol the abovementioned act. The constitutional authority vested in the Executive of a State, to call out the militia under circumstances not admitting of delay, to repel invasion, there can be no difference of opinion about, so far as relates to the right to call a competent force out; but the power to call men into service availeth but little, without the legal provisions necessary to afford the troops, thus called into service, supplies. Such legal provision was not made here before the passage of that act, and I had received no instruction from the General Government on the subject of supplies; hence, the passage of some such act was indispensably necessary for the preservation of, not only your frontier, but for ours also; without it, the frontiers generally would have been abandoned by the settlers; hundreds, and, perhaps, thousands, would have been ruined, belore instructions could have been received from the War Department; for, although the hostile disposition of one portion of the Creek Indians, against the other, was known at the seat of Government to exist, the information there probably went no further than to induce a belief of the necessity or propriety of breaking the war party down, by affording relief to the peace party, which was considered to be equal, or nearly so, in number and strength, to the war party. Information of the contemplated invasion of the States of Georgia. Tennessee, and of the Mississippi territory, by the Creeks-, and their having obtained supplies from Pensacola, to enable them to act effectually, I presume, had not reached the President, prior to the latter end of August; about which time, such information was sent from this, ami before that, the probability of such being the fact was suspected, and an opinion to that effect offered. The invasion would, before this, have been made on this State, no doubt. Lad the Governor of Pensacola been ready to have acted as he wished. He was not ready as soon as lie expected to be, and he sent runners from Pensacola, into the Creek nation, with information to that effect, requesting the Creeks to delay their attacks a short time, until the British should send on the supplies from the Bahamas, as promised, and on the atrival of which he should be ready. Since the runners started to the nation, the supplies have arrived from the Rahaua islands, at Pensacola; hence we may expect very shortly to hear of their being in motion; but I trust, before they rill do much mischief, that they will be taught the value of the friendship of the United States, and to regret that any of the Creek nation was at Winchester’s defeat; and further, they may be taught to regret listening to the counsel of the British, given at the river Raisin, at that defeat, and that any of them ever carried a letter from a British genual in Canada, to the Governor of Pensacola, requesting him to arm the Creek Indians for war against the United States. The Little Warrior, a Creek chief, who headed the party which killed a number of white persons, near the month of the Ohio, last spring, was the bearer of such a letter; when the Little Warrior was killed in his nation, the Governor of Pensacola sent a messenger into the nation with instructions to go to the place where lie was interred, to dig his body up, get the letter, and carry it to him. The Little Warrior had left the letter in the hands of his family, and a party ol Indians, shortly alter his death, carried it to the Governor, who, in June or July, furnished the Creeks with ammunition at Pensacola, knowing the use they intended to make of it. They held a war dance at Pensacola, and avowed their determination to go to war with the ^United States. They have since destroyed the settlements on Tombigby. and by their threats of invasion, the county ol' Madison lias been almost depopulated. Thus do our Spanish neighbors, under British influence and Creek Indian alliance, act in' secret, as they think, towards the United States, w hilst they openly profess to be at peace. Such conduct, w hich is known to our Government before this, cannot long remain unpunished. The United States can have no use for such hollow-hearted, mischievous, war-dancing neighbors, in time of peace. May the language ol a certain psalm shortly be applied to the Governor at Pensacola, and may his successor hold his appointment under the authority of the United States, is the earnest desire of all here who know the above mentioned facts. Delay might produce evils to the citizens of the United Slates, w hich would be incurable. I have the honor to be. verv respectfully, your obedient servant, WILLIE BLOUNT. Brigadier General Thom vs Flournoy, United Staten' .Army. commanding ~th Military District. Fort IIawkins, 19th October, 1813. The friendly Indians attacked the Vcliees, killed three of them, destroyed all their houses and provisions, with the loss of two horses killed and two wounded. The Seminoles retreated back towards Miccasooky, near St. Mark’s. The war party were concentrating their force at Tuckauba tehee, to move on eastwardly, and against the friendly Indians at Coweta. We are nearly one thousand strong there. Terms of peace have been offered Coweta: “Give up four chiefs who are named, and join us against the white people, and we are friends.” Peace with them, on any terms, is refused, unless under authority from the President. 1 have ordered the Indians to take sides; all w ho are not for the chiefs are hostile, and will be treated accordingly! There is to be no neutrals; the evidence required of their having joined the chiefs is to give battle to the adherents of the Prophets. ‘A detachment of about four hundred well looking, well provided, and orderly men, of the militia army, have crossed Flint river, at’the agency, and are fortifying there, and detachments will move on as they are ready. I arrived here yesterday, and shall return to-morrow to the agency. 1 have, an assistant and interpreter constantly with the friendly Indians, and 1 keep General Floyd informed of every occurrence. 1 am,'respectfully, sir. your obedient servant, Geri. Armstrong. BENJAMIN IIAWKINS. Creek Agency, October 23d, 1813. The uncertainty of passing with safety, induced ms to detain Mr. McGirt till this day; 1 have directed Mr Limbaugh the I). P. M. to make.up a return mail in a pair of saddle bags, to go by him. The disaster which befe the party at Minims' fort, was to retaliate the attacknuadc on the party returning from Pensacola. As soon as Peter McQueen returned home, twenty days were broken for an attack on Coweta, and the warriors convened, it being a primary object with the fanatics to unite the nation. But the families of the killed and wounded, and those who were plundered of the Governor's present, forced the leaders to change the attack to that of the half-breeds and their assistants. On the way down, they were informed the former were at Minims' fort, and the latter at a fort in the fork, and they directed their attacks accordingly. The friendly Indians still have their head quarters at Coweta; the hostile Indians on the waters of Tallapoosa. Coosa, Alabama, and Cahawba. The latter generally are out of their towns embodied at their respective towns; ready to move at short notice. General Floyd has about two thousand five hundred men in readiness, and entering the country; a detachment lias crossed Flint river at the agency, and are fortifying a depot for provisions; we have about six hundred here. Our movement from this quarter, combined with that ol Tennessee and Mississippi territory, will render ihe campaign decisive in our favor. As the communication between us will be uncertain for some time, will consider what 1 send you as common stock, among ihe public affairs. I have paid, as you authorized, fifty-five dollars and fifty cents to your expresses, and have to pay for his expenses. This will be charged to the post office. I am. very respectfully, dear sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Judge Toulmin. Creek Agency 25tb October, 1813. The head quarters of the friendly Indians continues at Coweta. Several detachments of them are hovering on the borders of their opponents. The speaker of the nation, and chief of the Lower Creeks, visited me the night before last, and go on to General Floyd. 1 sent» public interpreter with them, and shall follow after them to-morrow. Their object is to have an understanding with him, relative to their co-operation with him, and to explain fully the intention of their country and affairs. " We have here about seven hundred men, and the army will be on as soon as they can get beef. 1 am, respectfully, vour obedient servant. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Secretary of War. The following is a transcript of a letter from General Thomas Pinckney to Colonel Benjamin Hawkins, which, pursuant to the requisition of the chiefs and warriors of the Creek nation, I direct to be sent to the President of the United States, duly certified, upon the suggestion to the said chiefs, that my powers do not extend to embrace, by treaty or capitulation, the promises contained therein. ANDREW JACKSON. Major General Commanding. * Head Quarters, sixth and seventh Districts, 7 Camp, Confluence of the Coosa and Talapoosa, 23d .April, 1814. 5 Sip.: The complete success with which it has pleased the Almighty to bless the arms of the United States, in the present war with the hostile Creek Indians, having amply retaliated upon these infatuated people the loss of blood sustained by the citizens of the United States, and by tlmt part of the nation who remained faithful to them; and their insolence, ingratitude, and perfidy, having been severely chastised; the Government of the United States, willing to spare the dispersed remnant of these miserable people, who may be sincerely disposed to atone for their former misdeeds, by their future good conduct; you will lie pleased to communicate to them the following terms, upon which peace will be granted to them. The United States will retain so much of the conquered territory as may appear to the Government thereof to be a just indemnity for the expenses of the war, and as a restitution for the injuries sustained by its citizens, and the friendly Creek Indians. The United States will retain the right to establish military posts and trading houses, and to make and use such roads as they may-think necessary, and freely to navigate all the rivers and water courses in the Creek territory. The enemy must, on their part, surrender their prophets, and such other instigators of the war, as may be designated by the Government of the United States*, and they must agree to such restrictions upon their trade with foreign nations, as shall be established by the Government of the United States. You will please, sir, to communicate these terms to the friendly Indians, and to enjoin them in the prosecution of the war against such as may continue hostile, to abstain carefully from injuring those who may be returning, .with the intention of making their submission. You may likewise inform them, that the United States will not forget their fidelity, but, in the arrangements which may be made of the lands to be retained as indemnity, their claims will be respected : and such of their chiefs as have distinguished themselves, by their exertion and valor in the common cause, will alsorreceive a remuneration in the ceded lands, and in such manner as the Government may direct. You null please, sir-, to take such measures as you may think expedient to communicate the above terms to the hostile party, and to point out the roads whereby they may approach the posts of the United States to surrender themselves, which roads you will also please to designate to the friendly party. The calamities of the war having reduced many of the women and children of the nation to the utmost distress, for want of subsistence, the United States will furnish provisions for them at the posts to which it can be most conveniently conveyed. 1 have the honor to be, very respectfully, sir. your most obedient servant, THOMAS PINCKNEY. Colonel Hawkins. Agent for Indian Affairs. ■ . Fort Toulouse, 25/A April, 1814. The'terms upon which peace would be granted to the deluded adherents of the prophets, as communicated to me in yours of the 23d, I have delivered to the chiefs now with the army. I told them an answer was not expected from them. They, would receive it only as information, and must co-operate with us by communicating it to the hostile party, by every means in their power. As they had a perfect knowledge of the country to which the enemy were retiring, they must apprise me of the paths they deemed proper for them to approach, and military posts to surrender themselves. Yesterday the chiefs.informed me, in their opinion, the path on the northwest side of Alabama, would be eligible for the Alabamas, to report, themselves opposite the site for the fort; and those going towards Konocau, should report themselves at fort Decatur, coming the Pensacola path to Tuckaubatchee, or tlie post ro&d to its neighborhood, to branch off as-the path directs to the Red Warrior's crossing fence, just above us.   The chiefs directed Mr. Cornells to inform me, that they did not believe the hostile Indians were ready for peace, although a part of them had suffered so severely in battle against our armies. They were proud, haughty, brave, and mad bv fanaticism. Those of the towns on Talapoosa, below Tuckaubatchee and Alabama, had suffered the least, although they were the most culpable; and it was probable they would mistake our object in offering terms of peace to them. The friendly Indians had no confidence in any promises they might make until a great part of them were destroyed. The friendly Indians, as soon as they had put their families down to planting their fields, would be ready tojoin, and co'-operate with our armies in such manner as you may direct, and believed, with but little aid, would be able to destroy their enemy, and their fanaticism. I replied, blood enough had been spilt, and if the terms ottered were not accepted, the war, of course, would continue. They must try such means as were in their power, to apprise the enemy of them; and that every one of the warriors must aid; which, of course, woul,d soon enable us to determine on the course to be pursued. . ] I have the honor to be, very respectfully, sir, vour obedient servant. BENJAMIN HAWKINS.'Major General Pinckney. Creek Agency, Junelth, 1814. I was most unpleasantly situated in this country, from the commencement of the civil war, among the Creeks, until the arrrival of General Pinckney, from the entire silence of the War Department, upon communications made from' hence. The policy of Governor Mitchell, claiming and exercising an interference in the management of Indian affairs, allowing the General Government the regulation of (heir commerce only; his furbishing.a map, and appointing a guide and interpreter for the army, totally incompetent to the duties of either, and disliked by the camp; the army of Georgia, a fine and powerful one, thi ee thousand men, five hundred of them cavalry; in fine order, and all of them lull of ardor, anxious and solicitous to be led against the enemy, having an open country, a fine road, bridges, and flats, to the heart of the nation, under a misguided policy to be kept inactive until their usefulness was destroyed by inaction, discontent, the camp rot, and home-sickness; the General, unmindful of his being an officer of the United States, to come into the agency, and acting without consulting the agent, accepting of his services tendered in writing, or receiving from him guides, interpreters, and a map of the country; his leaving a public interpreter I sent him, raised from infancy to manhood, in Auttossee, at fort Mitchell, when he marched to attack the Indians at. Auttossee, his defeat there, and subsequent events not necessary now to detail. The arrival of General Pinckney, his correct, intelligent, and dignified deportment, the splendid victories of. General Jackson, and a new army, acting purely on national principles, has changed the. face of things. The friendly Indians have entire confidence in the justice of our Government, and the hostile ones have sought, and are seeking, safety in its clemency. I have kept General Pinckney correctly informed of every occurrence, and executed with promptness whatever he required of me. I have received your favor of the 17th ult. I understood the order, of the 22d April, to embrace as well tin-friendly as hostile Indians, ami so I have acted. Those chiefs of Tuckaubatchee, about seven hundred, being decidedly friendly, and the first objects of resentment and attack from the Red Clubs, I removed with an armed force to Coweta. Their town, cattle, hogs, provisions, and every thing but what they brought off on their backs, being destroyed, and their warriors being always .under our orders, they have been supplied. Tauthlacotchcau being destroyed and all fled to us, Coweta being the head-quarters of the friendly Indians, and Cussetah, its neighbor, both exhausted of all their eatables, have, recen tly, received the aid of our supplies. The whole, numbered from reports up to the 2d, who now draw provisions, are nearly four thousand. As many of them have planted, in good time, they require our aid only till their corn is made. Some of the hostile Indians will not be able to make any provisions for want of hoes, &c. The policy of the fanatics being to destroy the cattle, hogs, fowls, implements of husbandry, &c., many threw their hoes and axes into the rivers. War and famine has, too late, removed the delusion from them. We have reports of supplies of munitions of war, and an order for the supply of provisions to the Red Clubs, being arrived at Pensacola; we have also a report that some British have arrived, and are making settlements near the mouth of the Apalachicola; the truth or falsehood of both reports I expect soon to receive. The road of communication has been travelled'in perfect safety between our posts, and we have not had a man killed on it during our war. , If the rumor of peace, this summer, should be realised, I hope the President will .appoint a man to succeed me, as soon as it may compprt with the convenience of the Government; and I hope, in any event, except actual war in this quarter, it will be convenient to do so by the end of the year. I have the honor to be, respectfully, and with great personal regard, sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong. Secretary of li ar Creek Ac.excy, IbthJanc. 1814. We have, from several quarters, reports that the Seminoles and hostile Indians have received a supply of arms and military stores at Pensacola, and from two vessels at an island in the mouth of the Apalachicola. A young man at the latter place, who saw the vessels, and supplies delivered the Indians, says the officer in charge of them gave out he was *‘a British officer, sent to see whether the Indians were destroyed or not. in their war with the United States: if not, to afford them help. He gave to each town four large kegs of powder, some short muskets with slings, and other articles. One of his vessels was to sail immediately for supplies for the red people, and would be back in twenty-five days, with them and a plan of future operations. It was contemplated by the British, to attack Mobile, an island near St. Mary's, an island near Savannah, and perhaps the town, and an island near Charleston, at the same time. He furnished them some provisions, and directed, them, in the mean time, to recruit their strength, exhausted by their recent war and famine, and to concentrate their force near Choctawhatche.” I am, respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General John Armstrong. Bay St. Louis, June 17. 1814. Sir: Previous to my leaving at Pensacola, say on the 8th instant, the schoonei--, Captain------, tender to the British frigate Orpheus, Captain Pigot, arrived at that place, with information that he just landed five thousand stand of arms, and cartridges in proportion, for* the use of the Indians at Apalachicola, where left the frigate Orpheus, landing, on St. George's island, three hundred and odd troops, a Colonel and nine commissioned officers, where they intended erecting a tortification. and which was actually commenced. Couriers were daily going to and from Apalachicola. from Pensacola, reporting the actual arrival of the said vessels, and that they had landed twenty two thousand stand of arms, and cartridges in proportion. Mr. Inerarity, of the house of John Forbes and Co. received a letter from their agent at that place, informing him of a store being erected within about a mile of his factory, for the reception of said arms and ammunition. Report of couriers having been sent to the Big Warrior, holding out inducements and propositions for his taking interest in the war party. The Big Warrior, as was reported, replied, that he had been so often deceived in their engagements, that he could no longer place reliance in words: that he must have further proofs of their sincerity, before he could place any reliance in their propositions, or listen in any way to their entreaties. The particulars of all this 1 have despatched by express to Mobile, and William and J. Pierce, on the Tensaw, myself, and by others, to fort Claiborne. For further particulars I refer you to my previous letters, dated at Pensacola. Very respectfully, your obedient servant. WILLIAM H. ROBERTSON. To Brigadier General Thomas Flournoy. Bay St. Louis, 19th June, 1S14. Sir: The enclosed information is obtained from a gentleman entitled to credit, and is corroborated by others. The obvious design of the enemy is to revive the Creek war, and to bring the Big Warrior, and his followers,into the measure, and to* place arms into the hands of the blacks. As the Big Warrior is near you, or at least under your influence, (I hope) I think proper to give you this information.: and request you will acquaint Governor Earley of it. I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, THOMAS FLOURNOY. Brigadier General Commanding Seventh Military District. Colonel Hawkins, .Agent Indian Jiffuirs. Creek .Agency. Creek Agency, 21 st June, 1814. Since my communication of the 15th, I have received further information from the British, at Deer island, in the mouth of Apalachicola. “ The vessels have left fifty men on the island, and sailed, saying that they would return in twenty-five days. They gave four kegs of cartridges, of one hundred pounds each, toO-he-te-yoe-on-noe, and Tut-tal-leo-see, and some arms, short rifles and others. They gave ammunition not for war. They expected the British and Americans would make peace this summer,; they must not war against the United States; if they did, they would lose all their land. They had a talk for Coweta, and Cussetah, and the Four Nations: when they returned again, they would give it to them. They should take Mobile, an island near St. Mary’s, and one near Savannah, and one near Charleston, all at the same time; but Mobile, it would betaken some time after the othersl” The information is from Indians of different towns, who were on the spot, and tell what they saw and heard. The enclosed address to the chiefs, will show you the notice I have taken of it. From the singularity of the civil war among the Indians, and the deadly hostility between the parties, it has been very difficult, hitherto, to obtain correct and ear ly information of what passes between the Red Clubs, and the British or Spaniards. And this is rendered very inconvenient, as we have not the means to pay persons who would undertake such a duty. The “ Red Clubs” are making their peace as fast as they can, and receiving food from us. Our stock as yet affords but a scanty supply. I have a family here who were wealthy, and lost all of their property by their delusion. One of the men was at the Horse-shoe fort, taken by General Jackson, wounded in two or three places, and escaped by remaining in the water with his nose only out, till night, and made his way in the dark. He represents the fate of his party from the combined attack of their opponents like the fall of leaves.'I have the honor to be, very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, ' BENJAMIN HAWKINS. P. S. 5 am informed the Orpheus frigate and a sloop of war landed the men and supplies. General Armstrong, Secretary of War. The Government are certainly risking much, if the British contemplate hostility in this quarter, by their neglect of the friendly.Indians, who have received no part of their annuity lor 1812 and 1813, except what the chiefs received the first year. I have an express from General Graham, requesting my attendance at Tuckaubatchee, to consult with him, on the present situation of our affairs. I go immediately. The third regiment would be at fort Jack-son the 20th instant. Coweta, 3d July, 1814. The convention of the Creek chiefs is to take place on the 7th, the Seminole and other chiefs below, are invited, and have promised to attend. The supplies of the munitions of war from the armed vessels, at the mouth of the Apalachicola, appears to have been very limited, and probably such only as they could spare from their own equipments. The Adjutant General of the seventh district has apprised us of General Jackson’s being assigned to the command of that district, clothed with complete powers to arrange with the hostile Creeks, except those who have fled into West Florida, between Pensacola bay and Apalachicola. They have very generally surrendered, and are fed at our forts or deposites of provisions. Their numbers will be accurate for return by the next conveyance. Famine lias tamed or destroyed many of them. I am, respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong, Secretary of War. 'Fort Hawkins, Vith July, 1814.'1 arrived here, last evening, with General Graham, with the troops under his command, except what was sufficient to garrison the posts.in the agency. On the 8th I examined, in presence of the General and Colonel Pearson, an intelligent runner from the store of John Forbes, & Co. the east of Apalachicola, twenty miles from the hay. He said “ Three British officers had sent him to Coweta and Cussetah, to invite the chiefs down to receive arms and ammunition; there was a supply for them, not for war, but to kill squirrels, crows, and turkeys. His son, Homes, (a Red Club chief of Hoithlewaulee) and seven followers, who received eight muskets, bayonets, cartridge boxes, and three small kegs of powder. There would be an abundant supply as soon as the vessel returned, and a supply of goods for the Indians. Several of the Seminoles, and neighboring towns below, had received arms once, and a chief had been sent to invite the remains of the hostile Indians from Konacauto Apalachicola, and reported they were coming, but so exhausted with famine that many must perish on the way: He knew not whether the troops left on Deer island remained there or not.” The whole number of Indians fed at our posts, and depots of provision, on the 1st July, were five thousand two hundred and fifty-seven. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Major General Armstrong, Secretary of War. Creek Agency, 19th July, 1814. General Jackson has appointed the 1st August for a general meeting of the chiefs of the hostile Creeks, who have submitted at fort Jackson, in order to make arrangements with them, agreeable to his instructions from your offic.e. I am on my way to meet him, at his request.   'The hostile Indians, of eight towns of Tallapoosa, are between Pensacola and Apalachicola, inarching to the latter, severely chastised by famine. The conquered towns have either killed their chiefs themselves, or had most of them killed in battle. If the change of affairs in Europe should not lead to a general peace, and we should have to continue the war, the Government, by availing itself of what it knows here, may ward off much of the evils contemplated to be heaped on us, in that quarter. The friendly warriors were conspicuously brave at the battle of Auttossee, and near Nuu Yaucau. The enclosed I have just received from General Flournoy. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, sir, your-obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong, Secretary of War. Creek Agency, 16th .August, 1814. General Jackson terminated his negotiations with the Creeks on the 9th. and left there on the lltli, with all the regular troops, going by water down the Alabama. The line of limits is Coosa river, with a reserve, of two miles square, for fort M illiams, to the falls of the river, seven miles above fort Jackson; thence, eastwardly to a point, two miles north of Oakfuskee, (a large creek, six miles below fort Decatur) thence, across Tallapoosa, to the mouth of the creek, and, up the game, ten miles in a direct line; thence, to Chattahoochee, and across it, at the first creek, two and a half miles below Oketayocenne (about sixty-eight miles north of the .confluence of Chattahoochee and Flint;) thence, east to Georgia, with an eventual reservation to accommodate the Kinnards. The dejails you will receive by the General’s secretary. We continue to receive daily rumors of hostile appearances at Apalachicola and Pensacola. The British armed vessels, off that coast, have manoeuvred dexterously, by landing and re-embarkibg their crews, to deceive.the Indians in that neighborhood. They have, unquestionably, furnished a considerable supply of the munitions of war, and some clothing, and are training the Indians and some negroes, for purposes hostile to us. The Indian training is to fire a swivel, sound the war whoop, fire three or four rounds of small arms, send the war whoop to every village, who repeat it, and are ready to march with the shortest notice; some have recently been to the frontiers of Georgia, and done mischief. The British officers have applied to the stock holders, in that quarter, to supply beef to the Indians, and they will pay for it. They have informed me they are apprehensive they shall not be paid. I have communicated, in detail, to Generals Pinckney and Jackson, who must soon take order to crush the mischief hatching in that quarter; or, as soon as our new line of limits for the Creeks is known, it will rouse up and combine their whole force, in that quarter, against us. We should have ready our friendly warriors, of the. Four Nations, to aid our troops in crossing them, without delay, which could readily be done. We nave, from a creditable Indian source, the following, from a British naval officer to the hostile chiefs: “ The British and other Powers had conquered France. Seven Powers were now united against America. A little before white frost you will hear of smoke all round the United States, in the sea ports, and the. burning of powder. The war is just beginning; there will be several armies landing in different places. Ilis King, George, said the seven Powers would be able and were determined to conquer America, and the British would be masters of it. They need not expect to be deceived; the British would fulfil their promise, and never leave this land again.” I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. General Armstrong, Secretary of IVar. Inspector General’s Office, 7th Military District. Head Quarters,, Town of Mobile, September 17, 1814. GENERAL ORDERS. Our companions in arms have triumphed over the enemy. At 4 o’clock, P. M. on the 15th instant,fort Bowyer was attacked by a superior British naval and land force, and the enemy was repulsed at all points; the naval force of the enemy consisted of two ships, from twenty.-four to twenty-eight guns, mounting thirty-two pound carronades; two brigs, from sixteen to eighteen guns, mounting twenty-four pound carronades, with three tenders, all under the command of Commodore Sir W. H. Piercy. The land forces of the enemy consisted of one hundred marines, under the command of Colonel Nicolls, three hundred Indians under the command of Captain Woodbine, of the British army, and a battery of a twelve pounder and howitzer, under the direction of a British captain of the royal artillery. Our effective force, opposed to the enemy, was about one hundred and twenty men, ol whom not more than ninety were engaged. The leading ship, called the Hermes, Commodore Sir IV. H. Piercy, having approached within reach of our guns, our battery opened upon her, the guns of. Which were fired in succession, as they could be brought to bear, and, at twenty minutes after four, P. M. the engagement became general; about this time the enemy, on shore, with Colonel Nicolls at the head of the marines, Captain Woodbine at the head of their allies, the Indians, and the captain of the British royal artillery, with his battery, were put to flight by two discharges of grape and cannister from a nine pounder; at five P. M. the commanders ship swung head on to our battery, when we were enabled to rake her so effectually as to silence her guns. Having cut her cable by our shot, she drifted out and grounded, stern on, within seven hundred yards, which again afforded us an opportunity of raking her, and we continued doing so while there was light enough to see that his colors were flying: and, about sunset, the other vessels cut their cable?, and stood oft' with a light breeze, under a most tremendous fire from our battery. At a quarter past seven, we discovered the Commodore's ship to be on fire, and at ten P. M. her magazine blew up. We cannot ascertain the precise loss of the enemy: but, from deserters who came in the morning alter the battle, we learn that the Commodore and only twenty men escaped from the Hermes, her crew being originally one hundred and seventy: that eighty-five were killed and wounded on board the Charon. The loss on board the brigs is unknown, but must have been very great, from the circumstance of one of them being infinitely more exposed than the Charon. Our loss was four privates killed, and five wounded. During the hottest of the action, our flag-staff was shot away: the flag was immediately regained, under a heavy fire of grape and cannister, and hoisted on a sponge staff, and planted on the parapet. This achievement of our brothers in arms is dear to us. and calls for, and will have, the gratitude of a grateful country. Our arms have triumphed over the enemy. The brave officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates, under the commaud of the gallant Major Lawrence, have done their duty, and. in point of cool and determined courage, their conduct cannot be surpassed. There was but one feeling pervading every grade and rank throughout the whole action, and that was, who should be foremost in the race of glory; with them, the post of danger was the post of honor. By order of Major General Jackson. A. P. HAYNE, Inspector General and Acting Adjutant General 7th Military District. A list of llic manes of the officers present in the engagement, which look place between the American forces at Fort Bowyer, on the Day of Mobile, and the naval and land forces of Ilis Britannic Majesty, in conjunction with their Indian allies, on the loth September, 1814. Major Lawrence, Captain Walsh, " Chamberlain. “ Brownlow, Bradley. Lieutenant Yillard. “ Sturges, “ Conway, - - - - - H. Saunders, - *' T. R. Saunders. - “ Brooks, - Davis, .... C. Saunders, .... Captain Sands, of the artillerists, (and deputy commissary of ordnance,) acting aid to the commanding officer, and superintending the supplies foe the guns, &c. A. P. HAYNE. 2d Regiment Infantry. Artillerists. 2d Regiment Infantry. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. . Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. (Acting Adjutant.) Hear Quarters, 7th Military District, Mobile, 19//i Sept. 1814. The enclosed general order will give the information of the glorious victory obtained over the British, Indian, and Spanish forces, on the 15th instant. In a few days 1 hope to have the fort completed in such manner as it will be invulnerable; twelve guns were used only. Three gun-boats would have enabled us to have captured two of the vessels, if not the whole. 1 hope in a few days to hear of Major McIntosh having captured all the stores and negroes on the Apalachicola. I am, very respectfully, your most obedient servant, ANDREW JACKSON, Major General Commanding. Col. Benjamin Hawkins, Agent for the Creek nation. P. S. You will give me the force of your warriors enrolled as early as passible, if Major McIntosh, and two hundred warriors, could join me shortly, I would be happy to see him. The Indians engaged on the 15th ran, and left their clothing. Creek Agency, October 5^ 1814. 1 send the enclosed, on the probability that you will receive it by our mail sooner than the direct conveyance through Tennessee. Major McIntosh marched on the 23d u11., with one hundred and ninety-six warriors, twenty rounds ammunition, twenty days'provisions. Some reinforcements have followed, and some were to join from below, expecting in all from three to four hundred—enough for his object. Our chiefs complain much against us. They say “Government has not been just to them, in withholding their annuity for 1612, -13, and '14, without assigning any reason for it. They have been faithful to their treaty stipulations with us, yielding whatever was demanded of them. General Jackson is in hopes justice will be done them: but it is still delayed. They are called on for warriors, for runners, and other purposes, without receiving any pay for the services they have often willingly performed. They are now in a maimer naked, their hunting done, their resources destroyed by their civil war, and they are without the means of clothing their helpless people and themselves, and winter is approaching.'’ 1 am respectfully, and with great personal regard, dear sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Mr. Monroe, Acting Secretary of War- 109