No. 1. [ 1st Session. THE SIX NATIONS. THE WYANDOT.?. ANI) OTHERS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE MAY 25. 1789. Gentlemen of the Senate: In pursuance of the order of the late Congress, treaties between the United States and several nations of Indians, have been negotiated and signed. These treaties, with sundry papers respecting them, 1 now lay before you, for your consideration and advice, by the hands of General Knox, under whose official superintendence the business was transacted, and who will be ready to communicate to you any information on such points as may appear to require it. GEO. WASHINGTON. New York, May 25, 1789. .Articles of a Treaty made at fort IJarmur, the ninth day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine, between Jlrthur St. Clair, Esquire, Governor of the territory of the United States of .imericu northwest of the river Ohio, and commissioner plenipotentiary of the said United States for removing all euuses of controversy, regulating trade, and settling boundaries, between the Indian nations in the northern department, and the said United States, of throne part, and the sachems and warriors of the Six Nations, of the other part, viz. Article 1. Whereas the United States, in Congress assembled, did, by their commissioners, Oliver Wolcott, Richard Butler, and Arthur Lee, Esquires, duly appointed for that purpose, at a treaty held with the said Six Nations, viz,: with the Mohawks, Oneidas, Onondagas, fuscaroras, Cayugas. and Senecas, at fort Stanwix, on the twenty-second day of October, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-four, give peace to the said nations, and receive them into their friendship and protection: And whereas the said nations have now agreed, to and with the said Arthur St. Clair, to renew and confirm all the engagements and stipulations entered into at the before mentioned treaty at fort Stanwix: And whereas it was then and there agreed, between the United States of America and the said Six Nations, that a boundary line should he fixed between the lands of the said Six Nations and the territory of the said United States, which boundary line is as follows, viz: Beginning at the mouth of a creek, about four miles east of Niagara, called Ononwayea, or Johnston's Landing Place, upon the lake named by the Indians Oswego, and by us Ontario; from thence southerly, in a direction always four miles east of the carrying place, between lake Erie and lake Ontario, to the mouth of Fehoseroron, or Buffalo creek, upon lake Erie; thence south, to the northern boundary of the State of Pennsylvania; thence west, to the end of the said north boundary; thence south, along the west boundary of the said State, to the river Ohio. The said line, from the mouth of Ononwayea to the Ohio, shall he the western boundary of the lands of the Six Nations, so that the Six Nations shall and do yield to the United States, all claim to the country west of the said boundary; and then they shall he secured in the possession of the lands they inhabit east, north, and south of the same, reserving only six miles square, round the fort of Oswego, for the support, of the same. The said Six Nations, except the Mohawks, none of whom have attended at this time, for and in consideration of the peace then granted to them, the presents they then received, as well as in consideration of a quantity of goods, to the value ol three thousand dollars, now delivered to them by the said Arthur St. Clair, the receipt whereof they do hereby acknowledge, do hereby renew and confirm the said boundary line in the words before mentioned, to the end that.it may he and remain as a division line between the lands of the said Six Nations and the territory of the United States, lorever. And the undersigned Indians, as well in their own names as in the name of their respective tribes and nations, their heirs and descendants, for the considerations before mentioned, do release, quit claim, relinquish, and cede, to the United States of America, all the lands west of the said boundary or division line, and between the said line and the strait, from the month of Ononwayea and Buffalo creek, for them, the said United States of America, to have and to hold the same, in true and absolute propriety, forever. Article 2. The United States of America confirm to the Six Nations, all the lands which they inhabit, lying east and north of the before mentioned boundary line, and relinquish and quit claim to the same and every part thereof, excepting onlv six miles square round the fort of Oswego, which six miles square round said fort is again reserved to the United States by these presents. Article 3. The Oneida and Tuscarora nations are also again secured and confirmed in the possession of their respective lands. Article 4. The United States of America .renew and confirm the peace and friendship entered into with the Six Nations, (except the Mohawks) at the treaty before mentioned, held at fort Stanwix, declaring the same to be 2 * perpetual. And if the Mohawks shall, within six months, declare their assent to the same, they shall be considered as included. Done at fort Harmar, on the Muskingum, the day and year first above written. In witness whereof, the parties have hereunto, interchangeably, set their hands and seals. AR. ST. CLAIR. [Signed by twenty-four of the sachems and warriors of the Six Nations of Indians.] SEPARATE ARTICLE OF THE PRECEDING TREATY. Should a robbery or murder be committed by an Indian or Indians of the Six Nations, upon the citizens or subjects of the United States, or by the citizens or subjects of the United States, or any of them, upon any of the Indians of the said nations, the parties accused of the same shall be tried, and if found guilty, be punished according to the laws of the State, or ol the Territory of the United States, as the case may be, where the same was committed. And should any horses be stolen, either by the Indians of the said nations, from the citizens or subjects of the United States, or any of them, or by any of the said citizens or subjects from any of the said Indians, they may be reclaimed, into whose possession soever they may have come; and, upon due proof, shall be restored, any safe in open market notwithstanding, and the persons convicted shall be punished with the utmost severity the laws will admit. And the said nations engage to deliver the persons that may be accused, of their nations, of either of the before mentioned crimes, at the nearest post of the United States, if the crime was committed within the territory of the United States; or to the civil authority of the State, if it shall have happened within any of the United States. AR. ST. CLAIR. Articles of a Treaty made at fort Harmar, between Arthur St. Clair, Governor of the territory of the United States northwest of the river Ohio, and commissioner plenipotentiary of the United States of America for removing all causes of controversy, regulating trade, and settling boundaries, with the Indian nations in the Northern department, of the one part, and the sachems and warriors of the IVyandot, Delaware, Ottawa, Chippewa, Pattawatima, and Sac nations, on the other part. Article 1. Whereas the United States, in Congress assembled, did, by their commissioners. George Rogers Clarke, Richard Butler, and Arthur Lee, Esquires, duly appointed for that purpose, at a treaty hidden with the Wyandot, Delaware, Ottawa, and Chippewa nations, at fort McIntosh, on the twenty-first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, conclude a peace with the Wyandots, Delawares, Ottawas, and Chippewas, and take them into their friendship and protection: And whereas, at the said treaty, it was stipulated that all prisoners that had been made by those nations, or either of them, should be delivered up to the United States: And whereas the said nations have now agreed, to and with the aforesaid Arthur St. Clair, to renew and confirm all the engagements they had made with the United States of America, at the before mentioned treaty, except so far as are altered by these presents: And there are now in the possession of some individuals of these nations, certain prisoners, who have been taken by others, not in peace with the said United States, or in violation of the treaties subsisting between the United States and them; the said nations agree to deliver up all the prisoners now in their hands (by what means soever they may have come into their possession) to the said Governor St. Clair, at Fort Harmar; or, in his absence, to the officer commanding there, as soon as conveniently may be; and. for the true performance of this agreement, they do now agree to deliver into his hands, two persons of the Wyandot nation, to be retained in the hands of the United States, as hostages, until the said prisoners are restored; after which, they shall be sent back to their nation. Art. 2. And whereas, at the before mentioned treaty, it was agreed, between the United States ami said nations, that a boundary’line should be fixed between the lands of those nations and the territory of the United States, which boundary is as follows, viz: Beginning at the mouth of Cayahoga river, and running thence, up the said river, to the portage between that and the Tuscarawa branch of Muskingum; then, down the said branch, to the forks at the crossing place above fort Lawrence; thence, westerly, to the portage on that branch of the Big Miami river which runs into the Ohio, at the mouth of which branch the fort stood which was taken by the French in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and fifty-two; then, along the said portage, to the Great Miami or Omie river, and, down the southeast side of the same, to its mouth; thence, along the southern shore of Lake Erie, to the mouth of Cayahoga, where it began. Anil the said Wyandot, Delaware, Ottawa, and Chippewa nations, for and in consideration of the peace then granted to them by the said United States, and the presents they then received, as well as of a quantity of goods, to the value of six thousand dollars, now delivered to them by the said Arthur St. Clair, the receipt whereof diey do hereby acknowledge, do, by these presents, renew and confirm the said boundary line; to the end that the same may remain as a division line between the lands of the United States of America and the lands of said nations, forever. And the undersigned Indians do hereby, in their own names, and the names of their respective nations and tribes, their heirs and descendants, for the consideration above mentioned, release, quit claim, relinquish, and cede, to the said United States, all the land east, south, and west, of the lines above described, so far as the said Indians formerly claimed the same; for them, the said United States, to have and to hold the same, in true and absolute propriety, forever. Art. 3. The United States of America do, by these presents, relinquish and quit claim to the said nations respectively, all the lands lying between the limits above described, for them, the said Indians, to live and hunt upon, and otherwise to occupy as they shall see fit; but the said nations, or either of them, shall not be at liberty to sell or dispose of the same, or any part, thereof, to any sovereign Power, except the United States; nor to the subjects or citizens of any other sovereign Power, nor to the subjects or citizens ol the United States. Art. 4. It is agreed, between the said United States and the said nations, that the individuals of said nations shall be at liberty to hunt within the territory ceded to the United States, without hindrance or molestation, so long as they demean themselves peaceably, and offer no injury or annoyance to any of the subjects or citizens of the said United States. .^rt. 5. It is agreed, that, if any Indian or Indians, of the nations before mentioned, shall commit a murder or robbery on any of the citizens of the United States, the nation or tribe to which the offender belongs, on complaint being made, shall deliver up the person or persons complained of, at the nearest post of the United States; to the end that he or they may be tried, and, if found guilty, punished according to the laws established in the territory of the United States northwest of the river Ohio, for the punishment of such offences, if the same shall have been committed within the said territory: or according to the laws of the State where the offence may have been committed, if the same has happened in any of the United States. In like manner, if any subject or citizen of the United States shall commit murder or robbery on any Indian or Indians of the said nations, upon complaint being made thereof, he or they shall Jbe arrested, tried, and punished, agreeable to the laws of the State, or of the territory wherein the offence was committed; that nothing may interrupt the peace and harmony now established between the United States and said nations. Art. 6. And whereas the practice of stealing horses has prevailed very much, to the great disquiet of the citizens of the United States, and, if persisted in, cannot fail to involve both the United States of America and the Indians in endless animosity, it is agreed that it shall be put an entire stop to on both sides; nevertheless, should some individuals, in defiance of this agreement, and of the laws provided against such offences, continue to make depredations of that nature, the person convicted thereof shall be punished with the utmost severity the laws of the respective States, or territory of the United States northwest of the Ohio, where the offence may have been commit- led, will admit of; and all horses so stolen, either by the Indians, from the citizens or subjects of the United States, or by the citizens or subjects of t lie United States from any of tbe Indian nations, may be reclaimed, into whose possession soever they may have passed, and, upon due proof, shall be restored.; any sales in market on vert notwithstanding. And the civil magistrates in the United States, respectively, and in the territory of tbe United States northwest of the Ohio, shall give all necessary aid and protection to Indians claiming such stolen horses. Art. 7. Trade shall be opened with the said nations, and they do hereby respectively engage to a fibril protection to the persons and property of such as may be duly licensed to reside among them for the purposes of trade, and to their agents, factors, and servants; but no person shall be permitted to reside at their towns, or at their hunting camps, as a trader, who is.not furnished with a licence for that purpose, under the hand and seal of the Governor of the territory of the United States northwest of the Ohio, for the time being, or under the hand and seal of one ol'his deputies for the management of Indian affairs; to the end that they may not be imposed upon in their traffic. And it any person, or persons, shall intrude themselves without such licence, they promise to apprehend him, or them, anil to bring them to the said Governor, or one of his deputies, for the purpose before mentioned, to be dealt with according to law: and that they maybe defended against persons who might attempt to forge such licences, they further engage to give information to the said Governor, or one of his deputies, of the names of all traders residing among them, from time to time, and at least once in every year. Art. 8. Should any nation of Indians meditate a war against the United States, or either of them, and the same, shall come to the knowledge of the before mentioned nations, or either of them, they do hereby engage to give immediate notice thereof to the Governor, or, in his absence, to the officer commanding the troops of the United States at the nearest post. And should any nation, with hostile intentions against the United States, or either of them, attempt to pass through their country, they will endeavor to prevent the same, and in like manner give information of such attempt to the said Governor, or commanding officer, as soon as possible, that all causes of mistrust and suspicion may be avoided between them and the United States; in like manner, the United States shall give notice to the said Indian nations, of any harm that may be meditated against them, or either of them, that shall 'come to their knowledge; and do all in their power to hinder and prevent the same, that the friendship between them may be uninterrupted. Art. 9. If any person or persons, citizens or subjects of the United States, or any other person, not being an Indian, shall presume to settle upon the lands confirmed to the said nations, he anil they shall be out of tbe protection of the United States; and die said nations may punish him, or them, in such manner as they see tit. Art. 10. The United States renew the reservations heretofore made in the before mentioned treaty at fort M’lntosh, for the establishment of trailing posts, in manner and form following; that is to say: six miles square at the mouth of the Miami or Omie rivers: six miles square at the portage upon that branch of the Miami which runs into the Ohio: six miles square upon the lake Sandusky, where the fort formerly stood; and two miles square upon each side the Lower Rapids, on Sandusky river: which posts, and the lands annexed to them, shall be for the use ami under tbe Government of the United States. Art. 11. Tbe post at Detroit, with a district of land beginning at the mouth of the river Rosinc, at the west end of lake Erie, and running up the southern bank of said river six miles; thence northerly, and always six miles west of the strait, until it strikes the lake St. Clair, shall be reserved for the use of the United States. Art. 12. In like manner, tbe post at Micliilimackinac, with its dependencies, and twelve miles square about the same, shall be reserved to the sole use of tbe United States. Art. 13. The United States of America do hereby renew and confirm the peace and friendship entered into with the said nations, at the treaty before mentioned, held at tort M’Intosh: and the said nations again acknowledge themselves, and all their tribes, to be under the protection of the said United States, and no other Power whatever. Art. 14. The United States of America do also receive into their friendship and protection, the nations of tbe Pattawaiimas and Sacs: and do hereby establish a league of peace and amity between them, respectively; and all the articles of this treaty, so far as they apply to these nations, are to be considered as made and concluded in all, and every part, expressly with them and each of them. Art. 15. And whereas, in describing the boundary before mentioned, the words, if strictly constructed, would carry it from the portage on that branch of the Miami which runs into the Ohio, over to the river Auglaize; which was neither the intention of tbe Indians, nor of the commissioners: it is hereby declared, that the line shall run from the said portage directly to the first fork of the Miami river, which is to tbe southward and eastward of the Miami village; thence down the main branch of the Miami river to the said village, anil thence down that river to lake Erie, and along the margin of the lake to the place of beginning. Done at fort Harmar, on tbe Muskingum, this ninth day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine. In witness whereof, the parties have hereunto interchangeably set their hands and seals. AR.ST. CLAIR. [Signed by tbe sachems and warriors of tbe Sac, Chippewa, Ottawa, Pattawatami, Delaware, and Wyandot tribes of Indians.] Be it remembered, that the Wyandots have laid claim to tbe lands that were granted to the Shawnees at tbe treaty held at the Miami; and have declared, that, as the Shawnees have been so restless, and caused so much trouble, both to them and to the United States, if they will not now be at peace, they will dispossess them, and take the country into their own bands; for that the country is theirs of right, and the Shawanees are only living upon it by their permission. They further lay claim to all tbe country west ot the Miami boundary, from tbe village to the lake Erie, and declare that it is now under their management and direction. SEPARATE ARTICI.E. Whereas the Wyandots have represented, that within the reservation from the river Rosinc, along the strait, they have two villages, from which they cannot, with any convenience, remove; it is agreed, they shall remain in possession of the same, and shall not be inany manner disturbed therein. The Secretary of War to the President of the United Stales. The Secretary of War, having examined the negotiations of the Governor of the Western territory, with certain Northern anil Northwestern Indians, and the treaties made in consequence thereof, at fort Harmar, on tire 9th of January, 1789, begs leave to report: That the several Treaties of Peace which have been made with the Northern tribes of Indians, and those northwest of the Ohio, since the conclusion of the late war with Great Britain, are ns follows, to wit: 1st. The treaty at fort Stanwix, on the 22d day of October, 1784, between Oliver Wolcott, Richard Butler, and Arthur Lee, commissioners plenipotentiary from the United States, on the one part, and the sachems anil warriors of the Six Nations, on the other. 2d. The treaty entered into by (he said commissioners plenipotentiary, and the sachems and warriors of the Wyandot, Delaware, Chippewa, and Ottawa nations of Indians, at fort McIntosh, the 21st Hay of January, 1785. 3d. The treaty at. the mouth of the great Miami, the 31st of January 1786, between commissioners from the United States, and the Chiefs and Warriors of the Shawanee nation. That the treaties of fort Stanwix and fort McIntosh were entered on the journals of the United States, in Congress assembled, June the 3d, 1785, and the treaty of the Miami, on the 17th day of April 1786. That it may be proper to observe, that the Indians are greatly tenacious of their lands, and generally do not relinquish their right, excepting on the principle of a specific consideration, expressly given for the purchase of the same. That the practice of the late English colonies and government, in purchasing the Indian claims, has firmly established the habit in this respect," so that it cannot be violated but with difficulty, and an expense greatly exceeding the value of the object. That the treaties of fort Stamvix and of fort McIntosh do not state that the limits therein defined are by virtue of a purchase from the Indians. Tnat the said treaties have been opposed, and complained of, will appear by the representation to Congress, accompanying this report, marked No. 1. That, in consequence of the said representation, Congress, on the 21st day of July, 1787, passed the following resolve: “ Resolved, That the Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Northern department, inform the five nations, the Hurons, and other Indian nations, who joined in the representation made to Congress, dated the 18th day of December, 1786, that Congress, on the 18th of the present month, July, 1787, received their said representation, and have taken it into their serious consideration, and, in due time, will send them an answer.” That, on the oth of October following. Congress resolved: “ That a general treaty be held with the tribes of Indians within the limits of the United States,_ inhabiting the country northwest of the Ohio, and about Lake Erie, as soon after the first of April next as conveniently may be, and at such place, and at such particular time, as the Governor of the Western Territory shall appoint, for the purpose of knowing the causes of uneasiness among the said tribes, and hearing then- complaints, of regulating trade, and amicably settling all affairs concerning lands and boundaries, between them and the United States. “ That the Governor of the Western Territory hold the said treaty agreeably to such instructions as shall be given him for that purpose.” That, on the 12th of October, 1787, Congress resolved: “ That twenty thousand dollars be, and hereby are, appropriated for the purpose of Indian treaties, whenever the same shall hereafter be judged necessary by a majority of the United States, in Congress assembled, and that the resolutions for holding a general treaty with the Indians, passed the fifth day of the present month, be, and they are hereby, repealed.” That on the 22d of October, 1787,. Congress resolved: “ That the Governor of the Western Territory be, and he is hereby, empowered to hold a general treaty with the Indian tribes in the ensuing spring, if, in Iris judgment, the public good requires it; and that he be authorized to draw for such sums of money, appropriated by the resolve of Congress of the 12th instant, as may be necessary to effect this object, not exceeding the sum of fourteen thousand dollars.” That, on the 2d of July, 1788, Congress resolved: “ That the sum of twenty thousand dollars, in addition to the fourteen thousand dollars already appropriated, be appropriated for defraying the expenses of the treaties which have been ordered, or which may be ordered to be held on the present year, with the several Indian tribes in the Northern department, and for extinguishing the Indian claims; the whole of the said twenty thousand dollars, together with six thousand dollars of the said fourteen thousand dollars, to be applied solely to the purpose of extinguishing Indian claims to the lands they have already ceded to the United States, by obtaining regular conveyances for the same, and for extending a purchase beyond the limits hitherto fixed by treaty; but that no part of the said sums be applied for any purpose other than those above mentioned.” That the instructions to the Governor of the Western Territory, marked No. 2, will further show the sense of Congress on this subject. That the treaties of fortHarmar. on the 9th of January, 1789, with the sachems and warriors of the Six Nations, the Mohawks excepted, and with the Sachems and Warriors of the Wyandot, Delaware, Ottawa, Chippewa, Patti-watima, and Sac nations, inhabiting parts of the country northwest of the Ohio, appear to have been negotiated by the Governor of the Western Territory, so as to unite the interests of the United States with the justice due the said Indian nations. That the reservation in the treaty with the Six Nations, of six miles square, round the fort at Oswego, is within the territory of the State of New York, and ought to be so explained as to render it conformable to the constitution of the United States. That, if this explanation should be made, and the Senate of the United States should concur in their approbation of the said treaties, it might be proper that the same should be ratified, and published, with a proclamation enjoining an observance thereof. All which is humbly submitted to the President of the United States. II. KNOX. War Office, May 23rd, 1789. No. 1. Speech of the United Indian Nations, at their Confederate Council, held near the mouth of the Detroit river, the 28th November and 18th December, 1786. Present—The Five Nations, the Hurons, Delawares, Shawanese, Ottawas, Chippewas, Powtewattimies, Twich- twees, Cherokees, and the 'Wabash confederates. To the Congress of the United States of America: Brethren- of the United States of America: It is now more than three years since peace was made between the King of Great Britain and you, but we, the Indians, w-ere disappointed, finding ourselves not included in that peace, according to our expectations: for we thought that its conclusion would have promoted a friendship between the United States and Indians, and that we might enjoy that happiness that formerly subsisted between us and our elder brethren. We have received two very agreeable messages from the thirteen United States. We also received a message from the King, whose war we were engaged in, desiringus to remain quiet, which we accordingly complied with. During the time of this tranquillity, we were deliberating the best method we could to form a lasting reconciliation with the thirteen United States. Pleased at the same time, we thought we were entering upon a reconciliation and friendship with a set of people born on the same continent with ourselves, certain that the quarrel between us was not of our own making. In the course of our councils, we imagined we hit upon an expedient that would promote a lasting peace between us. Brothers: M e still are of the same opinion as to the means which may tend to reconcile us to each other; and we are sorry to find, although we had the best thoughts in our minds, during the beforementioned period, mischief has, nevertnless, happened between you and us. We are still anxious of putting our plan of accommodation into execution, and we shall briefly inform you of the means that seem most probable to us of effecting a firm and lasting peace and reconciliation: the first step towards which should, in our opinion, be, that all treaties carried on with the United States, on our parts, should be with the general voice of the whole confederacy, and carried on in the most open manner, without any restraint on either side; and especially as landed matters are often the subject of our councils with you, a matter ot the greatest importance and of general concern to us, in this case we hold it indispensably necessary that any cession of our lands should be made in the most public manner, and by the united voice of the confederacy; holding all partial treaties as void and of no effect. Brothers: We think it is owing to you that the tranquillity which, since the peace between us. has not lasted, and that that essential good has been followed by mischief and confusion, having managed every thing respecting us your own way. You kindled your council tires where you thought proper, without consulting us, at which you held separate treaties, and have entirely neglected our plan of having a general conference with the different nations of the confederacy. Had this happened, we have reason to believe every thing would now have been settled between us in a most friendly manner. We did every thing in our power, at the treaty of fort Stanwix, to induce you to follow this plan, as our real intentions were, at that very time, to promote peace and concord between us, and that we might look upon each other as friends, having given you no cause or provocation to be otherwise. Brothers: Notwithstanding the mischief that has happened, we are still sincere in our wishes to have peace and tranquillity established between us. earnestly hoping to find the same inclination in you. We wish, therefore, you would take it into serious consideration, and let us speak to you in the manner we proposed. Let us have a treaty with you early in the spring; let us pursue reasonable steps; let us meet half ways, for our mutual convenience; we shall then bring in oblivion the misfortunes that have happened, and meet each other on a footing of friendship. Brothers: We say let us meet half way. and let 11s pursue such steps as become upright and honest men. We beg that you will prevent your surveyors and other people from coming upon our side the Ohio river. We have told you before, we wished to pursue just steps, and we are determined they shall appear just and reasonable in the eyes of the world. This is the determination-of all the chiefs of our confederacy now assembled here, notwithstanding the accidents that have happened in our villages, even when in council, where several innocent chiefs were killed when absolutely engaged in promoting a peace with you. the thirteen United States. Although then interrupted, the chiefs here present still wish to meet you in the spring, for the beforementioned good purpose, when we hope to speak to each other without either haughtiness or menaces. Brothers: We again request of you, in the most earnest manner, to order your surveyors and others, that mark out lands, to cease from crossing the Ohio, until we shall have spoken to you. because the mischief that has recently happened has originated in that quarter; we shall likewise prevent our people from going over until that time. Brothers: It shall not be our faults if the plans which we have suggested to you should not be carried into execution; in that case the event will be very precarious, and if fresh ruptures ensue, we hope to be able to exculpate ourselves, and shall most assuredly, with our united force, be obliged to defend those rights and privileges which have been transmitted to us by our ancestors; and if we should be thereby reduced to misfortunes, the world will pity us when they think of the amicable proposals we now make to prev ent the unnecessary effusion of blood. These are our thoughts and firm resolves, and we earnestly desire that you will transmit to us, as soon as possible, your answer, be it what it may. Done at our Confederated Council Fire, at the Huron village, near the mouth of the Detroit river, December 18th, 1786. The Five Nations, Hurons, Ottawa*, Twiehtwees, Shawanese, Chippewas, Chcrokces, Delawares, Powlewatimies, The 11 'abash Confederates. No. 2. October 26th. 1787. Instructions to the Governor of the Territory Sir: / erruory oj me unueu o/«/r.s ivurmwes Indian treaty in the Northern Department. You are carefully to examine into the real temper of the Indian tribes, inhabiting the Northern Indian Department of the United States. If you find it hostile, and that the welfare of the frontiers, and the settlements forming in that country, demand a treaty, you will then, in conjunction with the Superintendent of Indian Allfairs for the Northern Department, unless the attendance of the said superintendent shall be prevented, by any unforeseen event, hold as general a one as you can, with all the tribes. The primary objects of the treaty are, the removing all causes of controversy, so that peace and harmony may continue between the United States and the Indian tribes, the regulating trade, and settling boundaries. For these purposes, you will do every thing that is right and proper. The treaties which have been made, may be examined, but must not be departed from, unless a change of boundary, beneficial to the United States, can be obtained. Although the purchase of the Indian right of soil is not a primary object of holding this treaty, yet you will not neglect any opportunity that may otter, of extinguishing the Indian rights to the westward, as far as the river Mississippi. 'S ou may stipulate, that the East and West line ordered to lie run by the ordinance of the 20th of May, 1785, shall be the boundary between the United States and the Indian tribes: provided, they stipulate that it shall run throughout, unto the river Mississippi.^ And you may stipulate, that any white persons going over the said boundary, without a licence from the proper officer of the United States, may be treated in such manner as the Indians shall think proper. You will use every possible endeavor to ascertain who are the real head men and warriors of the several tribes, and who have the greatest influence among them; these men you will attach to the United States, by every means in your power. Every exertion must be made to defeat all confederations and combinations among the tribes, and to conciliate the white people inhabiting the frontiers, towards them. CHARLES THOMSON, Secretary. July 2d, 1788. Additional instructions to the Governor of the Territory of the United States Northwest of the river Ohio, relative to the treaty to be held with the Western Indians, in pursuance of the resolutions of Congress, passed in October last. Sir: An additional sum of twenty thousand dollars has been appropriated for the purpose of procuring a permanent peace with the Indian tribes, with which you are authorized to hold a treaty. This sum, and six thousand dollars out of the fourteen thousand heretofore appropriated for holding the said treaty, are particularly directed to be applied solely to the purpose of obtaining a boundary advantageous to the United States, between them and the said Indian tribes, and for further extinguishing by purchase Indian titles, in case it can be done on terms beneficial to the Union. But it is not expected that any further purchases of lands will be made unless on terms evidently advantageous to the United States, or that any part of the said additional sum will be expended, but in cases apparently necessary. In fixing a boundary between the United States and the Indian tribes, instead of the East and West line mentioned in your instructions, you will endeavor to establish an east and west line as far north as the completion of the forty first degree of north latitude. In your negotiations with the Indians, you will make immediate payments, so far as you shall have moneys in hand: but. in case you shall find it necessary to engage any considerable part of the said additional sum, you are to stipulate, that the payments thereof be made in two or three equal annual instalments, the first to be as late in the year 1789, as can be obtained. CHARLES THOMSON, Secretary. The Governor of the Western Territory to the President of the United Stales. New York, May 2(1,1788. Sir; ... 1 I have the honor to lay before you the treaties concluded, in pursuance of the instructions received from Congress on the twenty sixth of October, 1787, and second of July, 1788, with several of the Indian nations, in January last. That they were not presented at an earlier period, was owing, in part, to my own indisposition; to the severity of the winter, which rendered the communication by the Ohio, for a longtime impracticable: and to the circumstance that the last Congress did not assemble after it was in my power to have sent them forward. YVith the treaties, I beg leave to submit the minutes of the proceedings at the different meetings, after the nations were assembled, and I have added to them, by way of appendix, all the letters and messages that passed between them and me prior to their assembling. These were communicated to the Secretary of War, from time to time, and though they will, no doubt, be submitted by him to your consideration, I thought it best, as they forma considerable part of the transactions, to connect them in that way, that the whole might be seen together. By the instruction of July the second, I was directed to endeavor at extending the northern boundary, as far north as the completion of the forty first degree of north latitude. Besides that it would have been extremely difficult to have made the Indians comprehend how that was to be ascertained, I found that any attempt to extend the limits at that time, would be verv ill received, if not defeat entirely the setding a peace with them; it was therefore not proposed, and the boundaries remain as settled at the former treaties, except the rectifying an error about the portage at the Miami village. The negotiation was both tedious and troublesome, and for a long time had an unpromising aspect, but it came at last to as favorable an issue as could have been expected; and I trust will be attended with consequences friendly to the frontier parts of the United States. There are, however, several nations on the Wabash, and the rivers which empty themselves into it. that are ill disposed, and from whom there is reason to expect, that a part of the frontier of Virginia, and the settlement forming on the Miami, will meet annoyance; indeed, that they have not been disturbed during the winter was not expected, either by me or the chiefs of the nations, who met me at fort Harmar. The Wyandots did appoint persons to go to them, and inform them of the result of the treaty, and insist upon their desisting from further hostilities, which may have had some effect in producing the late.tranquillity. The claim of the Wyandot nation to the lands reserved to the Shawanese, was strongly insisted upon by them, and to be made an article of the treaty—to that I could not consent; but, to satisfy them, and that it might be kept in remembrance, it is inserted at the bottom of it, by way of memorandum. It seems this is a claim that has always been held up, and the reason it was so much insisted on at this time, they said, was, that they were sure that the Shawanese, and Cherokces incorporated with them, would continue to give us trouble; that it could not be expected to be borne with much longer; that they would be driven out of the country, and then it would be claimed and held by the United States, by right of conquest; they farther added, that, if the Shawanese continued their depredations, they would themselves drive them off. They also.proposed that a post should be taken by the United States, at the Miami village, as the surest means to overawe the nations on the Wabash. It is certainly well situated for that purpose, and would command the greatest part of the Indian trade. As it was very uncertain whether Congress might approve of such a measure, as a post so far inland, would wilh difficulty be supported, and were in no readiness to carry it into execution, if it should be approved, I desired them to consider well, whether it could be done without a contest with the Indians who live there; and whether, in that case, there was not danger of they themselves being involved, through the ungovernableness of their young men. They acknowledged they thought there was danger of both, but promised to send some of their principal men to the Miamies, and prepare them for receiving a garrison peaceably, and are to give me notice in the spring. The reason why the treaties were made separately with the Six Nations and the Wyandots, and more westerly tribes, was, a jealousy that subsisted between them, which I was not willing to lessen, by appearing to consider them as one people—they do not so consider themselves; and I am persuaded their general confederacy is entirely broken: indeed, it would not be verj difficult, if circumstances required it, to set them at deadly variance. The great length of time that elapsed between the appointed period for the meeting, and that at which the Indians assembled, during which, numbers of them were constantly going and coming, has increased the expense in the article of provisions considerably; the utmost possible economy, however, was used through the whole of the business, and, in transacting it, I flatter myself with meeting the approbation of Congress. With the utmost respect, I have the honor to be, &c. AR. ST. CLAIR. The President of the United States. [The three following are the treaties first referred to in the report of the Secretary of War:] Articles of a Treaty concluded at fort Stamvix, on the twenty-second day of October, one thousand seven humlred and eighty-four, between Oliver Wolcott, Bichard Butler, and Arthur Lee, commissioners plenipotentiary from the United States, in Congress assembled, on the one part, and the sachems and warriors of the Six Nations, on the other. The United States of America give peace to the Senecas, Mohawks, Onondagas, and Cavugas, and receive them into their protection, upon the following conditions: Article 1. Six hostages shall be immediately delivered to the commissioners by the said nations, to remain in possession of the United States till all the prisoners, white and black, which were taken by the said Senecas, Mohawks, Onondagas, and Cayugas, or by any of them, in the late war, from among the people of the United States, shali be delivered up. Art. 2. The Oneida and Tuscarora nations shall be secured in the possession of the lauds on which they are settled. Art. 3. A line shall be drawn, beginning at the mouth of a creek about four miles east of Niagara, called Oyon-wayea, or Johnston’s Landing Place, upon the lake named by the Indians Oswego, and byjis Ontario; from thence southerly, in a direction always four miles east of the carrying path, between lakes Erie and Ontario, to the mouth of Tehoscroron, or Buffalo creek, on lake Erie; thence south, to the north boundary of the State of Pennsylvania; thence west, to the end of the said north boundary; thence south, along the west boundary of the said State, to the river Ohio; the said line, from the mouth of the Oyonwayea to the Ohio, shall be the western boundary of the lands of the Six Nations; so that the Six Nations shall and do yield to the United States, all claims to the country west ol the said boundary; and then they shall be secured in the peaceful possession of the lands they inhabit, east and north of the same, reserving only six miles square round the fort of Oswego, to the United States, for the support of the same. _ . . Art. 4. The commissioners of the ^United States, in consideration of the present circumstances of the Six Nations, and in execution of the humane and liberal views of the United States, upon the signing of the above articles, will order goods to be delivered to the said Six Nations, for their use and comfort. OLIVER WOLCOTT, RICHARD BUTLER, ARTHUR LEE. [Signed by the sachems and warriors of the Mohawk, Onondaga, Seneca, Oneida, Cayuga, Tuscarora, and Seneca Abeal tribes of Indians.] Articles of a Treaty concluded at fort AP/ntosh. the twenty-first day of January, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, between the commissioners plenipotentiary/ of the United States of America, of the one part, and the sachems and warriors of the Wyandot, Delaware, Chippewa, and Ottaiva nations, of the other. The commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States, in Congress assembled, give peace to the Wyandot, Delaware, Chippewa, and Ottawa nations of Indians, on the following conditions: Article 1. Three chiefs, one from among the Wyandot, and two from among the Delaware nations, shall he delivered up to the commissioners of the United States, to be by them retained till all the prisoners, whiteand black, taken by the said nations, or any of them, shall be restored. Art. 2. The said Indian nations do acknowledge themselves and all their tribes to be under the protection of the United States, and of no other sovereign whatsoever. Art. 3. The boundary line between the United States and the Wyandot and Delaware nations, shall begin at the mouth of the river Cayahoga, and run thence, up the said river, to the portage between that and the Tuscarawas branch of Muskingum; then down the said branch to the forks at the crossing place above fort Lawrence; then westerly to the portage of the Big Miami, which runs into the Ohio, at the mouth of which branch the fort stood, which was taken by the French in one thousand seven hundred and fifty-two; then along the said portage to the Great Miami or Omie river, and down the southeast side of the same to its mouth; thence, along the south shore of lake Erie, to the mouth of Cayahoga, where it began. Art. 4. The United States allot all the lands contained within the said lines to the Wyandot and Delaware nations, to live and to hunt on. and to such of the Ottawa nation as now live thereon; saving and reserving for the establishment of trading posts, six miles square at the mouth of Miami or Omie river, and the same at the portage on that branch of the Big Miami which runs into the Ohio, and the same on the lake of Sandusky, where the fort, formerly stood, and also two miles square on each side of the lower rapids of Sandusky river, which posts, and the lands annexed to them, shall be to the use and under the government of the United States. Art. 5. I fany citizen of the United States, or other person, not being an Indian, shall attempt to settle on any of the lands allotted to the Wyandot and Delaware nations in this treaty, except on the lands reserved to the United States in the preceding article, such person shall forfeit the protection of the United States, and the Indians may punish him as they please. Art. G. The Indians who sign this treaty, as well in behalf ofall their tribes as of themselves, do acknowledge the lands east, south, and west, of the lines described in the third article, so far as the said Indians formerly claimed the same, to belong to the United States; and none of their tribes shall presume to settle upon the same, or any part of it. Art. 7. The post of Detroit, with a district, beginning at the mouth of the river Rosine. on the west end of lake Erie, anil running west six miles up the southern bank of the said river, thence northerly and always six miles west of the strait, till it strikes the lake St. Clair, shall be also reserved to the sole use of the United States. Art. 8. In the same manner, the post ofMiehilimackinac, with its dependencies, and twelve miles square about the same, shall be reserved to the use of the United States. Art. 9. If any Indian or Indians shall commit.! robbery ormurdcr on any citizen of the United States, the tribe to which such offenders may belong, shall be bound to deliver them up at the nearest post, to be punished according to the ordinances of the United States. Art. 10. The commissioners of the United States, in pursuance of the humane and liberal views of Congress, upon this treaty's being signed, will direct goods to be distributed among the different tribes for their use and comfort. SEPARATE ARTICLE. It, is agreed that the Delaware chiefs, Kelelamand, or Colonel Henry, Dengue Pushees, or the Big Cat. Wieo-calind, or Captain bite Eyes, who took up the hatchet for the United States, and their families, shall be received into the Delaware nation, in the same situation and rank as before the war, and enjoy their due portions of the lands given to the Wyandot and Delaware nations in this treaty, as fully as if they had not taken part with America, or as any other person or persons in the said nations. GEO. CLARK. RICHARD BUTLER, ARTHUR LEE. [Signed by the sachems and warriors of the Wyandot, Delaware, Chippewa, and Ottawa nations of Indians.] Articles of a 'Treaty concluded at the mouth of the Great Miami, on the northwestern bank of the Ohio, the thirty-first day of January, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-sir, between the commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States of America, of the one part, and the cliiejs and warriors of the Shawanee nation, of the other part. Article 1. Three hostages shall he immediately delivered to the commissioners, to remain in the possession of the United States until all the prisoners, white and black, taken in the late war, from among the citizens of the United States, by the Shawanee nation, or by any other Indian or Indians residing in their towns, shall be restored. Art. 2. The Shawanee nation do acknowledge the United States to be the sole and absolute sovereigns of all the territory ceded to them, by a treaty of peace, made between them and the King of Great Britain, the fourteenth day of January, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-four. Art. 3. If any Indian or Indians of the Shawanee nation, or any other Indian or Indians residing in their towns, shall commit murder or robbery on, or do any injury to, the citizens of the United States, or any of them, that nation shall deliver such offender or offenders to the officer commanding the nearest post of the United States, to be punished according to the ordinances of Congress? and, in like manner, any citizen of the United States, who shall do an injury to any Indian of the Shawanee nation, or to any other Indian or Indians residing in their towns, and under their protection, shall be punished according to the laws of the United States. Art. 4. The Shawanee nation, having knowledge of the intention of any nation or body of Indians to make war on the citizens of the United States, or ot their counselling together for that purpose, and neglecting to give information thereof to the commanding officer of the nearest post of the United States, shall be considered as parties in such war, and be punished accordingly; and the United States shall, in like manner, inform the Shawanees of any injury' designed against them. Art. 5. The United States do grant peace to the Shawanee nation, and do receive them into their friendship and protection. Art. G. The United States do allot to the Shawanee nation, lands within their territory, to live and hunt upon, beginning at the south line of the lands allotted to the Wyandots and Delaware nations, at the place where the main branch of the Great Miami, which falls into the Ohio, intersects said line? then, down the river Miami, to the fork of that river, next below the old fort which was taken by the French in one thousand seven hundred and fifty-two; thence due west to the river De la Pause; then, down that river, to the river Wabash; beyond which lines none of the citizens of the United States shall settle, nor disturb the Shawanees in their settlement and possessions. And the Shawanees do relinquish to the United States, all title, or pretence of title, they ever had to the lands east, west, and south, of the east, west, and south lines before described. Art. 7. If any citizen or citizens of the United States shall presume to settle upon the lands allotted to the Shawanees, by this treaty, he or they shall be put out of the protection of the United States. In testimony whereof, the parties hereunto have affixed their hands and seals, the day and year first above mentioned. G. CLARK, RICHARD BUTLER, SAM’L H. PARSONS. [Signed by the chiefs and warriors of the Shawanee nation.] 1st Congress.]
