NO. 166.	[1st SESSION. CLAIM OF THE STOCKBRIDGE INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, APRIL 13, 1820. Mr. LEAKE, from the committee to whom was referred the bill entitled “ An act for the relief of Jacob Konkopot and others, of the nation of Stockbridge Indians, residing in the State of New York,” made the following report: That the petitioners state that, in the year 1813, in consequence of an invitation from the Secretary of War, accompanied with a promise that they should be fed, paid, and supplied as the troops of the United States, they entered into the service of the United States some time in September of that year, and served about two months under the command of General Wilkinson; that they have never received any compensation for said service, except forty dollars; they, therefore, pray relief. The evidence in support of this claim is a contract entered into between J. W. Jacobs, on the part of the petitioners, and General Wilkinson, on the part of the United States, by which it was stipulated that the petitioners, consisting of John W. Jacobs, who was made captain, Jacob Konkopot, lieutenant, and thirty-five warriors, should serve in the army of the United States for the term of two months. In consideration of which, the said Captain John W. Jacobs was to receive thirty dollars per month, Lieutenant Jacob Konkopot was to receive twenty, and each of the other thirty-five Indians was to receive eight dollars per month; exclusive of which, they were to be furnished with certain articles of clothing mentioned in the said contract, which contract is signed by John W. Jacobs and Jacob Konkopot only, and attested by Major R. C. Nicholas, I2th regiment infantry, and H. Lee, jun. In addition to this contract, there is an affidavit of Jacob Konkopot, one of the petitioners, which states that the petitioners served, agreeably to their contract, from the 30th of September till about the 30th of November, 1813, and for which they have received no consideration except the sum of forty dollars. This affidavit further states that all the papers that have been in his possession, in relation to this transaction, have been sent to the War Office. Your committee discover, from a letter written by the Secretary of War to the chairman of the Committee of Claims in the House of Representatives, to whom this petition was then referred, that the contract made with General Wilkinson is the only document ever sent to that office; no muster-roll or other voucher of any kind is there to be found; and the contract which is alleged to have been made between the petitioners and General Wilkinson is not signed by General Wilkinson, but only has the signature of two of the petitioners, and is not authenticated in any manner whatever; so that it may be fairly said that there is no evidence that the service was actually rendered, except the affidavit of Jacob Konkopot, one of the petitioners. But, as Indians are ignorant of the rules of proceedings in entering and leaving the army, it may be fairly presumed that they were not mustered either into or out of the service; and that, as soon as they had served the time agreed on, they left the army without the performance of these ceremonies; and, as the bill which has been referred to your committee only authorizes the Secretary of War to ascertain and settle, upon the principles of justice and equity, the claim of the petitioners, your committee, therefore, recommend its passage. CONGRESS.] 
