NO. 175 CLAIMS OF THE CITIZENS OF GEORGIA AGAINST THE CREEKS. [COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, FEBRUARY 10, 1821. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, February 8, 1821. In compliance with a resolution of the Senate of the 1st instant, requesting the President of the United States “ to cause to be laid before the Senate any information he may have in relation to the claims of citizens of Georgia against the Creek nation of Indians; and why these claims, if any exist, have not been heretofore adjusted and settled, under the provisions of the treaties of 1790 and 1796,” I now transmit a report from the Secretary of War, with accompanying documents,* which contain all the information on this subject in the possession of the Executive.	JAMES MONROE. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 7, 1821. The Secretary of War, to whom was referred the resolution of the Senate of the 1st instant, requesting the President of the United States “to cause to be laid before the Senate any information he may have in relation to the claims of citizens of Georgia against the Creek nation of Indians; and why these claims, if any exist, have * Some of the documents here referred to are those which accompanied the Creek treaty. See preceding No. lt4. not been heretofore adjusted and settled, under the provisions of the treaties of 1790 and 1796,” has the honor to report: That, upon an examination of the records of the Department of War, it appears that letters of the following dates, viz. 19th May, 1803, 17th May, 1804, and 22d August, 1805, relating to the claims referred to by the resolution of the Senate, were received from his excellency John Milledge, the Governor of Georgia; but, upon searching the files of those years (which are very incomplete) for the originals of these letters, from which to furnish copies for the information of the Senate, they could not be found. The enclosed abstract, therefore, taken from the record of “letters received,” as giving the best view the Department is enabled to give of them, is transmitted, accompanied with copies of the answers of this Department to Governor Milledge, and of instructions to Colonel Hawkins, upon the same subject. The records and papers of the Department of War having been destroyed by fire in 1800, consequently no information, (if it possessed any,) with respect to the claims of Georgia against the Creek nation, previous to that time, can be given; and the abstract and copies of letters now transmitted, it is believed, contain all the correspondence of the Department since that period touching the subject, except that which has grown out of the treaty authorized by Congress at the last session to be held with the Creek nation; copies of which have already been communicated to the Senate through the chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs. The records of the Department furnish no information “why these claims, if any exist, have not been heretofore adjusted and settled under the provisions of the treaties of 1790 and 1796.” J. C. CALHOUN. To the PRESIDENT OP THE UNITED STATES. Abstract of letters, taken from the record of letters received in the Department from the Governor of Georgia. From John Milledge, 19th May, 1803, giving notice that he shall appoint commissioners to repair to the Creek nation for the purpose of demanding negroes detained by it, and requesting directions from the President of the United States upon the subject. From the same, 17th May, 1804, relative to the claim of Georgia upon the Creeks, appointment of commissioners, &c. From the same, 22d August, 1805, relative to a deputation of Creeks, and claims of the citizens of Georgia. Copy of a letter from the Secretary of War to his excellency John Milledge, Governor of Georgia. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, October 14, 1803. Colonel Benjamin Hawkins has been instructed to accompany and aid, by all the means in his power, the commissioners appointed by the Governor of Georgia, for the purpose of carrying into effect the third article of the treaty of the 7th August, 1790, with the Creek nation of Indians, which provides fur the recovery of any citizens or negroes, their prisoners, in the Creek nation. As soon as the running and marking the boundary shall be completed, I presume that Colonel Hawkins will be able to attend to the object above mentioned. Your excellency will undoubtedly see the necessity of selecting such characters, and of giving them such instructions, as will insure the most discreet and prudent execution of the mission. I am, &c. Copy of a letter from the Secretary of War to his excellency John Milledge, Governor of Georgia. Sin:	WAR DEPARTMENT, June 4, 1804. Your excellency’s letter of the 17th ultimo has been duly received; and, for fear that any want of attention may have prevented as explicit instructions tu Colonel Hawkins on the subject of the claims of the citizens of Georgia on the Creeks, by virtue of the treaty of Coleraine, &c., as might have-been wished, I have written again to Colonel Hawkins on the subject, a copy of which is herewith enclosed. I am, &c.	. Copy of a letter from the Secretary of War to his excellency John Milledge, Governor of Georgia. SIR:	'	WAR DEPARTMENT, September 24, 1805. Your letter under date of the 22d ultimo, giving notice of the claims of the citizens of Georgia against the Creek Indians, was duly received in my absence. The General Government, in its negotiations with them, will, no doubt, pay that attention to these claims which justice requires. I have the honor, &c. Copy of a letter from the Secretary of War to Colonel Benjamin Hawkins, Indian Agent, Sfc. SIR:	WAR DEPARTMENT, October 14, 1803. By the third article of the treaty of the 7th of August, 1790, between the United States and the .Creek nation, it was stipulated as follows: “The Creek nation shall deliver, as soon as practicable, to the commanding officer of the troops of the United States stationed at the Rock Landing, on the Oconee river, all citizens of the United States, white inhabitants or negroes, who are now prisoners in any part of the said nation; and if any such prisoners or negroes should not be so delivered on or before the first day of June ensuing, the Governor of Georgia may empower three persons to repair to the said nation in order to claim and receive such prisoners and negroes.” Governor Milledge has recently applied to the President of the United States for authority to carry the latter part of said treaty into effect, on the presumption that the aforesaid stipulation has not been complied with by the Creeks. You are therefore requested to accompany such agents as the Governor of Georgia shall duly appoint for the purpose, in making proper inquiries, and in taking suitable measures for the discovery and recovery of any such prisoners or negroes; and you will please to afford all the aid in your power for obtaining justice in the premises. I presume that this object must necessarily be postponed, until the running and marking the boundary line shall be completed.	,	I am, &c. Copy of a letter from the Secretary of War to Colonel Benjamin Hawkins, Indian Agent, <ÿc. Sin:	WAR DEPARTMENT, June 4, 1804. Three commissioners having been appointed by the Executive of Georgia for the purpose of obtaining from the Creeks compensation for negroes and other property not returned by the Creeks in conformity to the stipulation of the treaty of Coleraine, and the treaty of August, 1790, you will please to afford every aid in your power for obtaining such compensation to the citizens of Georgia as they ought to receive by virtue of said treaties, and for a final adjustment of any existing demands between the citizens of Georgia and the Creeks, respectively. Your letter of the 8th ultimo has been duly received. It is most ardently to be hoped that such arrangements may be effected at the council in the present month as will be perfectly satisfactory to all concerned. I am, &c. Articles of agreement entered into between the undersigned commissioners, appointed by the Governor of the State of Georgia, for and on behalf of the citizens of the said State, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Creek nation of Indians. Whereas, at a conference opened and held at the Indian Spring, in the Creek nation, the citizens of Georgia, by the aforesaid commissioners, have represented that they have claims fo a large amount against the said Creek nation of Indians: Now, in order to adjust and bring the same to a speedy and final settlement, it is hereby agreed by the aforesaid commissioners, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the said nation, that all the talks had upon the subject of these claims at this place, together with all claims on either side, of whatever nature or kind, prior to the act of Congress of 1802, regulating the intercourse with the Indian tribes, with the documents in support of them, shall be referred to the decision of the President of the United States, by him to be decided upon, adjusted, liquidated, and settled, in such manner, and under such rules, regulations, and restrictions, as he shall prescribe: Provided, however, If it should meet the views of the President of the United States, it is the wish of the contracting parties that the liquidation and settlement of the aforesaid claims shall be made in the State of Georgia, at such place as he may deem most convenient for the parties interested; and the decision and award thus made and rendered shall be binding and obligatory upon the contracting parties. In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and seals, this eighth day of January, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-one. Present—D. M. FORNEY, D. MERIWETHER. Whereas a treaty or convention has this day been made and entered into by and between the United States and the Creek nation, by the provisions of which the United States have agreed to pay, and the commissioners of the State of Georgia have agreed'to accept, for and on behalf of the citizens of the State of Georgia having claims against the Creek nation prior to the year one thousand eight hundred and two, the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars: Now, know all men by these presents that we, the undersigned commissioners of the State of Georgia, for and in consideration of the aforesaid sum of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, secured by the said treaty or convention to be paid to the State of Georgia for the discharge of all bona fide and liquidated claims which the citizens of the said State may establish against the Creek nation, do, by these presents, release, exonerate, and discharge the said Creek nation from all and every claim and claims, of whatever description, nature, or kind the same may be, which the citizens of Georgia now have, or may have had prior to the year one thousand eight hundred and two, against the said nation. And we do hereby assign, transfer, and set over unto the United States, for the use and benefit of the said Creek nation, for the consideration hereinbefore expressed, all the right, title, and interest of the citizens of the said State to all claims, debts, damages, and property, of every description and denomination, which the citizens of the said State have, or had prior to the year one thousand eight hundred and two, as aforesaid, against the said Creek nation. In witness whereof, we have hereunto affixed our hands and seals, at the Mineral Spring in the said Creek nation, this eighth day of January, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-one. j. MCINTOSH, Present—D. M. FORNEY,	DAVID ADAMS, D. MERIWETHER,	DANIEL NEWMAN. D. B. MITCHELL, Agent for Indian Affairs. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 3, 1821. I have the honor to transmit, in compliance with the request contained in your letter of the 31st ultimo, copies of the instructions given to the commissioners of the United States appointed to treat with the Creek Indians. No instructions were given through this Department to the Governor of Georgia, in relation to the treaty; nor has a copy of the instructions, given by the Governor to the commissioners from that State, upon the subject been transmitted to this Department. Upon application to the Department of State, the enclosed note, communicating copies of the correspondence of that Department with the Governor of Georgia, was received, and is herewith transmitted for the information of the committee. 1 have the honor to be your obedient servant, J. C. CALHOUN. P. S. The ceded tract is computed to contain within the given boundaries 6,748 square miles, or 4,318,720 acres, as nearly as can be from the meandering of the streams, taken from the best map we have of the State of Georgia. Hon. DAVJD HOLMES, Chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs. DEPARTMENT OF STATE, February 1, 1821. The Secretary of State has the honor of enclosing to the Secretary of War copies of the communications from this Department to the Governor of Georgia, relating to the treaty with the Creek Indians, supposed to be referred to by the chairman of the Committee of the Senate on Indian Affairs. No instructions on this subject have ever issued from this Department to the Governor of Georgia, nor has any copy been received of the instructions from him to the commissioners of the State. The Secretary of State to the Governor of Georgia, dated SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF STATE, WASHINGTON, October 23, 1820. I have had the honor of receiving your letter of the 6th instant, enclosing a copy of a letter from General Flournoy to General Adams. Although the President thinks that the proposed treaty with the Creek Indians can be held only by commissioners appointed under the authority of the United States, and subject to the concurring sanction of the Senate, yet, as it is to be held at the request of the .Legislature of Georgia, and as that State has a peculiar interest, superadded to that of the Union, in the result, it has been and is his wish and intention that the freest and fullest co-operation between the commissioners of the United States and those of Georgia should he maintained; and that the most unreserved communications in relation to the treaty should be made to the commissioners of Georgia by those of the United States. He regrets that any misconceptions of this intention should have occurred, and hopes that they will be obviated for the future. I have the honor, by his direction, of enclosing herewith copies of extracts from the instructions which have been transmitted to the commissioners of the United States from the Department of War on the 8th of August last, and on the 9th instant to General Flournoy. I am, &c. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. Extract of a letter from the Secretary of State to the Governor of Georgia, dated DEPARTMENT OF STATE, WASHINGTON, June 1, 1820. I have the honor of informing you that General John Taylor, of South Carolina, and General John Floyd, of Georgia, have been appointed by the President commissioners on the part of the United States for treating with the Creek Indians, conformably to the appropriation made at the last session of Congress. They will be instructed to give notice of their appointment to the commissioners of the State of Georgia, and to co-operate with them in promoting, to the extent of their powers, the interests and views of the State. The whole appropriation has been made subject to their disposal, in case of necessity, for the object of treating only with the Creeks. The name of General Andrew Jackson having been mentioned by your excellency as a person whose appointment, as one of the commissioners, would be very acceptable to the people of Georgia, I am directed to inform you that he would have been readily selected by the President but for two considerations: one, a very strong and earnest request of General Jackson himself to the President that he might, in future, be exempted from this species of service; and the other, that a[similar wish for the appointment of General Jackson, having been manifested from the State of Mississippi, had already been overlooked, from the same motive of acquiescence in the general’s wishes. The President hopes and trusts that the appointments, as made, will be satisfactory to you, and to the citizens of Georgia. CONGRESS.] 
