NO. 148.	[2d SESSION. TRADE AND INTERCOURSE. K COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEBRUARY 4, 1817. Mr. THOMAS, from the Committee on Indian Affairs, to whom were referred two resolutions on the 19th of Decem- ber, 1816, reported: That the capital appropriated for the prosecution of Indian trade was, in 1809, augmented from $200,000 to $300,000, which sum, by succeeding acts, has been continued down to this period. Of the capital thus appropriated, $290,000 have been drawn from the treasury, and actively employed under the direction of the superintendent of Indian supplies. Under the various laws enacted fur the support and encouragement of Indian trade, eight factories or trading posts have been established at the following points: 1. Fort Mitchell, Georgia. 2. Chickasaw Bluffs, Mississippi Territory. 3. Fort Confederation, on the Tombigbee river. 4. Fort Osage, on the Missouri river, near the mouth of the Osage. 5. Prairie du Chien, on the Mississippi, near the mouth of the Ouisconsin river. 6. At a place not named, nine miles from Natchitoches. 7. Green Bay, on the Green Bay of Lake Michigan, Illinois Territory. 8. Chicago, Lake Michigan. The committee, averse to the supposition that it was the will of the House that they should present a detailed view of the profit and loss of each particular agency, submit, in relation to the general establishment, that it has been a losing institution; owing, it is presumable, to adventitious circumstances, originating in our recent belligérant state, and not growing out of any defect in the organization or government of the trade. From the first operations of this traffic up to December, 1809, it sustained a loss of $44,538 36. Since that period the trade has been more successful, it having yielded a profit on the capital actually vested in merchandise of about $15,000 annually, after covering a loss of $43,369, which accrued in consequence of the capture of several trading posts by the enemy during the late war. In this view of the subject the committee have not embraced an item of $20,000, annually disbursed at the Treasury, for the pay of the superintendent and his clerks, the factors, &c., and which, when applied to-the concern, as necessarily it must be, in making an estimate of profit and loss, will absorb the profits arising from the funds employed in trade, and furnish an annual charge against the establishment of $5,000. This annual loss being sustained by the treasury, pursuant to specific appropriations for the pay of the superintendent and his assistants, is a positive loss to the Government, but not to the concern, in the diminution of its capital, which, under all circumstances, remains stationary. The act of the last session, giving to the President the discretionary power of licensing foreigners to a participation in the Indian trade, is less exceptionable in theory than in practice. With all the guards of the act and precautions of the Executive, it has been found impracticable, under a dispensing power, to avoid the admission of men of the most inflammable and vicious habits. ■ Nor can such be interdicted while the door is left open to foreign traders. Either admit or exclude all. A system partial in its character will, by inhibiting a worthy applicant, do him injustice; and, by permitting the fraudulent peculator, the savage, for whom the provision is made, and the country, are wronged. In the nature of things, the Executive must rely on recommendations, in the exercise of the power deposited with him. And who is it, or what must his character be, that cannot be recommended to presidential patronage! The committee are apprized that the exclusion of foreigners will be attended with a momentary irritation, and a temporary expense to the nation, as the inhibition will devolve on the Government an obligation to increase its trading posts and augment its Indian capital, so as to supply the wants of such tribes as are now dependant on foreign trade. The prosecution of this policy will be strongly aided by the additional vigor with which the system will inspire the commercial enterprise of the American citizen. The committee have been unable to ascertain, with any degree of accuracy, the amount of capital employed by foreigners in this trade; consequently, they are somewhat at a loss to suggest the amount necessary to fill the vacuum occasioned by the withdrawing of foreign capital. But from the best lights which have been afforded, the committee are induced to believe that $200,000, in addition to the present appropriation, having the auxiliary exertions of individual enterprise, and aided by a superintendency at St. Louis, would be amply sufficient to accomplish what must be desirable to the Government—the supply of those dependant upon her humanity, upon terms advantageous to both.	• 15th CONGRESS.]	
