No. 116. [1st Session. THE OTTAWAS AND OTHERS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE ON THE 15TII JANUARY, 1808. To the Senate of the United States: The posts of Detroit and Mackinac having been originally intended, by the government which established and held them, as mere depots for commerce with the Indians, very small cessions of land round them were obtained, or asked from the native proprietors, and these posts depended for protection, on the strength of their garrisons. The principles of our government leadingus to the employment of such moderate garrisons, in time of peace, as may merely take care of the post, and to a reliance on the neighboring militia for its support in the first moments of war, I have thought it would fie important to obtain from the Indians, suclpa cession in the neighborhood of these posts, as might maintain a militia proportioned to this object; and I have particularly contemplated, with this view, the acquisition of the eastern moiety of the peninsula between lakes Michgian and Huron, comprehending the waters of the latter, and of Detroit river, so soon as it could be effected with the perfect good will of the natives. Governor Hull was, therefore, appointed a commissioner to treat with them on this subject; but was instructed to confine his propositions, for the present, to so much of the tract, before described, as lay south of Saguina bay, and round to the Connecticut reserve, so as to'consolidate the new with the present settled country. The result has been an acquisition of so much only of what would have been acceptable, as extends from the neighborhood of Saguina bay to the Miami of the lakes; with a prospect of soon obtaining a breadth of two miles, for a communication from 'the Miami to the Connecticut reserve. The treat}" for this purpose, entered into with the Ottawas, Chippewas, Wyan-dots, and Pattawatamies, at Detroit, on the 17th of November last, is now transmitted to the Senate; and I ask their advice and consent as to its ratification. I communicate herewith, such papers as bear any material relation to the subject. TIL JEFFERSON. January 15, 1808. Articles of a Treaty between the United States of America and the Ottawa. Chippewa, Wyandot, and Patta- U'atarny nations of Indians. Articles of a treaty made at Detroit, this seventh day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seven, by William Hull, Governor of the territory of Michigan, and superintendent of Indian affairs, and sole commissioner of the United States, to conclude and sign a treaty or treaties w ith the several nations of Indians, northwest of the river Ohio, on the one part; and the sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the Ottawa, Chippewa, "Wyandot, and Pattawatamy nations of Indians, on the other part. To confirm and perpetuate the friendship which happily subsists between the United States and the nations aforesaid, to manifest the sincerity of that friendship, and to settle arrangements mutually beneficial to the parties; after a full explanation and perfect understanding, the follow ing articles are agreed to, which, when ratified by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate ot the United States, shall be binding on them, and the respective nations of Indians: Article 1. The sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the nations aforesaid, in consideration ot money and goods to be paid to the said nations, by the Government of the United States, as hereafter stipulated, do hereby agree to cede, and forever quit claim, and do. in behalf of their nations, hereby cede, relinquish, and forever quit claim, unto the said United States, all right, title, and interest, which the said nations now' have, or claim, or ever had. or claimed, in or unto the lands comprehended within the following described lines and boundaries: Beginning at the mouth ol the Miami river of the lakes, and running thence up the middle thereof, to the mouth of the great Auglaize river; thence, running due north, until it intersects a parallel of latitude, to be drawn from the outlet of jake Huron, which forms the river Sinclair; thence, running northeast, the course that may be found will lead in a direct line to \\ bite rock in lake Huron: thence, due east, until it intersects the boundary line between the United States and Upper Canada, in said lake; thence southerly, following the said boundary line, down said lake, through river Sinclair, lake St. Clair, and the river Detroit, into lake Erie, to a point due east of the aforesaid Miami river; thence west, to the place of beginning. Article 2. It is hereby stipulated and agreed, on the part of the United States, as a consideration for the lands ceded by the nations aforesaid, in the preceding article, that there shall be paid to the said nations, at Detroit, ten thousand dollars, in money, goods, implements of husbandry, or domestic animals, (at the option ol the said nations, seasonably signified, through the superintendent of Indian affairs, residing w ith the said nations, to the Department of War,) as soon as practicable, after the ratification of the treaty, by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. Of this sum, three thousand three" hundred and thirty-three dollars, thirty-three cents and four mills, shall be paid to the Ottawa nation: three thousand three hundred and thirty-three dollars, thirty-three cents and four mills, to the Chippewa nation: one thousand six hundred and sixty-six dollars, sixty-six cents and six mills, to the Wyandot nation: one thousand six hundred and sixty-six dollars, sixty-six cents and six mills, to the Pattawatamy nation; and likewise an annuity forever, of two thousand four hundred dollars, to be paid at Detroit, in manner as aforesaid; the first payment to be made on the first day of September next, and to be paid to the different nations in the follow ing proportions: Eight hundred dollars to the Ottawa*; eight hundred dollars to the Chippewas; four hundred dollars to the Wyandots; and four hundred dollars to such of the Patta-watamies as now reside on the river Huron of lake Erie, the river Raisin, and in the vicinity of the said rivers. Article 3, It is further stipulated and agreed, if at. any time, hereafter, the said nations should be of the opinion, that it would be more for their interest, that the annuity aforesaid should be paid by instalments, the United States will agree to a reasonable commutation for the annuity, and pay it accordingly. Article 1. The United States, to manifest their liberality, and disposition to encourage the said Indians in agriculture, further stipulate to furnish the said Indians with two blacksmiths; one to reside with the Chippewas at Saguina; and the other to reside with the Ottawas, at the Miami, during the term of ten years; said blacksmiths'are to do such work for the said nations, as shall be most useful to them. Article 5. It is further agreed and stipulated, that the said Indian nations shall enjoy the privilege of hunting and fishing on the lands ceded as aforesaid, as long as they remain the property of the United States. Article 6. It is distinctly to be understood, for the accommodation of the said Indians, that the following tracts of laud, w ithin the cession aforesaid, shall be, and hereby are, reserved to the Indian nations: One tract of land, six miles square, on the Miami of lake Erie, above Roche de Boeuf, to include the village where Fondagame (or the Dog) now lives: also three miles square on the said river, (above the twelve mile square ceded to tin1 United States by the treaty of Greenville) including what is called Presqu’Isle: also, four miles square, on the Miami bay, including the villages where Meshkeman and Wausau now' live; also, three miles square, on the river Raisin, at a place called Macon, and where the river Macon falls into the river Raisin, which place is about fourteen miles from the mouth of said river Raisin; also, two sections, of one mile square, each, on the river Rouge, at Segiuserviifs village; also, two sections, of one mile square, each, at TonquisIFs village, near the river Rouge; also, three miles square, on lake ist. Clair, above the river Huron, to include Machonee’s village: also, six sections, each section containing one mile square, within the cession aforesaid, in such situations as the said Indians shall elect, subject, however, to the approbation of the President of the United States, as to the places of location. It is further understood and agreed, that whenever the reservations cannot conveniently be laid out in squares, they shall be laid out in parallelograms or other figures, as found most practicable and convenient, so as to obtain the area specified in miles; and in all eases, they are to lie located in such manner, and in such situations, as not to interfere with any improvements of the French, or other white people, or any former cessions. Article 7. The said nations of Indians acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States and no other Power, and will prove, by their conduct, that they are worthy of so great a blessing. In testimony whereof, the said William Hull, and the sachems and war chiefs, representing the said nations, have hereunto set their hands and seals. Done at Detroit, in the territory of Michigan, the day and year first above written. WILLIAM HULL, [l. s.] Pee-wen-siie-me-nogh, [l. s.l And other Indians. Extract of a letter from Governor Hull to the Secretary of I Car, dated Detroit, 23</ December, 1807. Before this reaches you, you will have received the treaty, which I have concluded w ith the Indians. As yet, 1 have heard of no complaint from a single individual ol the Indians, respecting it. I believe a treaty was never made on fairer principles. Every.thing relating to it, has been fully explained; they were not even urged to the measure; full time was given for them to deliberate, and this, sir, you may be assured of, it was the result of their own choice. W ar Department, January 27th, 1807. Sir: With this, you will receive a commission, to hold a treaty with the chiefs of such Indian tribes or nations as are actually interested in the lands hereafter described, and to which, the President of the United States is desirous of obtaining the Indians’ title, on reasonable terms, if practicable. You will determine on the most suitable time and place for holding the treaty, and will, accordingly, take the necessary measures for having the chiefs duly notified. No greater number of Indians should attend the treaty than what will be necessary to include all the chiefs of note, of the respective nations. You will find it necessary for you to be particularly attentive to this object, otherwise, you will have such a concourse, as will not be only troublesome, but very expensive. From fifty to one hundred is as great a number as ought to be allowed to attend. You will, I presume, find it expedient to hold the treaty in the vicinity of Detroit, and will, of course, give due notice to the contractor’s agent, to be prepared to furnish necessary rations.^ You will have such articles procured, as may be necessary for your own and for the accommodation of the secretary to the commission, whom you will appoint, and who will be allowed three dollars per day, while actually employed as such. You will employ such faithful interpreters as may be requisite, who will be allowed one dollar per day, each, while actually employed, except such as arc in the service of the Government, who ought not to receive any other compensation, in addition to their annual pay, than their subistence while attending the treaty. It ought to he understood, that you are not to entertain, at the public expense, a concourse of white people, who may have the curiosity to attend the treaty. Very little spirit ought to be allowed the Indians, pending the negotiation. It will be difficult to ascertain, with any tolerable degree of certainty, the quantity of acres included in any purchase you may make, but you will endeav or to calculate the price in such manner, as not, on any condition, to exceed two cents per acre. And I presume it will not be necessary to exceed one cent per acre. A suitable proportion of the consideration money may be stipulated to be paid on the ratification of the treaty, and for the remainder, an annuity, payable annually, equal to the yearly interest of said remainder. The payments should be stipulated, to be made, partly in money, and partly in such articles as may be most useful. The first tract contemplated to be treated for, comprehends, (besides certain lands heretofore ceded and confirmed to the United States by the treaty of Greenville) the residue of the lands included within the following lines, viz: Beginning at the mouth of the river Miami of the lake, thence, up said river, to a bound, to be fixed opposite the mouth of the Auglaize; thence, to run northwestardly without deviating materially from a north line, as nearly as may be, between the head waters of such rivers and streams as empty into the river St. Joseph and lake Michigan, on the one side, and those which empty eastwardly into lake Huron and lake Erie, and the intermediate waters, on the other; the said line to be continued northwardly, until a due east course will strike the head of Saguinabay; thence, by said course, to the head of Saguina bay; thence, by said bay, to lake Huron; thence, by lake Huron, and the shore below, to the mouth of the Miami of the lake. This tract, calculating the line from the mouth of Auglaize to run nearly north, probably contains (exclusive of former cessions and confirmations to the United States) from four to five millions of acres. The other tract to be treated for, is comprehended between the following lines, viz: Beginning at the mouth of the river Auglaize; thence, running due east to Sandusky river and to the Western line of the Connecticut western reserve; thence, north by the said western l ine, to lake Erie; thence, by lake Erie, to the mouth of the Miami of the lake; thence, up the Miami, to the mouth of the river Auglaize. It will probably be necessary and proper to stipulate lor such reservations, adjoining and contiguous to the eas tern line of this tract, as maybe useful to the Indians, for the purposes of agriculture &c. if they should be inclined to dispose of this tract on reasonable terms, with the condition of reserving ten or fifteen miles in width, on the eastern side, it will be desirable to makefile purchase, reserving a right to a road through such reserved tract, from the Connecticut reserve to the Miami river. It should be recollected, that, by the treaty of Greenville, we have one tract of six miles square, and one of two miles square, on the bay and river Sandusky. The last mentioned tract to be treated for, will, probably, contain from seven to nine hundred thousand acres, exclusive of the tract obtained by the treaty of Greenville. Each mile reserved on the eastern end, will probably be about twenty thousand acres; of course, ten miles would contain two hundred thousand acres, to be deducted, say'from eight hundred thousand acres, leaving, for the cession now contemplated to be obtained within the lines of the last described tract, six hundred thousand acres. For such expenses as maybe necessary for holding the proposed treaty, you will draw bills on this Department. But I must take the liberty of cautioning you against any unnecessary expenditures. If the chiefs, generally, of the Wyandotsand Ottawas, should not be disposed to attend the treaty, with an intention of disposing of the last mentioned tract, that object should be given up, as it would be improper, after what took place in 1805, to attempt any purchase of them, without the general concurrence of the chiefs. H. DEARBORN. His Excellency Gov. Hull. 10th Congress.] 
