NO. 189.	[2d SESSION. PROGRESS OF THE SOCIETY OF UNITED BRETHREN IN PROPAGATING THE GOSPEL AMONG THE INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 10, 1822. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, December 9,1822. In compliance with a resolution of the Senate of the 22d February last, “requesting the President of the United States to cause to be collected, and communicated to the Senate at the commencement of the next session of Congress, the best information which he may be able to obtain relative to certain Christian Indians, and the lands intended for their benefit, on the Muskingum, in the State of Ohio, granted under an act of Congress of June 1, 1796, to the Society of United Brethren for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen; showing, as correctly as possible, the advance or decline of said Indians in numbers, morals, and intellectual endowments; whether the said lands have enured to their sole benefit; and, if not, to whom, in whole or in part, have such benefits accrued;” I transmit a report from the Secretary of War, with the accompanying documents. JAMES MONROE. The Secretary of War, to whom was referred a resolution of the Senate of the 22d February last, requesting the President of the United States “to cause to be collected, and communicated to the Senate at the commencement of the next session of Congress, the best information which he may be able to obtain relative to certain Christian Indians, and the lands intended for their benefit, on the Muskingum, in the State of Ohio, granted under an act of Congress of June 1, 1796, to the Society of United Brethren for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen; showing, as correctly as possible, the advance or decline of said Indians in numbers, morals, and intellectual endowments; whether the said lands have enured to their sole benefit; and, if not, to whom, in whole or in part, have such benefits accrued;” has the honor to lay before the President the accompanying documents, which have been prepared and transmitted to him, in compliance with a letter from this Department, of the 4th of March last, by the Rev. Lewis D. de Schweinitz, by order of the president and directors of the Society of United Brethren for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen. These documents, it is believed, contain all the information required by the resolution of the Senate through this Department. All which is respectfully submitted. ■	J. C. CALHOUN. To the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. BETHLEHEM, September, 1822. The president and directors %f the Society of United Brethren for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen, established at Bethlehem, Northampton county, Pennsylvania, beg leave most respectfully to represent: That, in obedience to certain resolutions of the honorable the Senate of the United States, dated February 22, current year, transmitted to this society, under address of the president thereof, by the Secretary of the Senate, agreeably to the third resolution; and in due compliance with requisitions from the honorable Secretary of the War Department, directed severally to the Rev. John Heckewelder, and the Rev. Lewis D. de Schweinitz, both of them members of the board of directors of this society, the following statement of facts, concerning the subjectmatter of the aforesaid resolutions of the honorable the Senate of the United States, together with the accompanying documents, is most respectfully submitted, with an humble request to lay the same before the President of the United States. . In order to meet the object of the second resolution of the honorable Senate aforesaid, requiring the best i information relative to the Christian Indians formerly settled on the Muskingum, in the State of Ohio, and the lands intended for their benefit, in a certain grant referred to in the first resolution, which issued under an act of Congress dated June 1, 1796, conveying to the Society of United Brethren for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen three tracts of land, of four thousand acres each, to include the towns of Gnadenhutten, Schoenbrunn, and Salem, on the Muskingum, in trust to said society, for the sole use of the Christian Indians formerly settled there, we beg leave, in the first place, to state, that the “summary of facts relating to the Indian missions of the United Brethren,” drawn up by the Rev. John Heckewelder for the president and directors of this society, and herewith respectfully submitted, conveys a detailed view of the degree of success which, from the year 1742, to the year 1782, and since, had attended the endeavors of the United Brethren, not only to convert the Indian savages to Christianity, but likewise to introduce among the converts the arts and comforts of civilized life. It, however, becomes proper to remark, in the outset, that this success of the United Brethren was, at all times, a limited one; and that they never attempted to convert or civilize whole nations. The inadequacy of their means, depending exclusively on the voluntary contributions of the members of their church, and such other friends as, without solicitation, thought proper to render them aid; and the tenor of their principles, which require a vital conversion from heathenism, not unto a professed belief in the Christian doctrine alone, but chiefly unto a practically moral Christian life and demeanor, at all times forbade extensive attempts, and necessarily confined their endeavors to planting and preserving one or more select communities of Christian Indians. Hence, it is evident that they never pretended to such an extension of missions as some have been induced to represent, from overlooking the circumstance that the numerous stations of which their missionary histories make mention were not contemporary establishments, but successive abodes of one and the same community of persons. It appears, from Mr. Heckewelder’s statement, that a thriving establishment of Mohicans and Wampanoags was first formed under the auspices of the United Brethren, in the year 1742, about twenty-seven miles north of Bethlehem, in Pennsylvania; the various fates of which, augmented by an additional number of converts from the Delaware nation, are pointed out in the summary just cited, and at length in the printed histories of the United Brethren’s Missions among the Indians, published by Loskiel and by John Heckewelder, to which we beg leave to refer. Three times had this select community of Christian Indians, as will appear from the accounts just cited, successively attained an eminent degree of advancement in morals and mental endowments, as well as outward prosperity; I and three limes, successively, viz: in the year 1755, at Gnadenhutten, on the Lehigh; in the year 1763, at Nain and Wequetank, near Bethlehem; and in the year 1772, at Wyalusing, on the Susquehannah, were their flunrish- ing settlements forcibly broken up, and they constrained to leave all their improvements, to fly from their acquired comforts, and to recommence in the wilderness. Such repeated and fatal cheeks, it might well have been expected, could not but entirely extinguish, in the minds of Indians recently inspired with a taste for civilization, all further desire of improvement. This, however, was not the case. Neither the missionaries active among them, nor the Christian Indians themselves, whose number continued gradually to increase, suffered themselves to be deterred from again erecting three very flourishing colonies; when, after having been forced to leave Wyalusing, they were at length, as they believed, permanently settled by the great council of the Delaware nation, in the year 1772, on the banks of the Muskingum, and that land given to them and their successors forever. Here it was that, in a short time, this community of Christian Indians attained a most hopeful degree of prosperity; the reality and degree of which, as described and attested by Mr. Heckewelder, was a matter of general notoriety at the time. The number of Christian Indians belonging to the three establishments, at Gnadenhutten, Schoenbrunn, and Salem, on the Muskingum, when in their most flourishing condition, (which may be assumed as the most successful period of the labors of the United Brethren,) somewhat exceeded 400 souls, including women and children; it is, consequently, upon this number that the effects become observable of that almost unexampled succession of disasters which befel them, and which, following in the train of the revolutionary war, have in a measure not yet ceased, whereby a reduction of their number to less than one-half has been brought about, together with that manifest deterioration in their external and internal situation which we so deeply deplore. Confiding in the solemn declaration of Congress, nt the. commencement of the war, “ that all such Indians, whether nations, or communities forming parts of a nation, that would sit still and not take up the hatchet against the Americans, should have all the lands they held confirmed and secured to them after peace,” the Christian Indians on Muskingum, whose convictions forbade their taking any share whatever in the contest, continued peaceabl}' to pursue their agricultural occupations, (having almost entirely abandoned the chase,) and to improve in every respect. This conduct of theirs greatly exasperated the hostile tribes, and more especially that part of the Delawares opposed to the United States; and was not much less displeasing to the British Government. Both the Christian Indians and their missionaries thus became objects of suspicion and harassing persecutions; until, after six years of difficulties and sufferings, which, however, only partially hindered their advancement, although they diminished their number, by inducing such as were not firmly rooted in their devotion to Christianity to fall off, the British and hostile Indians came upon them in August, 1781, and entirely broke up their flourishing settlements, by forcibly removing them and their missionaries to Sandusky, when?’ they were nearly left to perish with hunger, having been obliged to leave their promising crops on Muskingum on the fields; and at length deprived them of their teachers, who, under pretence of being spies in the service of Congress, were carried prisoners to Detroit. This, together with the horrid transaction on the Muskingum—whither want of provisions had induced about one- third of the Christian Indians to repair, in order to collect some from their fields in the spring of 1782, who were there surprised by a lawless band of Americans under the guise of friendship, and upwards of ninety of them murdered in cold blood—produced a total dispersion of the unhappy remnants, and would have put a final period to the mission of the United Brethren, had they not succeeded, by the permission of the British Government, which had acknowledged the innocence of the missionaries, in collecting a considerable number.of their dispersed flock near Detroit, and establishing themselves, for a time, on the river Huron; whence, after peace had taken place, they emigrated to Cayuga, attempting to regain their former advantageous position. From this shock, however, the mission never fully recovered, and not a few never returned from their dispersion. As soon as peace had been concluded, the agents of the Brethren’s missions at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, exerted themselves to secure to these unhappy remnants of the Christian Indians their undisputed title to the lands occupied by them on Muskingum, previous to their forcible removal by the British Indians; and accordingly prayed Congress, in a memorial signed 28th October, 1783, to reserve unto them the three towns and circumjacent land given them by the great council of the Delaware nation in 1772. This memorial was favorably reported upon in March, 1784, and, in consequence, in an ordinance ofCongress passed 20th ofMay 1785, a clause was inserted, “that the said towns, and so much of the adjoining lands as, in the judgment of the geographer of the United States, may be sufficient for them, together with the buildings, &c., shall be reserved for the sole use of the Christian Indians formerly settled there.” In pursuance hereof, the agents for the Brethren’s missions began to exert themselves to effect the return of the Christian Indians, or that remnant of them which their missionaries had been able to collect, to their favorite former seats on the Muskingum. The necessary permission of the British Government having been obtained, they were carried over Lake Erie to Cayuga, in April, 1786, as before related, where they were obliged to remain, both on account of a total want of provision for proceeding, and of renewed rumors of an approaching savage war. On a representation of their distressed state, laid before Congress by Bishop Ettwein, through the instrumentality of Charles Thompson, Esq., Secretary of Congress, that honorable body passed a resolution, directing Lieutenant Colonel Harmar to furnish the Christian Indians at Fort McIntosh with five hundred bushels of Indian corn, one hundred blankets, and other necessaries. Unfortunately, this benevolence of Congress could not be carried into effect, notwithstanding the active friendship of the gentlemen concerned, as it proved impossible to bring on the Christian Indians far enough; the reports which reached them of the threats of the murderers of their friends intending to complete their destruction filling their minds with the utmost apprehension. It was believed that these threats were uttered in hopes of thereby preventing the return of the Christian Indians upon their land, and thus extinguishing the reservation thereof in the ordinance of May 20, 1785, as by this time these lands began to be an object of cupidity. Representations of these impediments thrown into the way of the Christian Indians having again been submitted to Congress, together with an exposition of the nature of the fears operating upon these persecuted sufferers, that honorable body, in order at once to cut off all hopes of the aforementioned unprincipled persons of ever acquiring the lands, even if they should succeed, by their threats, in preventing the return of the Christian Indians, determined, by an ordinance dated 27th July, 1787, “ that the property of ten thousand acres, adjoining to the former settlements of the Christian Indians, should be vested in the Moravian Brethren at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, or a society of the said Brethren, for civilizing the Indians and promoting Christianity, in trust, and for- the uses expressed in the ordinance of May 20, 1785, including Killbuck and his descendants, and the nephew and descendants of the late Captain White-eyes, Delaware chiefs, who have distinguished themselves as friends of the cause of America.” The summary of facts hereunto subjoined fully explains the manner in which the latter clause respecting Killbuck and White-eyes, and their families, came to be attached to the above ordinance; and it will be proper here to remark, that Killbuck, previous to the new settlement on the Muskingum, joined the community of the Christian Indians; that the nephew of Captain White-eyes never appeared to claim any participation; that one of the sons of Captain White-eyes was killed before the ordinance was carried into effect; and that the family of Killbuck, and the widow of the other son of White-eyes, and her children, are, to the present moment, among those Christian Indians now living on the land. Agreeably to the suggestion contained in the aforesaid ordinance of Congress, and with a particular view of thus facilitating a legal tenure of the lands intended for the Christian Indians, a society was formed at Bethlehem, by members of the United Brethren, by the title of “ Society of the United Brethren for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen,” which met for the first time September 21, 1787, and was afterwards duly incorporated by the State of Pennsylvania, by an act dated February 27, 1788, and, in like manner, subsequently, by the States of New Jersey, Ohio, and New York. Bishop John Ettwein, who for many years successively was elected president of this society, together with Rev. John Heckewelder, who had resided for a long time as a missionary among the Christian Indians, immediately after the formation of the aforementioned society, applied to the Board of Treasury of the United States, as they had been advised, for further information concerning the survey of said lands, and the other necessary steps. In a conference of that honorable board with them, as appears from minutes thereof taken down by Bishop Ettwein, and by a relation of Mr. Heckewelder’s, in a memorial herewith further submitted, concerning the origin of the Indian claim to the land, these gentlemen had an opportunity of fully explaining to the members of the honorable Board of Treasury the manner in which the society contemplated executing the trust to be conferred upon them; all which met the full approbation of the board. And it was agreed that, besides the six hundred and sixty-six and two-thirds acres allotted to the plat of each town, a quantity of ten thousand acres, making in the whole twelve thousand acres, should be surveyed for the society, under the ordinance of 27th July, 1787, and the manner of running the lines likewise determined upon. It appears, by the correspondence between Bishop Ettwein and Mr. Hutchins, the geographer of the United States, that subsequently difficulties arose from another ordinance of Congress, relating to the army lands, as to the manner of survey agreed upon with the Board of Treasury. This occasioned the president and directors of the Society fur propagating the Gospel among the Heathen to present a new memorial to Congress, praying “ that the geographer be directed, without loss of time, to proceed to survey the three tracts as he shall find most convenient for the society; and that the said society may have the preference in purchasing the intermediate spaces between the tracts, they paying therefor at the same rate with other persons.” This memorial effected the ordinance of the United States in Congress assembled, dated September 3, 1788, herewith submitted, confirming the “former ordinances of May 20, 1785, and July 27, 1787, determining the quantity and manner of survey; accepting the offer of the society to advance the expenses of surveying the three tracts, on condition that they be repaid either in money or land; and granting the prayer of the memorial, by ordering the survey as speedily as possible, and the return of plats, that deeds may be issued for the same to the society; and authorizing the Board of Treasury to convey to the said society such intermediate spaces between the three tracts (not infringing prior contracts) as they may desire, upon their paying therefor at the usual rate.” All the attempts of this society to effect the. actual survey of the lands thus solemnly confirmed to them, and the consequent resettlement thereof by the Christian Indians, were completely frustrated by the threatening prospect of a new Indian war, which, as appears from the correspondence and the statement of Mr. Heckewelder, (marked B,) heretofore referred to, (that gentleman being employed on the part of the society for the purpose,) totally prevented any surveys being made at that time. Meanwhile, the hostile Indians, desirous of preventing the return of the Christian Indians to the Muskingum, made use of all manner of persuasions and threats to deter them from proceeding thither; filled their minds with new reports of the intention of the white settlers on the Ohio to murder them; and, finally, forbade their proceeding, absolutely, and forced them to retreat to the north side of Lake Erie, where they were glad to find protection from the British Government, and were furnished with land to settle upon. The Society for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen, understanding that an apparent misapprehension of this untoward state of things had caused the honorable Secretary of State, under the new constitution of these United States, which had in the mean time taken place, in his report to the President of the United States, read in the House of Representatives November 10, 1791, to consider the reservation made for the Christian Indians by the ordinance aforesaid avoided, on account of their assumed emigration beyond the limits of the United States, proper representations of the real state of the case were immediately forwarded in writing to Hon. Thomas Jefferson, then Secretary of State, by Bishop Ettwein, accompanied by a distinct exposition of the views of the society of the manner in which they still hoped to render the grant of Congress available to the Christian Indians; and an humble petition was at the same time presented to Congress, setting forth the same case, and humbly praying for the confirmation of the ordinance of September 3, 1788, and the issue of the necessary warrants for surveying the lands as soon as practicable. This petition was referred to the committee appointed to bring in a land office bill, consisting of Messrs. Bou- dinot, White, and Williamson. Bishop Ettwein appeared before this committee to give the required information, and presented a memorial explaining both the circumstances heretofore stated, and the views of the society of the manner in which they intended to render the land of use to the Christian Indians. These views, thus distinctly stated, were the same which had before been submitted to the Board of Treasury in the year 1787, as related by Mr. Heckewelder in his statement B, and are chiefly the following: 1. That as many of the Christian Indians as could be induced to come and live on the land, together with Captain Killbuck and his descendants, and the family of Captain White-eyes, as mentioned in the ordinance, should be furnished with as much land as they ehose for cultivation, as long as they chose to live there, and conform to the rules of the Christian community made by themselves. 2. That the land not wanted by the Indians should be settled upon leases by white tenants, and the proceeds thereof faith fully applied by the society for the good of these Indians or their successors, in providing them, and also other believers, with missionaries, schools, books, fyc. The report of the aforesaid committee upon these representations, i.n December, 1791, was, “ that the land in question shall be further reserved for the occupation of the Christian Indians.” A general Indian war intervening, all further proceedings were necessarily suspended until December, 1795, when, a new land office bill committee having been appointed by the honorable House of Representatives, consisting of Messrs. Sitgreaves, Hartly, and Swanwick, Bishop Ettwein did not delay to offer a new petition in the name of the society, dated January 8, 1796, which was referred to the committee aforesaid. In a brief account of the state of the case, submitted to this committee by Bishop Ettwein, he most explicitly repeats the statement of the intentions of the society as to the manner of administering the lands for the benefit of the Christian Indians as above. Being struck by the expression in the report of the former committee, (1791,) that the land be reserved for the occupation of the Christian Indians; the experience of the mean time, and the increasing mistrust of the Indians, together with their well-known horror for the spot where their relations have been murdered, having by this time rendered it extremely problematical whether it would be possible to induce many of them to return to the Muskingum, particularly as the British Government had, during these negotiations, granted them a considerable tract of land for permanent seats; Bishop Ettwein took the liberty to state expressly to the present committee, as Mr. Heckewelder testifies had always been previously stated, that it would be precarious in the extreme to hold the land, if the possession must rest upon the occupancy by the Christian Indians. He represented the great reduction of their number, in consequence of which but a small portion of the tracts could, in the most favorable event, be occupied by them, as well as the possibility that, after all, they would not be persuaded, generally, to remove thither; moreover, that they might not be able to maintain themselves there against the private enmity of the whites, especially if these could hope to get the land by their removal: considerations which, as was generally understood by the society, had mainly suggested to Congress, in 1787, the plan of vesting the land in a legally established society, as the only means of securing to the Christian Indians, permanently, the advantages intended to be conferred.	, These representations appear to have met the approbation of the committee; for, in consequence, that committee reported favorably; and an act of Congress, entitled “ An act regulating the grants of land appropriated for military services, and for the Society of the United Brethren for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen,” was passed, and approved by the President of the United States on the 1st June, 1796, directing “ the surveyor general to cause to be surveyed the three tracts set apart by the ordinance of Congress of 3d September, 1788, and that patent be issued to the society mentioned in the caption for the said three tracts, in trust, for the uses and purposes in the said ordinance set forth.” Great exertions, and at a very great expense of this society,/or which they never received any reimbursement, were now made, early in the spring of 1797, and most cordially assisted by General Refus Putnam, the surveyor general, to effect the actual survey; of which Mr. Heckewelder, who acted as the agent of this society, gives a detailed account in his statement B; and after the plats thereof had been properly returned, the grant or patent (being the one called for by the first resolution of the honorable Senate) issued, under the hand and seal of the President of the United States, dated 4th February, 1798, and was transmitted to the president and directors of this society. Measures were now instantly taken, in accordance with the plans submitted to the different committees of Congress, to carry the grant confirmed by this act into effect, and to render it available for the objects of the trost; both in using every effort to induce at least a part of the Christian Indians to settle on the land, and in rendering the surplus of use to them in the manner originally contemplated, by settling the same with white tenants of good character, and applying the proceeds for the advantage of the objects of the trust, as had been agreed upon. In fact, no other way could have been well devised, as the nature of the grant was understood to be such as to put any appropriation of the land to individuals, much less any partial alienation, entirely out of the question. The difficulties and expenses resulting from the latter part of the plan are detailed in the statement of Mr. Heckewelder. We shall beg leave to recur to this part of the subject after we have rendered an account of the exertions used to induce the Christian Indians to return on the land now secured to their use. During the course of the bloody war which terminated in 1796, the community of Christian Indians, who, without exception, took no manner of share in that war, had gratefully accepted the protection afforded them against the persecution and threats of the hostile tribes, by the British Government, on the north side of the lakes; and, as has been before related, after having found a temporary refuge at the mouth of the river Detroit, emptying into Lake Erie, they were at length induced, in the year 1792, permanently to settle on an extensive grant offered to them on the river Thames, which was formally surveyed for them in January, 1794. They here built the town of Fairfield, which, after some time, assumed a very promising aspect, although the effects of the incredible disasters that had befallen them, and especially of the repeated utter destruction of all the fruits of their former industry, began to appear in a diminution of their zeal for advancing in civilization. Mr. Heckewelder, in his statement of facts heretofore referred to, testifies to both these circumstances, and recites the prominent causes which began to operate deleteriously on the minds of a number among them; causes which had become more operative in the year 1798, when he again visited them. Nor is it to be wondered at that such an unexampled succession of untoward events, almost sufficient to make, a colony of civilized whites despair of ultimate success, should have finally operated in a discouraging way upon Indians but recently reclaimed from the forest. In addition, the vicinity of immoral whites, in their present situation, and the utter want of authority in the missionaries to prevent seductions of the young people, especially as regards liquor, could not fail to produce bad effects. It was therefore highly acceptable to the missionaries when Mr. Heckewelder appeared in 1798, and made them and the Christian Indians acquainted with the final success of this society in securing to their use the lands on Muskingum. The senior missionary, Zeisberger, greatly respected by the Indians, immediately resolved to remove thither, in hopes of being followed by a considerable number. But the great majority of them, nevertheless, decidedly preferred remaining on the land granted to them by the British Government. This was most especially the case with the majority of the old stock and their descendants; that is to say, the true remnants of the Christian Indians formerly settled on Muskingum, in whose breasts mistrust on account of the murder of their relatives continued to rankle, and had increased during the ten years of unsuccessful attempts to re-establish them there, as it was impossible to make them fully comprehend the nature of the difficulties that had intervened. In consequence, only a few families of these could be induced to follow the missionaries Zeisberger and Mortimer, when actually, in the fall of 1798, removing to Muskingum; and two of the most respectable of these afterwards went with other missionaries to Wabash, where Joshua, the most distinguished man of the whole community of Christian Indians, was inhumanly murdered, at the instigation of the noted Prophet, and others returned to Fairfield. The rest of those who moved to Muskingum were such as had joined the Christian Indians subsequently to their forcible removal from thence in 1781, who formed a new stock, which, generally speaking, had never attained that degree of firmness in Christian principles, and that attachment to civilized life, which had distinguished the older stock. Among them, however, were, as before mentioned, Captain Killbuck and his sons, and part of the family of Whiteeyes. The former maintained the most respectable standing to the close of his life, in 1811. It must therefore be observed, that the main part of the remnant of the Christian Indians, for whose benefit the land was intended, remained at Fairfield, in Canada, where they still are, to the number of about one hundred and fifty persons, under the care of two pious missionaries. loasmuch as it may justly come within the scope of the information required by the honorable Senate of the United States to state the present condition of this major part of the Christian Indians under the care of the United Brethren, we conceive it due to truth to say, that, in addition to the facts already adduced, various unhappy circumstances have, since the year 1802 or 1803, combined to weaken the influence of the missionaries on the younger part of them. Besides the fatal shock their advance in civilization received by the murder on Muskingum, and their subsequent unsettled abode, together with the operation of the same causes which have proved so detrimental to those on Muskingum, the Christian Indians at Fairfield have suffered mainly by the bad consequences of the system pursued hy the British Government, of supplying them with certain necessaries, in a manner which requires their personal attendance, together with the savages, at a distance from their teachers; by the influx of whites, whose seductions to intoxication cannot be duly resisted; and, above all, by the deplorable circumstance that a number of their yuung people were partly induced, partly forced, under the pretext of being considered British subjects, to participate in the late war, all the endeavors of the missionaries to the contrary notwithstanding; (although none did so who were not previously excluded from the Christian fellowship of the rest;) which eventuated in the total destruction of Fairfield by the American army in 1814. It is true they are now recovering from this severe shock, and have built a new town, at some distance from the former, and more out of the way of temptations, which they have named New Fairfield; nevertheless, they have not yet regained their former prosperity, and, we are constrained to add, their former character; a deterioration of morals being still observable, though by no means general among them. We beg leave now to return to that part of the Christian Indians who actually came to reside on the Muskingum in the year 1798, consisting of seven families, (together, thirty souls.) They were furnished with the means of effecting their removal by this society, and with provisions and other necessaries, until their plantations of the spring of 1799 yielded them abundant harvests. Pursuant to the plan of the society, one of the three tracts was entirely placed at their disposal; and they chose the northern or Schoenbrunn tract, upon which they established themselves, and built a small town called Goshen. The commencement of this establishment was auspicious: for a year or two the Christian Indians here, under the care of their respected teachers, appeared to embrace with renewed zeal the advantages afforded them; they began to recultivate the fields, were assiduous in their duties, and attentive scholars in the schools. Their number was augmented by some new converts from among the neighboring heathen, and a family or two joined them from Fairfield; so that, at the close of the year 1800, they amounted to about sixty souls. In the following year, the Brethren there were induced, by the pressing solicitations of the Delawares on the Wabash, to send a missionary thither, accompanied by some of the best of their flock from Goshen, who hoped thus to gain their relations there; and it was not till after some time that it became apparent that these solicitations were part of a plan to draw all the Christian Indians thither for their destruction. This removal caused a diminution of the number at Goshen, never replenished; a number which, from 1801 to the close of 1810, continued vascillating between forty-five and thirty-five souls; some returning to Fairfield, as before observed, and several of the most respectable completing their course here below by a happy death. From that year to the end of the year 1820, their number was still further reduced by deaths and removals; so that, at the close of this year, there were but twenty-six persons left. Mr. John Heckewelder, who resided on the spot, as the agent of this society, from the commencement of the settlement to the fall of 1810, and consequently had the best opportunity of observation, dates the causes which in a particular manner combined to produce a deplorable decline of morality, and a consequent indifference towards an advance in civilization, among the small community at Goshen, from the spring of 1802. The whole idea of planting the Christian Indian community upon the lands in question was predicated upon a hope that they would there be perfectly secluded from all connexion with other white persons, except such whose own state of morality, industry, and piety would be a good example; at least, it was confidently expected that such would be the case for a sufficient length of time to render the attachment of the Indians to an agricultural and perfectly civilized life altogether habitual; for experience had taught the United Brethren that no Indian community can durably maintain its morality and standing, if exposed to the bad example, and to the temptations and incitements, which unprincipled whites may conceive it their interest to hold out to them. On this account, it had, from the beginning, been the plan of this society to rent out that part of the land not occupied by the Indians to such persons only as, from being members of the United Brethren’s church, were sufficiently known to them, or to other approved characters. It was, however, found but partially practicable to procure such tenants; and the society had the misfortune to be grossly deceived in this respect, in several instances; while the unexampled rapidity with which, after the year 1800, the State of Ohio was settled by an incredible influx from all parts, baffling every calculation which possibly could have been made during the period of negotiation with Congress concerning the land, rendered abortive the hope of keeping this Indian settlement properly secluded. On the contrary, Goshen had scarcely been established before the Christian Indians there found themselves thickly surrounded by white people, (more especially as this society could not muster the necessary funds to purchase the intermediate spaces between the three tracts, as had been intended,) and soon began to feel the deleterious effects of their vicinity. No endeavors of the missionaries to restrain the attempts to bring that certain bane of all improvement, spirituous liquors, among them, proved successful, though for a time backed by an express law of the State of Ohio forbidding it. The energetic measures of Zeisberger to' carry this law into effect, on the contrary, rendered it so offensive, that it was soon repealed. In consequence, from that time, instances of intoxication began to be frequent, and the church discipline by which they were punished less regarded than heretofore; although Mr. Heckewelder testifies that, up to the fall of 1810, nothing like a general prevalence of that destructive vice was observable—a statement corroborated by the reverend Benjamin Mortimer, in a letter herewith submitted. According to the account of the missionaries in the latest times, the evil seems, however, to have increased since that period. But, unhappily, another powerful cause of ruin now became operative, and greatly weakened the influence of the missionaries upon the minds of the deluded members of their flock, by undermining that perfect confidence which they had hitherto enjoyed; while, pursuant to the testimonies of Messrs. Heckewelder and Mortimer, it greatly tended to augment their proneness to indulge in intoxication. This cause unfortunately emanated from the very benefit intended them by the grant of land. Interested and unprincipled people, taking advantage of the impossibility of satisfactorily explaining to Indians the nature of the tenure by which this society held the land, did not cease to infect their minds with insinuations that the United Brethren were cheating them out of its enjoyment. In addition to the lamentable effect such false representations could scarcely fail of in weakening their confidence in their best friends, who, in the most disinterested manner, and at an enormous loss to themselves, were striving to render the land useful to them, in the only manner in which they conceived it practicable, the idea insidiously and continually held out to the Indians by these men that they were rich, and need not work if it were not for the United Brethren, who withheld from them their due, necessarily repressed that spirit of industry which the missionaries zealously strove to excite, and rendered them more or less discontented.	. The consonant representations of Messrs. Heckewelder and Mortimer will prove to what a degree these insinuations, and the other causes recited, operated to bring about a decline; and to these, and the other checks of their industry, alluded to by Mr. Heckewelder, must be ascribed the failure of the hopes of this society concerning them. Thus it happened, that, with the exception of a few individuals, who, to this day, as far as we know, continue to conduct themselves as true Christians, the small community left at Goshen lost that character which made it possible for the United Brethren to continue their labors among them; and some of them having, in the summer of last year (1821) removed to Fairfield, the last missionaries were constrained to return to Bethlehem in October, 1821. There now remain upon the land only nineteen or twenty persons, chiefly the sons of Killbuck and their families, who are, however, still attended to by the minister of a small congregation of United Brethren settled in that vicinity. It now remains for us, in obedience to the latter part of the second resolution of the honorable the Senate of the United States, to set forth the manner in which this society have hitherto actually endeavored to discharge the trust devolved upon them by Congress, and the results thereof, in order to furnish the necessary information “whether the said lands have enured to the sole benefit of the Christian Indians, tÿc.; and, if not, to whom, in whole or inpart, have such benefits accrued."Agreeably to the plan submitted to Congress, before the act of 1796 passed, of rendering that part of the land not occupied by the Indians available to them, (as, among the rest, appears from the subjoined letter of Bishop John Ettwein to General St. Clair,) the directors of this society exerted themselves, as soon as the survey, &,e. had been completed, to procure tenants of good character to settle thereon, after the Indians had chosen the northern tract of 4,000 acres for their own exclusive use. Before this society, however, could hope to see their plan put in execution, it became necessary (that whole neighborhood being then an unsettled wilderness) to cut out roads to the nearest settlements; to throw causeways over the morasses, in order to render the approach with wagons practicable; and to erect temporary mills, &e., to meet the first neeessicies of the expected settlers. Buildings of different kinds, for the residence and convenience of the agent, who was to superintend and direct the whole, and for general purposes, had to be erected; and all those difficulties and expenses to be encountered which attend a new settlement in the wilderness. It became necessary to procure workmen from a great distance, and provisions were to be brought seventy miles, on pack-horses: all which caused immense expenses to this society. In the year 1799, however, a number of white colonists began to move upon the lands, and to settle upon the two tracts Guadenhutten and Salem, chiefly on the former, or middlemost of the three, establishing two settlements— one on the east, the other on the west side of the Muskingum. Farms, of from fifty to a hundred acres, and upwards, were laid out for each tenant, and leases agreed upon between the society and the tenants, such as were conceived most advantageous for the purposes of the trust. These were universally given for a term of twenty-one years, without rent for the first year, and a stipulated rent of eight dollars per hundred acres for the next six years; of sixteen dollars per hundred acres for the next seven years; and of twenty-four dollars per hundred acres for the last seven years of the term. By a particular clause in each lease, the tenants were prohibited keeping shops, taverns, and distilleries, and from selling liquors; and were further bound to pursue no means of support but such as could not interfere with or injure tho principal objects of the society in civilization of the Indians; and to demean themselves, in every respect, as friends to these objects. It was conceived that such terms, on so long a lease, made renewable to the tenant in preference, in case his conduct corresponded with the views of the society, would induce such persons only to engage in the business who were friendly to the purpose, and who would calculate upon a permanent stay; on which account it was further stipulated that the tenants be bound to erect good and durable dwelling-houses, barns, stables, and out-houses, and plant an orchard of at least sixty apple-trees, of the best kinds, near them; which improvements the society bound itself to purchase from the tenants, agreeably to an equitable valuation thereof, on expiration of the term, or any previous determination of the lease. It will appear, by a reference to Mr. Heekewelder’s statement, how it happened that the expectations of the society, of thus creating an efficient revenue, were in a great measure frustrated by the unfaithfulness of a number among the tenants; the agent having been under the necessity, for want of better, in some instances, to admit persons whose characters were not sufficiently ascertained; not to mention that, after all, it was found impracticable to procure tenants for more than a small proportion of the land, the rest lying untenanted to this day; and, in fact, that a considerable portion was not of a tenantable nature. Not a few of the tenants procured, after having occupied their farms for a number of years, suffering large arrears to accumulate, found it their interest to quit them without paying their debts, and to seek their fortune elsewhere. The society thus lust large sums, and was obliged to re-tenant the forsaken farms, without much choice; while it is notorious, as experience has since demonstrated, that no considerable revenue can be expected from rented lands in the western countries, as is apparent, among the rest, from the testimony adduced by Mr. Heckewelder concerning the school land reservations in the State of Ohio. At the present moment, the society, as before hinted, has not been able to rent out more than one-fifth part of the land, the residue being still altogether unproductive. Until the year 1814, the whole of these lands, granted for the benefit of the Christian Indians by Congress, was considered free from taxation. In jhat year, however, the Legislature of the State of Ohio thought proper to lay a tax thereon, as on other land, which has since been yearly continued upon the whole 12,000 acres; including, likewise, the Goshen or Schoenbrunn tract, set apart for the sole use and occupation of the Indians, and no tenant admitted thereon, accordingly. This society had been led to believe that the nature of their tenure involved freedom from taxation, or that at least only such parts of the land as were under lease would be subjected thereto; and had accordingly provided for this, by making it a condition of the leases that the tenants should be held to pay all taxes possibly to be levied on the farms. Finding, however, in the aforesaid year 1814, that taxes were levied upon the whole, and demanded from them, even for the Goshen tract, which, with the accruing interest of the moneys borrowed by the society to render the grant available, rendered lite hope of an efficient revenue from this trust estate applicable to the purposes of the trust altogether desperate, they conceived themselves authorized (especially after their petition for relief had been rejected by the Legislature of Ohio) to alleviate their burden by granting some leases upon the Goshen tract likewise, taking care to keep at a sufficient distance from the parts actually occupied by the reduced number of Indians. The new leases thus granted were upon new terms, viz: after an equitable valuation of the land to be leased, as in a state of nature, a yearly rent, for the term of thirty-three years, was stipulated, equal to the interest at six per eentum of this valuation sum, and the society no longer under obligation to purchase the improvements at the expiration of the term. It will surely not appear strange, upon due consideration of the circumstances just stated, that this society at no time received any thing from the land to enable, them to fulfil the purposes of the trust, further than was effected by affording the Indians on the land the free use of as much of the land as they wanted. The interest of the moneys borrowed, together with the taxes, far exceeded any revenue that has hitherto been attainable. The abstracts of the receipts and disbursements of this society for the lands on Muskingum, herewith respectfully submitted, together with the vouchers, will, we trust, afford a most convincing proof of this assertion. 48 E The sum of all receipts, as appears from this aecount, which the society has had from the land, from the 21st August, 1801, to the 21st August, 1822, together with simple interest, accounted upon each year’s receipts, amounts to $9,998 58J. In this sum are included all the rents which have become due, with interest upon them, as actual receipts; although it appears from the exhibit that, on the said 21st August, 1822, there was still due, and unpaid, no less a sum than $1,978 of such rents; and it is feared no small proportion thereof will never be recovered. On the other hand, the disbursements incurred by this society, (as per the same account,) in originally obtaining and securing the land, in effecting the survey thereof, (which the honorable Congress, by its ordinance of Septembers, 1788, had agreed to repay,) and completing its settlement and improvement; and further, the direct allowances of provision, clothing, agricultural and other implements, medicines, school books, &e. to the Indians at Goshen; together, thirdly, with the expenses incurred in providing them with missionaries and schooling, and the simple interest on each year’s disbursement, amounted, on the 21st of August, 1822, to the sum of $43,556, exceeding the receipts in the sum of $32,587 50^. We beg leave to remark, in addition, that only such disbursements have been entered into the account here referred to as can be proved by subjoined vouchers, such as the nature of the ease admits of; while we aver, from the books, that a much greater sum appears to have been actually disbursed. It must be further observed, that, among the yearly necessaries, stated in the account as for the use and support of the missionaries, are included a great variety of articles furnished by them to the Indians, which could not be separated from those consumed by the missionaries themselves, because they were given to them as the occasion demanded, and not separately accounted; and further, that in the aecount referred to, no other expenses are included besides those incurred for the missionaries and school at Goshen only, without taking into account the far greater disbursements of the United Brethren, and this society, for the remnant of the Christian Indians formerly settled on Muskingum, who continued to reside at Fairfield, and who, as has been shown, were objects pf the trust as well as the others. Nay, further: to show how very far any part of the revenue of these lands granted by Congress is from having accrued to any person or persons other than the objects of the trust, we beg leave to refer to the exhibit, which, compared with the abstracted account before submitted, proves that the disbursements of this society for the land only, and for direct allowances afforded the Indians at Goshen, altogether exclusive of the expense of providing them with missionaries and schools, exceed the total sum of receipts had from the land in the sum of $15,840 10J, accounting simple interest both on receipts and disbursements from year to year. The expiration of the original leases, which were granted from the year 1800 to the year 1806, each for the term of twenty-one years, now beginning to take place since 1821, this involves, according to the condition of those leases, the annual payment of the awards to the lessees for the improvements they have made; and, as it appears that these awards, compared with the actual state of the improvements, are by no means in favor of the society, the annual disbursements, until the year 1827, threaten to be increased to an appalling amount, as those of the two last years have already been unreasonably swelled by this circumstance. • We further beg leave to remark, that we humbly conceive that neither the salaries of the agents employed by the society, (if any,) nor the allowances of necessaries to the missionaries and their families, as stated in the account, can be considered exorbitant. As long as the Rev. John Heckewelder acted in the capacity of agent, he never required a salary, and was supplied with necessaries only, as is invariably the ease with the missionaries. After his age induced him to return from his post, his successors in the agency received at first a salary of $160 per annum, which was afterwards reduced to $60. In conclusion, we now beg leave to sum up the information attempted to be conveyed by the preceding statement of facts under the following heads, as direct answers to the inquiries ordered by the resolutions of the honorable Senate of the United States; and most respectfully to represent: 1. That the lands in question were not originally a gift of Congress, but a reservation of the property of the Christian Indians, who had been forcibly constrained to leave them by the enemy during the revolutiunary war. 2. That the title thereof was vested legally in the Society of the United Brethren for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen, with a view to destroy the hopes of those who desired to prevent the return of the Christian Indians by threats, and thus render void the reservation made to them, in order to possess themselves thereof; and with an express understanding that this society should endeavor to render the land of use to the Indians, by enabling it to furnish them with teachers, schools, books, and other means of civilization. 3. That the Christian Indians formerly settled there had, previous to their forcible removal in 1781, attained a very great degree of prosperity; had nearly become ao agricultural people; had made the most flattering advancements in mental and moral endowments; and bore a character for piety and good behavior equal to the most sanguine expectations; forming a Christian community of somewhat more than four hundred souls. 4. That a series of unexampled disasters; the horrid murder of nearly one-third of their before reduced number; their subsequent total dispersion for a time; the death of some leading and prominent characters among them, together with the want of a fixed abode for nearly six years, while vainly striving to regain their former position, gradually undermined the fruits of their previous advances, and imperceptibly led on a decline. 5. That, notwithstanding the exertions of the United Brethren, the majority of the remnant of them could not be brought to return to the Muskingum after the land had been finally secured in 1798, but remained in Canada, upon lands in the mean time granted them by the British Government. . 6. That at no time a greater number than from sixty to sixty-five souls, and among them but few of the old stock of Christian Indians formerly settled there, ever came to live upon the land after it was given to this society in trust. 7. That, among these, to the time of his death, in 1811, was Captain Killbuck, (christened William Henry,) and to this day are his sons and their families. 8. That the nephew of Captain White-eyes, mentioned in the patent, never appeared to participate in the grant; that one of his sons was killed before it took effect; that the other actually, for a time, lived with the Christian Indians at Goshen, but voluntarily left them; that his widow and children afterwards returned, and continue to reside there, enjoying the assistance of this society with the rest. 9. That the rapid and unforeseen increase of white settlements around them; the want of authority in the missionaries to prevent the introduction of spirituous liquors; and, above all, the mistrust instilled into the minds of the Indians against their missionaries on account of the lands; together with the idea, disseminated by designing men, of their being rich enough, and, consequently, not standing in need of industry, wrought upon the greater part of the remaining Indians in such a manner, in conjunction with the other causes before recited, as to bring about a decided decline in their moral and mental endowments, while their number dwindled down to twenty souls now only remaining at Goshen. 10. That this society, agreeably to the plans previously submitted to different committees of Congress, and the former Board of Treasury, and approved by them, placed the northernmost tract of4,000 acres, selected by themselves, entirely at the disposal of the Indians settling at Goshen; and that their missionaries exerted themselves to the utmost to bring them back to those habits of industry and morality which had distinguished the Christian Indians before their dispersion. 11. That as great a part of the two other tracts as was practicable was, agreeably to the aforesaid plans, tenanted with white settlers, on long leases. 12. That the receipts of rent from these tenants, at no time, in any measure sufficed to pay the interest of the moneys borrowed by this society to defray the expenses of surveying and improving the lands, in order to render them productive; much less additionally to pay the taxes levied thereon, since 1814, by the State of Ohio. 13. That this society, notwithstanding, did, without intermission, fulfil all the purposes of the trust, 6y its own means and exertions; that it, and the United Brethren generally, did, unto the close of last year, furnish the Indians at Goshen with teachers, schools, books, implements of agriculture, provisions, medicines, and other necessaries of every kind, of which they stood in need, in such a manner, that, from the beginning to the 21st August, 1822, the disbursements for their benefit exceeded the sum of all receipts from the. land in the sum of $32,587 50|. 14. That, inasmuch as the majority of the remnant of the Christian Indians, objects of the trust, remained in Canada, this society, and the United Brethren in general, have, during the same period, expended upon these a far greater sum than the one just mentioned, in providing them likewise with missionaries and schools, as-well as ministering to their external necessities; and that they still continue so to do. 15. That no part of the benefit resulting from the grant (if any there was) ever accrued, or could accrue, to any person or persons other than the objects of said trust. Nothing but the zeal of this society, and of the United Brethren in general, to promote the best interests of the Christian Indians under their care, and faithfully to discharge the obligations of the trust confided to them, agreeably to their idea of its duties, and in the manner previously submitted to Congress, could possibly have induced them to expend sums upon the land and the Indians which have nearly swallowed up the scanty resources of the society, deeply involved them in debt, and acted as a most heavy drawback upon their endeavors for the good of the Indians elsewhere. But, discouraging as the results of the exertions of this society were rendered by a train of difficulties not often encountered, they have hitherto thought it their duty to persevere, until the recent gloomy prospects have caused them to despair of the possibility of maintaining an establishment of Christian Indians at Goshen. Unacquainted with the proper proceeding in order to divest the society of the ruinous burden which the grant of these lands in trust has devolved on their shoulders, so as to secure at least a partial indemnification for their enormous expenses, and hitherto unsuccessful in repeated endeavors to obtain the necessary information on the subject, this society hailed with the greatest satisfaction the opportunity now afforded by the investigation set on foot in the honorable Senate of the United States to lay before his excellency the President of the United States, through the honorable Secretary of the War Department, the true state of their case; most confidently trusting that the integrity of their administration of the trust reposed in them will thereby be proved to the satisfaction of all concerned; and as confidently hoping that thus a way will be pointed out for the relief of this society from a burden which otherwise appears most seriously to threaten all their benevolent objects with unavoidable frustration. Under an humble confidence that the President of the United States will be pleased to accept of the present representation, together with the accompanying documents, as a satisfactory answer to the inquiries ordered by the honorable Senate, we have the honor to subscribe ourselves, most respectfully, The President and Directors of the Society of United Brethren for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen, at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. By order of the Board:	’ C. G. HUEFFEL, President. A. To the president and directors of the Society for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen, the following summary of facts, drawn np from personal knowledge, is respectfully submitted, both for their own information, as also to lay the same, or as much thereof as they may deem proper, before the President of the United States, to meet the resolutions passed in the Senate of the United States on the 22d February last, of which due notice had been given them and to the undersigned by the proper authority; to the latter, however, with a particular request to furnish “ all the information in his power upon the several points embraced in the latter resolution.” JOHN HECKEWELDER. The summary of facts, events, occurrences, and transactions, faithfully drawn up by the undersigned, it is supposed will more fully meet the objects which had induced the Senate of the United States to pass the resolutions of the 22d of February last, relative to the Christian Indians under the care of the United Brethren, as it exhibits the state and condition of those Indians; their moral and intellectual endowments, from the time of the first Christian Indian establishment in Pennsylvania down to the present time; the changes that have taken place, and cause of such changes; and, likewise, the cause of their emigration to the west, and settling on the Muskingum, &c. The first Christian Indian settlement in Pennsylvania, under the care of the United Brethren, was made in the year 1742, by emigrants (both Mohicans and Wampanoags) from New England and the then province of New York, who settled on Mahony creek, about twenty-seven miles to the northwest of Bethlehem, on lands which the Brethren had bought for the purpose; but, as the spot on which they had settled did not suit them, the soil being of a stiff, clayey nature, the Brethren, who had begun to build houses on the northeast side of the river Lehigh, where the land was of a sandy soil, exchanged with them; so that the Indians had the easy lands to work, and the Brethren the heavy and stiff, which, as they had ploughs, they could better work. These two settlements were but a short half mile apart, yet separated by the river, and a ridge on its southwest side. The Indians called their village Gna- denhutten, and had their ministers and schoolmasters living with them. At the other place, which retained its original Indian name, Mahony, which signifies a deer lick, the Brethren built mills; and farmers, as well as the most useful mechanics, established themselves there, both to do their own work, and to teach the Indians the arts of husbandry, and their young people, if they should choose it, different trades.	, On my arrival from Europe, in the year 1754, there were also two young single Indian men, named Joachim and Nathan, placed in the single men’s house at Bethlehem, for the purpose of receiving school education and instruction with regard to religion. So, likewise, were four young female Indians placed in the single women’s house, for the same purposes, and that of learning the work of females: they were Martha, Mary, Christina, and Gawshes, all of the Mohican tribe. Both of the young men had within a few years made such progress in learning, that they now could be useful to their countrymen; and, of the four young women, Martha, who had been put to the mantua-making business, had made such proficiency, that she was made mistress, and had, for a number of years together, all the hands engaged in that line of business working under her; while the three others were good spinsters, knitters, sewers, &c., and had also learned to dress flax. Martha died at Litiz, near Lancaster, after living between thirty and forty years in the single women’s houses, both here and at Litiz. Christina was among the slain on the Muskingum, in 1782. All the others had been useful members of society, and died happy; Joachim at the age of about seventy years. In November, 1755, the white, settlement on the Mahony creek being destroyed by the French Indians, the whole Indian congregation at Gnadenhutten fled to Bethlehem for protection, being sensible that their lives were in danger, both on account of those Indians combined with the French, as also by enraged white people. They were well received by the Brethren, and directed to build themselves temporary dwellings on the opposite side of Manake’s creek, near the mills, dyehouse, and tanyards, where I had the pleasure of seeing them for the first time. These Indians were then called by all sensible and impartial men, who, from curiosity, had been led to come to Bethlehem for the purpose of seeing them, “ an orderly, civil, and industrious people; and better deserving the name of Christians than many of the white people were.” They had already, in a great measure, become husbandmen; since those who had strength and ability devoted their time to manual labor at home; and when they had no work there, they would join the Brethren in their field and barn labors: while their aged men would make wooden bowls and ladles, barn and grain shovels for millers; and their women, brooms, sieves, &c.; for all which they found a ready market, as the storekeeper took all that was not wanted by the country people in exchange for wearing apparel, or any other article which they stood in need of; sending these manufactured articles in wagons to Brunswick and New York, where they found a ready sale. While this division of the Christian Indians, who were all of the Mohican tribe, resided at Bethlehem, it was a pleasing sight to bbhold, occasionally, and especially on Sabbath days, this Indian congregation, united with the white congregation of the place, attend divine service together in the chapel. It was the same with the other division of these Indians, who were Delawares and Munsees, but who had been stationed at Gnadenthal, near Nazareth; at which latter place divine service was performed on the same day. Those Indians settled at Bethlehem, being desirous of living on a spot of land by themselves, where they could have the advantage of keeping a small stock of cattle, &c., the Brethren willingly granted them permission to settle on a convenient spot of their land, something better than a mile from Bethlehem, which place was afterwards called Nain. The village formed one large square; three sides were closed with buildings, and the south side left open for the convenience of fetching water from the fine spring run which flowed by. The place was neat, and kept clean, with a well in the middle of the square; the houses of squared timbers and shingle roofed, with fine gardens at the back of them, under good paled fences; their fields around them in the best order. Besides public buildings,as school and meeting-house, they had built a convenient house for poor widows, whom they supported. For the other division of Christian Indians, who were settled at Gnadenthal during the war, the Brethren bought a partly cultivated spot of ground, called Wequetank, on the north side of the Blue Mountains, about twenty-five miles from Bethlehem, where these also built themselves a village, and were supplied by the Brethren with a minister and a schoolmaster. These Indians, although not so far advanced in husbandry as the former, who had been the first converts, were not deficient to them as to their moral character. Scarcely had the Christian Indians enjoyed themselves five years at these two places, when a fresh Indian war broke out again, (1763,) and which occasioned the breaking up of both of these settlements. The same persecuting spirit which had seized the minds of a certain class of people in Dauphin county, and who in their frenzy had murdered the Conestago Indians, had roused a similar class in Northampton county for committing similar acts on the Christian Indians near them; which caused the evacuation of their villages, and speedy removal to Philadelphia, for protection under Government. It is strange what an effect bigotry can have on the mind of man. While one class of people, and who lived the most distant from these Indians, cried them down as thieves, savages, and barbarians, those white people who lived in their immediate neighborhood deplored their departure, saying they were an upright, honest, moral people, and good Christians. But, be this as it may, so much is certain, that, during the whole of their stay in this part of the country, (in all, twenty years,) not one single complaint had been brought against them, or any one of them, for any crime committed, that would have come under the cognizance of a magistrate, and punishable by law. There is nothing of the kind to be found on the docket of the magistrate who officiated during that period, as can be seen, it being yet extant, and in the hands of his venerable son, Joseph Horsficld, Esq., now upwards of seventy years of age. The case of Renatus, who had been tried for murder, but acquitted, (as related by Loskiel, and may be seen in my narrative of the mission,) did not in the least tend to diminish or destroy the character those Indians bore among all upright and impartial men. Their character-stood afterwards rather higher than before, since it was now manifest that, from a hatred to the Indians generally, many falsehoods were propagated against those nearest to them. ' On their arrival at Nain, after a seventeen months’ detention at Philadelphia, on account of the war, they found every thing as they had left it, since the Brethren had immediately placed a family there, to take care of their effects. Their cattle had been sold, at their request, and they received the money; and, as they had to remove to the Indian country, (for reasons already assigned by historians,) the Brethren gave them permission to sell, with other articles that were too bulky to take along, their houses; of which the steward of Bethlehem purchased several, to remain on the land for a tenant hereafter to make use of. There are, at this present time, in the town of Bethlehem, six dwelling-houses of hewn timber, built by those Indians at Nain, and purchased by individuals of this place from them, and afterwards removed here, besides smaller buildings, to serve as stables and out-houses. All their plough-irons, farming utensils, and tools, they took with them. Scarcely had these Indians, together with those who had lived at Wequetank, arrived at Wyalusing, on the Susquehannah, when their ploughs were again going on the prairie grounds they found there. They could make their own ploughs, harrows, &c.,and, besides, do any common carpenter’s and cooper’s work with despatch, so that very soon there was a village standing; and by the time they had to leave the place, which was in 1772, just eight years from their first arrival at it, their village and improvements commanded a beautiful prospect to the eye, denoting that its inhabitants must be an orderly and industrious people. During their stay, I had been four times at the place, helped to make the beginning, and was there the year before they moved off. They were very unwilling to go, but the Six Nations had sold that whole country, including the lands they lived on, to the English. Such had been their situation, when they received, by the Indian preacher Wangemend, a message from the great Delaware council on the Muskingum inviting them to come to thorn, and they would give them land enough both for themselves and their cattle to live and feed on. . On the council’s learning that their message had been listened to by the Christian Indians with indifference, they sent one of their head chiefs (Killbuck, sen.) to them, with a renewal of the same offer, and to assure them that they were in earnest; that they would not only give them as much of their land as they stood in need of, or wanted, but that they would also promise them that what they gave them should ever remain theirs, and never be taken back again by them, as long as the sun should shine and the rivers flow with water; that they never would serve them as the Mingoes had done, by selling the ground under their feet; and that no nation whatever should be suffered to take the land they gave them away from them, Ac. Still these Indians could not determine to leave a place on which they had expended so much labor and expense, and where they had such fine prospects for the future, provided they could remain on the land; they therefore couched their answer to be sent by this chief in such terms that the great council was left in suspense as regarded their acceptance of the offer. They merely told this chief “ to look well on their improvements, and tell the great council what he had seen."The council, anxious to relieve their kindred friends from the dilemma they were in, while these, on the other hand, appeared to them as though they mistrusted their sincerity, next sent a messenger to the missionary Zeisberger, then residing with his congregation on Big Beaver, requesting him to use his influence in advising their relatives (the Christian Indians on the Susquehannah) to accept the offer made them by the great council of the nation, assuring them at the same time of their sincerity; which being done by the missionary, by a letter tu them, directed to the directors of the society at Bethlehem, one of these, accompanied by two of the directors of the Unity from Europe, who happened to be here at the time, repaired forthwith to Wyalusing for the purpose, and were so far successful as to be able to report to their missionary on Beaver creek, for the notice of the great council, “ that they thanked them for their kind offer; would give it a due consideration, which required time, they being, at present, too heavy to rise; yet that, should any of their number who were not so heavy feel an inclination to proceed on immediately, they should be at full liberty to do so.” As the directors of the society, in conjunction with the Christian Indians, had already, previous to these messages being sent on, laid their grievances before the Governor of Pennsylvania, stating thatHheir land had been sold by the Six Nations, with a prayer that he would see justice done, and their lands secured to them: to which petition, the Governor having returned them a favorable answer, they could not well attend to the speeches and wishes of the great Delaware council in the west, until the result of this negotiation was first known, and which time would only show. However, finally finding that, notwithstanding the assurance given them by the Governor, in writing, in which he promised (see Loskiel, part iii. chap. 3, page 41,) “ that, as a quiet and peaceable people, they should not be disturbed in their possessions, and that he had ordered the surveyors not to survey any land within five miles of Friedenshutten, (Wyalusing,) they therefore should consider all reports of taking away their land to be without foundation,” Ac., they soon saw, to their mortification, surveyors running lines, not only within the limits named by the Governor, but even across their fields, in sight of their villages; so that they now saw no other alternative than that of complying, at once, with the offer made them by the great council in the west, and move away from this favorite spot, the sooner the better; especially since disorderly and immoral white people, who had come into the country, and were settling near them, disturbed their peace, and never more than when they were met together in the chapel for divine service.	■ It is not to be wondered at that these Indians had become attached to this place, where buildings, fields, gardens, fruit trees, <fce. were in such fine order, that it was a delight to take a view of it. Even the very streets were kept clean, and, during the summer months, when the ground was dry, swept on Saturday with wooden brooms, and the rubbish removed; the situation of the ground being level, and the soil a mixture of sand and clay, it was entirely performed by the women; and the whole village being enclosed by a post and rail fence, so as to keep cattle and hogs out, gave it a fine appearance. As idleness leads to poverty, beggarliness, and immorality, &e., so, on the other hand, does property, acquired by industry, cause an attachment to it, from which flow care, cleanliness, order, economy, and a taste for virtue, &c.; all which are traits in the character of a civilized people. The Christian Indians had already borne this character while they were settled in Northampton county. Morality had become habitual to them, and since increased; and the more they found opportunities of potting those mental endowments which had lain dormant within them into action, the greater were the advances they made therein. On the arrival of these Indians at the Muskingum, in the year 1772, they were made satisfied, by the great council of the nation, that what these had promised them would be fulfilled, since the limits of the land they bad given them were particularly described, namely, to extend from the mouth of One Legged creek to the great bend in the river below Gakalamukpeking old town, a distance of about thirty miles on the river; and from which tract they immediately removed two small villages of Indians, besides single families, so as to open the country at once to the Christian Indians entirely. Strings and belts of wampum were given in token and as lasting vouchers of the grant, and the Wyandots declared themselves witnesses to the act and deed. Soon two fine villages were built on this tract, which were called Schoenbrunn and Gnadenhutten. On the uppermost were settled those consisting of the Delaware nation, and on the other the Mohicans; and, after a lapse of years, a third town, named Salem, was built on the same grant. The two latter settlements, Gnadenhutten and Salem, were made on the very spots from which the great council had removed the then settlers, for the purpose of making room for the Christian Indians. These Christian Indians had been in a flourishing state at the commencement of the American revolution. Being for the greater part husbandmen, hunting was, with them, no more a primary object; since, from the great quantities of grain they raised, and the large stocks of cattle they held, (every family having more or less milch cows and hogs in great numbers feeding in the woods, and plenty of poultry at home,) they suffered not in the provision way. But, for the purpose of purchasing articles of clothing, kettles, pewterware, salt, tea, chocolate, &c. from the traders, they were obliged to hunt some in the season. And as Congress, at the beginning of the war, by commissioners appointed for the purpose, at a treaty held with the Indian nations and tribes, had proclaimed to these “ that all such as should sit still, whether nation or association, or communities belonging to a nation, and had not taken up the hatchet against them during the contest, should, if they became the conquerors, have all the lands they held confirmed and secured to them," &c., these Indians saw no cause of relaxing with regard to their agricultural pursuits, nor in that of enlarging their improvements—they having one and all declared that they, on their part, would not take up arms against their American brethren, nor against any other Power, but mind their business at home; and which they stuck to, tu the last. If it cannot be admitted that a people leading such a life as these Christian Indians had done whilst they resided at those places named in this summary, and until they were forcibly taken away from their towns on the Muskingum, had a claim to the word which expresses civilization, then I am at a loss for a name that would suit them better. True, they had no courts of judicature established among (hem; no magistrates appointed; but there was no necessity for that in a community in which no one disorderly person was permitted to dwell. Neither could a magistrate, if ever one had been placed among them, have lived by the fees of his office, as no crimes were committed that would have come under his cognizance. I never felt a disposition of bringing to public view all the professions, declarations, and applauses, which, in my hearing, had, from time to time, been made by respectable, judicious, and impartial men, in consequence of what they themselves had seen and witnessed at our Christian Indian towns, while these resided on the Muskingum; and shall continue to be assparing as possible on this delicate point, only referring to the testimony of such when I believe myself pressed to it, as it appears to me to be the case in the present instance. While, in the year 1774, two gentlemen (one of whom, some years afterwards, came to be a distinguished American general) were in conversation on what they had seen and witnessed during a stay of a few days at the village of Schoenbrunn, one of them put this question to the other: “What comparison might be drawn between the hundreds of white people among us, going under the name of Christians, and these people we are so apt to call savages?” “Why,sir,” replied the other, “we need only change characters and names; call these Christians and those savages; for these are Christians in reality, while those are undeserving of the name they bear.” So should I, likewise, have no hesitation in calling these a civilized people, and those uncivilized; in doing which, I think, I could make no mistake. When Col. George Morgan, of Princeton, in New Jersey, who had by the Congress of the United States been appointed Indian agent for the western district, came out to the Indian towns on the Muskingum, he, after spending some days there, delivered himself to this effect: “ That he was quite astonished at what he had seen and witnessed at our three towns; that the improvements these Indians had made on their lands bespoke their industry; and that the cleanliness, order, and regularity, which were every where observable, added to their devotion, gave them a claim to be ranked among the civilized part of mankind; that they deserved to be set up as an example to many of the whites; that, to him, it was now evident that the Indians, when living by themselves, and out of connexion with the white people, except such as gave them instruction, thereby setting them a good example, could easily be brought to a state of civilization, and become good citizens of the United States; and that he considered the good example set them by us as the surest, if not the only successful, method of making converts, in bringing them over from paganism, idleness, and debauchery, to a state of Christianity; that he, since being with us, could account for the Indians in New Jersey continuing to be such a miserable and depraved people; that this was all owing to their connexion with immoral white people.” Sqch as these Christian Indians were when Colonel Morgan saw them, such were they at the time when they were distressed and forcibly taken from their peaceful habitations on the Muskingum by the enemy. But their improvements had been much enlarged, and put into the best order; their loss, therefore, was the greater. It could not be expected that, after such disasters as had befallen the Christian Indians on the Muskingum, they one and all would have borne their sufferings alike. Had these ended with the loss of their property alone, their feelings would have been quite different from what they were when, six months after, such a number of their kindred Christian friends were murdered, when some of them had come from Sandusky to their habitations for corn. Only those of the’number that were at the time at the upper town (Schoenbrunn) escaped; those in the other two towns were murdered. In the first case, they in a manner suffered alike, and no lives were lost; whereas, in the following case, much of their best blood was spilt; besides, in some instances, children lost their parents, parents their children, and nearest and dearest relatives. We all know that the feelings and passions of men are not alike. While one feels himself disposed to forgive, another may meditate on taking revenge. Nor do all fly to the same method for dispelling grief and trouble from their minds. A change of mind may be effected in a moment, but this change is not alike with all. With some, indeed, it may be for the better, while with others for the worse; and while children, who, as infants, had lost their parents in so barbarous a manner, are growing up, it is quite natural to suppose that even their reflecting on the cruelties inflicted on their parents may agitate their minds; nay, even rouse their passions to such a pitch, that they wish themselves able forthwith to take revenge; and the more so, when they are told by others that they ought to do it whenever an opportunity should offer. On such occasions, the Indian, who is as capable of reflection as the white man, sets his mind to work, always reasoning in this way, viz: “ The white people tell us that they possess the book in which the word and commandments of God to man are written, and where God expressly forbids mankind to murder one another, by the words I Thou shalt not kill.’ These commandments,” say they, “ are also held up to us by the teachers with us; nay, even our children read them to us out of their school books,* into which they are inserted for our instruction. Now,” say they, “ how do the acts of the white people agree with their profession? They, themselves, do the very things which they tell us are forbidden by God. If murder is forbidden by God, as they tell us it is, why do they do it? If not forbidden, why do they tell us that it is? Can they change this commandment of God, so that their committing murder on us is no crime, but a great crime when an Indian kills a white man?” &c. Being once introduced by an Indian interpreter, named Nicholson, to an Indian chief of the Six Nations, as a teacher of the Delawares, the chief replied: “ Then I ought to consider him a good man, and, if he really is such, be will set them a good example by his own conduct; not tell the Indians such and such things are forbidden by God, and yet do them himself, as many of the white people do; but show them that, himself believing what is written down of God and his commandments to be true, he abhors all that is forbidden by him, and strives to do his will, and what is pleasing to him. Such a teacher may do much good among my cousins; whereas, one that acts the contrary part is doing great mischief.” Having finished his remark, which was interpreted to me, he reached his hand to me, saying, “ I rejoice in having the opportunity of seeing and shaking hands with you this day. Do all the good you can to my cousins,” (Delawares.) The Christian Indians being left entirely to themselves, on their missionaries being taken away from them at Upper Sandusky, and brought to Detroit, did not, however, return to heathenism, but kept together as much as their circumstances would permit; admonishing one another to await the time when they again might be with their teachers. Two venerable old men, David and Joachim, dwelt as hermits together for some years, and until they found a way to the Indian congregation then in Upper Canada, where they both ended their days happily. Both were of those who had joined the congregation between the years 1740 and 1750. A few of these Indians only had suffered themselves to be misled by their relatives, in being persuaded by these that nothing would sooner relieve them from the grief and trouble they felt on the loss of their murdered relatives than the drinking of spirituous liquor; urging them to make the experiment; and, having once begun, their relatives kept them at it, whenever the article was to be had; wheb, of course, they suffered in their morals. Those who had kept together until they again could join their ministers in Canada had not suffered visibly in their morals; and of these there were already, in November, 1782, about fifty-three persons at the new settlement, thirty miles to the north of Detroit, where they, and those who had joined them since, formed a fine congregation, after the same manner, and under the same regulations and order, as at their former settlements; so that many gentlemen from Detroit, and among these the commandant, Major Ancrnm, came to visit the place, when they freely declared, that the industry, order, and cleanliness of those people surpassed their expectations, and far exceeded any thing of the kind they had hitherto witnessed of Indians. And when this Indian congregation had, after a four years’ stay at this place, again to move off, on account of the Chippewas wanting the land for their own use, and were passing through the street of Detroit, to embark in a vessel for Cayuga, the merchants of the place hailed them in these words: “ We are sorry to see such an industrious, orderly, and honest people leave the country; yet, we wish you well, and God bless you!” *	• ,	* Zeisberger’s Delaware Spelling Book, first edition, was printed in tbe year 1776. It being unknown to these Indians and their ministers, at the time they crossed Lake Erie, that, as yet, a firm peace had not been established between the Indians and the United States, they soon found themselves again involved in difficulties. They were not permitted to go and settle where they pleased, but, on the other hand, were ordered back to Sandusky; which, however, they would not do, but settled themselves at Petquotting; from whence, however, they had to flee for protection to the north side of the lake, near the outlet of Detroit river, where they planted corn for the season, which was in the spring of 1790. Finding, after a stay of a year at this place, that it was impossible for them to stay longer, both on account of their wicked and depraved white neighbors, who daily disturbed them, and also by those Indians who were at open war with the United States, and had made their settlement their thoroughfare in going to and returning from Detroit, they applied to the British Government for an asylum, and were, at once, directed to look for a place that would suit them ou the Thames river, beyond where the white people were already settled, which they did; and the British Government afterwards made them a grant of this land, running six miles along the river, and more than that back towards the lake. This place they called Fairfield. I had visited these Indians in 1789, while they yet lived on the Huron river, south side of Lake Erie; and when, in the employ of the Government of the United States, I went with the commissioners to Detroit, in 1793, I again, visited them. They were then the same industrious people, and had fine crops of wheat and Indian corn in the ground, and were building barns to house it; but some of their immoral white neighbors had already set to work in leading the weaker among them to debauchery, by offering them liquor for the work they did for them, instead of the money they had promised them. When 1 again, in the year 1798, was at their village, I perceived in a few a decline as to their morals, and was told by their missionary, Zeisherger, that this was all owing to their connexion with their debauched white neighbors, who imposed liquor upon them instead of money, for labor, as for reaping and helping them to get in their harvest. The missionary had his doubts whether his congregation would be able to stay here much longer on that very account, and was glad that I had brought him an invitation from the directors of the society to remove with a part of the congregation on the lands Congress had granted them on the Muskingum; and he accordingly did move in the fall of that year, with about thirty souls, to the land, where they chose a spot on the Schoenbrunn tract for their village, which afterwards was called Goshen. In the year 1800, this .congregation consisted of sixty-five souls; but two families of them, Joshua’s and Thomas’s (all of the old stock) moved with the missionaries to the White river, to begin a new missionary settlement there; while several other families, also of the original stock, finding themselves afterwards disappointed in their expectations, returned back again to Upper Canada. They were soon joined by several families of Indians from near Sandusky, one of whom was Joseph White-eyes, second son of the late Captain White-eyes, with his family; another, Pemaholend, who was married tu the widow of White-eyes; and a third, Gashatis, a man who was nearly related to some, of those Indians who had been murdered on the Muskingum, with his family. The first two families were justly entitled to a share of the benefit arising from this grant. Soon after these Indians were settled at Goshen, the Sandusky Indian traders came on to trade with them for their peltry, yet always bringing liquor with them, for the purpose of making better bargains, or, in other words, cheating them. They even sometimes would have a Sandusky Indian with them, or following them, either for the purpose of enticing these Indians to drink, or to have a share in the liquor himself. While these traders were coming from the west, others of the lowest class brought on liquor from the Ohio settlements, to see what bargains they would be able to make in trade. The missionaries, dreading the consequences, applied to me, as agent for the society, to join with them in petition to the Legislature of the State, praying that a law be passed prohibiting any liquor to be brought on that tract of land (Schoenbrunn) on which the Indian congregation was settled; and, in the winter of 1799 and 1800, the Assembly did pass a law, not only forbidding any liquor being brought there, but on none of the tracts included in the grant; putting it in the power both of the missionaries and the agent to seize any and all liquor which hereafter should, in opposition to this law, be brought on the premises for sale, and do with it as they should think proper. While these missionaries were flattering themselves with the hopes that this law would have the wished-for effect, a Sandusky trader, well informed that such an act had been passed, arrived with liquor at the Goshen village, and, in defiance of the law, and the warnings given him by the missionaries, offered his liquors to these Indians for sale, or in exchange for their peltries, insisting they should now drink of it. The missionary Zeisberger, although then in his eightieth year, in his zeal for the-cause in which he was engaged, took up an axe, and stove the kegs, so that the liquor ran in the river. Although this act of the missionary served as a check on some other disorderly people, from their making similar attempts of bringing liquor to the town, yet, upon the whole, this act of the Assembly became highly offensive, and was termed an infringement on the rights and liberties of a free and independent people, and, consequently, soon repealed. Some individuals in the neighborhood did not even wait for its repeal, but brought out and sold to whom they pleased, setting a bad example to these Indians by their immoral acts and deeds. Neither could any thing be done towards putting a stop to intoxication, and the effects of it, as lying, swearing, fighting, &c., even on the Sabbath days, as there was but one magistrate within sixty miles, and he was threatened with having his brains knocked out if he interfered. To this time (the spring of 1802) we must look for the original cause which led those Indians settled at Goshen to a decline with regard to morality. They could not, when attending to their daily lawful pursuits, avoid seeing and hearing that which was injurious to them; and not only this, but the temptations and snares laid for them by the most immoral and degraded white people, to draw them into the same state in which they were, being numerous, it was impossible for their ministers to guard against all and every temptation that had a tendency to lead them to commit immoral acts, especially that of intoxication; yet I can say, with truth, that, during the time of my residing in that country, which lasted to the fall of 1810, not one single instance had occurred of any thing like a general intoxication with the Goshen Indians. Whenever any thing of the kind existed, it was only with one or the other, or a few individuals joined together with Sandusky Indians. Besides all this, these Indians had other temptations to encounter, which tended to make them unhappy at times. They were told, by unprincipled and selfinterested people of their neighborhood, that the three tracts of land which the society held had been granted to them, and that they could do with the land as they pleased, rent it to any person, and have the rents paid to them in hand; that the Brethren were cheating them out of the rents, and would also soon cheat them out of their lands; that their ministers, the agent, and others, drew their salaries from the rent of their land, the agent from three to four dollars a day, &c.; that each of them should insist on having his share of the land laid off, and then they would pay them the yearly rents honestly; which would fill their pockets with money, so that, although they worked nothing, they always would have money enough, &c. Such abominable tales, though one and all falsehoods, could not fail of creating at least a jealousy with some against their ministers and the agent; and, therefore, from trouble of mind, mixed with a little anger, they resorted to where liquor was to be had, in order to be relieved from the pain it gave them. Now, the missionaries had no salaries at all, nor was ever a salary offered to the agent; and, if it had, I should not have accepted of it. I served the society and Indian congregation a dozen of years, without making a charge of a single dollar. The provision, indeed, for myself and family, consisting of four persons, and a house to live in, I accepted from the society, whom we all were serving in one way or the other; but we kept a plain table, of such articles as the country afforded, except tea and coffee. I fed, out of this, every Indian who came on hungry to the place, without making such any charge whatever; and these were many. We furnished ourselves with clothing by raising flax, and keeping a few sheep, on account of the wool, which my family, all females, spun, &c. Besides, I made two journeys to Bethlehem, on business of the society, for which I did not charge a cent for expenses. So much for the slander. Could all the cases be brought to view which had contributed towards a decline in the morals of those Indians at Goshen, (and which decline, of course, would operate as a check to the advancement of their mental endowments,) it would fully satisfy every reflecting mind that it would be unjust to throw a greater share of the blame on these Indians than they deserved. Can it be ascribed to them that they spent much of their time in idleness? I say, no! It was from a want of occupation at home, or where they could get work and pay for it honestly, and without falling into the hands of those who took the work, and would pay in nothing but liquor or trash. One of the Goshen Indians (since deceased) had built my dwelling-house in Gnadenhutten, and another house at the same place, for a family which came there. Both these houses were of squared timber, shingle roofed, and with neat floors below and above, laid with split and hewn puncheons. He could hew more square feet from the stump, in a day, than any of the white carpenters I had in my employ at that place. He did all his work, even the building of the chimney, in the best manner, and was paid for it honestly by us. The same Indian had, twenty years before, built me a spacious dwellinghouse at Salem, on the Muskingum; and once, at my request, enumerated all the houses he had built for other people, both whites and Indians, since he had joined the Christian Indians, and which amounted to between twenty and thirty. Of the three sons of the chief Killbuck, who had been of so much service to the United States during the American revolution, and had died at the beginning of the year IBM, the eldest (John Henry) had been some time at Princeton college, or at a school, where he received a good education; but, being rather of a slow or easy habit, he could do without great bodily exertions, and served as chapel interpreter; while his two younger brothers, Charles and Christian G. Henry, were smart, active, and industrious young men, wanting in nothing but continual employment, but which they could not, under present circumstances, find at this place, (Goshen.) Wherever the Christian Indians had hitherto lived, they conld find work enough, when they had none of their own to do, to give them continual employ. While living in Northampton county, they worked at day labor for wages, as I have already stated. While at Wyalusing, on the Susquehannah, they sold large quantities of corn, sugar, butter, pork, &c. to those Indians living high up the river, who would rather hunt, and exchange their peltry for such articles, than labor in the fields at home. For these, and also for white people living above a hundred miles below them, on the same river, they would make neat white pine canoes, of any sizes wanted, for which they received ready pay. The same was the case when they were on the Muskingum, before the commencement of the American revolution, and until those Indians living in these parts moved back to the Sanduskies. For several years, the northern traders had bought up large quantities of Indian corn from the Christian Indians at Schoenbrunn and Gnadenhutten, which they transported hy way of the rivers Muskingum and Cayuga, in canoes, to Lake Erie; thence, across this lake in batteaux, to Detroit, for the northwest trade; and bacon, butter, cheese, sugar, &c. they could sell to traders, or exchange for at tides they stood in need of. In latter times they could not even calculate on property they had acquired by their industry at this place, (Goshen;) of which I will only give a few instances, namely: The society had given them ploughs, harnesses, <fcc. to plough their grounds; they had themselves purchased horses to work with; but scarcely had they made a beginning, when their horses, five or six in number, were missing; when, after having spent much time, first by searching in the woods for them, and then making inquiry all around among the neighbors, and at the places they had purchased the horses, they learned that these had been taken off by horse thieves from the Ohio settlement, and either suld or made away with. After being for some time put to great expenses in hiring white people, who were their friends, to use their endeavors in searching out the persons and places where their horses had been taken and disposed of, and seeking advice how they were to proceed in the business, either in having their horses restored to them again, or, if not, an indemnification, so that they could purchase other working horses in their stead, they were informed by a magistrate, who wished that justice might be done to them, that the principal thief having run off, all his property had been seized to pay the cost and charges of the court with regard to his trial; but, as a surplus would be left, they, by petitioning the Legislature, might have it given to them: which advice being attended to, the Legislature passed an act, or resolution, accordingly, so that they received in money a part of their loss, but not sufficient to carry on their agricultural pursuits as they had intended; which were, therefore, only continued as far as necessity required, they dreading similar disasters in case they procured other horses. Again, and that but within the last year or two: One of the Goshen Indians having made a fine large trough for collecting and preserving his sugar sap for boiling, on missing the trough one day, he went to a good friend of his for advice, who.soon found out that the trough was neatly fixed in a new stable of one of the tenants on the land as a feeding trough for his cattle. The Indian, taking further advice for the recovery of his trough, was assisted in taking out a search warrant; but the thief, hearing what was going on, hastily removed the trough from his stable, and stood prepared with his gun to shoot the Indian the moment he saw him draw near the house to prove his property. Thus the thief came off victoriously, while the poor Indian was left in the lurch, and was ever after afraid of going near him. Again: The missionary Zeisberger had a fine young cherry tree on his enclosure adjoining his dwelling-house; and a little back of this tree the meeting-house for his congregation had been built. When, after some years, this tree was loaded with cherries, and these to be taken off in a day or two, to share with his friends, the tree was stripped of its fruit by white people from the neighborhood, during the tilme his congregation were attending divine service on the Sabbath day.	’’	'Were it not that some people hold up the doctrine that the Indians are not susceptible of being civilized or becoming a civilized people, <fcc., and which, from the inference drawn from Goshen by the Senator from Ohio, who had succeeded the mover of the resolutions taken in the Senate of the United States on the 22d of February last, would in a manner seem to support that doctrine, I should not have thought of bringing any of these facts herein stated to public view. Neither can I have any other object in doing it now, than that of laying the truth before that authority which has officially applied to me to furnish them answers to certain questions, but which I found myself unable to do in any other manner that would be clear and effective, so that a fair conclusion might be drawn, than by laying all sides open to view. If a missionary establishment in the neighborhood of white people shall in anywise succeed, it is necessary that good and wholesome laws be made, tending to their temporal welfare and prosperity, and that these also be carried into effect. If the Indians see that justice is done them to the same degree that it is done to the whites, . they will be satisfied, knowing where to flee for relief when maliciously treated or unjustly dealt with. The confidence they would place in such a Government would be a great inducement towards improving their morals and encouraging them to industry, especially when they saw the magistrates near them aet in concord with their superiors in fulfilling such laws. While I am always free to admit that the Society of United Brethren, with all the care they may take, are as liable to err and commit mistakes as any other of the human race, yet 1 will venture to defend them both from knowingly and wilfully committing unjust acts, and that of accusing and laying to the charge of others crimes or misconduct which have no foundation, and are done with a view to make such appear odious in the eyes of the public. I have already, in a separate statement of facts respecting the land which the Society of United Brethren held in trust for the use of the Christian Indians and some other individuals, taken notice of a few of the hints and suggestions thrown out by the Senator from Missouri, (Mr. Benton,) tending to show that the Brethren had not dealt fairly with those Indians in discharge of their duty as trustees—I allude, to the words where he said, “It would have been idle in him to undertake to put the Senate upon the inquiry, without being able to suggest a failure of the use;” and now have the unpleasant task before me of exposing and correcting a material error into which also the. Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) had fallen, by stating in his speech that “a large congregation of Indians, whom they (the United Brethren) had, through fifty years’ labor, converted to Christianity, had now become nearly extinct, and dwindled to a few families; and that the ostensible object of that mission in which Mr. Heckewelder spent above forty years had totally failed.” To this statement of Mr. Brown I beg to reply, first, that the Christian Indians, among whom the Brethren bad labored so many years, or the survivors of them, together with their descendants, are, notwithstanding all the disasters which had befallen them, owing to massacres, wars, and dispersion, (and, let me add, natural deaths, of which there had been many,) and were at the time the words were uttered by the Senator just quoted, in number at least one hundred and fifty souls, settled on Thames river, in Upper Canada, and forming a fine congregation, and, as far as my information goes, at present in a nourishing state; chiefly employing themselves in agricultural pursuits, and instructed by the two pious missionaries, Luckenbach and Haman. These Indians, to speak correctly, are the remnants of those Christian Indians who were once so flourishing, and with whom I had resided. As the president of the Society for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen keeps up a continual correspondence with the missionaries stationed with those Indians, and had, likewise, the resolution of the Senate of 22d February forwarded to him, he will, of course, comply with the request made to him, and give a more particular account respecting the state of this mission, the morals of those Indians, and the advance or decline of their mental endowments, than I could do, who am no more in a regular correspondence with them. Secondly. The Indians at present at Goshen, whom the Senator from Ohio mistook for the remnant of that large and flourishing congregation among which the Brethren had labored so long, were, with the exception of one elderly woman, daughter of the carpenter Ignatius, (of whom I have taken notice in this summary,) all of a new stock, gathered a number of years after the revolutionary war had terminated. Some had come from the Sanduskics, and Killbuck’s family from Pittsburg, where theylhad resided for a number of years, and several of his sons had been taught to read and write; together with the youngest son of the late Captain White-eyes, his wife, and two or three children. As the history of the last-mentioned families, and the manner they came in for a share of the benefit out of the land granted to the society, in trust, may not be generally known, I will briefly relate the circumstances which occasioned it. The heads of both these families, being chieftains of the Delaware nation, had striven, as long as it had been in their power, to keep the nation at peace with the United States; and had been the means of saving many lives of these during the contest between Great Britain and the United States; but, finally, after several years’exertions, finding their object defeated by their opponent, Captain Pipe, who had joined the enemy, thereby causing a division in the nation, they both took the field as captains, and marched out against the enemy, with American commanders at their head. Captain White-eyes fell a victim to the small-pox while marching out with General McIntosh to Tuscarawas; and Killbuck, who, a year or two later, went out with Colonel Brodhead against the enemy, had thereby drawn such hatred and revenge upon himself by his inimical countrymen, that they publicly declared him an outlaw, to be shot or murdered wherever he should be met with. And, in fact, lie had many narrow escapes, even after the war was over; nay, after he had joined himself to the Christian Indians, his life had at one time to be purchased by these and his sons, the enemy being already at his door to murder him. Both those great men (White-eyes and Killbuck) had, also, previous to the commencement of that war, and for some years during its continuance, most strenuously exerted themselves in drawing their nation gradually into a state of civilization; for which purpose they had kept up a continual correspondence with the then Indian agent, Colonel George Morgan, and other American officers; all which was to be laid before the American Congress, and the important step of civilization to take place at the termination of the war. The scheme, however desirable, and, to appearance, practicable, was totally defeated by the horrid murders committed, both on the Christian Indians on the Muskingum, and the peaceable Indians under the protection of the American Government at nr near Pittsburg, where Killbuck so narrowly escaped with his life, while the promising young chief of the nation was killed, together with other respectable men of the nation. Killbuck learning that the Congress of the United States, agreeably to promises made to the Indians at the commencement of the war, had reserved and would secure to the Moravian Indians all the land they claimed and had in occupation on the Muskingum, (being the three tracts, Schoenbrunn, Gnadcnhutten, and Salem;) and he having also the promise made him by the Congress, that both he and Captain White-eyes should be considered and rewarded the same as other officers of the United States, and, finally, each receive his due proportion of donation lands; he, for himself and the heirs of his late friend, Captain White-eyes, requested that Congress would give them their lands adjoining those of the Moravian or Christian Indians; for that, since the prospect of civilizing the nation had been destroyed, and himself no more daring to live among his bad countrymen, he had come to the resolution of joining the Christian Indians, where he should consider himself out of danger, as these always settled by themselves and were his friends: all which meeting the approbation of Congress, they included Killbuck and the descendants of White-eyes in the grant. The Government of the United States at that time considered it their bounden duty to fulfil all the promises which they had made to the Indians, both at the commencement of the American war, and from time to time afterwards; and the least they could do, and which they agreed to do, for the Christian Indians, was that of indemnifying them for their loss, which, at a low valuation, was set at ten thousand dollars; but there being at that time no money in the United States treasury, their land should in the first place be secured to them, and, whenever they returned from Canada to settle on this land, they should be furnished with one hundred blankets and five hundred bushels of Indian corn. On my return to the United States in the fall of 1786, I was congratulated at every town and place through which I passed, from Pittsburg to Bethlehem, where I met with American officers who had at any time been stationed on frontier posts, on what the Congress had already done, and further would do, for the Christian Indians, who had suffered so much on account of their friendly conduct to the United States, and the services they had rendered 49 E them in so manifest a manner, by striving to keep the nation at peace with the United States, and by keeping war parties back from falling on them; adding that both they and the chiefs, Killbuck and White-eyes, would be well rewarded for all this. I name the generals Butler, Hand, Brodhead, Gibson, Irwin, and Neville, as having particularly distinguished themselves by speaking those sentiments in public, always adding that Congress could not do too much for the Moravian Indians, nor fur Killbuck’s and White-eyes’s families. And General Richard Butler told me, at two different times between the years 1786 and 1791, that he would procure land warrants both for Killbuck’s and White-eyes’s heirs, which they might lay where they pleased, and sell the land if they chose for cash, and go and live with the Christian Indians, with something in their hands to begin with; for that he did not consider, by the Congress naming these chiefs iu the gift to the Moravian Indians, that this was to be the reward for their services, but merely that of attaching them to the community of the Christian Indians, whom they were so anxious to join. But this general losing his life at St. Clair’s defeat, nothing further was done for them. The same officer further observed to me, that “ had the chiefs of the Delaware nation, together with the Christian Indians, pursued a different course than what they had done, and all joined the enemy and taken up the hatchet against tho American people, it would have cost the United States much blood and treasure to have withstood them and checked their progress into the country, besides weakening our already feeble armies on the seaboard, by draining them of troops for the western service, which might have proved fatal to the cause.” Such had been the language of an intelligent officer; of one who had, previous to the revolution, for a number of years, transacted business among the western nations, knew their strength and abilities, could speak several Indian languages, and had also been frequently at tho Moravian settlements in that country. It was likewise the language of other officers who had served on the frontiers. But in what did finally all the good wishes and fair promises of the Congress and its officers at that time result? An unavoidable delay in not being able to do at that time what had been intended and resolved upon should be done for the Christian Indians and those named chieftains, together with a change in the Government of the United States, (the new constitution soon after taking place,) the. whole business had to be done over again, and that by new hands, apparently not sufficiently acquainted with the matter and merits of the case, and in part not friendly to Indians of any description; and who, in newly modelling it, clogged the Society of United Brethren for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen by a grant to them of the land, in trust, for the sole use and benefit of the Christian Indians, Killbuck, and the descendants of Captain White-eyes, in such a manner that could not fail of placing them under a number of difficulties, besides involving them deeply in debt; and that, too, without the prospect of raising for a great number of years to come from the land a revenue sufficient to meet the prescribed conditions of the trust, setting aside entirely the manner and means by and through which the society were to recover those sums, necessarily advanced in attempting to make the lands productive. To make the matter short, this trust land may be considered as the seed of much evil, and had as early as the year 1798, even before the society had commenced a settlement on the land, nearly become a bone of contention, thereby throwing the society into law-suits, as will be seen by the following, viz: The sons of the late Captain White-eyes, not being put into possession of the donation lands promised to their father for the services he had rendered to thé United States, now, in 1797, applied to law characters in the western country for advice how they were to come at their land; and, being told that they had no longer to look to the American Government for this, but to the Moravian Society, unto whom both the lands belonging to the Christian Indians and to them and Killbuck had been confided, (as the deed for this land will sufficiently show,) George, the elder son of the family, had a power of attorney drawn, authorizing and empowering an attorney at law in Washington, Pennsylvania, to get the land for him surveyed out of the grant in trust, which the Moravian Society were possessed of, in whatever manner he could, as also a deed in fee-simple therefor; but while, he, (George,) in the spring of 1798, was on his way to Washington with this power, to put it into his agent’s hands, while in a state of intoxication near Georgetown, he was shot dead by a white lad of the neighborhood. And here I put the question a second time: in what did, finally, all the fair promises of the Congress and its officers result, with regard to indemnification for losses sustained, and reward for services both by the Christian Indians and the two named chiefs, White-eyes and Killbuck? With reluctance I have to reply, in nothing that could have been of real service to them; for, to have barely the occupation of a tract of land, which an Indian can have any where in his own country without asking for it, is of no account to them; and as to conveying by deed to such Indians as were entitled to a benefit out of the land, qs his particular share of it, it was put quite out of the power of the trustees by the nature of the grant: thus the poor Indians received nothing at all from that quarter of what had been promised them—neither lands, blankets, nor the five hundred bushels of corn. But what has the Society of United Brethren done for, and in behalf of, those very people? I freely answer, that, notwithstanding the suspicion, censures, and, I may add, reviling language passed on them by some individuals, they have at all times supplied these Indians to the best of their abilities; and that not only by furnishing them with gospel and school instructors, but they have otherwise expended large sums of money in supplying them with necessaries, and such articles as could be of benefit to them. They had even been as a parent to the venerable William Henry Killbuck while he lived, and did, in a manner, make amends to him for the failings of the Congress with regard to their promises. Yes, they supported him for more than a dozen of years successively, gave him provisions when he stood in need of them, clothed him comfortably from time to time, and administered medicines to him in sickness; in short, were his real benefactors to the end. It is to me a gratification that, while I am writing on this subject, my recollection serves me in bringing to view two noble acts of the Legislature of Pennsylvania, which, in my opinion, are in some measure connected with the same subject. The first is, that, on my representing to that honorable body (in December, 1810.) of what service that chief (William Henry Killbuck) had been to this State during the revolutionary war, and the situation in which he now was, this body at once settled a pension on him of $40 a year as long as he should live; and, besides, ordered that three rifles be made in the best possible manner, to present to each of his three sons, that they likewise might see that an enlightened Pennsylvania Legislature were not wanting in acknowledging the services rendered to the State by their father. The good old man, however, took sick and died before the first pension had come to his hands. The rifles to his sons were faithfully delivered to them, and for which they returned their best thanks to that body by a polite letter. The second is, that, at the time (about the year 1794) when this State was about satisfying their officers and soldiers with donation lands, promised them for services during the war, the Legislature of the State also granted to the Society of United Brethren five thousand acres of excellent land in fee-simple, as an acknowledgment for their faithful labors among the Indians while these had resided in Pennsylvania, and to reimburse them in some measure for expenses they had been at, and losses sustained, while engaged in this laudable undertaking. Their noble-hearted Governor (Thomas Mifflin, Esq.) stood foremost in this matt,er. After suggesting it first to members of the Legislature, and with whose approbation it met, he next urged the reverend John Ettwein, Bishop of the United Brethren, to make application to the Legislature for the purpose; and the land was granted. Although the society has been at considerable expense, also, with this land, in attempting to make it productive, (which, however, they as yet have not effected,) yet, they being in nowise shackled with conditions, or put under conditions altogether unattainable for years to come, they can, in the end, lose nothing; since, if their calculation in raising a revenue from the land should fail, they will be able to indemnify themselves for the moneys they had expended thereon by selling a part of it, they holding this land in fee-simple. JOHN HECKEWELDER. B. Statement of Air. Hcekcwcldcr concerning the lands on the Aluskingwn. Origin of the Christian Indians' claim to that tract of land on the Muskingum nn which the three towns (Schoenbrunn, Gnadenhutten, and Salem) were built; together with a brief relation of subsequent transactions respecting the same, both prior to the grant of twelve thousand acres out of it being made by the Congress of the United States to the Society of United Brethren for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen, in trust, for the use and benefit of the Christian Indians, including the families of Captains White-eyesand Killbuck, and their descendants, in the number, <fcc., and afterwards, until the society were put in possession of the said grant; the measures they had taken to get settlers on the land, for the purpose of raising a revenue from it for the purposes intended; as, also, what the fate of this their undertaking had been. When (about the year 1769) the great council of the Delaware nation, residing on the Muskingum river, had heard that the Six Nations had sold to the white people the lands on the Susquehannah on which the Christian Indian settlements (Wyalusing and Sheshequon) were, they took the distressed state of their kindred friends into serious consideration, and finally granted them a tract out of their land on this river (boundaries described) of nearly thirty miles in length, and which they promised they would neither ever take back again, nor sell to any Power whatever, but that it should remain theirs so long as the sun should shiue and the rivers flow with water; and which act of theirs had not only been confirmed in form, by a large belt of wampum being given to the Christian Indians by the great council at the time, but also by another belt being given them by the Wyandot chiefs, in token of their having been witnesses to the act, and under a promise that they would guard and defend these Christian Indians in their right to the land hereby given them against any and all invaders, &c. And when, in the year 1775, commissioners appointed by the Congress held the first treaty with the western Indians, at Pittsburg, under this authority, they, among other promises made to such nations and tribes who, during the contest, should not take up the hatchet against them, firmly declared that, not only at the end of the contest such nations should have their lands secured to them forever, but that “ even this promise now made to them by order of Congress is not alone confined to nations and tribes, but that even detached bodies from such as do not take up the hatchet against them—who have separated themselves from those who do strike them—all such bodies, associations, or communities, as remain at peace with them, shall, if they (the American people) succeed, have, at the termination of the contest, the lands they claim secured to them forever,” &c. When, again, it became known to the hostile Indians that a peace had been concluded between America and Great Britain, and that they, in consequence, might be soon invited by the American people to a treaty, at which they, of course, would have to sacrifice some uf their lands for the purpose of burying what was past, and of being again taken by the hand by their American brethren, they, in their deliberations on the subject, agreed not to sell or part with the land they had given to the Christian Indians, but inform the commissioners how this matter stood, and that these Indians had never struck them, but remained their true friends; wherefore they hoped they would confirm their right to them; and when, not long after, a peace had taken place, the United Brethren, by and with the advice of gentlemen of high respectability, (some of whom were members of Congress,) made application to the Congress of the United States for the purpose of having the said lands secured to the Christian Indians, their just claim to these lands had never, that I heard of, been contested; nor could it have been proven, even had it been attempted, that these Indians had forfeited this their land by any one single act they had committed, as being repugnant to the interests of the United States, while they resided on the Muskingum. The sufferings they endured by the enemy were by them ascribed to the attachment they had to the Americans. Even some gentlemen, whose knowledge of the conduct of the Christiao Indians was more extensive than others, believed it but justice that, not only all the land they had a claim to should be secured to them, but that they ought to receive an indemnification besides, for all their losses. Various proposals respecting this matter were sent to the missionaries in Upper Canada, either for their approbation or their rejection. The first were meant tu ask of Congress both for an indemnification for our private losses, as also to lay a claim to the improvements which we had made on the Muskingum; the latter, on the usual custom of holding lands by “ improvement right,” (which had been common before the war, even if such improvement was scarcely visible.) The missionaries, one and all, rejected for their part both these propositions, on the grounds that it did not become a missionary to serve with a view of being here rewarded for it, nor that of crying down the earthly losses which may fall on him; that deing this would or might lead to a bad procèdent; while, on the other hand, they considered the Indians under their care as justly entitled toit; and that the more Congress should be disposed to do for them, the more they should be rejoiced; and as to the lands they had lived on, these were theirs already, by a grant from the nation. A statement of their losses on the Muskingum was, as had been requested, made out, and sent on with our answer. It amounted to the sum of $10,000. The year 1785 brought us both letters and newspapers, all of which announced that Congress had reserved the three towns, Schoenbrunn, Gnadenhutten, and Salem, in which they formerly had lived, for the Christian Indians, together with a sufficient quantity of land adjoining thereto for use and cultivation; and further, had ordered General Harmar to furnish them with 100 blankets and 500 bushels of Indian corn, on their arrival from Canada in that country; but this (I believe) never was drawn, as unforeseen circumstances prevented them, when, in 1786, they had arrived on the south side of Lake Erie, from going further on than Cayuga; neither had they any way of fetching the corn, &c., they having no horses, and the distance being so great.	. On my way from the Indian country to Bethlehem, with my family, in the fall of the year 1786,1 was, in every place where I had fallen in with general officers who during the war had, from time to time, been stationed at Pittsburg, congratulated on the pleasing act which Congress had done in securing to the Christian Indians the lands they had formerly lived on; adding that “these Indians were well deserving of it, and that it was the least Congress could do for them, since hundreds of lives had been saved through them,” <tc. And after my arrival at Bethlehem, I was made fully acquainted with all the transactions which had occurred between the directors of the society and the Congress on that subject. And when, after some time, the Congress wore desirous of having an interview with one or more members of the society respecting the state and condition of the Christian Indians, and the land "ranted to them, I was called upon to accompany the bishop, John Ettwein, to New York, for that purpose. To meet the object, the Congress had appointed on their part “ the Board of Treasury.” The questions put to us by the board were answered to their full satisfaction—were entirely directed to missions among the Indians of this country. Mr. Ettwein gave a brief statement of the Brethren’s missionary labors among these people, to the time he had visited them on the Muskingum, in the year 1772; when, desiring me to go on with it to the present time, (1787,) I did so. From the tenor of what we had related, the board were satisfied that the Indians might both be civilized and Christianized, if proper measures were taken for the purpose; namely, by sending none but men of piety and good moral character among them as teachers, and to set them a good example; and keeping them out of the way of immoral and debauched white people, whatever they may profess to be, living entirely by themselves, with no more white people about them than were necessary to instruct them in reading, writing, &c., as also in husbandry and the mechanical arts, was accounted as most preferable. The other point on which the board were desirous of having information, being directed to the three grants of land on the Muskingum, Mr. Ettwein laid his whole plan before them; and which they thought a very good one, if it could be carried into effect. The greatest difficulty that occurred to them appeared to be the getting of good and industrious tenants on the land; and one gentleman of the board observed, “ that if we did not go to the expense of cutting out good roads and building mills in the outset, we need not calculate on getting one single tenant that would be worth any thing. Neither could a tenant live, and yej less pay rent, where no mills were, where he could have his grain manufactured into flour, to sell to new comers and travellers for money to pay his rent with, ”&c. Mr. Ettwein replied, that the Brethren had learned all this by experience: that in making their first settlements in Pennsylvania and North Carolina, which were also in the wilderness, the first thing they did was the opening of roads to the land, and, after having built one or two small log dwellings, they immediately set about building both saw and grist mills; and that, where they found nu stream of water on the tract, (as had been the case at Nazareth,) they purchased the nearest tract to it on which a stream fit for mills was: that, even at Gnadenhuttcn, on the Mahony, (their first Indian settlement, about twenty-seven miles from Bethlehem,) they had built mills, both for the use of themselves and that of the Indians: that his plan with the lands granted was that of forming just such another settlement on one of those tracts as that at Gnadenhutten on the Mahony had been, where those Indians had every advantage of being taught, not only in reading, writing, &.C., but agriculture, and some of the most necessary mechanical arts; since a few such mechanics had been settled near them, that they, also, might have an opportunity of learning trades: finally, that those Indians who chose to settle on the land should have their choice out of the three for settling on; and that such tract be left them altogether, for their own use and benefit, but that the other two tracts should be settled by tenants, on lease; and the whole of the rents accruing from these should inure to the sole benefit of the Christian Indians and their descendants, (Killbuck’s and White-eyes’s families included,) wherever these were settled, provided they were in the congregation; and that, so soon as the society shall have sufficient funds, by means of the rents, a free school for any and all Indian children should be established at the former place, and always remain open for the parents to put their children to for education, if they chose. From this time forward the society were put to considerable expenses, merely for the purpose of getting the land laid off by a surveyor. In the first instance, I was notified by a district surveyor, at Carlisle, (Major Alexander,) that, as he was going out to survey the military lands, in which the reserved lands for the Christian Indians lay, I should come on and go out with him, that he might first lay off these lands, that he then might know how to run the other lines: but scarcely had I arrived at Carlisle, when he received a letter from Governor St. Clair, forbidding any surveys to be made in that country at this present time, as it would be unsafe, on account of the Indians. The next call upon the society was by a letter from Captain Hutchins, geographer of the United States, directing me to proceed without delay to New York, and procure a warrant of survey for him for running the three reserved tracts; then to proceed with the same to Pittsburg, where I would find him, and go with him to the lands, which he would survey for us. Although we had gone on as far as Marietta, where he had a small job of surveying to do first, his surveying party down the river were attacked by the Indians, and lost all their instruments, together with their baggage; yet, as the Indians were daily expected to come into a treaty to which they had been invited, I was persuaded to await the result. Being kept for two months in suspense, and it being the dead of winter, 1 returned again to Bethlehem. Three months after this, I was again, by a very pressing letter from Colonel Winthrop Sargent, secretary to the Governor of the Western Territory, prevailed on to repair to Marietta, from whence he would go out with me and survey the lands for the society at once. Again, as I had done in the first two instances, I took with me a helping hand. However, on my arrival at Pittsburg, 1 found matters quite different from what I had expected. No surveyor thought himself safe in the woods; but, to satisfy myself of this, I resolved first to go out to Petquotting, (Huron river,) where at that time the Christian Indians were living, to learn of them the true disposition of the Indians, and whether it would be safe for a surveyor to go out, &c.; and my travelling companion, Mr. Abraham Steiner, being willing to accompany me thither, we entered on the journey; yet not before I had informed Colonel Sargent by letter of my intention, and that, should I find it safe for a surveyor to go out, I would immediately proceed with some of the Christian Indians to the old Moravian towns, and, leaving them there, go on to Marietta, to accompany him up the river to them. The result of my inquiries among those Indians I bad met with was to this effect: that no surveying business could at this present time be done in the Indian country; that orders had been given by the chiefs of the warlike nations that every white man seen with chain and compass on their lands should be considered as an enemy, and treated as such; and that all such Indians who should be found with surveyors should be looked upon as accomplices of these, and equally punished. Thus, the laying off of these granted lands was put to rest for the present; and the war, which immediately commenced in that country, forbade any thing of the kind being done until, after some years, General Wayne had held and concluded a treaty of peace with these hostile nations. The expenses alone in attempting to have the land laid off to the society, (always the first act to be done on such occasions,) had already by this time become considerable. The society had in nowise been urgent in having the lands surveyed to them; at a time, too, when there was not the smallest prospect that either they or their Indians could go on them. It was, therefore, more to meet the wish of Congress that they obeyed the calls made upon them by officers under their direction, for that purpose, than to gratify their own wishes. The lands adjoining the three grants could not well be laid off for the purposes intended by Congress until the lines of these grants were first ascertained; and as the Congress, at that time, were suffering by a want of money in their treasury, so that they were unable to pay for the surveying of this land, including other contingent expenses appertaining thereto, the Board of Treasury entered into an agreement with the directors of the society, whereby they, (the society,) in the first instance, were to pay all such costs and charges, which, however, should be remitted to them so soon as they should find sufficient funds in their treasury to do it; or, if they then should prefer an equivalent in lands, they should be rewarded in that way. The society did, out of their private funds, defray all the expenses of these unsuccessful attempts to get the lands surveyed, as their books will show. As the land alluded to had not been surveyed under the warrant which had issued under the authority of the old Congress; and since, by means of the new constitution of the United States, new departments had been established, with officers to superintend these offices; it was thought proper to renew the application for this land, by a petition to the present Congress: which being done, some new difficulties presented themselves; when, however, the matter terminated in granting to the Society of United Brethren for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen the three tracts of land called for, &c. The causes from whence those new difficulties had arisen appeared to flow more from diversity of opinion than from a disposition unfavorable to the cause, or to the case of the Christian.Indians. It was alleged that it was to no purpose to grant them land; for, if even they should settle on it, their stay would be of short duration: the Indians, generally, being a wandering people, &c., it would be better to give them the land for occupation only. To which suggestion, Mr. Ettwein, president of the society, replied, that he could not consent to this, as it could not be of any benefit to those Indians, who could get land enough in their own country for that use, without asking for it. Another proposal was, to give to these Indians, instead of the land, a sum of money, as an indemnification for their losses on the Muskingum, and let them settle in their own country, where they pleased, tec. This proposition had been made under an apprehension that they would not be safe in their lives were they to settle on that land, since the frontier settlers might rise upon them a second time, and destroy them altogether. A member from North Carolina, however, and who had been lately Governor of that State, preferred the granting to the society the land in question to make settlements on it; adding, “ I would rather see a Moravian settlement on the frontiers than a fortification, since such settlement would afford the country more protection in time of war.” Early in the spring of the year 1797,1 received a letter from General Rufus Putnam, at Marietta, who, having been appointed surveyor general in the place of Colonel Thomas Hutchins, deceased, informed me of his intention of surveying the lands on the Muskingum, which had been granted to the society by the Congress to them, early in the ensuing summer; and wishing me to come on prepared with any such further instructions as might be necessary for him to know, so that he might finally meet the wishes of the society with regard to the business he was about to do for them. Being both acquainted with the situation of the three tracts of land to be laid off for the society, as also with the manner in which the township and range lines in the military tract (within which these lands lay) were to run, I considered it necessary to consult some of the heads of Departments thereon, and learn their opinion; and, having done this, I proceeded on my journey, with their despatches, to the surveyor general. Yet, as I had with me some hands, who were to be employed in laying off farming lots, after the exterior lines being first run, I took these at once on to the ground, and, leaving them there, proceeded on my journey through the woods to Marietta; where, waiting until the general was ready, we, together with his hands, baggage, &c., proceeded up the river to the place of our destination; where the surveying business was done by hint with accuracy and despatch, and to the satisfaction of the society. This job being finished by the general, and the district surveyors under his direction already at work in the military tract—yet, without knowing exactly how far to the north they were to run the range lines, as the cast and west boundary line, which was, by treaty, to be the division line between the United States and Indian lands, had not yet been run out; neither, indeed, the exact point (going under the name of “ the crossing-place above Fort Lawrence”) where this line was to strike generally known—I accompanied the general with some of his hands, to show him this place, about twenty miles up the river; when, after marking a tree, and placing written directions, under a cover of bark, to this tree, for the surveyor who was running this line, and coming on from the western end, or point, we returned together to Marietta; where, after he had finished the returns and plats of his surveys, I took these on to the persons to whom they were directed; when, not long afterwards, a patent for the land, signed by the President of the United States, &c. was, by the Executive, forwarded to the president of the society, &c. The settling on these lands, for the good purposes intended, became now, with the directors of the society, a matter of importance, and deserving of a due consideration. The question was, whether any of the Christian Indians at Fairfield, in Upper Canada, would be willing to settle on the granted lands; and, if so, which of the three tracts they would choose forthemselves to settle on? and in what manner shall the society proceed, both in making a beginning on such tracts as would fall under their especial charge, and, withal, be their duty, to make the best they could out of such lands, for the benefit of those for whom they were intended? from whence were these farmers to come? &c. As I had to accompany a young missionary to Fairfield, in Upper Canada, in the spring of 1798, I was sure of learning, while with them, their determination and decision on all such matters as referred to them; but the prospect of getting good and industrious tenants on that part of the land which was to be leased out was gloomy. I had learned, at the first place, that a number would come un in the fall, and settle on the northernmost tract, (Schoenbrunn;) and these did come on with the missionaries Zeisberger and Mortimer, and began to build winter huts on the spot since called Goshen. From Fairfield, I proceeded with the old missionary Edwards, and two smart young Indians I had taken with me, first to Detroit, then round the head of Lake Erie to Gnadenhutten on the Muskingum, where I arrived on the 	 of June; and, we having erected on the river bank a bark canoe, I proceeded on to Pittsburg, to take out a couple of good hands that I expected were waiting for me; but, being disappointed, I took the best I could get, since, without help, I could not get along with my work in this new country. Out of four hands that I took in my employ during the summer and fall months, three turned out to be lazy, worthless people. Added to this, I had the misfortune, while in the act of making an axletree for hanging a grindstone, to hit my hand with the axe, so that two of my fingers were nearly cut off close to the hand, and one corner of the axe went quite through the hand; and had not, at that time, an aged Indian been at hand, who daily dressed the wound with the root of the sarsaparilla simmered up in a little water, which kept it fresh and free from mortification, until, after ten days, I was able to go to Pittsburg for the benefit of a surgeon, I probably might have shared the same fate which two men, from cuts not equal to mine, had shared in that excessively hot month, (August,) who, though under the surgeon’s care, died in consequence of a mortification taking place. Such had been my troubles and sufferings already in the first year; and that, too, without seeing anything worth speaking of done. The second and third years were better, but vastly expensive, as I had to bring both workmen and their tools with me from the Atlantic States; and the provisions for these, flour, bacon, &c. having to be brought seventy miles on packhorses, added greatly to this expense. There are many lessons to learn in making new settlements in a wilderness; and especially at the great distance of four hundred miles, as this was, from Bethlehem, and seventy miles, as the path then went, from the settlement on the Ohio where the nearest mechanics and mills could be met with. Exclusive of expenses which the nature of the case makes indispensable, as that of cutting out wagon roads, and throwing bridges over morasses, so that farm ers with teams can get into the country; and the building of a mill so as to serve for temporary use, and until the country be thicklier settled, there are many unforeseen difficulties to encounter—accidents to repair—disappointments, which had occasioned losses, to endure—and, occasionally, extra expenses to be borne with: all which are best known to such who had already, or at the time, engaged in similar enterprises. A gift of twelve thousand acres of land may appear to some as something extraordinary, and lead to high calculations with regard to the income of rents from such a number of acres of land; while the better informed will confine their calculations within narrower limits, by taking into view situation, nature of the soil throughout, disadvantages the country or district is subjected to with regard to a market for raising money to pay rents with, exclusive of the certainty of losing a part of the rent, both by bad pay and desertion of some of the tenants: all which has to be learned by experience. Independent of all this, I may add that enterprises of the kind have a tendency of leading to the making of experiments, which do not always answer the intended purposes. Thus the society, in the beginning, granted leases to such tenants as came on the land, which they now find highly detrimental to their interests. With the view of encouraging good, honest, and industrious farmers to take leases of them for twenty-one years, they promised such that, at the expiration of the term, they should be reimbursed for their labors and expenses as regards the buildings they may have erected on the premises, as dwelling-houses, out-houses, barns, &.C., according to a fair or just valuation thereof; and which clause had been inserted in the lease under the impression that these should be spacious, comfortable, and durable, especially the dwelling-house, and with a good walled cellar under it, and the barn also of proper dimensions, so as to invite the best of farmers to go on them hereafter, if the tenant himself did not wish to take a new lease. This generous offer of the society, it was supposed, would be of benefit to both parties: to the first tenants, in having a comfortable dwelling for themselves while they dwelt on the premises, besides receiving a sum of money in hand paid them at the end of the term, and besides having the advantage of cutting the timber from the land they lived on, and were clearing off for cultivation; while the new tenant, about entering on such farm, would sooner choose to pay a good rent, where every thing was in order as it ought to be, than a low rent, or perhaps none at all, where only cabins were to be seen on the premises, and those in a state of decay. It is true that the tenant under this long lease was, after the expiration of the first year, bound to pay a yearly rent, divided into three terms, for the first six years, at the rate of	dollars per hundred acres; for the next term of seven years, at the rate of	dollars per year for a hundred acres; and fur the last seven years of the term, yearly,	dol lars for one hundred acres; but, considering his having the first choice of the land, and in part cleared by the Indians, and fit for the plough, besides the advantage of selling grain to new comers, he could, if he would, pay up his rent without feeling it much, as the land yielded so well, and grain, especially for horse feed, always wanted. Some few of these tenants did, indeed, pay their rents every year punctually; while others, again, pretended that they had endeavored to do it, but were not able, and these would always hang back; others, again, finding themselves deeper in debt than they believed themselves able to pay, absconded, and went to some other part of the State; their improvements being bad like themselves. But to come to the point: there were among those who had gone off the premises some who, though they could not find money to pay their rents while on the land, found it easy to enter lands of Congress elsewhere, where they had to pay one-fourth of the purchase money down, and the remainder in three yearly instalments, &c.; and, among those that did stay to the end of the term of their lease, there are some that strive to turn this benevolent act of the society, in rewarding them for their improvements, agreeably to the appraisement, to their interest alone, by taking every advantage of defrauding the society; they, namely, contrive to procure men to raise the valuation on their premises as high as they can, without bringing into consideration in how far they had complied with the stipulations as inserted in their lease, especially as respects the planting of an orchard within the limited time; the dimensions, workmanship, and real value of their buildings; and whether or not they had each paid up their rents, as stipulated in their lease; or even not caring what sums they are in arrears of rent to the society at the time they are making the valuation for them. And while the society is suffering by means of the causes here stated, they find themselves charged with a heavy taxon the whole of the twelve thousand acres granted them in trust, for the benefit of the Christian Indians, by the Congress of the United States. Yes! they have had to pay, now seven years successively, every year, this tax; a tax which, in my opinion, exceeds the sum actually received for rents of the same year, and that for lands, too, whereof a considerable part (probably some thousand acres) are, and ever will remain untenantable, partly on account of their barrenness, but principally by the higher lands being cut up by hills, steep ridges, and gullies; while, again, a great part of the bottom lands cannot be leased out so as to bring a rent, on account of stagnated ponds, some of which, being half a mile and more in length, are not easily drained. Thus the society, while struggling to remit the sums borrowed at the commencement of their settlement on JIus- kingum, and since, for the purpose of getting tenants on the lands, in order to raise a revenue from them to meet the object for which they were granted, are taught by sad experience that this very land is becoming an insupportable burden to them. Under such discouraging and distressing circumstances, it cannot be expected that any thing bearing the name of revenue could have arisen from these lands; nor that the society could have the smallest desire of holding them any longer; so that, if the Congress of the United States should consider it expedient, or be disposed to reclaim them, the society,! presume, will have no objection to it; expecting, however, that the moneys they had necessarily expended, both towards obtaining these lands, and for the purpose of raising a revenue from them for the benefit of those Indians concerned, would be refunded to them, and they also be relieved from any and all bargains they had made with tenants, as regards a reimbursement for their buildings by appraisement. Although the society found themselves disappointed in the calculations they had made of a revenue arising out of the rents, &c., sufficient to supply the wants, &c. of those Indians concerned, yet they did not let these suffer on that account. Nay, these Indians were supplied with all they stood in need of, either by moneys raised among themselves for missionary purposes, or by money borrowed at the time it was wanted. Neither do the United Brethren, as a body, amass to themselves any thing that belongs to others, or is intended for the benefit of others; nor beguile their consciences, or bring a reproach upon themselves, by appropriating gifts of benevolence intrusted to them for others, to themselves, or for their interest or use. All acts of this kind are held sacred with them. Their missions, wherever they may be, are principally supported by means of voluntary contributions and collections, made up among themselves, and by the aid they from time,to time receive from religious and charitable societies, as also from pious individuals and friends of missions. They (the United Brethren) have never, to my knowledge, been the trumpeters of their doings among the heathen; never sought for applause for the purpose of drawing sums of money from the public, or from private societies. Whenever it has so happened that a collection has been made after the preaching of a mission sermon by one or the other of our city ministers, I always understood that such sermon had been delivered at the pressing request of friends and well-wishers to the cause. So, likewise, have the very few histories of the Brethren’s missions among the Heathen, that have been published by themselves, been brought before the public; not by their own choice, but at the pressing instigation of worthy and pious characters—a number of whom being without the pale of the society. The society who hold the lands granted to them, in trust, fur the Christian Indians, had been led tn believe, that, as the intention of Congress had been that a revenne be raised from the lands, by means of rents, sufficient to provide these Indians with ministers to instruct them in religion, and schoolmasters to teach them the arts of reading, writing, &c., as also to answer other good purposes tending to their welfare and happiness, they would be exempt from taxation; the same as was supposed the school lands in the State of Ohio would be. They were further led to believe that, if ever any part of it should be taxed, it would only be such land as was held under a lease, and subject to a yearly rent, whether such be farm lots, tuwn in and out lots, tec.; all which the tenants are, by a clause inserted in their lease, bound to pay, according to the number of acres each held under his lease; but, it was not supposed that on the Sehoenbrunn tract, which the Indians entirely possessed, and on which no leases to white farmers could be granted, (it being considered as Indian lands, and these always exempt from taxation while the Indians lived in Pennsylvania,) any taxes would be laid while they resided thereon. The society, however, finding that the whole of these lands were taxed, and they being unable to bear this burden, as the yearly tax amount exceeded the sum they actually received from the rents, they had no other alternative than that of granting leases to white settlers on the Sehoenbrunn tract, on which the Indians were settled; thereby, however, keeping in view the main object, namely: that all the rents, or moneys accruing from rents, on this tract, should be applied to the sole benefit of those Indians who were living un the land; while the tenant would, besides the rents, have to pay the taxes, according to the number of acres he held. Withal, the society being sensible that, while the whole of these. 12,000 acres should be subject to a yearly tax, as they had been for the last — years, it would be impossible for them to calculate on any thing of a revenue arising from them, for the purposes intended—when, of course, the object which the donors (Congress) had in view at the granting of these lands would be totally destroyed—they sought redress by petitioning the Legislature of the State of Ohio for an exemption of taxes, &c.; to which petition, the committee of the Senate, to which the petition had been referred, made the following report, viz: “ On the 30th January, 1821, &c.,	That they have examined the subject referred to them, and find that the object of the memorialists is to obtain from the State an exemption of taxes on the lands which they hold by grant from the United States, for the purposes as expressed in the caption. The committee find, that the land which has been granted to the society is of very fine quality, and at present in a very good state of improvement, yielding, as they must believe, a considerable revenue; but, as they have no means of ascertaining whether that revenue is faithfully disbursed in effecting the original object of the grant, they do not think it expedient to recommend, at this time, the exemption which is asked for, and therefore submit the following resolution: "Resolved, That the prayer of the memorialists be not granted. “The Senate then took up the report aforesaid, and the same was agreed to.” [From the Journal of the Senate.] Remark.—Whilst I resided in the State of Ohio, until the fall of the year 1810, being agent of the society, I was in the habit of inquiring of intelligent characters, living in different counties where school lands were let out on rent, what the amount of the rents were from these per year? To which question I universally received the answer, “ nothing," or, sometimes, “ next to nothing." And when I sought counsel of both intelligent and experienced men how to manage with the tenants, so as to make myself sure of rents, &e., these would reply: “ This is just what we wish to learn of you!” When, but a fortnight since, I inquired of a very intelligent gentleman, residing in the Ohio purchase, and who was one of the first settlers thafcame into that country in the fall of the year 1778, to what amount the rents from their school lands came per year? his reply was, “Not half as much as the legislating thereon came to!” And this is the oldest settlement in the State of Ohio. The society can have no objection in rendering an account of their transactions with regard to the lands granted to them, in trust, for the benefit of the Christian Indians, to the proper authority. They had, from the beginning, been led to consider this as a matter of course, by their late worthy president, the reverend John Ettwein; and who had advised them always to be prepared for it. And I doubt not but that the accounts accompanying the papers (or report) to the President of the United States, to be laid before the Senate, will satisfy that body that, the Society of United Brethren for propagating the Gospel among the Heathen, on their part, have been faithful to the trust enjoined on them. JOHN HECKEWELDER. BETHLEHEM, April 16, 1822. 17th CONGRESS.]	
