No. 48. [1st Session. THE CREEKS AND CHEROKEES. communicated to the house OF REPRESENTATIVES, APRIL 8, 1794. Mr. Carnes, from the committee to whom was referred the memoriaj of the representatives of the People south of the river Ohio, praying protection from the hostile incursions of the Indians, made the following report: That, from the representations made to your committee, and the facts stated in the memorial, the citizens resident on the Southwestern frontiers have experienced, and still continue to suffer, the most cruel and inhuman aggressions from large bodies of savages of the Creek and Cherokee nations. That, notwithstanding their solemn engagements to the contrary, and the most express stipulations in the treaties of Holston and New York, they have continued to invade the settlements on that frontier, and to commit thefts and murders unparalleled but by people of the like savage and ferocious nature. The settlers, on the other hand, determined on a due observance of the compacts made on the part of the United States, have done nothing more than act on the defensive. Your committee further report, that, the situation of the Southwestern frontier in general, and Mero district in particular, calls for the most energetic measures, on the part of Government, to prevent the repeated depredations of those hostile tribes, and to afford speedy and effectual protection to the exposed inhabitants of that frontier; and, in order thereto, recommend the following resolutions: Resolved, That the President of the United States be authorized to call out such number of the militia of the government of the territory south of the river Ohio as may be requisite to carry on offensive operations against any nation or tribe of Indians that may continue hostile. And, whereas great inconvenience may arise to the citizens on the frontier, if they are not permitted to repel and pursue any invading body of Indians until orders for that purpose can be received from the President of the United States: Be it, therefore. Resolved, That, whenever the Governor of the territory south of the Ohio shall have just cause to apprehend that an invasion is contemplated by any body or nation of Indians, he shall be, and is hereby, authorized to order out such part of the militia of said territory as he shall judge proper to repel, annoy, and pursue, such invading party of Indians, and shall transmit, by express, to the President of the United States, as accurate accounts as can be obtained, of the destination of the party so invading, the force ordered out to oppose them, and such other circumstances respecting die invasion and situation of the militia so ordered out, as may have come to his knowledge; and to continue the aforesaid militia in the field until the cause ceases, or until further or other orders are received from the President of the United States. Resolved, That the President be authorized to cause to be established, and guarded, by troops raised for the defence of the frontiers, and on the terms of the present military establishment, such military posts as, in his judgment, will be necessary for the permanent security of the frontier settlers, and to employ one or more troops of horse as patrols, or rangers, between the said posts. 3d Congress.] 
