NO. 226.	[1st SESSION. TREATIES WITH SEVERAL TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 11, 1826. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, January 9, 1S26. I transmit to the Senate, for their consideration and advice with regard to ratification, the following treaties: 1. A treaty signed at the Poncar village, at the mouth of White Paint creek, the first below the Qui Carre river, on the 9th of June, 1825, by Brigadier General Henry Atkinson and Major Benjamin O’Fallon, commissioners on the part of the United States, and certain chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Poncar tribe of Indians, on the part of said tribe. 2. A treaty signed at Fort Lookout, near the three rivers of the Sioux pass, on the 22d June, 1825, by the same commissioners on the part of the United States, and certain chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Teeton, Yancton, and Yanctonies bands of the Sioux tribe of Indians, on the part of the said bands. 3. A treaty signed at the mouth of the Teeton river, on the 5th of July, 1825, by the same commissioners on the part of the United States, and by certain chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Sioune and Ogallala bands of Sioux Indians; and on the 12th July, 1825, at Camp Hidden creek, by chiefs and warriors of the Siounes of the Fire, Hearts band, on the part of their respective bands. 4. A treaty signed at the mouth of the Teeton river, on the 6th of July, 1825, by the same commissioners on the part of the United States, and by certain chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Chayenne tribe of Indians, on the part of said tribe. 5. A treaty signed at the Auricara village, on the 16th of July, 1825, by the same commissioners on the part of the United States, and by certain chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Hunkpapas band of the Sioux tribe of Indians, on the part of said band. '6. A treaty signed at the Ricara village, on the 18th July, 1825, by the same commissioners on the part of the United States, and by certain chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Ricara tribe of Indians, on the part of said tribe. 7. A treaty signed at the Mandan village, on the 30th of July, 1825, by the same commissioners on the part of the United States, and by certain chiefs and warriors of the Mandan tribe of Indians, on the part of said tribe. 8. A treaty signed at the Lower Mandan village, on the 30th of July, 1825, by the same commissioners on the part of the United States, and by certain chiefs and warriors of the Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe of Indians, on the part of said tribe. 9. A treaty signed at the Mandan village, on the 4th of August, 1825, by the same commissioners on the part of the United States, and by certain chiefs and warriors of the Crow tribe-of Indians, on the part of said tribe. 10. A treaty signed at Fort Atkinson, Council Bluffs, on the 25th of September, 1825, by the same commissioners on the part of the United States, and by certain chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Ottoe and Missouri tribe of Indians, on the part of said tribe. 11. A treaty signed at Fort Atkinson, Council Bluffs, on the 30th September, 1825, by the same commmis- sioners on the part of the United States, and by certain chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Pawnee tribe of Indians, on the part of said tribe. 12. A treaty signed at Fort Atkinson, Council Bluffs, on the 6th of October, 1825, by the same commissioners on the part of the United States, and by certain chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Maha tribe of Indians, on th? part of said tribe. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. .	TREATY WITH THE PONCARS. For the purposes of perpetuating the friendship which has heretofore existed, as also to remove all future cause of discussion or dissension, as it respects trade and friendship, between the United States and their citizens and the Poncar tribe of Indians, the President of the United States of America, by Brigadier General Henry Atkinson, of the United States army, and Major Benjamin O’Fallon, Indian agent, with full powers and authority specially appointed and commissioned for that purpose, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Poncar tribe of Indians, on behalf of said tribe, of the other part, have made and entered into the following articles and conditions, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding on both parties, to wit: ARTICLE 1. It is admitted by the Poncar tribe of Indians that they reside within the territorial limits of the United States, acknowledge their supremacy, and claim their protection. The said tribe also admit the right of the United States to regulate all trade and intercourse with them. ART. 2. The United States agree to receive the Poncar tribe of Indians into their friendship and under their protection, and to extend to them, from time to time, such benefits and acts of kindness as may be convenient, and seem just and proper to the President of the United States. ART. 3. All trade and intercourse with the Poncar tribe shall be transacted at such place or places as may be designated and pointed out by the President of the United States, through his agents; and none but American citizens, duly authorized by the United States, shall be admitted to trade or hold intercourse with said tribe of Indians. ART. 4. That the Poncar tribe may be accommodated with such articles of merchandise, &c. as their necessities may demand, the United States agree to admit and license traders to hold intercourse with said tribe, under mild and equitable regulations: in consideration of which, the Poncar tribe bind themselves to extend protection to the persons and the property of the traders, and the persons legally employed under them, whilst they remain within the limits of the Poncar district of country. And the said Poncar tribe further agree, that if any foreigner, or other person not legally authorized by the United States, shall come into their district of country for the purposes of trade, or other views, they will apprehend such person or persons, and deliver him or them to some United States superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or to the commandant of the nearest military post, to be dealt with according to law. And they further agree to give safe-conduct to all persons who may be legally authorized by the United States to pass through their country; and to protect, in their persons and property, all agents or other persons sent by the United States to reside temporarily among them. ART. 5. That the friendship which is now established between the United States and the Poncar tribe should not be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by the party injured to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or other person appointed by the President. And it shall be the duty of the said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he or they may be punished agreeably to the laws of the United States: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to said tribe, the person or persons su offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in like mauner as if the injury had been done to a white man. And it is agreed that the chiefs of said Poncar tribe shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to' recover horses or other property which may be stolen or taken from any citizen or citizens of the United States by any individual or individuals of said tribe; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the agents, or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of said tribe a full indemnification for any horses or .other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property so stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the said Poncar tribe engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or of the agents, to deliver up any white man resident among them. ART. 6. And the chiefs and warriors âs aforesaid promise and engage that their tribe will never, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation or tribe of Indians, not in amity with the United States, with guns, ammunition, or other implements of war. Done at the Poncar village, at the mouth of White Paint creek, the first below the Qui Carre river, this ninth day of June, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States the forty-ninth. In testimony whereof, the said commissioners, Henry Atkinson and Benjamin O’Fallon, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Poncar tribe, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. H. ATKINSON, Brigadier General United States Army. BENJ. O’FALLON, United States Agent Indian Affairs. [Signed, also, by the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Poncar tribe.] TREATY WITH THE TEETONS, YANCTONS, AND YANCTONtES. 'For the purposes of perpetuating the friendship which has heretofore existed, as also to remove all future cause of discussion or dissension, as it respects tràde and friendship, between the United States and their citizensand the Teeton, Yancton, and Yanctonies bands of the Sioux tribe of Indians, the President of the United States of America, by Brigadier General Henry Atkinson, of the United States army, and Major Benjamin O’Fallon, Indian agent, with full powers and authority specially appointed and commissioned for that purpose, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Teeton, Yancton, and Yanctonies bands of the Sioux tribe of Indians, on behalf of said bands or tribe, of the other part, have made and entered into the following articles and conditions, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding on both parties, to wit: ARTICLE 1. It is admitted by the Teeton, Yancton, and Yanctonies bands of Sioux Indians that they reside within the territorial limits of the United States, acknowledge their supremacy, and claim their protection. The said bands also admit the right of the United States to regulate all trade and intercourse with them. ART. 2. The United States agree to receive the said Teeton, Yancton, and Yanctonies bands of Sioux Indiaris into their friendship and under their protection, and to extend to them, from time to time, such benefits and acts of kindness as may be convenient, and seem just and proper to the President of the United States. ART. 3. All trade and intercourse with the Teeton, Yancton, and Yanctonies bands shall be transacted at such place or places as may be designated and pointed out by the President of the United States, through his agents; and none but American citizens, duly authorized by the United States, shall be admitted to trade or hold intercourse with said bands of Indians.	'	, ART. 4. That the Teeton, Yancton, and Yanctonies bands may be accommodated with such articles of merchandise, &c. as their necessities may demand, the United States agree to admit and license traders to hold intercourse with said tribes or bands, under mild and equitable regulations: in consideration of which, the Teeton, Yancton, and Yanctonies bands bind themselves to extend protection to the persons and the property of the traders, and the persons legally employed under them, whilst they remain within the limits of their particular district of country. And the said Teeton, Yancton, and Yanctonies bands further agree, that if any foreigner, or other person not legally authorized by the United States, shall come into their district of country for the purposes of trade, or other views, they will apprehend such person or persons, and deliver him or them to some United States superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or to the [commandant of the] nearest military post, to be dealt with according to law. And they further agree to give safe-conduct to all persons who may be legally authorized by the United States to pass through their country, and to protect, in their persons and property, all agents, or other persons sent by the United States to reside temporarily among them. R ART. 5. That the friendship which is now established between the United States and the Teeton, Yancton, and Aanctouies bands, should not be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by the party injured to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or other person appointed by the President. And it shall, be the duty of the said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he or they may be punished agreeably to the laws of the United States: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to said bands, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in Idee manner as if the injury had been done to a white man. And it is agreed that the chiefs of the said Teeton, Yancton, and Yanctonies bands shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolon or taken from any citizen or citizens of the United States by any individual or individuals of said bands; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the agents, or other per son authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of said bands a full indemnification for any horses or other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property so stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the said Teeton, Yancton, and Yanctonies bands engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or of the agents, to deliver up any white man resident among them. ART. 6. And the chiefs and warriors as aforesaid promise and engage that their band or tribe will never, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation or tribe of Indians, not in amity with the United States, with guns, ammunition, or other implements of war. Done at Fort Lookout, near the three rivers of the Sioux pass, this twenty-second day of June, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States the forty-ninth. In testimony whereof, the said commissioners, Henry Atkinson and Benjamin O’Fallon, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Teeton, Yancton, and Yanctonies bands of the Sioux tribe, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. II. ATKINSON, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army. BENJ. O’FALLON, U. S. Agent Indian Affairs. ■ [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headmen of tbe Teeton, Yancton, and Yanctonies bands.] TREATY WITH THE SIOUNES AND OGALLALA S. For the purpose of perpetuating the friendship which has heretofore existed, as also to remove all future cause of discussion or dissension, as it respects trade and friendship, between the United States and their citizens and the Sioune and Ogallala bands of the Sioux tribe of Indians, the President of the United States of America, by Brigadier General Henry Atkinson, of the United States army, and Major Benjamin O’Fallon, Indian agent, with full powers and authority specially appointed and commissioned for that purpose, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the said Sioune and Ogallala bands of Sioux Indians, on behalf of their bands, of the other part, nave made and entered into the following articles and conditions, which, when ratified hy the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding on both parties, to wit:	’ ARTICLE 1. It is admitted hy the Sioune and Ogallala bands of Sioux Indians that they reside within the territorial limits of the United States, acknowledge their supremacy, and claim their protection. The said bands also admit the right of the United States to regulate all trade and intercourse with them. ART. 2. The United States agree to receive the Sioune and Ogallala bands of Sioux into their friendship and under their protection, and to extend to them, from time to time, such benefits and acts of kindness as may be convenient, and seem just and proper to the President of the United States. ART. 3. All trade and intercourse with the Sioune and Ogallala bands shall be transacted at such place or places as may be designated and pointed out by the President of the United States, through his agents; and none but American citizens, duly authorized by the United States, shall be admitted to trade or hold intercourse with said bands of Indians. ART. 4. That the Sioune and Ogallala bands may be accommodated with such articles bf merchandise, tfcc. as their necessities may demand, the United States agree to admit and license traders to hold intercourse with said bands, under mild and equitable regulations: in consideration of which, the Sioune and Ogallala ban'ds bind themselves to extend protection to the persons and the property of the traders, and the persons legally employed under them, whilst they remain within the limits of their particular district of country. And the said Sioune and Ogallala bands further agree, that, if any foreigner, or other person not legally authorized by the United States, shall come into • their district of country, for the purposes of trade, or other views, they will apprehend such person or persons, and deliver him or them to some United States superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or to the commandant of the nearest military post, to be dealt with according to law. And they further agree to give safe-conduct to all persons who may be legally authorized by the United States to pass through their country, and to protect, in their persons and property, al) agents or other persons sent by the United States to reside temporarily among them; nor will they, whilst on their distant excursions, mnlest or interrupt any American citizen or citizens who may be passing from the United States to New Mexico, or returning from thence to the United States. ART. 5. That the friendship which is now established between the United States and the Sioune and Ogallala bands should not be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by the injured party to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or other person appointed by the President. And it shall be the doty of said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the çnd that he or they maybe punished agreeably to the laws of the United States: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to the said bands, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in like manner as if the injury had beeri done to a white man. And it is agreed that the chiefs of said Sioune and Ogallala bands shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolen or taken from any citizen or citizens of the United States by any individual or individuals of said bands; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the agents, or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of said bands a full indemnification for any horses or other property which maybe stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, The property stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the said Sioune and Ogallala bands engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or of the agents, to deliver up any white man resident among them. ART. 6. And the chiefs and warriors, as aforesaid, promise and engage that their bands will never, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation, tribe, or bands of Indians, not in amity with the United States, with guns, ammunition, or other implements of war. Done at the mouth of the Teeton river, this fifth day of July, A. D. eighteen hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States the fiftieth. In testimony whereof, the said commissioners, Henry Atkinson and Benjamin O’Fallon, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Sioune and Ogallala bands, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. H. ATKINSON, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army. ■ BENJAMIN O’FALLON, U. S. Agent Indian Affairs. [Signed, also, by the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Sioune and Ogallala bands.] TREATY WITH THE CHAYENNE TRIBE. For the purpose of perpetuating the friendship which has heretofore existed, as also to remove all future cause ‘of discussion or dissension, as it respects trade and friendship, between the United States and their citizens and the Chayenne tribe of Indians, the President of the United States of America, by Brigadier General Henry Atkinson, of the United States army, and Major Benjamin O’Fallon, Indian agent, with full powers and authority specially appointed and commissioned for that purpose, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Chayenne tribe of Indians, on behalf of said tribe, of the other part, have made and entered into the following articles and conditions, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding on both parties, to wit: ARTICLE I. It is admitted by the Chayenne tribe of Indians that they reside within the territorial limits of the United States, acknowledge their supremacy, and claim their protection. The said tribe also admit the right of the United States to regulate all trade and intercourse with them. . ART. 2. The United States agree to receive the Chayenne tribe of Indians into their friendship and under their protection, and to extend to them, from time to time, such benefits and acts of kindness as may be convenient, and seem just and proper to the.President of the United States. ART. 3. All trade and intercourse with the Chayenne tribe shall be transacted at such place or places as may be designated and pointed out by the President of the Unitéd States, through his agents; and none but American citizens, duly authorized by the United States, shall be admitted to trade or hold intercourse with said tribe of Indians. ART. 4. That the Chayenne tribe may be accommodated with such articles of merchandise, &c. as their necessities may demand, the United States agree to admit and license traders to hold intercourse with said tribe, under mild and equitable regulations: in consideration of which, the Chayenne tribe bind themselves to extend protection to the persons and the property of the traders, and the persons legally employed under them, whilst they remain within the limits of their particular district of country. And the said Chayenne tribe further agree, that if any foreigner, or other person not legally authorized by the United States, shall come into their district of country for the purposes of trade, or other views, they will apprehend such person or persons, and deliver him or them to some United States superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or to the commandant of the nearest military post, to be dealt with according to law. And they further agree to give safe-conduct to all persons who may be legally authorized by the United States to pass through their country; and to protect, in their persons and property, all agents or other persons sent by the United States to reside temporarily among, them; nor will they, whilst on their distant excursions, molest or interrupt any American citizen or citizens who may be passing from the United States to New Mexico, or returning from thence to the United States. ART. 5. That the friendship which is now established between the United States and the Chayenne tribe should not be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaint shall be made by the party injured to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or other person appointed by the President; And it shall be the duty of said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he. or they may be punished agreeably to the laws of the United States: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to said tribe, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in like manner as if the injury had been done to a white man. And it is agreed that the said chiefs of said Chayenne tribe shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolen or taken from any citizen or citizens of the United States by any individual or individuals of said tribe; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the agents, or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of said tribe a full indem. nification for any horses or other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property so stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the said Chayenne tribe engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or.of the agents, to deliver up any white man resident among them. ART. 6. And the chiefs and warriors as aforesaid promise and engage that their tribe will never, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation or tribe of Indians, not in amity with the United States, with guns, ammunition, or other implements of war. Done at the mouth of the Teeton river, this sixth day of July, A. D. eighteen hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States the fiftieth. In testimony whereof, the said commissioners, Henry Atkinson and Benjamin O’Fallon, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Chayenne tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. H. ATKINSON, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army. BENJAMIN O’FALLON, U. S. Agent Indian Affairs. [Signed, also, by the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Chayenne tribe of Indians.] TREATY WITH THE HUNKPAPAS. For the purpose of perpetuating the friendship which has heretofore existed, as also to remove all future cause of discussion or dissension, as it respects trade and friendship, between the United States and their citizens and the Hunkpapas band of the Sioux tribe of Indians, the President of the United States of America, by Brigadier General Henry Atkinson, of the United States army, and Major Benjamin O’Fallon, Indian agent, with full powers and authority specially appointed and commissioned for that purpose, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the said Hunkpapas band of Sioux Indians, on behalf of their band, of the other part, have made and entered into the following articles and conditions, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding on both parties, to wit: - *^RT'C?E 11 'I admitted by the Hunkpapas band of Sioux Indians that they reside within the territorial limits ot the United States, acknowledge their supremacy, and claim their protection. The said band also admit the right of the United States to regulate all trade and intercourse with them. ART. 2. The United States agree to receive the Hunkpapas band of Sioux into their friendship and under their protection, and to extend to them, from time to time, such benefits and acts of kindness as may be convenient, and seem just and proper to the President of the United States. ART. 3. All trade and intercourse with the Hunkpapas band shall be transacted at such place or places as mav be designated and pointed out by the President of the United States, through his agents; and none but American citizens, duly authorized by the United States, shall be admitted to trade or hold intercourse with said band of Indians. ART. 4. That the Hunkpapas band may be accommodated with such articles of merchandise, Ate. as their necessities may demand, the United Stales agree to admit and license traders to hold intercourse with said band, under mild and equitable regulations: in consideration of which, the Honkpapas band bind themselves to extend protection to the persons and the property of the traders, and the persons legally employed under them, whilst they remain within the limits of their particular district of country. And the said Hunkpapas band further agree, that, if any foreigner, or other person not legally authorized by the United States, shall come into their district of country for the purposes of trade, or other views, they will apprehend such person or persons, and deliver him or them to some United States superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or to the commandant of the nearest military post, to be dealt with according to law. And they further agree to give safe-conduct to all persons who may be legally authorized by the United States to pass through their country, and to protect, in their persons and property, all agents or other persons sent by the United States to reside temporarily among them. ART. 5. That the friendship which is now established between the United States and the Hunkpapas band should not be interrupted by tho misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed that, for injuries done by individuals, nu private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by the injured party to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or other person appointed by the President. And it shall be the duty of said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he or they may be punished agreeably to the laws of the United States: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to said band, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in like manner as if the injury had been done .to a white man. And it is agreed that the chiefs of the said Hunkpapas band shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolen or taken from any citizen or citizens of the United States by any individual or individuals of said band; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the agents, or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of said band a fulf indemnification for any horses or other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property so stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the said Honkpapas band engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or of the agents, to deliver up any white man resident among them. ART. 6. And the chiefs and warriors as aforesaid promise and engage that their band will never, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation or tribe of Indians, not in amity with the United States, with gons, ammunition, or other implements of war. Dune at Auricara village, this sixteenth day of July, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States the fiftieth. In testimony whereof, the said commissioners, Henry Atkinson and Benjamin O’Fallon, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Hunkpapas tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. . H. ATKINSON, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army. ■ BENJ. O’FALLON, U. S. Agent Indian Affairs. [Signed, also, by a number of the chiefs and headmen of the Hunkpapas band of Sioux.] TREATY WITH THE RICARAS.	• To put an end to an unprovoked hostility on the part of the Ricara tribe of Indians against the United States, and to restore harmony between the parties, the President of the United States, by Brigadier General Henry Atkinson, of the United States army, and Major Benjamin O’Fallon, Indian agent, commissioners duly appointed and commissioned to treat with the Indian tribes beyond the Mississippi river, gives peace to the said Ricara tribe; the chiefs and warriors thereof having first made suitable concessions for the offence. And for the purpose of removing all further or future cause of misunderstanding, as respects trade and friendly intercourse between the parties, the abovenamed commissioners, on the part of the United States, and the undersigned chiefs and warriurs of the Ricara tribe of Indians, on the part of said tribe, have made and entered into the following articles and conditions, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding on both parties, to wit; ARTICLE 1. Henceforth there shall be a firm and lasting peace between the United States and the Ricara tribe of Indians, and a friendly intercourse shall immediately take place between the parties. ART. 2. It is admitted by the Ricara tribe of Indians that they reside within the territorial limits of the United States, acknowledge their supremacy, and claim their protection. The said tribe also admit the right of the United States to regulate all trade and intercourse with them. ART. 3. The United States agree to receive the Ricara tribe of Indians into their friendship and under their protection, and to extend to them, from time to time, such benefits and acts of kindness as may be convenient, and seem just and proper to the President of the United States. ART. 4. All trade and intercourse with the Ricara tribe shall be transacted at such place or places as may be designated and pointed out by the President of the United States, through his agents; and none but American citizens, duly authorized by the United States, shall be admitted to trade or hold intercourse with said tribe of Indians. ART. 5. That the Ricara tribe may be accommodated with such articles of merchandise, Ac. as their necessities may demand, the United States agree to admit and license traders to hold intercourse with said tribe, under mild and equitable regulations: in consideration of which, the Ricara tribe bind themselves to extend protection to the persons and the property of the traders, and the persons legally employed under them, while they remain within the limits of their district of country. And the said Ricara tribe further agree, that, if any foreigner, or other person not legally authorized by the United States, shall come into their district of country for the purposes of trade, or other views, they will apprehend such person or persons, and deliver him or them to some' United States superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or to the commandant of the nearest military post, to be dealt with according to law. And they further agree to give safe-conduct to all persons who may be legally authorized by the United States to pass through their country, and to protect, in their persons and property, all agents or other persons sent by the United States to reside temporarily among them. ART. 6. That the friendship which is now established between the United States and the Ricara tribe shall not be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by the party injured to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or other person appointed by the President. And it shall be the duty of the said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver' up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that ho or they may be punished agreeably to the laws of the United States: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to said tribe, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in like manner as if the injury had been done to a white man. And it is agreed that the chiefs of the said Ricara tribe shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolen or taken from any citizen or citizens of the United States by any individual or individuals of said tribe; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the agents, or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of said tribe a full indemnification for any horses or other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property so stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the said Ricara tribe engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or of the agents, to deliver up any white man resident among them. ART. 7. And the chiefs and warriors as aforesaid promise and engage that their tribe will never, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation, tribe, or bands of Indians, not in amity with the United States, with guns, ammunition, or other implements of war. Done, at the Ricara village, this eighteenth day of July, A. D. eighteen hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States the fiftieth. In testimony whereof, the said commissioners, Henry Atkinson and Benjamin O’Fallon, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Ricara tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals.	• H. ATKINSON, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army. BENJ. O’FALLON, U. S. Agent Indian Affairs. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headmen of the Ricara tribe of Indians.] TREATY WITH THE MANDANS. Whereas acts of hostility have been committed by some restless men of the Mandan tribe of Indians upon some of the citizens of the United States; therefore, to put a stop to any further outrages of the sort, and to establish a more friendly understanding between the United States and the said Mandan tribe, the President of the United States, by Henry Atkinson, brigadier general of the United States army, and Major Benjamin O’Fallon, Indian agent, commissioners duly appointed and commissioned to treat with the Indian tribes beyond the Mississippi river, forgive the offences which have been committed; the chiefs and warriors having first made satisfactory explanations touching the same. And for the purpose of removing all future cause of misunderstanding, as respects trade and.friendly intercourse between the parties, the abovenamed commissioners, on the part of the United States, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Mandan tribe of Indians, on the part of said tribe, have made and entered into the following articles and conditions, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding on both parties, to wit: ARTICLE 1. Henceforth there shall be a firm and lasting peace between the United States and the Mandan tribe of Indians, and a friendly intercourse shall immediately take place between the parties.	, ART. 2. It is admitted by the Mandan tribe of Indians that they reside within tho territorial limits of the United States, acknowledge their supremacy, and claim their protection. The said tribe also admit the right of the United States to regulate all trade and intercourse with them. ART. 3. The United States agree to receive the Mandan tribe of Indians into their friendship and under their protection, and to extend to them, from time to time, such benefits and acts of kindness as may be convenient, and seem just and proper to the President of the United States. ART. 4. All trade and intercourse with the Mandan tribe shal) be transacted at such place or places as may be designated and pointed out by the President of the United States, through his agents; and none but American citizens, duly authorized by the United States, shall be admitted to trade or hold intercourse with said tribe of Indians. ART. 5. That the Mandan tribe may be accommodated with such articles of merchandise, &c. as their necessities may demand, the United States agree to admit and license traders to hold intercourse with said tribe, under mild and equitable regulations: in consideration of which, the Mandan tribe bind themselves to extend protection to the persons and the property of the traders, and the persons legally employed under them, whilst they remain within the limits of their particular district of country. And the said Mandan tribe further agree, that, if any foreigner, or other person not legally authorized by the United States, shall come into their district of country for the purposes of trade, or other views, they will apprehend such person or persons, and deliver him or them to some United States superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or to the commandant of the nearest military post, to be dealt with according to law. And they further agree to give safe-condfict to all persons who may be legally authorized by the United States to pass through their country, and to protect, in their persons and property, all agents or other persons sent by the United States to reside temporarily among them. ART. 6. That the friendship which is now established between the United States and the said Mandan tribe should not be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by the party injured to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or other person appointed by the President. And it shall be the duty of the said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he or they may be punished agreeably to the laws of the United States: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to said tribe, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in like manner as if the injury had been done'to a white man. And it is agreed that the chiefs of the said Mandan tribe shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolen or taken from any citizen or citizens of the United States by any individual or individuals of said tribe; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the agents, or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of said tribe a full indemnification for any horses or other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property so stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the said Mandan tribe engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or of the agents, to deliver up any white man resident among them. ART. 7. And the chiefs and warriors as aforesaid promise and engage tha*t their tribe will never, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation, tribe, or band of Indians, not in amity with the United States, with guns, ammunition, or other implements of war.	'Done at the Mandan village, this thirtieth day of July, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States the fiftieth. In testimony whereof, the commissioners, Henry Atkinson and Benjamin O’Fallon, and the chiefs and warriors of the Mandan tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. '	H. ATKINSON, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army. BENJ. O’FALLON, U. S. Agent Indian Affairs. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Mandan tribe.] TREATY WITH THE BELANTSE-ETOA, OR MINNETAREE TRIBE. Whereas acts of hostility have been committed by some restless men of the Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe of Indians upon some of the citizens of the United States: therefore, to put a stop to any further outrages of the sort, and to establish a more friendly understanding between the United States and the said Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe of Indians, the President of the United States, by Henry Atkinson, brigadier general of the United States army, and Major Benjamin O’Fallon, Indian agent, commissioners duly appointed and commissioned to treat with the Indian tribes beyond the Mississippi river, forgive the offences which have been committed; the chiefs and warriors having, first made satisfactory explanations touching the same. And for the purpose of removing all future cause of misunderstanding, as respects trade and friendly intercourse, between the parties, the abovenamed commissioners, on the part of the United States, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe of Indians, on the part of said tribe, have made and entered into the following articles and conditions, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding on both parties, to wit: ARTICLE 1. Henceforth there shall be a firm and lasting peace between the United States and the Belantse- etoa or Minnetaree tribe of Indians, and a friendly intercourse shall immediately take place between the parties. ART. 2. It is admitted by the Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe of Indians that they reside within the territorial limits of the United States, acknowledge their supremacy, and claim their protection. The said tribe also admit the right of the United States to regulate all trade and intercourse with them.	• ART. 3. The United States agree to receive the Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe of Indians into their friendship and under their protection, and to extend to them, from time to time, such benefits and acts of kindness as may be convenient, and seem just and proper to the President of the United States. ART. 4. All trade and intercourse with the Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe shall be transacted at such place or places as may be designated and pointed out by the President of the United States, through his agents; and none but American citizens, duly authorized by the United States, shall be admitted to trade or hold intercourse with said tribe of Indians. ART. 5. That the Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe may be accommodated with such articles of merchandise, <fcc. as their necessities may demand, the United States agree to admit and license traders to hold intercourse with said tribe, under mild and equitable regulations: in consideration of which, the Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe bind themselves to extend protection to the persons and the property of the traders, and the persons legally employed under them, whilst they remain within the limits of their district of country. And the said Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe further agree, that if any foreigner, or other person not legally authorized by the United States, shall come into their district of country for the purposes of trade, or other views, they will apprehend such person or persons, and deliver him or them to some United’States superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or to the commandant of the nearest military post, to be dealt with according to law. And they further agree to give safe-conduct to all persons who may be legally authorized by the United States to reside temporarily among them. ART. 6. That the friendship which is now established between the United States and the Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe shall not be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaint shall be made by the party injured to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or other person appointed by the President. And it shall be the duty of the said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he or they may be punished agreeably to the laws of the United States: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to said tribe, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in like manner as if the injury had been done to a white man. And it is agreed that the chiefs of the said Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolen or taken from any citizen or citizens of the United States by any individual or individuals of said tribe; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the agents, or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of said tribe a full indemnification for any horses or other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property so stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the said Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or of ’the agents, to deliver .up any white man resident among them. ART. 7. And the chiefs and warriors as aforesaid promise and engage that their tribe will never, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation, tribe, or band of Indians not in amity with the United States, with guns, ammunition, or other implements of war. Done at the Lower Mandan village, this thirtieth day of July, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and twenty- five, and of the independence of the United States the fiftieth. In testimony whereof, the commissioners, Henry Atkinson and Benjamin O’Fallon, and the chiefs and warriors of the said Belantse-etoa dr Minnetaree tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. H. ATKINSON, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army. BENJ. O’FALLON, U. S. Agent Indian Affairs. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Belantse-etoa or Minnetaree tribe.] TREATY WITH THE CROW TRIBE OF INDIANS. For the purpose of perpetuating the friendship which has heretofore existed, as also to remove qll future cause of discussion or dissension, as it respects trade and friendship, between the United States and their citizens and the Crow tribe of Indians, the Piesident of the United States of America, by Brigadier General Henry Atkinson, of the United States army, and Major Benjamin O’Fallon, Indian agent, with full powers and authority specially appointed and commissioned for that purpose, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the said Crow tribe of Indians, on behalf of their tribe, of the other part, have made and entered into the following articles and conditions, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding on both parties, to wit: ARTICLE 1. It is admitted by the Crow tribe of Indians that they reside within the territorial limits of the United States, acknowledge their supremacy, and claim their protection. The said tribe also admit the right of the United States to regulate all trade and intercourse with them.	, ART. 2. The United States agree to receive the Crow tribe of Indians into their friendship and under their, protection, and to extend to them, from time to time, such benefits and acts of kindness as may be convenient, and seem just and proper to the President of the United States. ART. 3. All trade and intercourse with the Crow tribe shall be. transacted at such place or places as may be designated and pointed out by the President of the United States, through his agents; and none but American citizens, duly authorized by the United States, shall be admitted to trade or hold intercourse with said tribe of Indians. ART. 4. That the Crow tribe may be accommodated with such articles of merchandise, &c. as their necessities may demand, the United States agree to admit and license traders to hold intercourse with said tribe, under mild and equitable regulations: in consideration of which, the Crow tribe bind themselves to extend protection to the persons and the property of the traders, and the persons legally employed under them, whilst they remain within the limits of their district of country. And the said Crow tribe further agree, that, if any foreigner, or other person not legally authorized by the United States, shall come into their district of country for the purposes of trade, or other views, they will apprehend such person or persons, and deliver him or them to some United States superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or to the commandant of the nearest military post, to be dealt with according to law. And they further agree to give safe-conduct to all persons who may be legally authorized by the United States to pass through their country; and to protect, in their persons and property, all agents or other persons sent by the United States to reside temporarily among them; and that they will not, whilst on their distant excursions, molest or interrupt any American citizen or citizens who may be passing from the United States to New Mexico, or returning from thence to the United States. ART. 5. That the friendship which is now established between the United States and the Crow tribe should not be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by the party injured to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or other person appointed by the President. And it shall be the. duty of said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he or they may be punished agreeably to the laws of the United States: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to said tribe, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in like manner as if the injury had been done to a white man. And it is agreed that the chiefs of said Crow tribe shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolen or taken from any citizen or citizens of th‘e United States by any individual or individuals of said tribe; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the agents or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of said tribe a full indemnification for any horses or other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property so stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the said tribe engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or of the agents, to deliver up any white man resident among them. ART. 6. And the chiefs and warriors as aforesaid promise and engage that their tribe will never, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation, tribe, or band of Indians, not in amity with the United States, with guns, ammunition, or other implements of war. Done at the Mandan village, this fourth day of August, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States the fiftieth. In testimony whereof, the commissioners, Henry Atkinson and Benjamin O’Fallon, and the chiefs and warriors of the Crow tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. HENRY ATKINSON, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army. BENJ. O’FALLON, U. S. Agent Indian Affairs. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Crow tribe.] X	TREATY WITH THE OTTOE AND MISSOURI TRIBE. ' For the purpose of perpetuating the friendship which has heretofore existed, as also to remove all future cause of discussion or dissension, as it respects trade and friendship, between the United States and their citizens and the Ottoe and Missouri tribe of Indians, the President of the United States of America, by Brigadier General Henry . Atkinson, of the United States army, and Major Benjamin O’Fallon, Indian agent, with full powers and authority specially appointed and commissioned for that purpose, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the said Ottoe and Missouri tribe of Indians, on behalf of their tribe, of the other part, have made and entered into the following articles and conditions, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding on both parties, to wit: ARTICLE 1. It is admitted by the Ottoe and Missouri tribe of Indians that they reside within the territorial limits of the United States, acknowledge their supremacy, and claim their protection. The said tribe also admit the right of the United States to regulate all trade and intercourse with them. ART. 2. The United States agree to receive the Ottoe and Missouri tribe of Indians into their friendship and under their protection, and to extend to them, from time to time, such benefits and acts of kindness as mav be convenient, and seem just and proper to the President of the United States. ART. 3. All trade and intercourse with the Ottoe and Missouri tribe shall be transacted at such place or places as may be designated and pointed out by the President of the United States, through his agents; and none but American citizens, duly authorized by the United States, shall be admitted to trade or bold intercourse with said tribe of Indians. ART. 4. That the Ottoe and Missouri tribe may be accommodated with such articles of merchandise, tec. as their necessities may demand, the United States agree to admit and license traders to hold intercourse with said tribe, under mild and equitable regulations: in consideration of which, the said Ottoe and Missouri tribe bind themselves tn extend protection to the persons and the property of the traders, and the persons legally employed under them, whilst they remain within the limits of their particular district of country. And the said Ottoe and Missouri tribe further agree, that, if any foreigner, or other person not legally authorized by the United States, shall come into their district of country, for the purposes of trade, or other views, they will apprehend such person or persons, and deliver him or them to some United States superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or to the commandant of the nearest military post, to be dealt with according to law. And they further agree to give safe-conduct to all persons who may be legally authorized by the United States to pass through their country; and to protect, in their persons and property, all agents or other persons sent by the United States to reside temporarily among them; nor will they, whilst on their distant excursions, molest or interrupt any American citizen or citizens who may be passing from the United States to New Mexico, or returning from thence to the United States. ART. 5. That the friendship which is now established between the United States and the Ottoe and Missouri tribe shall not be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by the party injured to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or other person appointed by the President. And it shall be the dutv of the said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he or they may be punished agreeably to the laws of the United States: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to said tribe, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in like manner as if the injury had been done to a white man. And it is agreed that the chiefs of said Ottoe and Missouri tribe shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolen or taken from any citizen or citizens of the United States by any individual nr individuals of said tribe; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the agents or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of said tribe a full indemnification for any horses or other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the. said Ottoe and Missouri tribe engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or of the agents, to deliver up any white man resident among them. ART. 6. And the chiefs and warriors as aforesaid promise and engage that their tribe will never, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation, tribe, or band of Indians, not in amity with the United States, with guns, ammunition, or other implements of war. Done at Fort Atkinson, Council Bluffs, this twenty-sixth day of September, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States the fiftieth. In testimony whereof, the said commissioners, Henry Atkinson and Benjamin O’Fallon, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Ottoe and Missouri tribe, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. HENRY ATKINSON, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army. BENJ. O’FALLON, U. S. Agent Indian Affairs. 1 [Signed, also, by the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Ottoe and Missouri tribe.] TREATY WITH THE PAWNEE TRIBE.	f'For the purpose of perpetuating the friendship which has heretofore existed, as also to remove all future cause of discussion or dissension, as it respects trade and friendship, between the United States and their citizens and the Pawnee tribe of Indians, the President of the United States of America, by Brigadier General Henry Atkinson, of the United States army, and Major Benjamin O’Fallon, Indian agent, with full powersand authority specially appointed and commissioned for that purpose, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs, headmen, and warriors of said Pawnee tribe of Indians, on behalf of their tribe, of the other part, have made and entered into the following articles and conditions, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent, of the Senate, shall be binding on both parties, to wit: ARTICLE 1. It is admitted by the Pawnee tribe of Indians that they reside within the territorial limits of the United States, acknowledge their supremacy, and claim their protection. The said tribe also admit the right of the United States to regulate all trade and intercourse with them. ART. 2. The United States agree to receive the Pawnee tribe of Indians into their friendship and under their protection, and to extend to them, from time to time, such benefits and acts of kindness as may be convenient, and seem just and proper to the President of the United States. ART. 3.'All trade and intercourse with the Pawnee tribe shall be transacted at such place or places as maybe designated and pointed out by the President of the United States, through his agents; and none but American citizens, duly authorized hy the United States, shall be admitted to trade or hold intercourse with said tribe of Indians. ART. 4. That the Pawnee tribe may be accommodated with such articles of merchandise, &c. as their necessities may demand, the United States agree to admit and license, traders to hold intercourse with said tribe, under mild and equitable, regulations: in consideration of which, the said Pawnee tribe bind themselves to extend protection to the persons and the property of the traders, and the persons legally employed under them, whilst they remain within the limits of their particular district of country. And the said Pawnee tribe’further agree, that, if any foreigner, or other person not legally authorized by the United States, shall come into their district of country for the purposes of trade, or other views, they will apprehend such person or persons, and deliver him or them to some United States superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or to the commandant of the nearest military post, to be dealt with according to law. And they further agree to give safe-conduct to all persons who may be legallj' authorized by the United States to pass through their country, and to protect, in their persons and property, all agents or other persons sent by the United States to reside temporarily among them; nor will they, whilst on their distant excursions, molest or interrupt any American citizen or citizens who may be passing from the United States to New Mexico, or returning from thence to the United States. ART. 5. That the friendship which is now established between the United States and the Pawnee tribe shall not be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by the party injured to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or other person appointed by the President. And it shall be the duty of said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he or they may be punished agreeably to the laws of the United States: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to said tribe, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in like manner as if the injury had been done tp'a white man. And it is agreed that the chiefs of the said Pawnee tribe shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolen or taken from any citizen or citizens of the United States by any individual or individuals of said tribe; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the agents, or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of said tribe a full indemnification for any horses or other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property so stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the said Pawnee tribe engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or of the agents, to deliver up any white man resident among them. ART. 6. And the chiefs and warriors as aforesaid promise and engage that their tribe will never, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation, tribe, or band of Indians, not in amity with the United States, with guns, ammunition, or other implements of war. Done at Fort Atkinson, Council Bluffs, this thirtieth day of September, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States the fiftieth. In testimony whereof, the said commissioners, Henry Atkinson and Benjamin O’Fallon, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Pawnee tribe, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. H. ATKINSON, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army. BENJ. O’FALLON, U. S. Agent Indian Affairs. [Signed, also, by the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Pawnee tribe.] TREATY WITH THE MAHAS. For the purpose of perpetuating the friendship which has heretofore existed, as also to remove all future cause of discussion or dissension, as it respects trade and friendship, between the United States and their citizens and the Maha tribe of Indians, the President of the United States of America, by Brigadier General Henry Atkinson, of the United States army, and Major Benjamin O’Fallon, Indian agent, with full powers and authority specially appointed and commissioned for that purpose, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the said Maha tribe of Indians, on behalf of their tribe, of the other part, have made and entered into thp following articles and conditions, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding on both parties, to wit: ARTTCLE 1. It is admitted by the Maha tribe of Indians that they reside within the territorial limits of the United States, acknowledge their supremacy, and claim their protection. The said tribe also admit the right of the United States to regulate all trade and intercourse with them. ART. 2. The United States agree to receive the Maha tribe of Indians into their friendship, and under their protection, and to extend to them, from time to time, such benefits and acts of kindness as may be convenient, and • seem just and proper to the President of the United States. ART. 3. All trade and intercourse with the Maha tribe shall be transacted at such place or places as may be designated and pointed out by the President of the United States, through his agents; and none but American citizens, duly authorized by the United States, shall be admitted to trade or hold intercourse with said tribe of Indians. ART. 4. That the Maha tribe may be accommodated with such articles of merchandise, &c. as their necessities may demand, the United States agree to admit and license traders to hold intercourse with said tribe, under mild and equitable regulations: in consideration of which, the Maha tribe bind themselves to extend protection to the persons and the property of the traders, and the persons legally employed under them, whilst they remain within the limits of their particular district of country. And the said Maha tribe further agree, that, if any foreigner, or other person not legally authorized by the United States, shall come into their district of country for the purposes of trade, or other views, they will apprehend such person or persons, and deliver him or them to some United States superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or to the commandant of the nearest military post, to be dealt with according to law. And they further agree to give safe-conduct to all persons who may be legally authorized by the United States to pass through their country, and to protect, in their persons and property, all agents or other persons sent by the United States to reside" temporarily among them; nor will they, whilst on their distant excursions, molest or interrupt any American citizen or citizens who may be passing from the United States to New Mexico, or returning from thence to the United States. ART. 5. That the friendship which is now established between the United States and the Maha tribe should not be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by the party injured to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs, or other person appointed by the President. And it shall be the duty of said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he or they may be punished agreeably to the laws nf the United States: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to said tribe, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in like manner as if the injury had been done to a white man. And it is agreed that the chiefs of said Maha tribe shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolen or taken from any citizen , or citizens of the United States by any individual or individuals of said tribe; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the agents or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of said tribe a full indemnification for any horses or other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the said Maha tribe engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or of the agents, to deliver up any white man resident among them. ART. 6. And the chiefs and warriors as aforesaid promise and engage that their tribe will never, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation, tribe, or band of Indians, not in amity with the United States, with guns, ammunition, or other implements of war. Done at Fort Atkinson, Council Bluffs, this sixth day of October, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States the fiftieth. In testimony whereof, the said commissioners, Henry Atkinson and Benjamin O’Fallon, and »he chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Maha tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. H. ATKINSON, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army. BENJ. O’FALLON, U. S. Agent Indian Affairs. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Maha tribe.] SIR:	ST. LOUIS, November 7, 1825. The undersigned, appointed to hold treaties of trade and friendship with the Indian tribes “ beyond the Mississippi,” have the honor to report to you their proceedings in the execution of that duty, with such remarks as appear to them necessary to give a just view of the locality, numbers, character, and habits of the respective bands with whom they concluded treaties. On the 1st of March, the commissioners applied themselves, at this place, in obtaining and transmitting the various articles for presents and supplies necessary to their operations. On the 17th, these preparations were completed and expedited; and a few days'after, the commissioners took their departure for Council Bluffs, where they arrived on the 19th April; and on the 13th May, a boat with the last of their supplies reached the same point. On the 16th May, the transport boats being in readiness, the full commission, with a military escort of four hundred and seventy-six men, commenced their ascent of the Missouri, from Fort Atkinson, Council Bluffs, and arrived at the Poncar village, at the mouth of White Paint creek, a distance of three hundred miles, on the 8th June; and on the succeeding day a council was held and a treaty concluded with the Poncar tribe of Indians. On the 10th June, the commission and escort left the Poncar village, and arrived at Fort Lookout, a position occupied by the American Fur Company, twenty miles below the Grand Bend, on the right bank of the river, on the 17th. On the 21st, the Teetons, Yanctons, and Yanctonies, three distinct bands of the Sioux nation, having arrived, a council was opened; and on the 22d a treaty was concluded with them. On the 23d June, the commission and escort left Fort Lookout, and arrived at the mouth of Teeton river on the 30th, where there is an establishment of the American Fur Company on the right bank of the river. Here the commission remained until the 5th July for the Chayennes and Siounes to come in, who were at a distance in the plains.' They having arrived, a council was opened on the 6th with the Ogallala and Sioune bands of Sioux, and with the Chayennes, and treaties with each of them concluded. On the 7th July, the commission and escort left Teeton river, and arrived at the mouth of Hidden creek on the 11th, where the Fire Hearts band of Siounes were met; and on the 12th they came into council, and signed the treaty made with the other part of that band on the 6th. On the same day, the commission and escort left Hidden creek, and arrived at the Arickara villages on the 15th. . On the 16th, the commission here counselled with, and concluded a treaty with the Hunkapas, a band of the Sioux nation. On the 18th, the Arickaras came into council, with whom a treaty was concluded. On the same day the commission and escort recommenced their ascent of the river, and reached the lower Mandan village on the 26th July; and on the 30th, a council was held and treaties concluded with the Mandans and Minatares, or Grus Ventres. On the 3d August, the Crow tribe came in; and on the 4th, they were met in council, and a treaty concluded with them. On the 6th August, the commission and escort left the Mandans for the mouth of the Yellow Stone, (with a view, if possible, of falling in with the Assinaboins and Blackfeet Indians,) and reached that point on the 17th August, where they remained till the 19th, when General Ashley arrived from across the Rocky Mountains, by the way of the head waters of the Yellow Stone, which he descended in skin canoes. Learning from him that the Blackfeet, from the best information he could get, were above the falls of the Missouri, and upon the heads of its branches in the mountains, the commission gave up all hope of seeing them at all; but, there being a possibility of yet finding the Assinaboins, the commission, with an escort of five transports and three hundred and fifty men, left the Yellow Stone on the morning of the 20th August, and proceeded up the Missouri one hundred and twenty miles further; but, finding no signs of Indians which were made during the present season, it was thought advisable to progress no further, as there was scarcely any probability of meeting with the Assinaboins by going higher up the river, and also fur the reason that the water was becoming low, and the heavy class of our transports rendered it doubtful whether it would be practicable to return, if we continued to ascend many days longer; therefore, a retrograde movement was made on the 24th, and on the 26th we fell back to the Yellow Stone. On the 27th of August, General Ashley and his party of twenty-five men, with one hundred packs of beaver, being taken on board of the transports, the commission and escort recommenced their descent of the river, and reached the Mandans on the 31st August; from whence the}’ proceeded on the 1st September to descend the river, touching at the Arickara villages on the 4th, Fort Lookout on the 9th, Poncar village on the 12th, and arrived at Council Bluffs on the 19th September; and it is worthy of remark, that, during the whole expedition, although the annual rise of the Missouri was encountered, not a boat or man was lost, nor did any accident occur of any sort of consequence.	1 On getting back to Council Bluffs, persons were sent off to bring in the Ottoes, Pawnees, and Mahas; and on the 20th of September, the Ottoes were met in council at Fort Atkinson, and a treaty concluded with them. On the 30th September a treaty was made with the three bands of Pawnees; and, on the 6th October, the Mahas were counselled and treated with. • All which treaties are herewith transmitted. On the 7th October, the commission embarked in the barge Antelope, and arrived at this place on the 20th. The undersigned, believing that it would be acceptable to you to receive from them such information as they have been able to collect in relation to the various tribes they have treated with, proceed to give it, commencing with those residing lowest down the Missouri. The Ottoes reside on the Platte, twenty-five miles south of the Missouri, in a dirt village; consist of about one thousand four hundred souls, of whom two hundred and seventy-five are warriors; cultivate corn, pumpkins, squashes, &c. They leave their village twice a year, and go in pursuit of game—sometimes to the south, to kill buffalo; but most commonly, of latter years, hunt on the Missouri, below the. Platte, for elk, deer, &c., as the Pawnees make objections to their killing buffalo on their lands. They also trap for beaver on the streams north of the Missouri, and succeed in making a few packs of the fur of that animal yearly. They are now at peace with all the tribes around them. Their nearest enemies are the Sioux. They are decidedly friendly to the whites, i The Grand Pawnees and Pawnee Loups reside on the Platte, one hundred and thirty miles south of the Missouri; and the Pawnee Republics on the Republican fork of the Kanzas river, one hundred and fifty miles south of the Missouri. These bands also live in dirt villages. The Grand Pawnees consist of,about five thousand five hundred souls, of which one thousand one hundred are warriors; the Pawnee Loups are estimated at three thousand five hundred souls, of which seven hundred are warriors; and the Pawnee Republics at one thousand two hundred and fifty souls, of which two hundred and fifty are warriors. These bands are well armed with fusees, abundantly supplied with mules and horses, and hold a prominent stand among their neighbors as a warlike and brave nation. They are at peace with the surrounding tribes; enemies to the Sioux, Osages, and other distant tribes. They cultivate corn, pumpkins, squashes, &c. They leave their villages in the spring and fall, and go far into the plains to the south, west, and northwest, in pursuit of buffalo, and succeed in supplying themselves with an abundance of the flesh of that animal for food, and their skins for robes—the principal article of their comfort in dress, and almost the only article they obtain for traffic with the traders. They deport themselves in a friendly manner towards the whites; a conduct, it is believed, they will continue to observe. The Mahas also live in a dirt village, situated on the Horn, a branch of the Platte, eighty miles southwest from Council Bluffs. They are estimated at two thousand seven hundred and fifty souls, of which five hundred and fifty are warriors; and are partially supplied-with fusees; possess horses and mules sufficient for their own purposes; cultivate corn, pumpkins, squashes, melons, &c. In the spring and fall, they leave their village for the chase, and go northwest for buffalo, and occasionally on the south of the Missouri for elk, deer, tec. They dress in buffalo robes, generally, but also use blankets and strouds, which they get in exchange from the traders for buffalo robes and deer skins: they take but little beaver. They are very friendly to the whites, and are pacific in their general character; are at peace with their immediate neighbors, but at war with the Sioux. The Poncars are a small tribe of not more than nine hundred or one thousand souls, of which one hundred and eighty are warriors. They also live in a dirt village, at the mouth of White Paint creek, on the Missouri, three hundred miles (by the river) above Council Bluffs; are pretty well armed with fusees, and well supplied with horses and mules. Like the tribes before mentioned, they cultivate corn, pumpkins, &c., and leave their villages in the spring and fall for the chase. They hunt in the neighboring country, to the west and northwest, for buffalo, of which they get an abundant supply both of flesh for food, and robes for clothing and traffic. They are a branch of the Mahas, speak the same language, and, like them, are very friendly to the whites. They are brave and warlike, • I and have for many years sustained themselves in their present position against the Sioux, their nearest neighbors to the north, and, till lately, their bitter enemies. They are now at peace with the Yanetons and all the tribes above named. The Yanetons are a band of the Sioux, and rove in the plains north of the Missouri, from near the Great Bend, down as far as the Sioux river. They do not cultivate, but live by the chase alone, subsisting principally on buffalo. They cover themselves with leather tents or lodges, which they move about from place to place, as the buffalo may chance to range. They are pretty well supplied with fusees, and with horses and a few mules. They are estimated at three thousand souls, of which six hundred are warriors. They are comfortably habited in frocks of shirts of dressed skins, and leggins, reaching to the waist, of the same; they use, besides, robes of buffalo skins, which are frequently beautifully wrought with porcupine quills, or painted tastefully. They take some beaver, but buffalo robes are their chief article of trade; are friendly to the whites, but make war upon almost all other tribes except those of their own nation. Their trading ground is on the river Jacques. The Yanctonies are alsu a roving band of the Sioux, and range in the intermediate country between the Missouri and the river St. Peter’s, embracing the head waters of the river Jacques. They also hunt the buffalo, whose flesh is their principal means of subsistence, and their skins, with those of the elk and deer, their chief raiment. They live in leather lodges, which they move at pleasure; are well armed with fusees, and supplied with horses and a few mules. They are estimated at four thousand souls, of which eight hundred are warriors; friendly to the whites, and enemies to all Indians but the tribe's of their own nation. Their trading ground is also on the river Jacques. The Teetons are a band of the Sioux, who rove in a district of country south of the Grand Bend, and upon the waters of White river, and as far back as the Black Hills; their general rendezvous is near Fort Lookout. They depe'nd on the chase alone for subsistence, and, like the Yanetons and Yanctonies, pursue the buffalo for meat and raiment, and have garments of similar construction; live in leather lodges; principally armed with fusees, but use the bow and quiver, and are well supplied with horses and some mules. They are estimated at three thousand souls, of whish six hundred are warriors. They take but little beaver, and their principal traffic is in buffalo robes. They are friendly to the whites, and, like the two bands above mentioned, look upon all Indians who do not speak their own language as enemies, except the Chayennes, with whom they are at peace. The Ogallalas are a band of the Sioux, inhabiting a district of country on the Teeton river, stretching back from the Missouri to the Black Hills. Their habits and pursuits, and means of subsistence, and manner of apparel, are similar to those of the Sioux already mentioned; are armed after the same manner; have horses and mules in abundance, and are warlike in character. They are friendly to the whites, and at peace with the Chayennes, but enemies to all other tribes but those of their own nation. They are estimated at one thousand five hundred souls, of which three hundred are warriors. Their general rendezvous is at the mouth of Teeton river, where there is a trading establishment for their accommodation. They trade buffalo robes principally, taking but'little beaver. The Siounes are also Sioux, and are commonly separated into two bands. They inhabit the country on both sides of the Missouri, from the Teeton river as high up as some fifty miles above Chayenne river, but range furthest from the Missouri on the north side. Their habits, pursuits, means of subsistence, mode of apparel, &c., are similar to those of the Sioux bands already noticed. Besides the bow and quiver, they are well armed with fusees, and are well supplied with horses and some mules. They are estimated at four thousand souls, of which eight hundred are warriors; are friendly to the whites, and at peace with the Chayennes, Arickaras, and Mandans. Their principal rendezvous is at or near the mouth of the Chayenne river, where their trading ground is pointed out. They traffic principally in robes, taking but little beaver. The Chayennes are a tribe of Indians driven by the Sioux some years since from the Red river country across the Missouri, and now inhabit the country on the Chayenne river, from near its mouth back to the Black Hills. Their habits, pursuits, and means of subsistence, and manner of dress, are similar to those of the Sioux. Like them, they live in leather lodges, and rove at pleasure, according to the direction in which buffalo are to be found; use the bow and quiver, but are very well armed with fusees, and have an abundance of horses and mules. They are very friendly to the whites, and at peace with the Ogallalas, Siounes, and Arickaras. They are estimated at three thousand souls, of which from five hundred and fifty to six hundred are warriors. Their principal rendezvous is towards the Black Hills, and their trading ground at the mouth of Cherry river, a branch of the Chayenne, forty miles above its mouth. They have had but little intercourse, heretofore, with traders. Their articles of traffic are robes and some beaver. The Hunkapas are a band of the Sioux that rove in the intermediate country between the Missouri and the head waters of the St. Peter’s river, and are similar in their habits and pursuits, in every respect, to the bands of Sioux already mentioned; armed with bows and quivers and fusees, and supplied with horses. They are estimated at one thousand five hundred souls, of which three hundred are warriors. They are friendly to the whites, and are at peace with the Arickaras and Mandans. Their trading ground is also on the river Jacques, and their articles of traffic are buffalo robes'and a few other skins of fur. The Arickaras, a branch of the Pawnee nation, reside at their old dirt villages, occupied by them for the last thirty years. They cultivate corn and squashes, and a peculiar sort of indigenous tobacco, with a narrow small leaf. They hunt in the surrounding country, on the south of the'Missouri, for buffalo, which are generally found in ten or twenty miles from their villages. On the flesh of this animal, and their abundant crops of corn and vegetables, they live in great plenty. They dress like the Sioux, and have leather lodges, which they use in the winter season, when they leave their dirt lodges, to occupy some convenient point for fuel, and pasturage or browsing for their horses, with which animal they are well supplied. They are armed after the manner of the Sioux, with bow and quiver and fusees; are estimated at 2,500 souls, of which 500 are warriors. Their late outrages committed on the whites are well known to you; and it should be remarked, that they have for many years before been treacherous and insolent to strangers. It is believed, however, that the offensive operations against them by our troops, conducted by Colonel Leavenworth, have brought them to a just sense of their misconduct, and that they feel humbled and chastened. This, with our late visit to them, on which occasiun a good understanding has been established, and all former difficulties removed, we have no doubt will operate on them to remain firmly attached to the Americans. Traders are located at their villages, and they traffic in robes and beaver. The Mandans and Minatares, who are identified as one tribe, reside in their old dirt villages, (five in number,) near the mouth of Knife river. They cultivate corn and squashes; and, like the Arickaras, kill buffalo in their immediate neighborhood, on the south side of the Missouri. They do not cross to the north side of the river to hunt, being in continual fear of the Assinaboins. They live in great ease and plenty, as the buffalo range most of the year near them; and they raise large quantities of corn and vegetables; also, the indigenous tobacco. They are apparelled like the Sioux, and are armed after the same manner; their numbers are estimated at 3,000 souls, of which 500 are warriors. Formerly they were very friendly to the whites, but for some few years past their young men have occasionally robbed some trading parties of the whites, and have committed some murders. These acts, however, it is believed, have never been sanctioned by the nation. At present, they are ver}’ friendly disposed towards Americans, and every part of their conduct justifies a belief that they will continue so. Trading-houses are established among them, and they barter robes and some beaver. They are at peace with the Arickaras, Crows, and the Hunkapas and Sioune bands of Sioux. The Crows are a roving tribe of Indians, inhabiting an extensive, district of country, stretching from the Black Hills, west, to the Rocky Mountains, embracing the Big Horn, and other southern branches of the Yellow Stone river. They, like the tribes last mentioned, have garments of dressed skins, and robes of dressed buffalo skins. They are very well armed with fusees, and use the bow and quiver: have a great number of horses, and sopie mules. They live in leather lodges, and pursue the buffalo as a principal means of subsistence. They were, until within a year or two, very friendly to the whites; but, since then, have appeared restless and dissatisfied, and have committed some robberies. It is hoped that they will in future conduct themselves in a peaceable manner. It is understood that they are not at peace with any tribes but the Mandans and Minatares, and the Kioways and Arrepa- has, who reside on the head waters of the Arkansas and Platte. The mouth of the Little Horn, a branch of the Big Horn, is pointed out as their trading ground.	- The Blackfeet Indians (whom, as before mentioned, we did not see,) inhabit, it is believed, all the district of country from the falls of the Missouri, back into the Rocky Mountains, and arnund, northwardly, to the head of Maria’s river. They carry their war excursions to the south, as far as the Big Horn. The intermediate country between the upper part of the Yellow Stone and the three forks of the Missouri is considered as neutral ground; both the Crows and themselves being afraid to visit it, only with war parties, owing to the deadly hostility existing between them. The Blackfeet hunting ground is, therefore, confined to the country embracing the three forks of the Missouri, west into the mountains; and below, northeastwardly, to the head of Maria’s river; and, more northwardly, on the head waters of the Kaskatchewine, beyond our boundary. It js understood, of latter years they rarely come below the falls of Missouri. This tribe is broken into several bands, and wander promiscuously over the country above described. They often carry their wars across the mountains, against the Flatheads and Snakes, as well as to the east, upon the Assinaboins, and to the south, against the Crows. It is a numerous tribe, estimated (by those who have visited their neighbors lately) at 5,000 warriors. •	. In consequence 6f the hostile attitude they maintain towards both Indians and Americans, it will be a difficult matter to communicate with them. It is thought, however, that a commission, with a protecting military escort, might ascend to the falls of Missouri in one season, and, by remaining there during the winter, a friendly intercourse might be opene.d with them. British traders sometimes go among them, and trade, we understand, with safety; but, notwithstanding, they rob and kill those traders whenever they find them beyond the limits of their own country, or when they find them attempting to pass through OH a visit to any other tribe. The Blackfeet, also, we understand, depend on the chase alone for subsistence; live in leather lodges, and dress in skins and robes. They hold the best country for beaver east of the mountains; it being, as yet, but little trapped in, either by themselves or the British traders. The Assinaboins are a tribe of Sioux, and are broken into several bands; inhabit the country from the head of Milk river, east, on both sides of the parallel of latitude 49, back towards Lake Traverse. They frequently visit the Missouri, and push war parties across against the Mandans and Minatares. Their numbers are estimated at 2,000 warriors. They rove like the other bands of Sioux, and depend on the chase for subsistence and raiment; use the bow and quiver, and are well armed with fusees; and their long intercourse with tbe Hudson Bay traders has rendered them formidable in war. Until within a few years, they have been employed by those traders to procure buffalo for their subsistence; latterly, those traders have been supplied in meat by the half-breed Cree Indians, and the Assinaboins are left without the means of trade, as the northwest traders do not barter for buffalo robes, they being too bulky an article to bear transportation by the route they carry their furs and light peltries; and those Indians take but little beaver: hence exists a great desire on their part to trade with the Americans on the Missouri; and it is believed such a trade will shortly be opened, as the sub-agent stationed at the Mandans has been instructed by the principal agent to bring about a reconciliation between them and the Mandans, for which purpose they had been sent for, and were expected at the Mandans by the middle of September. They are friendly to the Americans; and if the proposed reconciliation takes place, a valuable trade to our own countrymen will no doubt ensue.	... Notwithstanding the many rumors that the northwest traders were holding intercourse and exercising an injurious influence over the Indians on the Missouri, no such fact appears to exist; nor is it believed that any of their traders have been across to the Missouri, below Milk river, for several years. Mr. McKenzie (then a British trader) visited the Mandans in 1820. If the British have traded and trapped within our limits east of the Rocky Mountains latterly, it has been above the falls of Missouri, among the Blackfeet Indians; which we understand has been, and probably is now, the ease. They can have no possible interest in coming to the Missouri, lower than Milk river, to trade, as the Indians below that point have little or nothing to barter but buffalo robes—an article not trafficked in by them, for the reasons above mentioned. It is moreover believed (and the fact is not doubted) that none of the Indians residing on the Missouri ever visit the northwest establishments on Red river. We have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servants,	- H. ATKINSON, Brigadier General United States Army. BENJ. O’FALLON, A. L. LANGHAM, Secretary.	United States Agent Indian Affairs. To the Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, January 10, 1826. I transmit to the Senate a treaty, signed at Prairie du Chien, in the Territory of Michigan, on the. 19th of August, 1825, by William Clark and Lewis Cass, commissioners on the part of the United States,'and certain chiefs and warriors of the Sioux, Chippewa, Sac, Fox, Winnebago, Menominee, Ottawa, Pattawatamie, and loway tribes of Indians, on the part of said tribes; and I request the advice of the Senate with regard to its ratification. JOHN QUINCY ADAIRS. The United States of America have seen, with much regret, that wars have, fur many years, been carried on between the Sioux and the Chippewas, and, more recently, between the confederated tribes of Sacs and Foxes and , the Sioux, and also between the loways and Sioux; which, if not terminated, may extend to the other tribes, and involve the Indians upon the Missouri, the Mississippi, and the lakes, in general hostilities: In order, therefore, to promote peace among these tribes, and to establish boundaries among them and the other tribes who live in their vicinity, and thereby to remove all causes of future difficulty, the United States have invited the Chippewa, Sac and Fox, Menominee, loway, Sioux, Winnebago, and a portion of the Ottawa, Chippewa, and Pattawatamie tribes of Indians, living upon the Illinois, to assemble together, and, in a spirit of mutual conciliation, to accomplish these objects; and, to aid therein, have appoiraed William Clark and Lewis Cass commissioners on their part, who have met the chiefs, warriors, and representatives of the said tribes, and portion of tribes, at Prairie du Chien, in the Territory of Michigan; and, after full deliberation, the said tribes and portion of tribeshave agreed with the United States, and with one another, upon the following articles:	• ARTICLE 1. There shall be a firm and perpetual peace, between the Sioux and Chippewas; between the Sioux and the confederated tribes of Sacs and Foxes; and between the loways and the Sioux.	> ART. 2. It is agreed between the confederated tribes of the Sacs and Foxes and the Sioux, /hat the line between their respective countries shall be as follows: Commencing at the mouth of the upper loway river, on the west bank of the Mississippi, and ascending the said loway river to its left fork; thence, up that fork, to its source; thence, crossing the fork of Red Cedar river, in a direct line, to the second or upper fork of the Des Moines river; and thence, in a direct line, to the lower fork of the Calumet river, and down that river to its juncture with the Missouri river. But the Yaueton band of the Sioux tribe, being principally interested in the establishment of the line from the forks of the Des Moines to the Missouri, and not being sufficiently represented to render the definitive establishment of that line proper, it is expressly declared, that the line from the forks of the Des Moines to the forks of the Calumet river, and down that river to the Missouri, is not to be considered as settled until the assent of the Yancton band shall be given thereto. And, if the said band should refuse their assent, the arrangement of that portion of the boundary line shall be void; and the rights of the parties to the country hounded thereby shall be the same as if no provision had been made for the extension of the line west of the forks of the Des Moines. And the Sacs and Foxes relinquish to the tribes interested therein all their claim to land on the east side of the Mississippi river. ART. 3. The loways accede to the arrangement between the Sacs and Foxes and the Sioux; but it is agreed between the loways and the confederated tribes of the Sacs and Foxes, that the loways have a just claim to a portion of the country between the boundary line described in the next preceding article, and the Missouri and Mississippi; and that the said loways and Sacs and Foxes shall peaceably occupy the same until some satisfactory arrangement can be made between them for a division of their respective claims to country. ART. 4. The Ottoesnot beingrepresentedat this council, and the commissioners for the United States being anxious that justice should be done to all parties, and having reason to believe that the Ottoes have a just claim to a portion of the country upon the Missouri, east and south of the boundary line dividing the Sacs and Foxes and the loways from the Sioux, it is agreed between the parties interested therein and the United States, that the claim of the Ottoes shall not be affected by any thing herein contained, but the same shall remain as valid as if this treaty had not been formed. ART. 5. It is agreed between the Sioux and the Chippewas that the line dividing their respective .countries shall commence at the Chippewa river, half a day’s march below the falls; and from thence it shall run to Red Cedar river, immediately below the falls; from thence to the St. Croix river, which it strikes at a place called the Standing Cedar, about a day’s paddle in a canoe above the lake at the mouth of that river; thence, passing between two lakes, called by the Chippewas “ Green Lakes,” and by the Sioux “ the lakes they bury the eagles in;” and from thence to the Standing Cedar that “the Sioux split;” thence to Rum river, crossing it at the mouth of a small creek, called Choaking creek, a long day’s march from the Mississippi; thence to a point of woods that projects into the prairie, half a day’s march from the Mississippi; thence, in a straight line, to the mouth of the first river which enters the Mississippi on its west side, above the mouth of Sac river; thence, ascending the said river, (above the mouth of Sac river,) to a small lake at its source; thence, in a direct line, to a lake at the head of Prairie river, which is supposed to enter the Crow Wing river on its south side; thence to Otter Tail lake portage; thence to said Otter Tail lake, and down, through the middle thereof, to its outlet; thence, in a direct line, so as to strike Buffalo river half-way from its source to its mouth, and down the said river to Red river; thence, descending Red river, to the mouth of Outard or Goose creek. The eastern boundary of the Sioux commences opposite the mouth of loway river, on the Mississippi; runs back two or three miles to the bluffs; follows the bluffs, crossing Bad Axe river, to the mouth of Black river; and from Black river to half a day’s march below the falls of the Chippewa river.	'ART. 6. It is agreed between the Chippewas and Winnebagocs, so far as they are mutually interested therein, that the southern boundary line of the Chippewa country shall commence on the Chippewa river aforesaid, half a day’s march below the falls of that river; and run thence to the source of Clear Water river, a branch of the Chippewa river; thence, south, to Black river; thence to a point where the woods project into the meadows; and thence to the Plover portage of the Ouisconsin. ART. 7. It is agreed between the Winnebagocs and the Sioux, Sacs and Foxes, Chippewas and Ottawas, Chippewas and Pattawatamics of the Illinois, that the Winnebago country shall be bounded as follows: southeasterly, by Rock river, from its source near the Winnebago lake, to the Winnebago village, about forty miles above its mouth; westerly, by the east line of the tract lying upon the Mississippi, herein secured to the Ottawa, Chippewa, and Pat- tawatamie Indians of the Illinois; and also by the high bluff described in the Sioux boundary, and running north to Black river. From this point, the Winnebagoes claim up Black river to a point due west from the source of the left fork of the Ouisconsin; thence to the source of the said fork, and down the same to the Ouisconsin; thence, down the Ouisconsin, to the portage, and across the portage to Fox river; thence, down Fox river, to the Winnebago lake and to the Grand Kankanlin, including, in their claim, the whole of Winnebago lake; but, for the causes stated in the next article, this line from Black river must, for the present, be left indeterminate. ART. 8. The representatives of the Menominees, not being sufficiently acquainted with their proper boundaries to settle the same definitively, and some uncertainty existing in consequence of the cession made by that tribe upon Fox river and Green Bay to the New York Indians, it is agreed between the said Menominee tribe and the Sioux, Chippewa, Winnebago, Ottawa, Chippewa, and Pattawatamie Indians of the Illinois, that the claim of the Menominees to any portion of the land within the boundaries allotted to either of the said tribes shall not be barred by any stipulation herein, but the same shall remain as valid as if this treaty had not been concluded. It is, however, understood that the general claim of the Menominees is bounded on the north by the Chippewa country, on the east by Green Bay and Lake Michigan, extending as far south as Millewaukee river, and on the west they claim to Black river. ART. 9. The country secured to the Ottawa, Chippewa, and Pattawatamie tribes of the Illinois, is bounded as follows: Beginning at the Winnebago village, on Rock river, forty miles from its mouth; and running thence, down the Rock river, to a line which runs from Lake Michigan to the Mississippi, and with that line to the Mississippi, opposite to Rock island; thence, up that river, to the United States reservation at the month of the Ouisconsin; thence, with the south and east lines of the said reservation, to the Ouisconsin; thence, southerly, passing the heads of the small streams emptying into the Mississippi, to the Rock river, at the Winnebago village. The Illinois Indians have also a just claim to a portion of the country bounded south by the Indian boundary line aforesaid, running, from the southern extreme of Lake Michigan, east by Lake Michigan, north by the Menominee country, and northwest by Rock river. This claim is recognised in the treaty concluded with the said Illinois tribes at St. Louis, on the twenty-fourth of August, one thousand eight hundred and sixteen; but, as the Millewaukee and Man- etoowalk bands are not represented at this council, it cannot be now definitively adjusted. ART. 10. All the tribes aforesaid acknowledge the general controlling power of the United States, and disclaim all dependance upon, and connexion with, any other Power. And the United States agree to and recognise the preceding boundaries, subject to the limitations and restrictions before provided. It being, however, well understood, that the reservations at Fever river, at the Ouisconsin, at St. Peter’s, and the ancient settlements at Prairie du Chien and Green Bay, and the land properly thereto belonging, and the reservations made upon the Mississippi for the use of the half-breeds, in the treaty concluded with the Sacs and Foxes on the twenty-fourth of Augnst, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-four, are not claimed by .either of the said tribes. ART. 11. The United States agree, whenever the President may think it necessary and proper, te convene such of the tribes, either separately or together, as are interested in the lines left unsettled herein, and to recommend to them an amicable and final adjustment of their respective claims, so that the work, now happily begun, may be consummated. It is agreed, however, that a council shall be held" with the Yancton band of the Sioux during the year one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, to explain to them the stipulations of this treaty, and to procure their assent thereto, should they be disposed to give it; and also with the Ottocs, to settle and adjust their title to any of the country claimed by the Sacs, Foxes, and loways. ART. 12. The Chippewa tribe being dispersed over a great extent of country, and the chiefs of that tribe having requested that such portion of them as may be thought proper by the Government of the United States may be assembled in the year one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six upon some part of Lake Superior, that the objects and advantages of this treaty may be fully explained to them, so that the stipulations thereof may be observed by the warriors, the commissioners of the United States assent thereto, and it is therefore agreed that a council shall accordingly be held for these purposes. ART. 13. It is understood by all the tribes, parties hereto, that no tribe shall hunt within the acknowledged limits of any other, without their assent; but it being the sole object of this arrangement to perpetuate a peace among them, and amicable relations being now restored, the chiefs of all the tribes have expressed a determination cheerfully to allow a reciprocal right of hunting on the lands of one another, permission being first asked and obtained, as before .provided for. ART. 14. Should any causes of difficulty hereafter unhappily arise between any of the tribes, parties hereunto, it is agreed that the other tribes shall interpose their good offices to remove such difficulties; and, also, that the Government of the United States may take such measures as they may deem proper to effect the same object. ART. 15. This treaty shall be obligatory on the tribes, parties hereto, from and after the date hereof; and on the United States, from and after its ratification by the Government thereof. Done, and signed, and sealed at Prairie du Chien, in the Territory of Michigan, this nineteenth day of August, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States the fiftieth. WM. CLARK, LEW. CASS. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Sionx, Winnebagoes, Menominees. Chippewas, Ottawas, Patta- watamies, Sacs, Foxes, and loways.]	4. 19th CONGRESS.]	
