NO. 205.	[1st SESSION. EXTINGUISHMENT OF INDIAN TITLE TO LANDS IN GEORGIA. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, APRIL 5, 1824. IN SENATE, December 18, 1823. The Committee on the state of the Republic, to whnm was referred the communication of his excellency the Governor, on the subject of the extinguishment of Indian claims to the lands within the territorial limits of Georgia, beg leave to report: That they have derived much gratification from the perusal of this interesting document. It presents to them an unequivocal manifestation of the disposition of the Executive to sustain the just rights of the State on the important subject of the extension of the jurisdictional limits, with a firmness which is tempered by discretion, and a zeal which is guided by intelligence; a disposition to which, in the unanimous opinion of this committee, every suggestion of duty, and every feeling of honorable pride, on the part of this Legislature, will be accordant and. responsive. The committee do not deem it necessary, in this report, to enter into a minute examination of the luminous exposition of the rights of this State which is contained in the communication of his excellency the Governor. Adopting it, as they do, unanimously, and in its whole extent, they believe they will best perform the duty which is assigned to them by recommending that an address be presented to the President of the United States, based on the principles and fortified by ihe arguments of this communication. They ask leave, accordingly, to report the following memorial and resolution: To the President of the United States of America: The memorial and remonstrance of the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Georgia, in General Assembly met. The Legislature of Georgia find themselves constrained once more to address the President of the United States on the subject of the extension of their territory by the extinguishment of the Indian title to the lands situated within the limits of the State.	1 If the reiteration of their remonstrances on this subject shall seem to the Chief Magistrate of the Union to be importunate, their justification will be found in the deep interest which is felt in it by their constituents; in the unanswerable justice of their claim; in the long interval which has passed since they were reasonably entitled to expect the accomplishment of an object of such vital importance to Georgia, and in the accumulated and accumulating obstacles which time is interposing to its ultimate fulfilment. In recurring to the articles of agreement and cession entered into between the commissioners of the United States and of Georgia, on the 24th day of April, 1802, these memorialists find a stipulation that the United States shall, as soon as may be, extinguish the Indian title to all the lands within the State of Georgia. This stipulation was not gratuitous on the part of the Government of the Union, but was in consideration of the surrender by the State of Georgia of a territory sufficiently valuable and extensive to constitute two independent and powerful mem bers of the federal compact. The motive to this surrender cannot be misunderstood. In consenting th'us to restrict her right of soil and her sovereignty, Georgia looked, with the confidence which she has always reposed in the plighted faith of the Union, to the prompt extinguishment of the Indian title to all the lands within her remaining limits, and the speedy settlement of her then, and still, vacant territory. Limiting her ultimate views of extensive empire, she had hoped, by such limitation, to escape from the helplessness of a protracted infancy, and, marching in quick time to the accomplishment of her destinies, to have seen her laws and her sovereignty eo-extensive with the limits of her territory within whieh she had consented to confine herself. Twenty-one years have passed away, and she is still destined to experience the disappointment of her hopes. She has witnessed, during this period, the extension of the Union, the multiplication of the members of the federal republic, by repeated acquisitions of territory, while she is still doomed to have a long line of frontier exposed to the predatory incursions of the savage, and the lives of her citizens who dwell there to his subtle and relentless vengeance. Such, sir, is her claim to relief. It seems to these memorialists that it is too obvious to require further exposition. Do the United States possess the power to afford it? That the State of Georgia is vested with the ultimate title to all the lands within her territorial limits; that the claim of the Indians is, consequently, restricted to a mere temporary usufructuary right, are propositions whieh, it is believed, can neither be doubted nor denied. The existing state of things must, therefore, have a termination. The time must come when the soil of Georgia shall no longer be imprinted with the footstep of the savage; when the inhabitants of her border shall no longer be liable to be awakened from their slumbers by the war-whoop of an approaching foe, nor to witness the destruction of their dwellings in the blaze which illumines his retreat; when her sovereignty shall be co-extensive with her territory, and the authority and the protection of her laws shall pervade every portion of her empire. Such a state of things must come. It must be produced, too, by the act, and at the expense, of the Government of the Union, in the fulfilment of her obligation to Georgia. Will delay facilitate its ultimate accomplishment? Will it lessen the expense to be incurred by the United States? Is it required by any rational consideration of humanity towards the Indian tribes, who now roam through the wilderness of our State? It seems to these memorialists that delay can only serve to multiply obstacles to the fulfilment of the engagements of the Union. From causes too obvious to require detail, every day diminishes the disposition of the savage to abandon his accustomed haunts, and consequently increases the price which he will demand for their surrender. No principle of humanity forbids the enforcement of the claim. The exhausted state of the game affords a scanty and precarious subsistence to the hunter, and a dispersed and wandering population are not in a condition to become the objects of the benefits of civilization. Their removal beyond the Mississippi would give to these sons of nature a wilderness congenial to their feelings and appropriate to their wants; while the region which they would relinquish would become the abode of civilization, and contribute to the happiness of thousands. These memorialists have seen with what facility the United States, “ blending justice with authority,” have been enabled to prescribe to the native tribes inhabiting the contiguous Territory of Florida the limits of their range; and they do not doubt that a similar exercise of a legitimate authority, equally tempered by justice, will suffice to obtain for Georgia all which she desires. They ask, therefore, from the Government of the Union, (certainly with the respect whieh they have always felt, and which they have omitted no proper occasion to manifest to the Government of their choice and of their confidence, but, at the same time, with the earnestness whieh is authorized by the justice of their claim, and demanded by the necessities of their constituents,) that a liberal appropriation may be made for the extinguishment of the Indian title to all the remaining lands within the limits of Georgia; and that commissioners may be appointed, with instructions, in every event, to effect this indispensable object by a proper representation to the Indian tribes of the just claims of Georgia, of the solemn obligations of the United States, and of the improvement in their own condition whieh will result from their acquiescence. Resolved, That a copy of the foregoing memorial and remonstrance be forwarded to the Senators and Representatives of the State of Georgia in the Congress of the United States, and that they be requested to use their exertions for the attainment of its objeet. IN SENATE, December 18, 1823. Agreed to, unanimously, THOMAS STOCKS, President. Attest:	W. Y. HANSELL, Secretary. IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, December 20, 1823. Concurred in, DAVID ADAMS, Speaker. Attest:	WM. C. DAWSON, Clerk. Approved 20th December, 1823, G. M. TROUP, Governor. A true copy:	ELISHA WOOD, Secretary Executive Department. CONGRESS.] 
