NO. 213 EXPENDITURES OF THE INDIAN DEPARTMENT. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, DECEMBER 7, 1824. [SIR:	WAR DEPARTMENT, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, November 24, 1824. _ I have had the honor, in compliance with your order of the 1st instant, to report the amount (viz. $151,000) for which an appropriation by Congress will be required for the current expenses of the Indian Department for the year 1825; also, an estimate of the sums necessary to carry into effect certain Indian treaties, and to hold treaties of peace, &c. with certain Indian tribes, within the same period. I now have the honor to report (in paper marked A) the sums which have been drawn from the several appropriations for.expenditures in the Indian Department, and the amount of accounts which have been rendered to this office for disbursements for the three quarters ending the 31st August last, to which period they are made up, in conformity to the act of Congress of 6th May, 1822. It will be seen from this statement that $282,654 13 have been drawn; and that returns have been received for $242,849 83, leaving a balance of $39,804 30 to be accounted for, which arises principally from disbursements made on account of .objects which are not yet completed. Statement marked B shows the number of schools, where established, by what society, the number of teachers to each, and the number of pupils, by the last returns. Since the establishment of this office, in March last, the rules and regulations fur the government of Indian affairs have been revised, and greatly enlarged. Among the measures first taken, were those which were deemed to be essential to secure a prompt rendition of accounts; and these, it is believed, will, in the course of the present year, result in insuring the utmost promptitude and accuracy. The necessary checks, it is believed, are provided. Forms were also prepared and forwarded to the superintendents of the Indian schools, which have produced a system in their reports, out of which a general ejchibit of all that relates to this branch of the Indian Department can be furnished with facility and accuracy, at the close of each year. The returns .show that thirty-two schools are now in operation, containing nine hundred and sixteen children. The reports of the superintendents are highly satisfactory. They certainly demonstrate that no insuperable difficulty is in the way of a complete reformation uf the principles and pursuits of the:American Indian. Judging from what has been accomplished since the adoption by the Government, in 1819,of.the system upon which all the schools are now operating, and making due allowance for the tardy advancements.,pf the first two or three years, which were forlhe most part consumed in the wprk of preparation, and in overcoming the prejudices and apprehensions of the-.Indians, there is good reason to believe that an entire reformation may be effected, (I mean among the tribes bordering.on our settlements, and to whom those benefits have been extended,) in the course of the present generation; it being with the children of the Indians that those have to do who have undertaken this work of reformation. Nothing appears to be required to effect, so humane an object but the necessary means for the support of the system, as its enlargement may be required, and the continued application of the same zeal and intelligence which have, so far, characterized those who superintend and conduct it. I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient.servant, THOS. L. McKENNEY. To the Hon. the SECRETARY OF WAR. .4. Statement showing the amount of moneys drawn from the several appropriations for expenditures in the Indian Department, and the amount of accounts rendered for disbursements, in the three quarters ending the3\st August last; to which time the accounts are required to be rendered and settled, annually, by the act of the 6th May, 1822. Indian Department, including the pay of the officers and presents to Indians, Annuities, -----Civilization of Indians, ---- Holding treaty with the Quapaws,*** ††† -	-	-	- Carrying into effect treaty with the Florida Indians,*	-	- Claims of the citizens of Georgia against the Creek Indians, -	- Amount of disbursements, - Balance to be accounted for on the 31st August, B. Statement showing the number of schools, where established, by what society, the number of teachers attached to each, and the number of pupils, from the last returns. Where established. Spring Place, Cherokee nation, east Mississiopi, Ochgeelogee,	do.	do. Brainard,	do.	do. Carmel,	do.	do. Creek Path,	do.	do. High Tower,	do.	do. Dwight, Cherokee nation, west Mississippi, - Elliot, Choctaw nation, Bethel,	do. Mayhew, do. Etnman’s, do. Mushulatubbee’s,do. Mr. Juzon’s, do. Capt. Harrison’s, do. Goshen,	do. Bethany, do. Jik-haw-nah, do. Carey, on the St. Joseph’s,	Michigan	Terrify, Valley Towns, Cherokees,	east	Mississippi,	- Tensawattee, do. do. Witbington, Creek nation, Oneida, New York, - Charity Hall, Chickasaw nation, - Monroe,	do. Tuscarora nation, New York, Seneca nation,	do. Union, Osages, Arkansas, Harmony, Osages, Missouri, Wyandots, Upper Sandusky, Ohio, Ottawas, Miami of the Lake, Florissant, Missouri, Passamaquoddies, Indian Point, Maine, Whole number of pupils, NOTE.—The numbers under the head of the “ No. of Teachers,” in most cases, embrace every person, including children, connected with the families of the teachers. OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, November 24, 1824. THOMAS L. McKENNEY. * This school, it appears, is suspended for the present, in consequence of proceedings against it under a law of the State of New York. CONGRESS.] 
