No. 66. [2d Session. THE CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JUNE 25, 1795. Gentlemen of the Senate: Just at the close of the last session of Congress, I received from one of the Senators and one of the Representatives of the State of Georgia, an application for a treaty to be held with the tribes or nations of Indians claiming the right of soil to certain lands lying beyond the present temporary boundary line of that State, and which were described in an act of the Legislature of Georgia, passed on the 28th of Decenlber last, which has already been laid before the Senate. This application, and the subsequent correspondence with tire Governor of Georgia, are herewith transmitted. The subject being very important, I thought proper to postpone a decision upon that application. The views I have since taken of the matter, with the information received, of a more pacific disposition on the part of the Creeks, have induced me, now, to accede to the request, but with tliis explicit declaration: That neither my assent, nor the treaty which may be made, shall be considered as affecting any question which may arise, upon the supplementary act, passed by the Legislature of the State of Georgia, on the 7th of January last, upon which inquiries have been instituted, in pursuance of a resolution of the Senate and House of Representatives; and that any cession or relinquishment of the Indian claims, shall be made in the general terms of the treaty of New York, which are contemplated as the form proper to be generally used on such occasions; and on the condition that one half of the expense of the supplies ol provisions for the Indians assembled at the treaty be borne by the State of Georgia. Having concluded to hold the treaty requested by that State, I was willing to embrace the opportunity it would present, of inquiring into the causes of the dissatisfaction of the Creeks, which has been manifested since the treaty of New Y ork, by their numerous and distressing depredations on our Southwestern frontiers. _ Their depredations on the Cumberland have been so frequent, and so peculiarly destructive, as to lead me to think they must originate in some claim to the lands upon that river. But, whatever may have been the cause, it is important to trace it to its source: for, independent of the destruction of lives and property, it occasions a very serious annnaf pxpense to the United States. The commissioners for holding the proposed treaty will, therefore, be instructed to inquire into the causes of the hostilities to which I have referred, and to enter into such reasonable stipulations as will remove them, and give permanent peace to those parts of the United States. I now nominate Benjamin Hawkins, of North Carolina, George Clvmer, of Pennsylvania, and Andrexv Pickens, of South Carolina, to be commissioners to hold a treaty with the Creek nation of Indians, for the purposes hereinbefore expressed. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, June 25, 1795. Copy of a letter from James Gunn and Thomas P. Carnes, Esqrs. to the President of the United States. Sin: In obedience to the will of the General Assembly of the State we have the honor to represent, we beg leave to lay before the President of the United States, an act passed by the Legislature of the State of Georgia, on the 28th day of December last. By a reference to the seventh section of the aforementioned act, it will be perceived, that it is the duty of the Senators and Representatives of that State, in the Congress of the United States, to apply, without loss of time, for a treaty to be held with the tribes or nations of Indians claiming the right of soil to certain lands, as described in the said act, lying beyond the temporary boundary line. The General Assembly, at the time they passed this law, appear to have had in view, the operation of an act of the General Government, entitled “An act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes," and, in conformity thereto, they have appointed three respectable citizens, to attend, as agents, on the part of the State, and appropriated the sum of thirty thousand dollars, for the purpose of defraying the expense of a treaty, and extinguishing the claims of Indians, if any there be, to lands lying within the boundaries described in the said act. And, to tlm end that the said treaty may be held, conducted, and concluded, in a fair, open, and honorable manner, and agreeable to the principles contained in the eighth section of the above recited act of the United States, we have to request, on the part of the State of Georgia, that a commissioner or commissioners be immediately appointed, and the time and place fixed on, for holding a treaty with the aforesaid Indian tribes. It cannot have escaped the observation of the Executive, that a number of the frontier citizens of the State of Georgia have, for several years past, remained captives to a cruel and barbarous enemy, and that many of those who have been so fortunate as to avoid captivity, and preserve their lives, are reduced to extreme indigence, from the continued predatory war carried on against them by Indian tribes. We anticipate, with confidence, that an early period will be fixed on, for holding a treaty, and hope that it may eventuate in the restoration of all the unfortunate sufferers to their distressed families, and effectually secure the peace and happiness of those, whose lot it is to reside on a frontier. Copy of a letter from the Secretary of War to the Governor of Georgia. Department of War, March 20, 1795. Sir: I am instructed by the President of the United States to inform your Excellency, that, on the. 2d instant, he received from James Gunn, Esq. one of the Senators, and from Thomas P. Carnes, Esq. one of the Representatives in Congress from the State of Georgia, a letter (of which the enclosed is a copy) requesting that a treaty might be held with the Indians claiming the right of soil to certain lands, lying beyond the present temporary boundary of Georgia, for the purpose of extinguishing their claim to them. This request demanded, and has received, much consideration. The crisis at which it has been made, has occasioned no small embarrassment to the Executive of the United States. The Creeks have been, with difficulty, restrained from open war; any movement which may hazard that event, must be cautiously made; and it is well known, that no measures excite so much jealousy among them, as those which affect their lands, unless they are previously disposed to grant them. How far this may be the case, is unknown; and, as Congress, although duly informed of the situation of the Southern and Southwestern frontiers, have provided, in the act of appropriation, merely for their defensive protection, it behooves the Executive to observe great delicacy in the management of Indian affairs; many inquiries and arrangements must precede the treaty requested, and, as time is requisite for these, no definitive answer can at present be given. The two acts of the I legislature of Georgia, and passed on the 26th December, and the other on the 7th of January last, for appropriating and selling Indian lands, were laid before Congress. The deliberations of the two Houses issued in a concurrent resolution for directing the attorney general to investigate the title of the State of Georgia to the lands sold to the several companies, by the act of the 7th of January. A copy of this resolution I have now the honor to enclose. The request before mentioned, embraces an important object. The facts here detailed, show some of the difficulties in which it is involved; among these, the connexion between the two acts is not the least. The President, therefore, while he is solicitous to gratify the wishes of the people of Georgia, so far as may consist with his public duty, thinks it necessary to avoid a hasty decision on the subject, with which so many weighty circumstances are combined. A postponement is the more necessary, because it is deemed proper that the commissioners for holding such a treaty as that which is requested, should be appointed with the advice and consent of the Senate; and, under the pressure of the Legislative business, accumulated at the close of the session, it was not practicable to attend to this matter before the adjournment of Congress. The Senate will assemble on the 8th of June next, on Executive business. In the interim, the President will be able further to examine the question of the treaty, in all its relations. Copy of a letter from the Secretary of liar to the Governor of Georgia. War Office, 20th .August. 1790. Sir: The President of die United States has directed me to transmit to your honor a copy of the treaty of peace and friendship, which has been concluded between the United States and the Creek nation of Indians, together with his proclamation for a due observance thereof. It maybe justly expected, that, the faithful execution of this treaty by both parties, will be productive of the most salutary consequences to the State of Georgia, by ensuring peace and tranquillity to its frontier settlements, and a regular cession of the disputed lands on the Oconee, which have hitherto caused the expense of so much blood and treasure to the State. , It would have been a desirable circumstance to have obtained an entire confirmation of all the territory claimed by Georgia, and every argument was used to effect this object. Hut the chiefs who were present decidedly refused, at the hazard of all events, any confirmation of the land lying to the eastward of the temporary line, mentioned in the treaty of Galphinton, to be drawn from the forks of the Oconee and Oakmulgee to the St. Mary’s, and between the said temporary line and the old line from the Altainaha to the St. Mary's. This land has been represented to be generally barren, sunken, and unfit for cultivation, except in some instances on the margin of its rivers, and that its chief value depends on its lumber. While it is thus circumstanced on the one hand, it has been represented by the Creeks, on the other, to be of the highest importance to them, as constituting some of their most valuable winter hunting grounds. In estimating the value of this land, it was not considered of such importance, or under such circumstances as to be a sufficient cause for breaking off’a treaty by which the valuable Oconee lands are effectually ceded and secured, peace established, and the Creek nation attached" to the interests of the United States. The President of the United States, therefore, persuades himself that these considerations will have their proper operation on the minds of the good people of Georgia, and induce them to a zealous concurrence in the execution of the treaty. The chiefs of the Creeks who made the treaty sailed from this port yesterday, for the river St. Mary's, and they propose to return by that river to their own country. H. KNOX. Extract of a letter from the Governor of Georgia to the Secretary of War. State House, .Augusta, .April 16th, 1795. Sir: I received with pleasure your communication of the 20th March, and am much obliged to the President for the information respecting the Indian treaty. 1 am at a loss to discover the intimate connexion between the two acts referred to. The one contemplates a treaty for extinguishing the Indian claims to the lands between the Oconee and the Oakmulgee, an object which nineteen out of twenty of the citizens of this State have the most anxious wish to see accomplished, and I feel persuaded that the present is as good a time as any that may otter to obtain it, provided the General Government would aid the endeavors of this State. I need not remind you that the Creek Indians have complied with no part of the treaty entered into at New York, and their inability to comply with it is evident, as the greater part of the property stipulated to have been returned, is so dispersed, that it is not in their power to restore it. I cannot indulge the most distant thought that the treaty, on the part of the United States,_ ought to be fully complied with, and the Indians released from that part which secures to the citizens of Georgia the return of prisoners anil property. The Indians, latterly, show more disposition for peace than they have for many years past, and, from the. information I have received, are disposed to make satisfaction for the property they cannot return; and the only thing whereby compensation can be made, is their lands. The sum they will receive from the State for those lands contemplated to be purchased, will procure them a handsome supply of goods, which that nation is in much want of. The act for selling the lands on the Mississippi, ice. has not met with the approbation of the majority of the citizens, but it is not so generally reprobated, as has been represented to theGeneraf Government; and every attempt of that Government, tending to dispute the right, will add support to the law. The sale of the lands was never pleasing to me, but the cause arises from a full conviction that large monopolies are against the interests of the citizens in general, and not from any doubts I entertained ofthe right of this State to the lands in question. When I reflect on, and know, the very great wish the people of Georgia have to procure the lands between the Oconee anil Oakmulgee, I flatter myself the President will give permission for a treaty to be held, as I am persuaded a refusal will give great uneasiness, and, in fact, disgust. 4th Congress.] 
