No. 65. [2d Session. NORTHWESTERN TRIBES AND THE CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, MARCH 2, 1795. Department of War, March 2, 1795. Sir: The President of the United States lias directed me to communicate to the Senate and House of Representatives, the enclosed extracts of letters and documents, received from Major General Wayne, and from James Sea-grove, agent for Indian afl'airs for the Creek nation. I am, very respectfully, sir, your most obedient servant. TIMOTHY PICKERING. The Vice President of the United States. Extracts from a letter to the Secretary of lUarfrorn James Sea grace, agent for Indian affairs, dated at Savannah, January 13th, 1795. Some chiefs of the Creeks were on a visit to the Governor of Georgia, about six weeks past. I am sorry to find that the proceeding of the Legislature of Georgia, relative to them, was not such as they had reason to expect: it having been debated in Senate, for some days, whether or not they should be detained as prisoners, until the treaty of New York should be complied with. The Indians knew it, and I believe returned much displeased. I find they (the Creek chiefs) are determined to try their strength in the nation, to crush the plunderers and murderers, and to return the property taken from this country: but I much doubt the ability of the well disposed to effect this; as the vicious and ill inclined arc forbid, by the Spanish agents, to deliver up any property or prisoners to the Americans, or to give any kind of satisfaction whatever. I also find that a principal part of the chiefs' business down, was to endeavor to have a trade established for them, as they wished to break oil' all connexion with the Spaniards, in the way of trade; but until they can get supplies from the United States, they must continue dependent on the Spaniards, who, they publicly say, advise them to every thing injurious to the United States, and keep their young people in an ungovernable situation. These are matters which ! know to be strictly just; Extract of a letter from Timothy Barnard, deputy agent of Indian affairs, to James Seagrove, Esq. dated Flint River, 18th December, 1794. I expect, before this, you have been informed of the Mad Dog’s route to Augusta; 1 wrote you a few lines by Mr. Cornell, but not very fully on the business, as I considered Mr. Cornell had it in his power to give you a full detail of every matter: all that I can say at present, is, that the Mad Dog seems very intent on performing his promises to the Governor; but, on his arrival in the Lower Creeks, found all the towns entirely empty, as it is the season ol the year for them to be all in the woods; even those that promised to wait for his return, as the Mad Dog was detained so long in Augusta, were all gone to the woods; the Mad Dog has, however, sent runners into the woods, to have all the head-men that can be, collected into the towns by the middle of next month, for the purpose of collecting the prisoners and property, horses, negroes, &c.; and says, that he is determined, if those Cliehaw rascals will not give up the property by fair means, thev shall by foul. There was a large body of the Cussetahs collected to go and take the negroes by force, as the Mad Dog come down, and it would have been done, but the Mad Dog stopped it himself, till he returned from Georgia, to see, as he said, if they could have a peace and trade, from that quarter, or not. I have every reason to believe that the heads ol the nation will, and are determined to do something more than has ever been done yet. to try to save their land. This tripofthe Mad Dog’s to Augusta has opened their eyes, and, I believe, convinced them that they are at the brink of ruin. Nothing I think will stop a good deal of the property’s being given up, except some mischief should be done on this side the Oconee by the whites, as I think there is every probability ol, as, up about Shoulderbone, the white people have got their stock over on this side, and are daily over a hunting fifteen and twenty miles round. I have written the Governor very fully about it. The Mad Dog, in his letter to the Governor, has likewise requested of his Excellency to keep his people from coining oyer, lest it may cause some trouble, which it may put out of his power to perform his promise to his Excellency, respecting the property and prisoners. I think, if you were to write his Excellency on the business, lie might, perhaps, give out orders to have the stock recrossed, as I expect daily to hear of something happening in consequence of it, and in such case, the whites ought to blame themselves for what may happen. Extract if a letter from Major General JUayne to the Secretary of War, dated Head Quarters, Greenville, '2ith January, 1795. It is with infinite pleasure that I now announce to you, the strong and pleasing prospects of a general peace, between the United States and all the late hostile tribes of Indians northwest of the Ohio. The two following preliminary articles were entered into by General Wayne, on the part of the United States, and the sachems and tear chiefs of the Chippcwas, Pattawatamies, Sues, and Miamics, on the other part: Article 1. It is agreed, that, until articles fora permanent peace shall be adjusted, agreed to, and signed, all hostilities shall cease, and the aforesaid sachems, and war chiefs, for and in behalf of the nations which they represent, do agree to meet the above named plenipotentiary of the United States, at Greenville, on or about the 15th day of June next, with all the sachems and war chiefs of their nations, then and there to consult and conclude upon such terms of amity and peace as shall be lor the interest and to the satisfaction of both parties. Art. 2. Should any of the nations or tribes of Indians, now at war with the United States, or any other nation or tribe, meditate or attempt any hostile measure against any post or settlement, in the occupancy ol the troops or citi/.ens of the United States, or against the lives or property of any individual or individuals of the same, and it shall come to the knowledge of the before mentioned nations, or either of them, they do hereby engage to give immediate notice thereof, to the commander-in-chief, or to the officer commanding the troops of the United States, at the nearest post; and should any nation, with hostile intentions against any part of the troops or citizens of the said United States, attempt to pass through their country, they will endeavor to prevent the same, and, in like manner, give information of such attempt, to the said commander-in-chief, or to the officer commanding the troops of the United States, at the nearest post, as soon as possible, that all causes of mistrust and suspicion may be avoided between them and the United States. In like manner, the commander-in-chief, and all officers acting under his orders, shall give notice to the said Indian nations of any harm that may be meditated against them, or either of them, that shall come to their knowledge, and do all in their power to hinder and prevent, the same, that the friendship between them may be uninterrupted. In a message from General Wayne, dated January 1. 1795, to the sachems and war chiefs of Sandusky, is the following passage: I have received information from Colonel Ilaintramck, one of my principal warriors, commanding at the Miami v illages, that the chiefs of the Chippewas, Ottawas, Sacs, Pattawatamies, and Miamies, arrived at that place three days since, and may be hourly expected at Greenville; the Miamies say that the chiefs of the remaining hostile tribes had acceded to the prevailing opinion, and wish for peace, and that those chiefs are now on their way to this place, and may be expected in the course of a few days after the arrival of the chiefs of the five nations, before mentioned. 3rd Congress.] 
