No. 50. [1st Session. THE CREEKS AND SOUT H WESTERN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO CONRGRESS, JUNE 2, 1794. Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House of Representatives: I send you certain communications, recently received from Georgia, which materially change the prospect of affairs in that quarter, and seem to render a war with the Creek nation more probable than it has been at any antecedent period. While the attention of Congress will be directed to the consideration of measures suited'to the exigency, it cannot escape their observation, that this intelligence brings a fresh proof of the insufficiency of the existing provisions of the laws, towards the effectual cultivation and preservation of peace with our Indian neighbors. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, June 2, 1791. > * 1 , Copy of a letter from Major Richard Brooke Roberts to the Secretary of I Car. FortFidius, May 10, 1794. Sir: . From the information of Mr. Barnard, the deputy of Mr. Seagrove, 1 have the following intelligence, which I conceived my duty, as commanding officer ot ibis garrison, absolutely required my making you early acquainted with; and, from a letter directed to Major Gaither (which I opened) from a Mr, Jordan, whom Mr. Seagrove left in the Creek nation to give intelligence, I find that a village of the Tallassee town, called the Half-way-house, were determined for war, and meant to make a stroke somewhere on the frontier; that the Head-men of the Cussetahs had sent to stop and prevent them from committing mischief, but that the event was doubtful. I have the misfortune to acquaint you, that, two days ago, as the Dog king of the Cussetahs and his brother were hunting on Little river, twenty miles above its confluence with the Oconee, a party of ten whites, who crossed the river, penetrated as far as they were; on perceiving the Indians, two white men beckoned to them; the Indians seeing them make some motions with their guns, which indicated hostility, ran off’; the whites fired on them; the Dog king unfortunately received the shot in his belly; they made their escape into a swamp, and his brother returned the fire without effect. The Dog king is not killed, and I am in hopes he will recover. 1 have to observe, sir, on this occasion, some matters to you, which I hope may be attributed to the true motives, viz: the sole desire of doing my duty to the United States with fidelity and zeal. The whole strength of this garrison amounts to no more than sixty-nine effective. The Indians and Georgians seem now mutually roused, and there is not a doubt in my mind, but that a war will break out in all its horrors, in about two months. Should an attack take place on this garrison, with this small force under my command, I leave you to judge what defence can be made. I shall be guarded on all occasions; 1 shall make use of every exertion in my power, to keep the people from molesting the Indians, and I shall make the best defence possible; both duty and inclination prompting me to maintain this post to the last extremity. I repeat to you, sir, a war with the Indians seems inevitable, and this handful of men, tinder my command, being entitled to their discharges, every day the force will be considerably reduced; but, small as it is, every thing shall be done that can be done. I know that one great effort often commands success, and that vigilance often counteracts a superior force. 1 am determined to make use of all mine, and, at all events, prevent a surprise. P. S. 1 have this moment received a letter from Lieutenant Sedgwick, commandant of fort Matthews, which I send enclosed to you. You will see from its contents, that a war with the Creeks is not mere conjecture. Should one take place, the situation of this country will be horrid, beyond description, as, from the information of Mr. Seagrove, lately from the nation, they can bring teii thousand gun-men into the field. Copy of a letter from Lieutenant Theodore Sedgwick to Captain Richard B. Roberts. Fort Mathews, 7th May, 1794. Sir: I have sent Frederick Myers and Lewis Branan, to Fort Fidius, whose, terms are out. On the night of the 2d, the Indians stole some horses, about four or five miles from this, and were pursued by some of the inhabitants as far as the militia station, at the high shoals of the Apalachv, where they were joined by Lieutenant Hay, and some of his dragoons, which made eighteen in number. They then followed the Indians about fifteen miles, beyond the High Shoals, where the Indians lay in ambush, and defeated the militia, and killed Lieutenant Hay, and one of his men, and wounded another. Them that made their escape brought off' six horses, besides one that was stole, that broke loose from the Indians in the time of action. 1 am told that General Clarke is to cross here to day, with a number of militia; it is'supposed with an intention to take some Indians that are at Montpelier. N. B. The men that were in the action, say it was the Creek Indians that stole’the horses. _ Copy of a letter from James Jordan to Major Henry Gaither, dated Cussetahs, 5th May, 1794. Sir: About ten days ago, there was a small party from the Usechees, set to steal horses, but on what part of the frontier they will strike, is unknown. The head-men of the town sent after them to bring them back, but the runners could not come up with them nor discover what route they had taken. , A town called the Half-way House, are determined for war. and are expected to start to-morrow. This, I ha\e informed this town of. this morning, in the square. They have taken measures to endeavor to stop them, but: whether they will succeed or no. 1 am not able to say. I am in hopes of the horse being returned, which was stolen about the 20th ultimo. Some of the head-men have said. 1 may expect them when the nay comes for the negroes. From circumstances, I do not know but what I may be obliged to leave the nation before the return of Mr. J. Sea,grove, and. sir. by the letter which accompanies this, I have requested him to deposite one hundred dollars in your hands for me, which, sir. if you will be so good as to take charge of, I shall ever esteem itas a particular favor. I am, sir. with due respect, vour most humble servant, JAMES JORDAN. Copy of a letter from Major R. 11. Roberta to the Secretary of War. dated Fort Fidius, May 10th, 1794. Sir: - Just after I enclosed my despatches to you, the friendly Indians, encamped on the bank of the liver, were attacked by a party of militia, under the command of Major Adams. As soon as I heard the tiring, I sent Doctor Dalcho over the river, to request the commanding otlicer of the party to desist from their proceedings. His report I send enclosed to you. The Indians flew to this garrison for protection, but I got them oft- safe, 1 expect, over the river. I fear very much the White Bird-tail king will be killed on his route to this post: he has been to Augusta with ^ Mr. Seagrove, with the Tuckaubatehee king. &c. However, 1 am informed General Glascock will escort him with a strong party. Thus, sir, you see an Indian war has commenced. This garrison totally defenceless; no water within three hundred yards of the fort, that, from our force, may be taken possession of at any time by an enemy. The weak force of this garrison, not able to enforce a protection to either the inhabitants or themselves, they must fall a sacrifice. It has been long reported to the M ar Office, the weak situation of this garrison. If any misfortunes happen to it, it shall not be my fault, for I am determined to risk every thing in its defence. Copy of a letter from Constant Freeman, agent for the Department of War in Georgia, to the Secretary of Tfar, dated Fort Fidius. 9th 3lay, 1794. I am. sir. extremely sorry, that almost every other letter I have had the honor to write you. has contained disagreeable intelligence. The prospect of a permanent peace with the Creeks was very flattering when Mr. Sea-grove left the nation. The reverse is now the case. On the night of the 1st instant, a party of Indians stole some horses from or near Spark’s station, on the Oconee. They were pursued by a Lieutenant Hay, and fifteen horsemen, who fell into an ambuscade near the Aapalachy High Shoals. Mr. Hay and two men were killed, and one wounded. It is not ascertained whether these Indians were Creeks or Cherokees. but. it is probable, they were of the latter. This has greatly alarmed the frontiers, and we are informed, that a large party has. oris about to march on their trail, until they shall come up with them. It might have been possible for the Creeks, if they were not the aggressors, to have convinced the people of this State of their peaceable intentions: but an unfortunate accident happened yesterday, which will probably lessen their inclination to do it. The Dog king of the Cussetahs and his brother were hunting on the south side of Little river, when they fell in with a party of ten mounted militia, w ho seemed to be friendly, but, as the Indians approached them, they thought they discovered hostile intentions. They, therefore, turned about to run; the militia fired, and wounded the Dog king, and last night, they sent a runner to the camp, now' opposite to this post, with the above information, which has greatly alarmed the Indians. It appears, sir, by information this day received from the Creek nation, that there are many evil disposed men in that country, w ho wish to biing on a war. On or about the 5th instant, intelligence was received at the Cussetah town, that the Tame or Tallassee king had collected a party, Tolnarch against the upper settlements on this frontier. The next day. the Cussetah king, and the Big Warrior of the Cussetahs, the Hallooing king, and the Head Warrior of the Cowetas, set oft" to persuade the Tallassees to desist from their hostile intentions, and the runner w ho brings us the news, says, that tnere cannot be a doubt but that they would prevail upon them to be quiet. He farther says, that there had not any parties marched from the Creek nation before he left it. It is. therefore, probable, that the party which killed Lieutenant Hay were not Creeks. It is also reported here, by some Uchee Indians, that, about the 23d of last month, three parties had set oft" from the Usechees and Chehaws, toward the lower frontier, on the Altamaha, with an intention to steal horses and negroes. Notw ithstanding these unfavorable accounts, it may be relied on that a majority of the Creek nation wish to live in peace with the inhabitants of this State, and they have lately given proofs of their good disposition. I suggested, sir, to you, in my letter of the 10th of February, that the erecting posts on the Apalachy would give umbrage to the Indians, and Mr. Seagrove, and all those with whom I have conversed from the nation, confirm me in my opinion. I am now to inform you of the exact position of these posts. Lieutenant .Sedgwick has transmitted me the following account of them: That there is one erected at the mouth of the Apalachy river, twenty miles; one at the High Shoals, ten miles: one at the Flat Shoals of the middle fork of the Oconee, eighteen miles, and the other at the Hurricane Shoals, on the north fork of the same river, twenty-five miles from fort Mathews. These posts are about eighteen miles from each other, and on a straight line to theCurrahee mountain. They are each garrisoned by twenty horse and twenty foot. He also informs me, that Captain M illiamson had made an irruption into the Cherokee nation, and returned without seeing any Indians: and that the same officer proposed to march on the 5th instant, against the Creek towns. I have not heard whether the last expedition had taken effect. The M hite Bird-tail king or Big king of the Cussetahs, and five other chiefs and warriors, went down to Augusta, with Sir. Seagrove. They have not yet returned. Mr. Barnard, who came this day from that place, informs me, that the Governor intends to send a strong guard under General Glasscock, to escort* them as far as this post. The Indians, now opposite to this garrison; will, in consequence of the alarm, return immediately to the nation. Copy of a letter from Constant Freeman, Junior, Jlgent for the War Department in Georgia, to the Secretary of War. dated Fort Fidius. I0//t May. 1794. Sir: The express was to have left this post early this morning, with the letters written yesterday to yon and the Governor, containing information of the unpleasant situation of the frontiers. He was detained longer than was expected: and now I am under the disagreeable necessity of adding to the bad news. This morning, between the hours oi ten and eleven, the Indian camp, opposite to this post, was attacked by a party of one hundred and fifty mounted militia, under the command of Major Adams. There was, at the time, about twenty Indians in the fort, and about ten fled from the canip, and sought protection with us. M e have been placed in a very critical position; to aftbrd protection to the Indians, was irritating the militia; to deliver them up, would be to violate the Jaith of the United States, in which they had confided. It was, therefore, thought advisable to send them away, and let them make their escape, if possible. Accordingly, they set oft’ about two o'clock, and I have reason to believe they have crossed the river without interruption. In the affair of this morning, one white man was mortally wounded: it is not yet ascertained whether any of the Indians have been killed or wounded. Soon after the firing was heard, Captain Roberts, the commanding officer, sent Dr. Dalcho over the river to the militia, to hear from them the reasons which induced the attack. I enclose you his report. The Indians were waiting for the return of their chiefs from Augusta, as I wrote you yesterday. 1 must now inform you, that all hopes of peace must be given up; nothing but the most cruel war will follow what has happened within these fewr days. Doth sides are irritated beyond all reconciliation. It is also proper that I should inform you, that the militia have threatened to take the Indians out of the fort by force. I therefore urged most strenuously to the commanding officer, the sending them away: for I conceived it. never could be the intention of Government that the Federal troops should be involved in a contest with the militia. I am apprehensive that the chiefs who arc on their return from Augusta will be killed, notwithstanding the guard which lias them under their protection. Since the party of Indians left us at two o’clock, Long Tom, and two other Indians, came to this fort to make inquiries relatively to the attack of this morning. As soon as we could give them some refreshment, they were hurried away. It is proper that the Government of the United States should be informed, that the Indians have always paid the greatest respect to the garrisons of the Federal troops posted in this country. They cannot understand the connexion there is between this State and the General Government: the idea is too complex for their comprehension. _ I enclose the deposition of Mr. Barnard, Deputy Agent of Indian affairs. The report of Dr. Frederick Dalcho, Surgeon’s Mate to the troops of the United States in Georgia. In consequence of an order from Richard Brooke Roberts, Captain-commandant, to ascertain the cause of the firing that was heard over the river, 1 crossed this morning for the purpose. On rising out of the cane-brake, I saw two different parties of militia: the one on the edge of the cane-brake, employed in plundering the Indian camps: the other at some considerable distance, bn the hill. I inquired for the commanding officer, whom I found to be Major Adams. I demanded, in the name of the United States, the cause of their attacking the Indians, who were on a friendly visit, with Major Seagrove, at this post, and while they were under the protection of the United States? He told me, that, in consequence of the death of Lieutenant Hay, on the Apalachy, he had raised one hundred and fifty men, to pursue and destroy any party of Indians he might gain intelligence of; that an Indian who was wounded at that time was now in our garrison, tinder the care of the surgeon, from which he supposed he was one of the party who are now here, and that lie was determined not to return until the whole of them were killed; that he would advance to the mouth of the cannon, and take them from the fort: for he was able to do it. I assured Major Adams that the wounded Indian had not been at our garrison since the accident happened. I demanded Mr. Barnard’s horses. This brought on the most bitter exclamations from a number of them, particularly Major Adams, who swore he would rather kill Barnard than an Indian; for he had given a pass to the Indians who killed Lieutenant Hay, certifying; that they were friendly disposed towards this country: that this pass was found sticking up on a sapling, over the dead body. Me told me that Mr. Barnard's horses should not he taken; when a number of his men exclaimed, that it was the lives of the Indians they wanted, and not their property; notwithstanding which, I discovered several of them with Indian horses, rifles, skins, &c. Mr. Barnard’s negro boy, who was with me, was threatened by a number of the men. I was further informed, that the Big king, and the rest of the chiefs who are now on their return from Augusta, where they have been on a visit to the Governor, should be killed; that they should make no distinction of tribes. I told them it was in vain to talk so, for the Governor had given assurances to Major Seagrove that they should he escorted by a strong guard, under the command of Brigadier General Glascock. Some of them immediately replied, that they could raise more men than General Glascock, and would take them. I heard several of them mention, that a party, under Col. Lamar, were on their way down, on this side the river. One of the militia received a ball through his belly, which I believe will prove mortal; the loss of the Indians is not yet known: one only was seen to fall, who crept into the cane-brake. Just before I left them, Major Adams swore he would have hair before to-morrow night; and that Brigadier General Clarke had marched against the Creek towns. Given under my hand, at Fort Fidius, this IOth day of May, 1794. FRED’K DALCHO, S. 31.. And Paymaster to the regular troops in Georgia; Fort Fidius, on the Oconee. I swear, in the presence of Almighty God, that I have neither directly nor indirectly given any pass, or other licence, to any Indian or Indians, for any purpose whatever. So help me God. TIMOTHY BARNARD. Sworn before us: Joel McClendon, P. R. B. Roberts, Constant Freeman, A. IV. D. John Whitney, C. M. S. Staats Morris, Lt. of the U. S. Artillery, , Thomas Farley, S. 31. Fred'k Dalcho, Paymaster. 3d Congress.] 
