NO, 147.	[2d SESSION. CLAIM OF THE CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 29, 1817. Mr. LOWNDES, from the Committee of Ways and Means, to whom had been referred a resolution instructing them to inquire into the expediency of making an appropriation to satisfy the claims of the friendly Creek Indians whose property was plundered by the hostile Creeks, in consequence of their attachment to the United States, reported: That the foundation of a claim on the part of the friendly Creek Indians to an indemnity for the losses which they sustained from hostile Indians of their own tribe is best explained by the instrument delivered by them to General Jackson on the 9th August, 1814. In this they say: “ We call ourselves, as we are, masters of the land. We have adhered faithfully in peace and war to our treaty stipulations with the United States. Finding that General Jackson, in drawing the lines around our country, to retain so much of that conquered from the hostile Indians as he deemed just, found it necessary, for political motives and purposes, to run a line within which there is a great quantity of lands, actually our property, for which he, as an equivalent, leaves to the conquered Indians lands between Coosa and Tallapoosa, we do not deem the exchange as an equivalent. It shall not, however, interfere with running the line, as we rely on the justice of the United States to cause justice to be done us. And, on these conditions, we request that General Pinckney’s letter of the 23d of April, to Colonel Hawkins, and the answer thereto, of the 25th, be sent on with the treaty, which we will sign after delivering this instrument.” The remainder of the instrument was designed to confer donations of land, and is not connected with the subject referred to the consideration of the Committee of Ways and Means. It is included among the documents which accompany this report, and which also comprise several letters from Colonel Hawkins on the subject of the Indian claim, and minutes of occurrences at Fort Jackson during the negotiation. In delivering this instrument, the speaker (of the Creeks) urged “ that it should be sent on to the Government, with the treaty and the letters” from General Pinckney and Colonel Hawkins; “ and after this, they would sign with the general. The general said he would send up his secretary with the treaty and documents mentioned; and such of the Indians then present, who have claims, might make them out, lodge them with him, and his secretary should take them with him; which was done accordingly.” The plan of signing the treaty of cession, and accompanying it by a declaration of their claims, appears to have been supported by the advice of Colonel Hawkins, the United States agent. This gentleman writes to the Secretary of War that “ he feels that the chiefs, by their confidence in the United States, will not have to reproach him for advising them to concede this line of accommodation.” The instrument delivered to General Jackson, the Indians consider, according to Colonel Hawkins, as their part of the treaty. In the letter referred to in this instrument, General Pinckney tells Colonel Hawkins that “ he may inform the [friendly] Indians that the United States will not forget their fidelity; but, in the arrangements which may be made of the lands to be retained as indemnity, their claims will be respected, and such of their chiefs as have distinguished themselves by their exertions and valor in the common cause will also receive a remuneration in the ceded lands, and in such manner as the Government shall direct.” These extracts appear to the committee to be sufficient to show that, if the friendly Creeks are to be considered as having consented to the cession made by the treaty of 1814, it was only on the condition that their claims to indemnity should not be disregarded. Congress, indeed, may be considered as having recognised their claim by the act of the last session for the relief of Samuel Manac, one of their number. At the time of the treaty, the friendly Creeks would have been satisfied, in the opinion of Colonel Hawkins, to have received as an indemnity for their losses the sum of $60,000. As it is to be considered in some measure a claim under a treaty, as they seem to have expected that some fixed sum would be distributed among them as an equivalent for their losses, and as to do so will be to make it the interest of each sufferer that the losses of another shall not be exaggerated beyond their real amount, the committee believe that it will be best to appropriate a definite sum to be applied, under the direction of the Secretary of War, to indemnify the friendly Creek Indians for property destroyed by the hostile Creeks, in fair proportion to their losses. 14th CONGRESS.]	
