NO. 233.	[1st SESSION. DESCRIPTION OF THE INDIANS RESIDING ON THE MISSOURI RIVER. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, MARCH 6,1826. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 4, 1826. Pursuant to a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 1st instant, directing the Secretary of War to lay before the House “ such information as he may have received respecting the movements of the expedition which lately ascended the Missouri river, under the command of General Henry Atkinson; and, also, such account as may have been communicated to him of the situation, number, and strength of the different Indian tribes inhabiting that part of the territory of the United States,” I have the honor to transmit, herewith, a report of Major General Brown, with the accompanying documents, which furnishes the information required. I have the honor to be your obedient servant, JAMES BARBOUR. The Hon. JOHN W. TAYLOR, Speaker of the House of Representatives. gIR.	HEAD-QUARTERS, WASHINGTON, February 3, 1826. Agreeably to your instructions, attached to a copy of a resolution of the House of Representatives, calling for such information as may have been received respecting the movements of the expedition which lately ascended the Missouri river, under the command of General Henry Atkinson, I have the honor to enclose, herewith, the general’s report, comprehending, in full, the information required. With the highest respect, 1 have the honor to be, sir, vour obedient servant, JAC. BROWN. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War. ADJUTANT GENERAL’S OFFICE, WESTERN DEPARTMENT, SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY, November 23, 1825. I have the honor to submit to you a copy of the report of Major O’Fallon and myself to the honorable Secretary of War, giving a detail of our operations as commissioners appointed to treat with the Indian tribes 11 beyond the Mississippi.” It comprises both the movements of the military escort, and a description of the localities, habits, pursuits, and numbers of the several Indian tribes with which we have made treaties, including the Blackfeet and Assinabuin tribes, whom we did not see. As the detail is full, and contains the best information I can give upon these points, I beg leave to offer it as a part of my official report; adding, in conclusion, other remarks applicable to subjects that did not fall under our notice as commissioners. [For this report, see No. 226, p. 605.] With respect to the river and bordering country, from Council Bluffs to the extreme point the expedition reached in its ascent, both may be compared to that below the Bluffs, until we arrive at the mouth of Poncar river, a distance of three hundred miles by water; the river thus high being as difficult of navigation as it is below, and the bottom lands equally fertile and productive. The timber, however, which is chiefly cotton-wood, interspersed with ash, elm, and some oak and hickory, decreases somewhat in quantity and size in the bottoms, and of which there is an entire absence on the uplands. Immediately on reaching Poncar river, the face of the country materially changes. The bottom lands become narrow and less fertile, with but little timber; and the bluffs are more elevated, and approach nearer the river. The navigation is easier, the current being more gentle, and the banks affording better grounds for cordelling. The country maintains this character as far up as the Arickara villages, a distance of four hundred miles. Here the country has a much more favorable aspect: the bottoms resume their usual width, of from three to five or six miles, with a considerable quantity of cotton-wood, interspersed with ash and elm, skirting the river. The soil is fertile, but less so than it is below Poncar river; and the plains are clothed with a short and nutritive grass. The face of the country changes but little from hence to the mouth of Yellow Stone river, and above, on the Missouri, for one hundred and twenty miles, (the point from whence the expedition retrograded,) except that the soil becomes more thin and less fertile, and the Missouri being but little more than half the width above the Yellow Stone that it maintains below its junction with that river. It is understood, however, to be navigable for large keel-boats to the falls, a distance of seven hundred and fifty miles above the confluence of these rivers. With regard to the propriety of establishing a military post near the Mandans, as suggested by your communication of the 21st July, it will be seen, by reference to the report of the commissioners, that no circumstances, either relating to the conduct of the British traders in a supposed intercourse with our Indians in that quarter, or as relates to the Indians themselves, would call for such a measure. The British traders, as stated in the report, never, of latter years, visit the Indians residing on the Missouri below the falls of that river, nor do those Indians visit the British establishments on Red river; and as all the tribes east of the mountains, except the Blackfeet, are friendly disposed towards Americans, our traders can go among them in great safety, without the protection of a military force. If, however, it should be thought advisable by Government io establish a military post in the upper country, as a point of rest to our traders, I would recommend the mouth of Yellow Stone river as the most eligible position; for here is the diverging point whence our traders must approach the mountains to the west and northwest. But, to give a practical protection to our people who seek for furs, (as this article is only to be profitably found upon the head waters of our rivers in the mountains,) a military force should be located near the three forks of the Missouri. Still, this is a point so remote, that a garrison could not be sustained there without vast expense; for it would be highly imprudent to depend on the game of the country for subsistence, as it is well known that buffalo quit any neighborhood occupied by white men; and, besides the expense, it would be difficult to send up supplies from the interior. From these considerations, I am of opinion that it is inexpedient, at this time, to extend our military post above Council Bluffs. I should rather recommend that, once in three or four years, a military force of from three to four hundred men should ascend the Missouri, as high as the falls of that river. By leaving Council Bluffs as early as the 1st of April, in a suitable class of transports, that point might be reached by the 1st of July; this would allow the detachment July, August, and part of September to open a communication with the Blackfeet Indians, which would result, I have no doubt, in a friendly understanding with that nation, and open a profitable intercourse for our traders. An occasional show of an imposing military force in an Indian country produces, in my opinion, a better effect than a permanent location of troops among them. A Mr. Smith, an intelligent young man, who was employed by General Ashley beyond the Rocky Mountains fnr two years, and who visited a British trading-house on the north fork of Lewis’s river last winter, informs me that British traders often visit the Blackfeet Indians, on the head waters of the Missouri, within our limits; trade with them, and trap for beaver; that on Lewis’s river the British traders have three trading-houses—two occupied permanently, and the other during the winter. A fourth establishment, their principal depot, is called Fort George, (formerly Astoria,) a strongly fortified position on Columbia river, near its mouth, where they receive their goods, by ships navigating the Pacific, and whence they distribute supplies to their upper establishments and to their moving parties. The number of trappers and hunters employed by the British Trading Company beyond the mountains is estimated at six hundred men, chiefly half-breed Cree" and Iriquoi Indians. The furs, which they take in great quantity, are carried down to Fort George, and thence shipped on the Pacific. I learn from General Ashley that there is an easy passage across the Rocky Mountains, by approaching them due west from the head waters of the river Platte; indeed, so gentle in ascent, as to admit of wagons being taken over. This point is in about latitude forty-two—perhaps a little more south. In going west from this pass, you come to the head waters of a river which is believed to empty itself into the Pacific, some distance south of the mouth of Columbia river. The general is now preparing for me a topographical sketch of this section of country, which shall be torwarded to you as soon as received. In answer to your inquiries respecting the propriety of establishing a military post on the Arkansas river, where the caravans usually cross in going to New Mexico from Missouri, I have to observe, that, being unacquainted with the country myself, I have made inquiry of those best informed on the subject, and refer you to the accompanying letter of Captain Gamble, an intelligent gentleman, who accompanied, as secretary, the commission appointed to mark out a road from Missouri to New Mexico. From this information, the contemplated road to Santa Fé (which seems to be the route already taken by the caravans) will strike the Arkansas at the north bend of that river, distant upwards of three hundred miles from our frontier, and an equal or greater distance from Cantonment Gibson, by land. If a military post is to be established for the protection of the caravans, this point would seem to be the most proper one, as it is about mid-way of the route to Santa Fé, and the only place where water and a scanty supply of fuel can be obtained. The benefits to be derived by the caravans from the protection of a military force, thus located, could only be limited and circumscribed, unless horses were provided and kept in readiness to mount eighty or one hundred men, to escort the caravans, and make fresh pursuit of depredating parties of Indians. Sustaining a garrison at this position must, of course, be expensive, as the means of subsistence, clothing, munitions, and other supplies, must be carried over land; the Arkansas river not being navigable, for even small craft, so high up. If the post should be contemplated as only a point to rest the caravans, I presume one company would be sufficient for that object; but if it should be intended that the caravans shall be protected on their journey, a garrison of four or five companies will be necessary, with horses to mount one hundred men. It would seem, however, from Captain Gamble’s statement, that the caravans, when amounting to thirty or forty men, feel themselves free from insult by the Indians; and when we take into view the limited number of troops scattered along our extensive frontier, and which appear necessary for the protection of our frontier settlements, I could hardly recommend "that any of them should be withdrawn from that service to establish the contemplated post. I nevertheless feel sensibly the claim which that enterprising class of our citizens who trade to Santa Fé have upon our Government for protection; but the means of affording it is a subject for higher authority to determine. If, as it is contemplated by Government, the Indian tribes residing in the interior uf the country are to be removed, and located on the borders uf Missouri and Arkansas, it will require a cordon of posts along that whole, extent of country to preserve peace among the multiplied number of tribes, and to give protection to our frontier. With very great respect, sir, I have the honur to be your most obedient servant, •	H. ATKINSON, Brigadier General United States Army. Major General BROWN, Commandcr-in-Chief, Washington City. CONGRESS.] 
