No. 9. [2d Session. SOUTHERN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS JANUARY 12, 1790- Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House of Representatives: 1 lay before you a statement of the Southwestern frontiers, and of the Indian Departmetit, which have been submitted to me by the Secretary for the Department of War. I conceive that an unreserved, but confidential communication of all the papers relative to the recent negotiations with some of the Southern tribes of Indians, is indispensably requisite, for the information of Congress. 1 am persuaded that they will effectually prevent either transcripts or publications of all such circumstances as might be injurious to the public interests. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, January 12, 1790. The Secretary of I Tar to the President of the United States. W ar Office, January 4th. 1790. Sir: I humbly beg leave to submit to your consideration, a general statement of the Indian Department, and of the Southwestern frontiers, the same being intimately blended together. The invitation of the United States to the Creek nation of Indians, to treat of peace on terms of mutual advantages, has not been accepted. The report of the commissioners, A, will fully shew the precarious state of this business. The assurances, given by some of the chiefs, of the peaceable intentions of the Creek nation, are too uncertain in their nature, even if sincere, for the United States to rely upon. The case seems to require an adequate provisional arrangement, which, on the commission of any further depredations by the Creeks, should be called into activity. After the solemn offer of peace which has been made, and refused, it is incumbent on the United States to be in a situation to punish all unprovoked aggressions. For these instructions and the report of the Commissioners, see Document No. 9. In case the conduct of the Creeks should render coercion indispensably necessary, policy requires that it should be undertaken with a force adequate to the speedy accomplishment of the object. An army of sufficient strength should be raised to march into their country, and destroy their towns, unless they should submit to an equitable peace. The warriors of the Creeks have been stated at various numbers, from four to six thousand, and are said to be generally well armed, and furnished with ammunition. To march into the country of the Upper and Lower Creeks^ so as to be superior to all opposition, would require an army to be raised of five thousand men. This number, after making the necessary deductions, for sickness, establishment of posts of communication, and convoys of provision, would probably be reduced to three thousand five hundred effectives. The troops to be employed on this service ought to be enlisted for the occasion, subject, however, to be sooner discharged,if necessary. I have formed an estimateof the expense of such an army, which is hereunto annexed, marked No. l,on the supposition that the pay of the non-commissioned officers and privates may be reduced to the sums therein specified. But, in either event of peace, or war, with the Creeks, the establishment of a line of military posts on the Southwestern frontier, appears to be highly requisite. No peace with the Indians can be preserved, unless by a military force. The lawless whites, as well as Indians, will be deterred from the commission of murders when they shall be convinced that punishment will ultimately follow detection. The situation of the Cherokee nation, looking up to the United States for protection, in consequence of the treaty of Hopewell, demands attention. Although existing circumstances may require that the boundaries slated in the said treaty should be more V J accommodated to the inhabitants who cannot be removed, yet, the other general principles thereof ought to be preserved, and particularly the stipulated protection of the United States. This cannot be afibrded but by troops. The friendship of the Cnickasaws and Choctaws cannot be cultivated, and the trade stipulated by treaty cannot be extended to them but by means of the protection of troops. The present military arrangement of the United States consists of one battalion of artillery, of two hundred and forty non-commissioned and privates; and one regiment of infantry, of five hundred and sixty non-commissioned and privates. This force, for the following objects, is utterly inadequate: to prevent the usurpation of the lands of the United States; to facilitate the surveying and selling the same, for the purpose of reducing the public debt; and for the protection of the frontiers, from Georgia to lake Erie. If it should be decided to erect a line of posts of that extent, and to leave small guards for the public arsenal, the following establishment would be required: A battalion of artillery, of two hundred and forty non-commissioned officers and privates, and two regiments of infantry, of seven hundred non-commissioned officers and privates, each. The total of the artillery and infantry amounting to sixteen hundred and forty non-commissioned officers and privates. The estimate hereunto annexed, marked No. 2, will exhibit the annual expense of such an establishment. It is to be observed, that the estimate is formed on the principle, that the present pay of the non-commissioned officers and privates may be considerably reduced. But the pay of a lieutenant-colonel-commandant is enlarged from fifty to seventy-five dollars per month, and the pay of the major-commandant of artillery to fifty dollars per month. This occasions an increase for the lieutenant-colonels and major-commandant of sixty dollars per month. When the duty and expense of a commanding officer of a regiment or battalion be considered, it is presumed that the proposed additional pay in these instances will promote the economy and good of the service. Although the aroposed reduction of the pay cannot affect the existing stipulations to the troops now in service, yet, as they are iable to be discharged, at any period, it is highly probable that, in preference thereto, they would accept the reduced pay. The several representations herewith submitted, marked B, of the depredations committed by the Indians, on the people along the south of the Ohio, and upon Cumberland river, show the exposed situation of those settlements. It seems the posts northwest of the Ohio do not afford the .necessary protection, and the people claim the employment of their own militia, at the expense of the United States—a similar arrangement having been in operation \ until the organization of the General Government, at the expense of Virginia. If it shall be decided to afford the protection requested, the propriety of employing the militia of the country for that purpose may be doubted. The economy of disciplined troops is always superior to militia, while their efficacy is at least equal; hence, if troops are employed within the district of Kentucky, as patrols or otherwise, they ought to be detachments from the regular troops of the United States, under the orders of the commanding officer on the Ohio. About four com- }} li; pantes. acting as orders of the commanding officer on the Ohio, patrols or scouts, would afford all the satisfaction to the settlements which could be derived from defensive measures; but it is only from offensive measures that full security could be obtained. ■ The various tribes seated on the Wabash river, extending up to the Miami village, and the several branches of that river, are the Indians from whom the settlements of Kentucky principally receive injury. But these depredations, although perhaps effected with impunity as to the actual perpetrators, are not so to the Indians generally: for.the whites frequently make incursions into the Wabash country northwest of the Ohio, and it is probable that indiscriminate revenge is wreaked on all bearing the name of Indians. lienee a difficulty arises on the part of the. United States, which requires a serious consideration. That the people of Kentucky are entitled to be defended, there can be no doubt. But, as there seems to have been such a prevalence of hostilities as to render it uncertain who are right or who are wrong, the principles of justice, which ought to dictate the conduct of every nation, seems to forbid the idea of attempting to extirpate the Wabash Indians, uutil it shall appear that they cannot be brought to treat on reasonable terms. If, after a treaty should be effected with them, it should be violated, or, after an invitation to a treaty, it should be refused, and followed by hostilities, the United States will clearly have the right to inflict that degree of punishment which may be necessary to deter the Indians from any future unprovoked aggressions. If this statement bejust, it would follow that the Governor of the Western territory should be instructed to attempt to effect a general treaty with the said AVabash tribes, on terms of mutual advantage. If they should refuse, and continue, or suffer a continuance, from any of their neighboring tribes, of the depredations upon the district of Kentucky, the arms of tire Union ought to be exerted to chastise them. The statement hereunto' annexed. No. 3, will shew the application of the sum appropriated during the. last session of Congress to lndiairfreaties and Indian expenses; the sum remaining unexpended might be applied to a treaty with the AVabash Indians. Provisions must be furnished the Indians during the treaty. AAffiether any presents shall be added thereto, will depend on the decision of Congress. It seems to have been the custom of barbarous nations, in all ages, to expect and receive presents from those more civilized, and the custom seems confirmed by modern Europe, with respect to Morocco, Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli. The practice of the Bsritish government and its colonies, of giving presents to the Indians of North America, is well known. They seem to have been convinced that it was the cheapest and most effectual mode of managing the Indians. The idea of fear, or purchasing a peace, is not to be admitted, in the cases above stated, but the conduct appears to have been dictated by wise policy. A comparative view of the expenses of a hostile or conciliatory system towards the Indians, will evince the infinite economy of the latter over the former. The question then, on the point of presents, must be simply this: Is the situation of the United States such, with respect to the neighboring European colonies, as to render it good policy at this time to annihilate the Indian customs, and expectations of receiving presents, and thereby disgusting them in such a manner as to induce them to connect themselves more closely with the said colonies? If it should be decided to the contrary, the estimate of the Governor ot the Western territory for the object of the Wabash Indians, No. 4, would shew the sum required, from which, however, must be’deducted the balance remaining from the appropriation of the last year. Although the information is not sufficiently accurate whereon to form a decided opinion of the number of the Indian warriors within the limits of the United States, yet the evidence seems sufficient to warrant the supposition that they amount nearly to twenty thousand. If to this number we should add. for every warrior, three old men women and children, the total number would be eighty thousand . Since’ the United States became a nation, their conduct, and some of the States, towards the Indians, seems to have resulted from the impulses of the moment. Until the treaty effected at fort Harmar in January, 1789, it seemed a prevailing opinion that the Treaty uf Peace with Great Britain, instead of the pre-emption only, actually invested the United States with the absolute right to the I inlian territory, and in pursuance of this idea, treaties were made and boundaries allotted to the Indians. But, by the directions of Congress, of the 2nd of July. 1788, to the Governor of theW'estern territory, to extinguish the Indian claims to lands they had ceded to the United States, and to obtain regular conveyances of the same, it would appear, that they conceded the Indian right to the soil. The various opinions which exist on the proper mode of treating the Indians, require that some system should be established on the subject. That the Indians possess the natural rights of man. and that tlieyought not wantonly to be divested thereof, cannot be well denied. W ere these rights ascertained and declared by law; were it enacted that the Indians possess the right to all their territory which they have not fairly conveyed, and that they should not be divested thereof, but in consequence of open treaties, made under the authority of the United States, the foundation of peace and justice would be laid. The individual States claiming or possessing the right of pre-emption to territory, inhabited by Indians, would not be materially injured by such a declarative law; the exercise of their right would be restrained only when it should interfere with the general interests. Should any State, having the right of pre-emption, desire to purchase territory, which the Indians should be willing to relinquish, it would have to request the General Government to directa treaty for that purpose, at the expense, however, of the individual State requesting the same. But as Indian wars almost invariably arise in consequence of disputes relative to boundaries or trade, and as the rights of declaring war, making treaties, and regulating commerce, are vested in the United States, it is highly proper they should have the sole direction of all measures for the consequences of which they are responsible. I have the honor to be. sir, with the highest respect, your most obedient humble servant, II. KNOX, Secretary for the Department of War. The President of the United States. No. 1. din estimate of the expenses of an Jinny for one year, including the general staff, field and company officers, and „five thousand and forty non-eommissioned officers and privates. GENERAL STAFF. 1 Major General.    Pay, Per month. $200 Per year. 2 Aides-de-Camp.    Subsistence, Forage, Pay, 96 36 40 80 3,984 2 Brigadier Generals.    Subsistence, Forage, Pay, 20 40 12 24  144 100 200 1,728 2 Aides-de-Camp.    Subsistence. Forage, Pay, 48 96 18 36 —-332 40 80 3,984 1 Adjutant General.    Subsistence, Forage, Pay,. 20 40 12 24  144 75 1.728 1 Deputy Adjutant General.    Subsistence, Forage, Pay, 32 18  125 40 1,500 I Inspector General.    Subsistence, Forage, Pay, 20 12 ‘ i ~ 75 864 1 Deputy Inspector.    Subsistence, Forage, Pay, 32 18  125 40 1,500 1 Quartermaster General.    Subsistence. F’orage, Pay, 20 12 75 864 2 Deputy Quartermasters. . -    Subsistence, Forage, Pay, 32 18  125 40 80 1.500 1 Chief Physician and Director.    Subsistence, Forage, Pay, 20 40 12 24  144 75 1,728 9    Subsistence, Forage, 32 18  125 1,500 Per month.  Per year. 1 Chief Surgeon. Pay, 75 Subsistence, 32 Forage, 18 — 125 1,500 1 Apothecary and Purveyor. Pay, 40 Subsistence, ( 20 Forage, 12 72 864 1 Chaplain. ' - Pay, 40 Subsistence, 20 Forage, 12 — 72 864 REGIMENTAL OFFICERS. For six regiments of Infantry, one regiment of Cavalry, and two companies of Artillery. FIELD AND REGIMENTAL STAFF. Per month. Per year. 7 Lieutenant Colonels Commandant. Pay, 75 525 Subsistence, 32 224 Forage, 18 126 875 s 10,500 14 Majors. ..... Fay, 40 560 ' * Subsistence, 20 280 Forage, 12 168 1,008 12,096 7 Paymasters. ..... Pay, 10 70 7 Adjutants. ..... Pay, 10 70 7 Quartermasters. .... Pay, 10 70 210 2,520 For the above, twenty-one rations of forage per month,  06  126 1,512 7 Surgeons. - - - -   - Pay, Subsistence, 45 315 16 112  * Forage 06 42  , — 469 5,628 14 Surgeon’s Mates. .... Pay, 30 420 Subsistence, 8 112 — 532 6,384 COMPANY OFFICERS. 72 Captains. 74 Lieutenants. 70 Ensigns and Cornets. \ Pay, 35 Subsistence, 12 Pay, 26 Subsistence, 8 Pay, 20 Subsistence, 8 2,520 864   3,384 1,924 592   2,516 1,400 560   1,960 40,608 30,192 23,520 Two companies of Artillery. 8 Sergeants. 8 Corporals. 4 Musicians.' 120 Privates. -   Pay, 5 Pay, 4 Pay,. 3 Pay, 3 40 32 12 360 444 5,328 One regiment of Cavalry. 40 Sergeants. 40 Corporals. 20 Musicians. 600 Privates. . -   Pay, 5 , - Fay. 4 Pay, 3 Pay, 3 200 160 60 1,800    2,220 26,640 Six regiments of Infantry. 240 Sergeants. 240 Corporals. 120 Musicians. 3600 Privates. - -   Pay, 5 Pay, 4 Pay, 3 Pay, 3 1,200 960 . 360 10,800  13,320 \ 159,840 From which deduct one dollar and twenty-five cents from each sergeant and corporal per month, for clothing, and ten cents from each, for hospital stores; also, 90 cents from eacn musician and private, for clothing, and ten cents from each for hospital stores, which will, for clothing, amount to --------- - And for hospital stores, - - - - - - ’ - Jiations for 5,040 non-commissioned officers and privates, 365 days, one ration per day, is 1,839,600 rations, at twelve cents per ration, - - Clothing—5,040 suits, at 20 dollars each, ------- Hospital Department, ---------- Horses— For the cavalry, 700, at 75 dollars each, Forage for TOO horses, at 5 dollars each per month, for one year, - Horse-furniture and equipments, at 20 dollars, ...... 46,044 6,048 ---- 52,092 220,752 100,800 6,000 52,500 42.000 14.000 ------ 108,500 Quartermaster's Department. Tents, axes, camp-kettles, wagons, horses, pack-horses, boats, and every means for the transportation ol the army, may be rated at------ - 300,000 The artillery, arms, ammunition, and accoutrements, are not particularly estimated, they being generally in the public possession, but may be rated at ----- 120,000 Total. $1,152,836 H. KNOX, Secretary for the Department of War. w ar Office, December Sis/. 1789. No. 2. An estimate of the annual expense of a corps. to consist of two regiments of Infantry, of ten companies each, ana one battalion of .Artillery of four companies, each company to be composed of four sergeants, four corporals, two musicians, and sixty privates, amounting in the whole to one thousand six hundred and eighty non-commissioned officers and privates. 1 Brigadier General. 2 Lieutenant Colonels Commandant. 4 Majors. - 1 Major Commandant of Artillery. 2 Paymasters, 2 Adjutants, 2 Quartermasters. 2 Surgeons. .... 5 Mates. 20 Captains of Infantry. 20 Lieutenants. - - - - 20 Ensigns. 4 Captains of Artillery. -8 Lieutenants of ditto. Per month. Per year. - - Pay, 100 Subsistence, 48 Forage. 18 — 166 1,992 - - Pay, 75 150 Subsistence, 32 64 Forage, 18 36 — 250 3,000 - - Pay. 40 160 Subsistence. 20 80 Forage. 12 48 288 3,456 - - Pay, 50 Subsistence. 20 Forage. 12 — 82 984 - Pay $10. forage $6 each. is 96 1.152 - - Pay. 45 90 Subsistence, 16 32 Forage. 6 12 — 134 1.608 - - Pay. 30 150 Subsistence, 8 40 — 190 2.280 - - Pay, 35 700 Subsistence. 12 240 — 940 11,280 - - Pay. 26 520 Subsistence. 8 160 — 680 8,160 - - Pay, 20 400 Subsistence, 8 160 — 560 6,720 - - Pay, 35 140 Subsistence, 12 48 — 188 2.256 - - Pay. 26 208 Subsistence, 8 64 —  3,264 Two regiments of Infantry. $46,152 80 Sergeants. - - - Pay.  400 80 Corporals. - - - Pay, 4 320 40 Musician^. - - - Pay. 3 120 1200 Privates.  - - Pay. 3 3,600 One battalion of .Artillery. 16 Sergeants. - - _ Pay. 0 80 960 16 Corporals. - - - Pay. 4 64 768 8 Musicians. ’ - - - Pay. 3 24 288 240 Privates. - - - Fay. 3 720 8,640 63,936 From which deduct one dollar and twenty-five cents from each sergeant and corporal’s pay per month, for clothing, and ten cents per month from each, for hospital stores; and also, ninety cents per month, from the pay of each musician and private, for clothing, and ten cents from each, per month, for hospital stores, which will, for clothing, amount to 18,749 And for hospital stores, to ------- 2,016 ------- 20,765 Clothing.—1,680 suits, at 20 dollars. - Ilations.—1,680 rations per day. for 365 days. 613,200. at 12 cents, 4,800 3,840 1,440 43,200 43, in 33,600 73,584 Total, $196,507 The annual expense of the present establishment; pay, subsistence, and forage, to the officers, and pay to 840 noncommissioned officers and privates, viz: To sergeants six, corporals and musicians five, and to privates four dollars per month, and clothing annually, ------- $90,164 Rations annually, - - - - - - - - - 36,792 ---------- $126,956 The annual expense of the proposed establishment; the pay, subsistence, and forage to officers, and pay to 1,680 non-commissioned officers and privates, as reduced, viz: sergeants five, corporals four, musicians ami privates three dollars per month, from which is to be deducted the sums already noted for clothing and hospital stores, and their clothing annually, $ 112,923 Rations annually, - - - - - - - - - 73,584 -----------$186,507 The difference is ----- $59,551 00 Note. The relative value of a Colonel, in a tariff for the exchange of prisoners during the late war, being much higher than a Lieutenant Colonel, and there being but few of the rank of Colonel in the British army employed in America, occasioned the present arrangement of field officers to a regiment, consisting of a Lieutenant Colonel Commandant and two Majors. But, as the troops on the frontiers may act with militia commanded by Colonels, the Lieutenant Colonels may be superseded in their command by militia officers, to the extreme prejudice of the service. The idea, therefore, is submitted, to recur to the former arrangement of field officers to a regiment, to wit: a Colonel, a Lieutenant Colonel, and a Major. ''Fhe only difference of expense will be fourteen dollars per month to the Lieutenant Colonel, in addition to the pay and emoluments of a major, as the Lieutenant Colonels Commandant were entitled to the pay and emoluments of a full Colonel. H. KNOX, War Office, December 31st, 1789. ’ Secretary for the Department of Tf 'ar. No. 3. Statement of $20,000 appropriated by Congress on the 20th August, 1789, for the expense of negotiations with the Indian tribes. Expended by the commissioners, as per their statement rendered the Auditor, . - - - $5,842 95 ♦Provisions and Indian goods deposited by the commissioners in Georgia, and the expenses thereon, 8,280 14 Advanced the superintendent of the northern department, for the uses thereof, - - 500 00 Expenses incurred in equipping George M. White Eyes, an Indian youth of the Delaware tribe, in . order to return to liis own country, he having been educated by order, and at the expense of the United States, - -- -- -- -- -- , 425 51 $15,048,60 Balance unexpended,. - - 4,951 40 $ 20,000 00 H. KNOX. War Office, 31st December, 1789. Secretary for the Department of (Car. No. 4. Estimate of the expense ivith which a Treaty with the Indians of the Wabash and Miami rivers ivouhl probably be attended. Their numbers are supposed to be from twelve to fifteen hundred men. Indian goods, assorted, to the value of -Stores and necessaries. Transportation, - - - Messengers and interpreters, Storekeepers, - - - - Commissioner’s wages, Contingencies, - - - - $6,000 00 650 00 2,500 00 1,000 00 300 00 500 00 200 00 $11,150 00 The provisions cannot be estimated at less than thirty thousand rations, which, at contract price, will amount to ----------- - 5,000 00 Many circumstances may occur to occasion the expenditure of a larger quantity of provisions; a lesser quantity ought not to be reckoned upon. r AR. ST. CLAIR. June 14, 1789. Balance unexpended of the appropriation of the 20th August, 1789, .- The sum, in case of a treaty, would be required, $16,150 00 $4,951 40 $11,199 60 H. KNOX, Secretary of War. * The commissioners stored the Indian goods in Georgia, in order that they might be ready if a treaty should be held in the spring. The provisions, and other articles liable to waste and damage, were directed to be sold, and the whole accounted for, and subject to the order of the Secretary of War. Instructions to the Commissioners for treating with the Southern Indians. To Benjamin Lincoln, Cyrus Griffin, and David Humphreys. Esq'rs. Commissioners Plenipotentiary for negotiating and concluding treaties of peace with the independent tribes or nations of Indians within the I units of the United States, south of the rirer Ohio. Gentlemen: The' United States consider it as an object of high national importance, not only to be at peace with the powerful tribes or nations of Indians south of the Ohio, but, if possible, by a just and liberal system of policy, to conciliate and attach them to the interests of the Union. In order, therefore, that you may be possessed of all the information relative to the Southern Indians contained in the public documents, you have herewith delivered to you. copies of die following papers, to wit: The several statements which have been made on the subject from the war office, to which are added, copies of the treaties which have been made by the United States with the Cherokees, Chickasaw?, and Choctaws, and the commissioners* reports thereon: the proceedings and reports of James White, Esq. superintendent for the Southern district ; the reports of Messrs. Winn and Martin, temporary superintendents; the resolves of Congress, under which commissioners have been appointed by the States of North Carolina, South Carolina, aud Georgia, and the said commissioners' reports; and. also, certain papers transmitted by Georgia against Joseph Martin, one of the aforesaid temporary commissioners. The tirst great object of your mission is to negotiate and establish peace between the State of Georgia and the ^ Creek nation. The w hole nation must he fully represented, and solemnly acknowledged to he so by the Creeks themselves. You will find the ostensible, and probably the real cause of hostilities between Georgia and the Creeks, to consist in a difference of judgment of three treaties, stated to have been made between the said parties, to wit: At. Augusta, in 1783; at Galphinton. in 1785: and at Slioulderboue. in 17SG: copies of which you have herewith delivered to you. It is a circumstance of the highest consequence, to investigate thoroughly.all the facts under which the said treaties were made. The official papers will afford you great information on this subject. On the one side, the objections against the justice of said treaties, are stated in the several communications of Mr. McGillivray, and the communications of the Lower Creeks to Mr. V, bite, the superintendent. , On the other side, the statement made by the Legislature of Georgia, contains the reasons in support of the treaties. The opinion of the commissioners of the United States of the treaty ot Galphinton. is contained in their reports; and the communications of James White, Esq. the superintendent, will show his judgment on the case. But, in addition to all these written evidence?, it may he proper, in order that the investigation be conducted with the most perfect impartiality, to have such viva voce testimony as can he obtained. For this purpose, you will request the Governor and Legislature of Georgia, if in session, to authorize such person or persons to attend the treaty as lie or they may think proper, in order to give you such information as you may request, from time to time, of the transactions relative to said treaties. You will also endeavor to ascertain the facts relative to the said treaties, from the Creeks. And you will further endeavor to obtain information, on oath, of the manner in w hich the said treaties were held, from such unprejudiced respectable private characters, who were present at the said treaties, as you shall he able to find. The main points to he ascertained, are— 1st. Whether all the lands belonging to the Upper and Lower Creeks arc the common property of the w hole nation? Or, 2d. Were the lands stated to have been ceded to Georgia by i he three treaties, or either of them, acknowledged by the Upper Creeks to be the sole property of tlu* Lower Creeks? 3d. Merc the acknowledged proprietors of the lands, stated to have been ceded to Georgia, present, or fully represented, at the said three treaties? 4th. Did the Creeks, present at the said treaties, act w ith a full understanding of the cessions they are stated to have made? 5th. Were the said treaties and cessions freely made on the part of the Creeks, uninfluenced by any threats or implication of force? These circumstances, and all others connected therein, must he critically examined into, in order that you may form your judgment on the said treaties w ith the greatest accuracy. If the result of your investigation should he. that the said three treaties, and the cessions of land therein contained, were made by a full and authorized representation of the Creek nation, or that the cessions of land was obtained with the full understanding and free consent of the acknow ledged proprietors, and that there were no circumstances of unfairness or constraint of any sort, used to induce the Creeks to make the_ cessions to Georgia, in this case precisely, you are to in.-ist on a formal renewal and confirmation of the said cessions to Georgia, or such parts thereof as you shall find just. If the Creeks, after hearing all your arguments for the renewal of the said treaties, su far as the same may respect the confirmation of -uch parts of the cessions of land contained therein, as you shall have adjudged just and equitable, should obstinately refuse to confirm the same to Georgia, then you are to inform them (hat the arms of the Union w ill he called forth for the protection of Georgia, in the peaceable and just possession of said lands; and in case the Creeks attempt any molestation or injury to Georgia, that they will he deemed the enemies of the United States, and punished accordingly. _ But if it should result from your inquiries, that the said treaties and cessions were obtained, on the part o( Georgia, under such circumstances as to preclude the interference of the United States, consistently with their justice and dignity, you are not to urge or persuade the Creeks to a renewal or confirmation thereof. It is, however, to he observed, that Georgia has proceeded on the principle that the cession stated to have been made at Augusta, in 1783, was fairly obtained; and that the said State has surveyed and di\ ided the lands between the Ogeclice and Oconee among certain descriptions ol its citizens; that the said citizens hat e settled and planted on said lands in great numbers. Should, therefore, the result of your investigation be unfavorable to the claims of Georgia, it woulubc highly embarrassing to that State to relinquish the said lands to the Creeks. Hence it will be an important accommodation to Georgia to obtain from the Creeks a regular conveyance ol the said lands lying between the Ogeclice and Oconee. To accomplish this object, therefore, you are specially required to use your highest exertions with the Creeks. On your success materially depends the internal peace of Georgia, and probably its attachment to the General Government of the United States. If the prejudices of the Creeks against the United States are not too deeply rooted, it is presumed that such advantages to that nation can he stipulated as to induce them not only to relinquish to Georgia the lands in question, but to attach them sincerely and permanently to the United States. The disputed lands being entirely despoiled of their game by the settlements, are therefore no longer valuable to the Creeks as limiting grounds. If they have not been fairly purchased of the real proprietors by Georgia, it ought to be done. In case the Creeks, ’therefore, would he willing to make a proper conveyance for a given sum, you will stipulate that the same shall be paid by Georgia at a certain period, or, in case o( failure, by the United States. While negotiating the price to be given for the said land, you will have due regard to the sums which Georgia actually paid at the treaty of Augusta, to the present value of the lands as hunting grounds, and to the other considerations hereafter specified. In this part of the negotiation, it would be desirable that the persons who may be appointed by the Governor or Legislature of Georgia to attend the treaty, should concur with you as to the sum which, in case of purchase, shall he stipulated to be given. In addition to the purchase money for the lands, and for the further great purpose of attaching the Creeks to the United States, provided the same, in your mature judgments, should be necessary, you are hereby empowered to make the following stipulations: 1st. A secure port to the Creeks, or their head men, [on the Altamaha, St. Mary’s, or any place between the said rivers, into which, or from which, the Creeks may import or export the articles of merchandise necessary to the Indian commerce, on the same terms as the citizens of the United States. The number of arms and quantity ot ammunition, however, to be regulated by the quantity that shall be regarded as necessary for the hunters. If any apprehension should be entertained on the part of the Creeks on account of the safety of the goods'which they might so import or export, it may be stipulated that the same should be protected by a company ol the regular troops of the United States. . ‘ , "The trade of the Creeks is said at present to be engrossed by a company of British merchants, stationed at one of the Bahama islands, who have connected Mr. McGillivray with them as a partner. The Spaniards have permitted some of the rivers which empty into the Gulf of Mexico to be the eliannel of this trade for a certain number of years. Some impediments or impositions of duties appear to have disgusted Mr. McGillivray with the Spaniards, or with the communication, and renders him desirous,of a port in the United States. If these circumstances could be the means of breaking his connexion with the Spanish colonies, it would be wise policy to afford the Creeks a port, and to protect them in every thing relative thereto. , 1 2ndly. Gifts in goods, or money to some, and, if necessary, honorary military distinctions to others, of the influential chiefs. The presents will be regulated by your judgment. The idea of military distinction arises from the infonnation that Mr. McGillivray.possesses a commission of Colonel or Lieutenant Colonel from the King of Spain. If he could be induced to resign that commission by the offer of one a grade higher, the offer ought to be made and substantiated, on his taking a solemn.oath of allegiance to the United States. ‘ _ v Mr. McGillivray is stated to possess great abilities, an unlimited influence over the Creek nation, and part of the Cherokees. It is an object worthy of considerable exertion to attach him warmly to the’United States. The measure could be attempted and urged with great propriety, as it respects his fidelity to the Creeks, and the continuance of his own importance in that nation. The. United States do not want the Creek lands ,: they desire only to be friends and protectors of the Creeks, nnd to treat them with humanity and justice. In case you should be satisfied of his compliance with your desires, yon will deliver him the presents which are particularly designated for him, and also give him assurances of such pecuniary rewards from the United States as you may think reasonable, consequent on the evidence of his future favorable conduct. 3rdly. If you should find the measure necessary, in order to accomplish the before recited objects, you will further stipulate a solemn guarantee of the United States to the Creeks of their remaining territory, to be supported, if necessary, by a line ot military posts. „ This measure will, most probably, be highly satisfactory to the Creeks, as it will entirely prevent any attempts to purchase any part of their lands, and it will, at the same time, impress them with the moderation and justice of the General Government. If these offers, with all the benefits resulting therefrom, should be insufficient to induce the Creeks to agree, voluntarily, to relinquish the disputed lands between the Ogeechee and Oconee rivers, you cannot, with propriety, make a tender of more favorable conditions. In this event, however, you may endeavor to conclude a treaty, and establish therein a temporary boundary', making the Oconee the line—to stipulate the secure port, and the pecuniary and honorary considerations before recited. You will establish the principle, in case of concluding a treaty, that the Creeks, who are within the limits of the. United States, acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other sovereign whosoever ; and, also, that they are not to hold any treaty with an individual State, nor with individuals of any State. You will also endeavor, without making it an ultimatum, to establish.such direct trade as the Government of the Union shall authorize. This point, however, is to be managed with the greatest delicacy, for the before recited reasons. In the general objects of the restoration of prisoners, negroes, &e. you will conform to the treaties of Hopewell with the Cherokees, Chickasaws, and Choctaws. You will, also, endeavor to obtain a stipulation for certain missionaries, to reside in the nation, provided the General Government should think proper to adopt the measure. These men to be precluded from trade, or attempting to purchase any lands, but to have a certain reasonable quantity, per head, allowed for the purpose of cul tivation. The object of this establishment would be the happiness of the Indians, teaching them the great duties of religion and morality, and to inculcate a friendship and attachment to the United States. If, alter you have made your communications to the Creeks, and you are persuaded that you are fully understood by them, they should refuse to treat and conclude a peace, on the terms you propose, it may be concluded that they are decided on a continuance of acts of hostility, amd that they ought to be guarded against as the determined I enemies of the United States. In this case, you will report such plans, both for defensive and offensive measures, so as best to protect the citizens of the United States on the frontiers, from any acts of injury or hostility of the Creeks. Although the policy of attaching iniluential chiefs by pecuniary or honorary considerations, may not be doubted, yet it has been otherwise, with respect to making presents to the commonalty among the Indians. In case, therefore, you find that the Creeks are willing to relinquish the land between the Ogechee and Oconee, on further payments for the same, you will endeavor to stipulate, that the mass of the goods you have in charge for the treaty, should be received by the Indians as part, of the whole of the consideration for the conveyance of the said lands, as you shall judge proper. Messrs. Osborne and Pickens have, in their report of the 30th June last, stated, that they have agreed to hold a general treaty with the Creeks at the Rock Landing, on the Oconee river, in the State of Georgia, on the 15th of September next ensuing: you will make every exertion to be there at that time. Immediately on your arrival at Savannah you will arrange the transportation by land or water, of the goods and provisions under your direction, to the place of treaty, or towards the same, so as to arrive with all possible expedition. At the same time, you will despatch expresses to the Governor, notifying him of your commission and arrival, and also to Messrs. Osborne and Pickens; and as soon after as possible, you will repair to the place affixed for treating. TheJ:roops and the goods may follow'agreeably to your directions. Perhaps you may change the place of treaty, to some place tcPwliich your goods might be transported with greater facility than the Rock Landing on the Oconee river. But, notwithstanding your greatest exertions, it may happen that your arrival maybe so retarded, that Messrs. Pickens and Osborne may have held a treaty,.and the Indians may have departed to their own country. In this case you will carefully enquire, whether there were present at the treaty, a full representation of the whole Creek nation, and particularly Mr. McGillivray, and whether the treaty was made under such circumstances as to be consistent with the justice of the United States, and conformable to the spirit of their instructions. If so. you will confirm and ratify the same, in as full a manner as if you had been actually present. But, if an inadequate representation only should have been present, or any circumstances should have been adopted, ol which the United States could not with justice and dignity approve, in this case you will use your best endeavors to persuade the Creeks to attend a new treaty, at such place and at such time as you may judge proper. You will observe the same conduct to collect the Creeks, in case it should appear that they, from any circumstances, are disinclined to attend generally the treaty on the 15th of September, or provided your arrival should be posterior to that period, and you shall learn they did not attend, agreeably to the invitation of Messrs. Pickens and Osborne. During your negotiations with the Creeks, you will endeavor to ascertain the following points: 1st. The number of warriors in the whole nation, including Upper and Lower Creeks and Seminoles. 2d. Whether they are armed with common and ritle muskets, or in any other manner, and how furnished with ammunition. 3d. The number of each division of Upper Creeks, Lower Creeks, and Seminoles. 4th. The number of women and children and old men in each district. 5th. The number of towns in each district. 6th. The names, characters, and residence, of the most influential chiefs; and. as far as the same may be. their grades of influence. 7th. The kinds of government, if any, of the towns, districts, and nations. 8th. Whether they are hunters only, or whether they cultivate and possess cattle, if so. the degree of cultivation and number of cattle. 9th. The usual hunting grounds of the whole nation and their districts. 10th. The kinds and value of furs taken annually, and how disposed of. 11th. The amount of the European goods annually consumed. 12th. Whether ginseng abounds in that country; if so. whether it is gathered in any considerable quantities. 13th. To ascertain the nature of the country west from Georgia to the Mississippi: whether mountainous, hilly, level, or abounding with low grounds and morasses—the nature of the soil and growth. 14th. To ascertain particularly, how far northward the waters of the Mobile, Apalachicola, and Altamaha rivers, are navigable for boats, and the nearest land portages from the northern navigable streams of said rivers, to the southern navigable waters or streams of the Tennessee river. The accurate knowledge of tins subject is of considerable importance, but the inquiries thereto should be circuitously conducted. 15th. To ascertain with great precision the nature of the connexion of the Creeks with the Spaniards, and. if practicable, to obtain copies of any treaties between them; whether the predominating prejudices of the Creeks are in favor, or against the Spaniards, and particularly the state of Mr. McGillivray's mind on this subject. 16th. You will endeavor, as far as your opportunities will admit, to ascertain similar facts relative to the Cherokces, Chickasaws, and Choctaws, as are contained in the before recited requests relative to the Creeks. In case of your concluding a treaty with the Creeks, and it should be your judgment that a line of military posts would be necessary to the due observance thereof.'and also as a security of the peace of the Cherokces, you will ' report a plan for the stations which should be taken, and the number of troops which should occupy each. 'I'lie people who are settled on Cumberland river have just cause of complaints against the Creeks, who have, during the present year, murdered several families within that district. The Creeksean have nocause of complaint against that settlement. This circumstance is to be strongly stated to the Creeks, and in case of a continuance of their murders, the vengeance of the Union is to be denounced against them. The peculiar case of the Cherokces seems to require the immediate interposition of the justice of the United States. But as that nation of Indians are principally resident within the territory claimed by North Carolina, which is not a member of the present Union.it may be doubted'whether any efficient measures in favor of the Cherokces could be adopted immediately. By the public newspapers it appears, that, on the 16th June last, a truce was concluded with the Cherokces by Mr. John Steele, on behalf of the State of North Carolina. In this truce a treaty was stipulated to be held as soon as possible; and in the mean time, all hostilities should cease on both sides. In the event of North Carolina adopting the constitution of the United States, it will be incumbent on the General Government to take every wise measure to rarry into effect the substance of the treaty of Hopewell; in the mean time, you will send a message to the Cherokces, stating to them the difficulties arising from the local claims of North Carolina, as far as the same may be proper. That, when these shall be removed, the United States will convince the Cherokces of their justice and friendship. You will also transmit a message to the whites in the neighborhood of the Cherokces, enjoining an observance of the truce made by Mr. Steele, until a general treaty shall take place, when justice shall be administered to all parties. The two Cherokces who have lately come to this city, with their conductor, Mr. Beunet Ballew.are to go under your direction to the place of treaty. Good policy requires that they should be kindly treated, although there arc suspicions that the conduct of Beunet Ballcvv has not been very proper with respect to the lands of the Cherokces. You will endeavor to ascertain his real character and designs, and make such use of him as you shall think proper. You have delivered to you copies of the papers which Mr. Ballew presented from the Cherokces. The treaties with the Choctaws and Chickasaws will inform you of the stipulations of the United States to extend trade to those nations. You will report a'plan for carrying into effect the said stipulations, and you will also transmit to the said nations messages containing assurances of the continuance of the friendship of the United States, and of the intentions of the General Government of extending the trade to them, agreeably to the treaties of Hope-well. You will have regular invoices of alt articles delivered to you for the proposed treaty, and you will keep fair accounts of all your disbursements, which you will regularly settle at the treasury of the United States. And in all cases where the same may be proper, consistently with the secrecy necessary to be observed, the delivery of the goods ought to be attested by the commissioned ofbeers of the troops, who should attend the commissioners. You will also keep a regular journal of your transactions, and report the same. It is presumed that you will conduct all your disbursements by that proper economy so necessary to be observed in all transactions of the General Government. You will learn, by the papers delivered to you, that certain goods were left by the commissioners after the treaties at Hopewell, in the commencement of the year 1786. It is probable that these goods may have been delivered to Messrs. Pickens and Osborne; you will, therefore, apply to said gentlemen for regular invoices of all the goods in their possession, for the treaty, distinguishing the means by which they became possessed thereof. You will also request of them an account of the moneys or goods they may have received of the States of South Carolina and Georgia, in consequence of the resolves of Congress, of the 26th October, 1787. and August 14, 178S. As the said Messrs. Pickens and Osborne will most probably be at the proposed place of treaty, with the expectation of conducting the same, you will deliver them the letter containing the reasons of Government for appointing new commissioners. Were there any services at the. treaty, in which you could employ them, it might be proper so to do. You will endeavor to avail yourselves, as far as may be, of any arrangements which may have been taken by Georgia, for the supplies of provisions during the holding of the treaty, or for furnishing the means of transportation, for which the said State will have creel it on the before recited requisitions of Congress, of the 26th October, 1787. and the 14th of August, 1788. You will please to observe, that the whole sum that can be constitutionally expended for the proposed treaty with the Creeks, shall not exceed the sum of twenty thousand dollars—the goods and money which have been delivered to you, and the expenses which will arise, by the removal and return of the troops, and your own pay, will amount to----. You will, therefore, see the necessity of economizing your means, and that the same cannot be extended. It is, however, to be observed, that the sums you shall think proper to stipulate to the Creeks, for the cessions of the lands between the Ogcchee andOconee, is to be considered additional to the said twenty thousand dollars. You will, from time to time, communicate your progress to the Secretary of the War Department, and receive such further directions from him, as the case may require. The company of artillery, commanded by Captain Burbeck, will accompany you to the place of treaty, and be under your orders. As soon as the treaty shall be finished, you will take the proper measures for the return of the -- company to this place, as the time of service will soon expire. The company will receive one month and a half’s pay. and be furnished with three months’ rations, which you will cause to be transported as the service may. require. These instructions will be the governing principles of your conduct, and they are to be regarded as secret. But many circumstances may arise, which may render some degree of modification necessary. In every event, however, you will please to remember, that the Government of the United States are determined, that their administration of Indian affairs shall be directed entirely by the great principles of justice and humanity. As soon as you have concluded your negotiations with the Creeks, and forwarded your messages as herein directed, you will return to this place, and make a full report of all your transactions to the .Secretary of the War Department. Given under my hand, at the city of New York, this 29th of August. 1789. GEO. WASHINGTON. By command of the President of the United States: H. KNOX. A. Report of the Commissioners for treating with the Southern Indians. New Yoke, 17th November, 1789. Sir: - _ _ We have kept a regular journal of our negotiations with the Creek nation, and now make a full report of the mission to you. as Secretary of the. War Department. We are, sir, with great respect, your most obedient humble servants, B. LINCOLN. CYRUS GRIFFIN. D. HUMPHREYS. To the Honorable Henry Knox,'Esq. A report of the proceedings of the Commissioners of the United States of America, for restoring and establishing peace and amity, between the United States and all nations of Indians situated within the limits of the said States, southward of the river Ohio. On the 31st day of August last, we sailed from New York, and arrived at Savannah in the night of the 10th of September. In conformity to our instructions on the 11th. we wrote the following letters, to the Governor of the State of Georgia, and to Messrs. Pickens and Osborne, the commissioners then at the Rock Landing. “Savannah, 11 th September, 1789-“Sir: _ _ _ . We have been honored by the Supreme Executive of the United States, with the appointment of eomniis sinners plenipotentiary for negotiating and concluding a treaty of peace with the independent tribes_ or nations of Indians, within the limits of the United States, south of the river Ohio; and in consequence thereof, it becomes our duty, by the earliest opportunity, to communicate this information to your honor. In our negotiations, many subjects important to the interests of the State of Georgia will probably be discussed. Your honor will, therefore, if you should think the measure necessary, appoint some person or persons, the best informed in the nature of our business, to attend the commissioners, that they may, trom time to time, receive from them such information as may be necessary on the subject of their negotiations. The commissioners expect to leave this town on the morrow, and to be at Augusta with all possible despatch. In expectation that a large number of the natives would be at the Rock Landing, and Jest there might not be a full supply ot provisions to be obtained in the vicinity thereof, a very considerable quantity of salted provisions and flour were put on board of our vessels, the transportation of which, we find will be attended with great delay and expense. _ We shall, therefore, store a considerable proportion of it here, until your honor’s opinion can be known, whether there are high degrees of probability that fresh beef and Indian corn can be had at, or convenient to, the Rock Landing, sufficient to answer the great demands which, if is very certain, will be made for those articles. If such a probability shall not exist which shall fully satisfy your honor, the commissioners in that ease have to beg, that an express may be immediately forwarded to Major Habersham, requesting him to forward the whole of the flour in his hands, or such parts as you may think necessary, by water, to Augusta. As it is important that we should, as soon as possible, know the state of the supplies on which we are to rely while on the negotiation, and as we have been taught to expect that we should be aided essentially by this State, we must beg that your honor would order to be made out, for our own use, an invoice of such stores, the property of Georgia, as will be placed in our hands. We have the honor to be, sir, your honor’s most obedient servants, B. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN, D. HUMPHREYS. His honor the Governor of the State of Georgia.” “ Gentlemen: “Savannah, 11th September, 1789. Having been appointed commissioners plenipotentiary by the Supreme. Executive of the United States of America, for concluding treaties of peace and amity with the Indian nations, south of the Ohio, we thought proper to give you the earliest possible notice of our appointment. The reasons why it was deemed necessary that the characters employed in the execution of this business should not belong to any of the States bordering on those tribes of Indians with whom the treaties are proposed to be formed, will be fully, and, we trust, satisfactorily explained to you by the letter from the Secretary of War, which we shall have the honor of delivering into your hands. We have also to inform you that we shall set off from this place as early as we can possibly make the necessary arrangements, and reach you as soon as maybe. In the mean time, we earnestly hope and expect that you will not remit your endeavors to have every thing in readiness to give despatch and success to the negotiations; and you will please to communicate every necessary information to the Creek nation on the subject. We are convinced this will be the case, because the interest and happihess of the State of Georgia, not less than the dignity and honor of the United States, seem to require it. On our part, you will be assured, gentlemen, that we shall always take a particular pleasure in doing justice to your merits by making the most favorable representations of your public services, Being, with the greatest respect ana esteem, gentlemen, vour most obedient humble servants, B. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN, D. HUMPHREYS. The Honorable Andrew Pickens and 11. Osrorne, Esquires, Rock Landing. Immediately after writing these letters, we proceeded to make,the necessary arrangements relative to the transportation of ourselves, and also a part of the goods and provisions under our direction, to the place of treaty. Y\ e then despatched the. subsequent communication to the Secretary of War: “ Savannah, 12/7) September, 1789. “ Sir: We arrived here the night before last, after an unusually rough passage; the transport with the troops (all well) had been in port nearly two days. We learned upon our arrival, that Mr. McGillivray was actually on his way to the place for holding the treaty, and on the second day of this month, at a short distance from it. The number of the Indians who attend him, is said to be between three and four thousand. Our first care was to send an express to the Governor and the late commissioners, announcing our mission, and suggesting such arrangements as we deemed indispensable: particularly, we gave information to the Governor, that, from the difficulty of procuring the means of transportation, we should leave the'greatest part of the provisions which we had brought with us, at this place, unless in his judgment they should be absolutely necessary for supporting the Indians during the continuance of the treaty: in this case, he was requested to send back an express to Major Habersham, that consequent measures might be taken instantaneously. We found it impossible to hire horses, and.-therefore, have been obliged to purchase five to carry us forward. It was with great difficulty that we have obtained a few poor teams to transport the most essentially- necessary; articles; with the troops who will march by the route of Augusta to-morrow morning, the greater part of the remaining stores will at the same time proceed by water to that place: for which place we shall also commence our journey early in the morning. Mr. Ballcw. and the Indians with him, having expressed an earnest inclination of returning to their own country from hence, and as it would save a travel of at least two hundred miles, we have furnished them with the means of doing it, and have sent friendly messages to the Chickasaws, Choctaws, and Cherokees. by them. M e have likewise sent an address to the white people of the State of North Carolina, bordering on the country inhabited by the latter. The captains of the sloops which came with, us to this place having insisted upon receiving their money here, we have accordingly paid them. We have the honor to be. sir, your obedient humble servants. R. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN, 1). HUMPHREYS. The Honorable the Secretary of I far."From Savannah we transmitted friendly talks to the Cherokees. Chickasaws. and Choctaws, expressed in the following words: ,7 -message to the Cherokee nation of Indians, from the commissioners plenipotentiary for restoring and establishing peace and amity between the I hated States of America and all the Indian nations sitnated within, the limits of the said States, southward of the river Ohio: Brothers of the Cherokee nation! We have been made very happy, by receiving information from the public newspapers, that, on the lGth of June last, a truce was concluded with your nation by the commissioner of North Carolina, on behalf of that State, and that, in this truce, a treaty was stipulated to be held as soon as possible, and in the mean time, that all hostilities should cease on both sides. M hereupon, we. the commissioners plenipotentiary aforesaid, do think proper to confirm the said truce, and to give the strongest assurances of the friendly (lispodtions of the United States towards the Cherokee nation: and we nave made the same known to all those whom it might concern, and particularly to all the inhabitants of the frontiers bordering on the Cherokee' towns and settlements; declaring, in consequence ol the full powers vested in us by the Supreme Executive of the United States of America, that it is the sincere intention of the said States to cultivate a friendly intercourse between our citi/.eiis and your people, and strictly enjoining an observance of the truce aforesaid upon the former. Head-men and warring chiefs or all the Cherokees. hearken to what we have to say to you! Notwithstanding there arc some difficulties, arising from the local claims of North Carolina, which prevent us at present from writing to you. so fully as we could wish : yet we would not omit so good an opportunity to assure you, by the return of your beloved man Mr. Rennet Hallow,and y our helm ed chief. Nontowaky, that, when those difficulties shall be removed, the General Government of the United States will be desirous of taking every wise measure to carry into effect the substance of the treaty of Hopewell, as well as to convince you of their justice and friendship. Now, Brothers! we hav e nothing more to add at this time, except that we wish you all the happiness w hich w e wish to the most dear of our own fijlow-citi/.ens; and that we will send to you another message on the subject ot public affairs, before we. shall return to the beloved city of Congress. Irom whence we came. Done at Savannah, under onr bauds and seals, this 13th day of September, in the year of our Lord i 789. and in the 14 th year of the independence of the United States ol America. B. LINCOLN. C. GRIFFIN, 1). HUMPHREYS. Attest, I). S. Franks, Secy."' Jt Message to the Chiclcasuw nation of Indians. from the commissioners plenipotentiary for restoring and establishing peace and amity between the United States of America and all the Indian nations situated within the limits of the. said Stales, southward of the river Ohio: Brothers of the Chickasaw nation: \Y care glad, by the return of your beloved man, Mr. Rennet Ballew, into your country, to assure you of the continuance of the strong friendship of the United States of America for your nation. We hope that the peace which was established between the commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States of America and the commissioners plenipotentiary of all the Chickasaws. at Hopewell on the Keovveo. the tenth day ol January, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty six, will last as long as the sun shall shine in the-Heaven, or the rivers run into the ocean. Brothers: We rejoice to inform you of many good things which have happened to our nation since that treaty; we have been fast recovering from the wounds that were made upon us by the British in,the late war. Our people are increasing in number every day. The white men in the other great continent begin more and more to respect us; we are at peace with all the world; a new and great council fire is kindled at our beloved city ol New York, where the old and the wise men, from all our States, come to consult and promote the prosperity of all America. * 10 ’ Our union is strong: for, Brothers, we think and act like one man; our great warrior, General Washington, who, you very well know, drove our enemies all beyond the great water, is now the head-man of all our councils, and the chief of all our warriors; he, by the advice of his wise counsellors, has commanded us to tell you, that the United States regard the red men with the same favorable eye that they do the white men, and that justice shall always be maintained equally between them. Now, head-men and wariung ciiiefs of all the Chickasaws, listen to us! We arc the mouth of the Union for you, and say that we are perfectly satisfied with your conduct since the treaty of Hopewell, and trust we have given you reason to be satisfied with ours. All that remains for both nations, is to continue to act the same open and friendly part. You, Brothers, may rest assured that your interests are always near to our hearts, and that, in conformity to the true intent and meaning of the eighth article of the said treaty, the General Government of the United States will, as soon as the circumstances may conveniently admit, take measures for extending more fully to the Chickasaws, the benefits and comforts arising from a well regulated and mutually advantageous trade. - Brothers, farewell: we wish you all the happiness and prosperity which we wish to our fellow citizens, the white men of the United States. _ Done at Savannah, under our hands and seals, this 13th day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine, and in the 14th year of the independence of the United States of America. B. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN. ' -D. HUMPHREYS. Attest, David S. Franks, Secretary.” A similar message, with the necessary alterations, was sent to the Choctaws. We also gave to Mr. Ballew, a copy of an address to the white inhabitants contiguous to the Cherokee nation, accompanied by the letter which follows it: “7'o all those whom it may concern, '“ The commissioners of the United-States of. America, for restoring and establishing peace and amity between the United States and all nations of Indians situated within the limits of the said States, southward of the river Ohio, send greeting: Forasmuch as we have been given to understand, that a truce hath lately been concluded at the War-ford, between the commissioners of the State of North Carolina, on the one part, and the head-men of .the Cherokees on the other; in expectation that a further negotiation for the purpose of establishing permanent peace and.tranquillity will take place, as soon as the circumstances may admit: and whereas we have sentan official messagelo the Cherokee nation, with full assurances of the continuation of the good disposition and friendly intentions of the United States towards them: Now, therefore, We the commissioners plenipotentiary aforesaid, do think proper to make the same known to all the inhabitants of the frontiers, bordering on the towns and settlements of the said Cherokee nation; and we do declare, in virtue of the full powers vested in us; by the Supreme Executive of the United States of America, that it is the sincere intention of the said United States to cultivate a friendly intercourse and perpetual harmony between the citizens of the United States and the Southern Indians on their frontiers, upon terms ot perfect equality and mutual advantage. We therefore enjoin an observance of the truce aforesaid, and further declare, that any infraction of the'tranquillity now subsisting between the said contracting parties, would directly contravene the manifest intention, and highly incur the displeasure, of the supreme authority of the United States of America. Done at Savannah, under our lianas and seals, this 13th day of September, in the year of our Lord 1789, and in the 14th year of the independence of the United States of America. B. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN. D. HUMPHREYS. Attest. David S. Franks, Sccretai'y.''“ Sir: “Savannah, 13th September, 1789. We have thought proper to entrust to your care, friendly messages from us, the commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States of America, for restoring and establishing peace arid amity between the United States and. all the Indian nations, situated within the limits of the said States, southward of the river Ohio, to the Cherokee, Chickasaw, and Choctaw nations of Indians, which you will be pleased to deliver to the great councils of their several nations. We have also given to you, for the satisfaction of the Cherokees, a copy of the address which we propose to transmit to the white inhabitants contiguous to the Cherokee nation. Relying upon your diligence and zeal to execute, with despatch and fidelity, the business that we have committed to you, we wish you a prosperous journey, and are, with due consideration, Sir, your most obedient humble servants, B. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN, 1). HUMPHREYS. Mr. Bennet Ballew.’’ On the 13th we left Savannah, and on the 17th arrived at Augusta. We announced our arrival to the Governor the same evening, and the next morning addressed to him the following note: Sir: “Augusta, 18/A September, 1789. We are extremely unhappy to find that your honor was so much indisposed as to prevent you from receiving company at I he time of our arrival last evening. We did not, therefore, trouble you with the letters we had in charge lor your honor, until this morning. We now take the earliest moment of laying them before you, with our best wishes for the re-establishment of your health. We have the honor to be, with sentiments of the highest consideration and esteem, Sir. your most obedient humble servants, B. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN, . D. HUMPHREYS. His Honor the Governor of the State of Georgia.-'To which his Honor was pleased to reply: “Augusta, \8th September, 1789. “ Sins: I am happy that you are arrived thus far on the business with which you are charged. Whilst we had Hater-ing expectations that the proposed treaty would have taken place with the Creeks, we feel an additional consolation in your appointment, from the knowledge you will derive, by the incidents of your negotiations, of all the causes of our complaints. Not having recently heard from the Rock Landing. I could not farther act on that part of your despatch of the 11th. respecting provisions, than by sending for the State agent to meet you at this place, whose arrival I expect every moment. Upon the other parts of that, and the whole of those of this morning, I shall he happy to see you before I go into council; and. as far as lies in my power, and I may respond for the Executive council, you may rely on the support of the Government, in the accomplishment of the objects of your mission. I have the honor to be, sirs, with much consideration, your most obedient humble servant. GEORGE WALTON. The Honorable the Commissioners Plenipotentiary for 7 negotiating with the Indians south of the Ohio.5 After a free conversation will) the Governor, on the objects of the mission, he wrote us a note, enclosing an act of the Council of the same date. “Augusta, 18/A September. 1789. “Sirs; I do myself the honor of enclosing to you a proceeding of the Executive authority of this day. Those details, which it shall be necessary to go into on the.same ground, shall be communicated to you by express, through, Sirs, your most obedient servant, GEORGE WALTON. The Honorable the Commissioners for Indian .Iffairs."** In Council, Augusta. i8th September. 1789. * The letter of the honorable the commissioners for negotiating treaties with the Indians south of the Ohio, of the 11th instant, dated at Savannah, being taken up, and another letter of the 18th. announcing their arrival at Augusta, and enclosing a despatch from the War Oflice, of the 29th of August last, being read and considered: it is ordered, that the said commissioners be assured, that every assistance in the p twee of the State shall be given, which may be necessary to give facility and effect to their negotiations with the Creek Indians. Extract from the minutes. J. MERIWETHER. Secy E. C."An answer to our letter of the 11th, to Messrs. Pickens and Osborne, was received at this place: ‘‘Rock Landing, 16//i Sept. 1789. “Gentlemen: We had. this day, the honor to receive your joint letter of the 11th instant. Every arrangement that was in our power to make, preparative to the treaty, has been completed for two weeks past, and the Indians have been encamped at the distance directed by the Secretary of War. during the same period. We have used every exertion to keep the Indians together, aim in good humor, which has hitherto been done w ith great difficulty. The same y.eal and industry shall be continued on our part, for their continuance, bpt at the same time it is necessary to give you the earliest information, that the Indians will not remain after Friday next, unless you arrive here before the expiration of that day; this Mr. MeGillivray informed us yesterday, though it is his wish to remain longer. We have the honor to be. gentlemen, with due respect, your obedient servants, ANDREW PICKENS. H. OSBORNE. The Hon. B. Lincoln. C. Griffin, J). Humphreys. Ksqrs."'f'o which we made the following reply: “ Augusta, 18th September. 1789. “Gentlemen: - We have just been honored by the receipt of the letter which you addressed to us on the 1 Gth instant, and are inexpressibly astonished at the information which you have given, as it is so diametrically contrary to the ideas which his honor the Governor of this State had a few moments before held out to us. Trusting, gentlemen, that you will still continue your utmost exertions to keep the Indians together, and that, in all events, you will have the goodness to forward the letter which accompanies thi« to Mr. MeGillivray, with the utmost despatch. We have the honor to be, with great respect, gentlemen, your most obedient bumble servants, B. LINCOLN. C. GRIFFIN. 1). HUMPHREYS. To M essrs. Pickens and Osuorne, Rock Landing."’ I5y the same express we wrote to Mr. MeGillivray: *" Sir: “ Augusta, September ISth. 1789. We left New York eighteen days ago, invested with full powers, from the Supreme Executive of the United States of America, to conclude a treaty of peace and amity with the Creek nation of Indians. For the accomplishment of an object of so much importance, we have pressed our journey with uncommon expedition. We arrived here last evening, and. after making the necessary arrangements lor our luggage to follow, we propose departing from, this place for the Rock Landing tills afternoon. Being this moment greatly astonished by information from Messrs. Pickens and Osborne, that the Indians would certainly disperse, unless we should arrive wtihin three days after the very day which was originally appointed foi the meeting, we shall accelerate our journey as much as possible. We therefore send an express with tins letter, to let'you know that we shall he at the Rock Landing the day after to-morrow, and to assure you, that, if a lasting peace and friendship shall not he established, between the United States and the Creeks, it will not be owing to the want of the best dispositions on the pari of the former. We are, sir. with due respect, your obedient humble servants, 15. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN, D. HUMPHREYS. I’lie Hon. Alexander M cGillivray, Esq."’ On the afternoon of the 18th we pursued our journey, and two of the commissioners reached the Lock Randing on the 20th, at evening, the other being unavoidably detained on the road The following note was immediately sent to Mr. MeGillivray, to which he replied early the next morning: “ Rock Landing, 20th September, 1789. “The commissioners present their most respectful compliments to Mr. Alexander McGillivray, chief ol the Creek Nation, and have the pleasure to announce that a majority of them, a few moments since, arrived at this place, and that, without delay, they shall be ready to proceed to business. Alexander McGillivray Esq. Great Chief of all the Creeks, Ac.” > , “ September 20th, 1789. “ Alexander McGillivray, and the rest of the chiefs, are very glad to hear of [be arrival of the honorable the commissioners of the United .States of America at the Rock Landing. A few principal chiefs intend to visit them this forenoon. The Honorable the Commissioners ‘ 'of the United Stales of America, at the ltd eh Landing."About 11 o’clock, the following note from Mr. McGillivray was received: , » “Gentlemen: Some of the principal chiefs, accompanied by an interpreter, named Derezeau, go over to pay yon a visit this forenoon. I beg leave io suggest to you, that a private conversation between us will be necessary, previous to the  i opening of the treaty; and this camp I think the most convenient place for the purpose. I could therefore wish lobe honored with the company of one or two of you this evening. In suggesting this measure, I intreat, gentlemen, that you will not consider it as proceeding from a want of the proper attention in me, which is due'to the very respectable characters that compose the present commission. I am, very respectfully, gentlemen,'your most obedient servant, . ALEXANDER McGILLIVRAY.” The Cussetah king, the Tall a see king, and the Hallowing king, attended the commissioners accordingly, as a deputation from the whole nation, to congratulate them on their arrival. After the customary ceremony, they all expressed the most ardent wishes to establish a lasting, peace with the United States, and declared their extreme joy that the day was come, which afforded a fair opportunity for accomplishing an object so interesting and desirable to their nation. Soon after this interview, the following talk was sent to the Indian camp: “ To the Hon. Alexander Me Gillivray, great chief, and all the other head mm and tear ring chiefs of the' Creek Nation: “Brothers:, Having been honored with a commission by the Supreme Executive of the United States of America, to'conclude a treaty of peace and amity with your nation, we think it expedient, in the first instance, to show you our full powers; on the other part, we desire to be favored, by you, with such evidence as the nature of the case may admit, of the fullness and authenticity of the representation of the Creek nation which is now present. These preliminaries being satisfactorily settled, so that hereafter there may be no complaints of partial or defective representations, we shall be ready to make our further communications, as soon as the Honorable Mr. Griilin, our colleague, shall arrive, which will probably be to-morrow. B. LINCOLN. I). HUMPHREYS. 21s< September, 1789i” v i Much conversation was had with Mr. McGillivray upon the subjects of our negotiation, at the camp of the Indians, on the evening of the 21st, and at'the quarters of the commissioners, the 22nd, where Mr. McGillivray and a number of the other chiefs passed the day. Early in the morning of the 23d, a letter was sent to Mr. McGillivray, and the day was employed by the commissioners in completing the draught of.a treaty, and other communications to be laid, before the great council of the nation. . > ", “ Rock Landing, 23d September, 1789- “ Sir: . " _  . _ We have the pleasure to inform you that the honorable Mr. Griffin arrived here the last evening. We are now engaged in preparing the communications we intend to make to your nation, which, if agreeable to you, will be delivered to-morrow morning. General Lincoln and General Pickens will have the pleasure of attending-this lore-noon at your black drink. We have the honor to be. &c. ' B. LINCOLN, D. HUMPHREYS. Alex. McGillivray, Esq. Chief of the Creek nation\ At the conference between General Lincoln and Mr. McGillivray, it was agreed that the Creeks should attend the commissioners the next day at 11 o’clock, to hear what they hail to communicate. However, late in the same evening, it was understood that it would be a matter of convenience for the Indians to receive the talks on the west side of the Oconee, and the commissioners accordingly wrote the subsequent letter: “Rock Landing, 23d September, 1789. “Sir: , As we are disposed to do every thing in our power to accomplish the objects of our mission, without an undue regard to matters of form, and as wre understand it would be a matter of convenience for your people, that we should attend on your ground for the purpose of making our communications to-morrow, we have no objections to passing the river to your camp upon that occasion. You will therefore be pleased to consider this letter as designed to take away all cause of jealousy, and to put it in your option to arrange the time and place of conference in such manner as shall be most satisfactory to the Creeks. We shall expect your answer by the bearer, and, in the mean time, we have the honor to be, Sir, your obedient servants. B. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN, D. HUMPHREYS. Alex. McGillivray, Esq. Chief of the Creek nation.” To which Mr. McGillivray replied the next morning: * Indian Camp, Oconee River, 2-ith September. 1789. *■ Gentlemen: I have this morning received your letter, which I explained to the chiefs, who appear satisfied to find that you are disposed to make your communications to them on this side of the river. They therefore desire that they inay be favored with your company this morning, at the ceremony of their black drink; when that is over, they wish immediately to proceed to business with you. 1 have the honor to be. &c. ALEX. McGILLIYRAY, C. C. X. The Hon. the Commissioners of the United States of America. fc. S/c. Rock Landing "At the time appointed, the commissioners attended the ceremony of black drink, and were conducted to the great square of the encampment by all the king-, chiefs, and warriors, in solemn pomp, and much apparent friendship. The commissioners then proceeded to business,,and having read and explained their commission, gave the followin'* talk: ” Kings, Head-men. and W arkiors or the Creek nation: This parchment which we hold in our hands, and a copy ol which we now deliver, has informed you that we are appointed by the President of the United States of America, with the advice of his old counsellors, commissioners plenipotentiary for restoring and establishing peace and amity between the United States and all the nations of Indians within the limits of the United States, southward of the river Ohio. Brothers of the Creek nation, attend! We trust, that the great master of breath who formed us all brothers, whether white men or red men. has created this day to be the time for preventing our people and your people from taking away.that breath which none but he can giv e. or should take away. We appeal to you. and ask, are not the pains and the miseries of the human race naturalTy severe enough, vvhitlumt their endeavoring, by unkindness, to increase the portion of bitterness and sorrow w hich must, of necessity, fall to the lot of man? Lot us try to make each other happy, and not wretched. It is in this way that the General Government of the United States of America intend to act with all the world. Friends and Brothers: We will first speak of the present -fate and policy of our nation: and we will speak next of the reasons which ought to induce you to be in alliance with in, rather than with any other people whatever. Although, Brothers, we cannot entirely forget the calamities we -u tiered in the late w ar with (treat Britain, yet we have buried all resentments for the part w hich the allies of Britain acted in that, bloody scene. That war left many of our cities, villages, and tow ns, in a ruinous condition: but we obtained liberty and independence. Our country has recovered Iron) desolation. W e are at peace with all the nations of the world. We are increasing every day in numbers. We have the means of happiness in our power, and wish to communicate them to you. Our lands are so extensive that they enjoy all seasons, and yield all productions. Our great ships are made to go in every part of the world, where goods and merclianise can be obtained. Our Union, which was a child, is grown up to manhood: so that it can speak with a louder voice, and strike with a stronger arm. than ever it has done before: for you must knovv.thata happy change lias taken place in our national Government; One great council is established, with full powers to promote the public good. General Washington, who led our armies to conquest wherever he turned Lis face, is now the head -man of all our councils, and chief of all our warriors. You know him. and he never speaks the tiling which is not. He has commanded ns to tell you. that, while the General Government of con foil crated America will vindicate the right of every member of the 1 ’nion. it will also see that justice shall lie done to tiie nations ot Indians situated within the limits of the United States. And we are authorized to declare and make known, that the United States will guaranty and defend to yon. all the lands of your nation w ithin the limits aforesaid, and which shall not be clearly ceded to any pari of the Union. Friends and Brothers or the Creek n vtion: A feu words only are necessary to prove lo yon. that it will be more natural for you to he allied with us. than with any other people. Yon are under tin* necessity of being connected with the white men. because you want their goods and merchandise. We can make a reasonable profit, by your articles of export, and aftbrd such imports as you may want, at rates cheaper than they can be obtained in any other place. A secure port in our country w ill be much more convenient for you than a port in any other country. Thus both of us will be gainers by being friends. The promotion of our mutual interest will promote our mutual friendship. This will he found the only sure method to make a peace happy and lasting. Brothers: We have nothing more to say to you at present: hut, if you like this talk, and are possessed of the same good disposition for us which we entertain in good laith lor you. we are ready to propose to yon the draught of a treaty, which we think may be the foundation of a permanent treaty of peace and amity."The talk hav ing been received with strong marks of approbation, the commissioners then presented the representatives of the nation the draught of a treaty, as follows: '  dirt ides of peace and amity agreed upon between the President of the United States of America, in behalf of the said States, bp the underwritten commissioners plenipotentiary, on the one part, and the undersigned kings, head-men, and warriors, of all the Creeks, in behalf of themselves and the Creek nation, on the other. Article I. There shall be a perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America, and all die towns, tribes, and individuals, ol the Upper and Lower Creeks. Art. 2. The boundary between the citizens of I he said United States and the Creeks, is. and shall be, from where the former line strikes the river Savannah: thence, tip the said river, to a place on the most northern branch of the same, commonly called the Keeovvee. where a northeast line, to he drawn from the top of the Occunna mountain. shall intersect,: thence, along the said line, in a southwest direction, to Tugaloe river; thence to the too of the Currahee mountain; thence, to the head of the most southern branch of the Oconee river, that is to say. the river Apa-lachy, including all the waters of the same: thence, down the said river, to the coiilluenee of the Oakmulgee: thence, on a southwest direction, to the most southern part of the river St. Mary; thence, down the said river, to the old line. Art. 3. The Supreme Executive of the United States solemnly guaranties to the Creeks all their remaining territory, against all aggression or unjust usurpation w hatever, and will support the said guarantee, if necessary, by a line of military posts. Art. 4. The said. Indian chiefs, for themselves, and their respective towns and tribes within the limits of the United States, do acknowledge the Creeks to be under the protection of the supreme authority of the United States, and of no other sovereign whosoever; and, also, that they are not to hold any treaty with an individual State, or with individuals of any State. Art. 5. If any citizen or citizens of the United States shall presume to settle upon the lands guarantied to the Creek nation by this treaty, he or they shall be put out of the protection of the United States, and the Creeks may punish him or them if they shall think proper. Art. 6. For the mutual atl vantage of the contracting parties, it is stipulated, that a free trade and friendly intercourse shall always be maintained between them: and, for the particular benefit of the said Creek nation, it is farther stipulated, that a secure post shall be established, at a place known by the name of Beard-.-; Bluff, on the river Altamaha, or, if that shall he found inconvenient, .at such other place as shall hereafter be agreed upon; into which, or froin which, the Creeks may import or export all the articles of goods and merchandise necessary to the Indian commerce, on the same terms as the citizens of the United States: Provided. That t he number of arms, and quantity of ammunition, shall not exceed their annual necessary supply for hunting. And if any just apprehension should be entertained by the Creeks, for the safety of the goods and merchandise, so imported or exported, the Supreme Executive of the United States will take effectual measures for protecting the same, by stationing a body of regular troops at the said post. ” , - Art. 7. The General Government of the United States having the sole and exclusive right of regulating the trade between their citizens and the Indians, within the limits of their territories, will, as soon as may be, adopt an equitable system for the prevention of injuries and oppressions on the citizens or Indians; and, in the mean time, all traders, citizens of the United States, shall have liberty to go to any'towns or tribes of the Creeks to trade with them, and they shall be protected in their persons and property, and kindly treated. Art. 8. It any Indian or Indians, or persons residing among the Creeks, or who shall take refuge in their nation, shall commit a robbery or murder, or other capital crime, on any citizen of the United States of America, or person under their protection, the tribe to which such offender may belong, or the nation, shall be bound to deliver him or them, to be punished according to the laws of the United States: Provided, The punishment shall not be greater than it the robbery or murder, or other capital crime, had been committed by a citizen on a citizen. Art. 9. And if any citizen of the United States of America, or person under their protection, shall commit a robbery or murder, or other capital crime, on any Indian, such offender shall be punished in the same manner as if the robbery or murder, or other capital crime, had been committed on a citizen of the United States of America, and the punishment shall be in presence of some of the Creeks, if any will attend; and that they may have an opportunity so to do, proper notice, if practicable, ot the time and place of such intended punishment, shall be sent to some one of the tribes. Art. 10. It is understood that the punishment of the innocent, under the idea of retaliation, is unjust, and shall never be practised on either side. Art. 11. The kings, head-men, and warriors, of the Creek.nation, will restore to their liberty all prisoners, citizens of the United States, now in that nation: and they will also restore all negroes, and all other properly taken from citizens of the United States, during the late hostilities, to such person or persons as shall be appointed by the Governor of the State of Georgia to receive them. Art. 12. ThcCreeks shall give notice to the citizens of the United States, of any designs which they may know, or suspect to be formed, in any neighboring tribe, or by any person whosoever, against the peace, tree trade, and interest, of the United States. 'Art. 13. All animosities for past grievances shall henceforth cease; 'and the contracting parties will carry the foregoing treaty into full execution, with all good faith and sincerity.” After some conversation with Mr. McGillivray, arid the other chiefs, upon the business of the day, the commissioners returned to their quarters, and received the next morning the following note, which was immediately answered: , ■ ‘‘Gentlemen:- The chiefs were in council until very late last night. The result appears to be, that they are not entirely satisfied with all parts of your talk; they object principally to the boundary marked out in the talk; however, it was my j decision to let the matter stand as it was for the present—the hunting season being at hand. The chiefs should take care to prevent every act of hostility or depredation on the paid of the warriors during the winter, and until we heard farther from you on the part of the United States. They resolve to break up to depart; it would be proper to give some presents, that, they may not complain of losing their time„&c. &c. J have the honor to be, your obedient humble servant, ALEX. McGILLIVRAY. Hon. the Commissioners of the United Slates of America. ” J “Rock Landing, 25th September, 1789. “Sir: _ . We have received your note of this morning, informing us that the chiefs were in council until very late last night: that it appeared they were not entirely satisfied with some parts of our talk; that they principally objected to the boundary line marked out in it; that, however, it was your decision to let the matter stand as it was for the present, establishing, in the mean time, a certain kind of a truce, until you should hear farther from us on the part of the United States. As the chiefs object to some part of our propositions, we have to ask, that they will give us in writing the only terms upon which they will enter into a treaty with us. We hope and trust that they, will not separate without affording us this satisfaction, since we are as well prepared for concluding a treaty now, as we shall be at any other time. It is by no means probable, that the United States will send another commission to them. We are not authorized to make any presents whatever, unless a treaty of peace shall be concluded. We have the honor to be, your most obedient humble servants, B. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN, The Hon. A. McGillivray, Chief of the Creek Nation.” D. HUMPHREYS. During this stage of the business, Mr. McGillivray solemnly promised that he would pass the Oconee, and have a full and free conference with the commissioners upon the subject of the negotiations; .and not more than an hour before his abrupt departure, he repeated the promise to one of them, that he would state his objections to the draught of the treaty, either in conversation or writing,"the same afternoon. Very soon after this, lie sent a verbal message, that lie was constrained to fall back four or five miles, for the purpose ot’ obtaining betler forage for his horses; and that lie hoped that the commissioners would not misconstrue his intentions. Yet, to their astonishment, they afterwards found that he had retreated to a greater distance, under the false pretext mentioned in his subsequent letter from Oakmulgee. On the 26th, the following letter was written to Mr. McGillivray. The honorable Mr. Few, appointed by the Executive of Georgia to communicate with the conimmissioners, General Pickens, and Colonel Saunders, of Georgia, going at the same time to Mr. McGillivray’s encampment, to convince him of his error, and to persuade him to return; the Hallowing king going also, on the part of the Indians. t ‘ Rock Landing, 26th September, 1789. “ Sir: We had, on the 24th, the pleasure of presenting to you the sketch of a treaty, which appeared to us such an one as you could, in justice to yourselves, all circumstances considered, have subscribed to. In your observations thereon, you say, that there are some parts of our talk to which you object-—principally to the boundary marked out in the talk. In answer to these observations, we informed you that it was our wish you would give us, in writing, the terms only upon which you would enter into a treaty with us.- And we requested, at the same time, that you would not separate without affording us the satisfaction of receiving your final terms. We waited with anxious expectation, during the afternoon of yesterday, hoping we should be favored with them; but, as they have not come to hand, and we are informed that you have removed your camp to'the distance of fifteen miles, without any intention of returning, not remarking on that conduct of yours, which has too much the appearance of a studied neglect of the commissioners, we go on to observe, that, had you given us your objections to the boundaries, that would have brought into discussion the validity of former treaties; had it appeared to us, upon a full investigation of this interesting matter, that all had not been right, and that lull and perfect justice had not been done to the Indians, we should have been disposed to have adopted such measures as would have removed all reasonable grounds of complaint. If you should depart without this inquiry and full discussion of the whole business, it cannot be considered in any other point of light, than a refusal to establish any terms of peace whatever. ri We have the honor to be, &c. 13. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN, The Hon. Alex. McGillivrav, 1). HUMPHREYS. Chief of the Creek nation."In the mean time, all the other kings and head-men, attending at the quarters of the commissioners, addressed them through the White Bird king, in the following talk: '* You are the great men whom we look upon as our brothers, and here are the great men of my nation, who are come to speak to you. We have been here a long time, and we met with you over the river in friendship; but all our people have got tired; our horses are strayed,and a good many of our people are gone; yet I have persuaded several to stay, to have, once more, a talk with you. All the men here, at present, are come to take a peaceable leave of you. As our hunting time is coming on very soon, we are come over to hear what you have to say to us. Some of our people are gone up the river to hunt, in their way home. I have given orders for them to behave themselves well. If they go on this side the river, not to take off any of the white people's horses. 1 hope the whites will also behave themselves well, and not take our horses. If our people do not observe these orders, they shall be seized and sent down to the whites. Although nothing should be done at. this time about the treat}", I hope that it may be done hereafter, and that, in the mean time, peace and quietness will be kept on both sides. When we get home, all our nation will hear the talks; and they will be peaceable and quiet, for that is the wish of them all. > 1 have little more to say at present, but that we are not going off affronted, but in peace and friendship. It was the intention of our people to do something for our wives and children, and I think it was also the intention of the white people. I have nothing more to say. but that, when we part, 1 hope to shake hands in peace; and all our young people are come, that they may shake hands w ith you also.'’ Then the Cussetah king arose, and lighting a pine, presented it to the commissioners, and said, " 1 look upon you as fathers and elder brothers, and wish to smoke a pipe with you."To which the commissioners answered: Friends and Brothers: In answer to vour friendly talk, we would say. that, having come from along distance, we expected to smoke the pipe of peace and friendship with you, and to bury the hatchet of war forever. We hear that your great chief and beloved man. Mr. McGillivray, is gone from his former camp, for which we are very sorry. The other day we made some propositions for a long peace and friendship. If they were not agreeable to you, why did you not tell us? and then something else might have been‘proposed. Friends and Brothers: M e are sent to make a peace, which shall be good for all parties. Persuade your great chief and beloved man, .Mr. McGillivray. to come back and hear us again, that all tilings may he explained. \Ye thank you for your good talk, and we hope you will not return to your nation until we have taken each other by the hand, and concluded a lasting peace with all our people, in friendship and good faith. We have no more to say to you at present."On theSrth, we received the following answer from Mr. McGillivray, and on the next day w e wrote him our last letter: . ‘ ' ’  Came, Oakmulgke river, 27//i September, 1789. “Gentlemen: I am favored w ith your letter of yesterday, by Weatherford. I beg to assure you, that my retreat from my former camp, on the Oconee, was entirely owing to the want of food for our horses, and at the earnest entreaty of our chiefs. Colonel Humphreys and myself, at different interviews, entered minutely and deeply into the subject of contest between our nation and the State of Georgia. I observed to him. that we expected ample and full justice should be given us, in restoring to us the encroachments we complained of. in which the Oconee lands are included: but finding that there was no such intention, and that a restitution of territory hunting grounds was not to lie the basis of a treaty of peace between us, I resolved to return to the nation, referring the matter, in full peace, till next spring. Many of the principals having gone hunting, nothing farther can nmv be done. I am very unwell, and cannot return. M e sincerely desire a peace, but we cannot sacrifice much to obtain it. As for a statement of our disputes, the honorable Congress has long ago been in possession of, and lias declared that they would decide on them in the principles of justice and humanity. "Pis that we expect. I have the honor to be, &c. alex. McGillivray. The Hon. the Commissioners of the United Stales of America, Hock Landing."'' Rock Landing, 28//i September, 1789. Sir: W e are extremely sorry that you would neither give us your objections to our propositions for forming a treaty, nor propose such terms as would be acceptable to the Creek nation, if acceded to by us. Colonel Humphreys asserts, that lie neither told, nor intimated to you, that we had offered any articles in our project of a treaty, as an ultimatum: all our proceedings evince the same thing. You could not avoid having understood, from our letter of the 25th, (which you received previous to your departure from the Oconee, and which you have not yet answered) that we were desirous of receiving the terms upon which yon and the chiefs of the Creek nation would enter into a treaty with us? you will also be pleased to recollect, that we expressed, at the same time, an earnest hope and expectation, that they would not separate without giving us this satisfaction. These overtures on our part clearly indicated that we were disposed to make a peace upon any conditions not incompatible with the dignity and'justice of the United States. Our last letter toyouj of the 26th, explained our ideas and wishes, if possible, still more unequivocally, and informed you that, if you should depart without our having an opportunity of inquiring into the validity of former treaties, and fully discussing the whole business, it could not be considered in any other point of light than a refusal to establish peace upon any terms whatever. Your not having done this, leaves it only in our power to return and report a state of facts to the Supreme Executive of the United States. To obtain still further information, we shall remain till Monday of next week, at Augusta, to which place we invite you to repair, either in person, or by some agent or agents of the Creek nation, in order to be present at the time when we shall attempt to procure farther documents, for establishing facts, as well as to give, on your part, all such intelligence, relative to past transactions, as shall be deemed expedient. We pledge our public faith and sacred honor for the safe conduct of yourself, or such agent or agents as may be employed by your nation, to and from the proposed place of conference. Should you conclude to come yourself, or send an agent or agents to the conference at Augusta, the person or persons under that description will be pleased to apply (ora safeguard to the. commanding olheer at the Rock Landing, who has our instructions on the subject, in the mean time, we have to inform the Creeks, that the people settled on Cumberland river have just cause of complaint against them, because some of them have, during the present year, murdered several families within that district: and as the Creeks can have no cause of complaint against that settlement, we insist that effectual measures should be taken, on your part, to prevent all acts of hostility and plunder in that quarter. With due consideration, we have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servants, B. LINCOLN,'C. GRIFFIN. I), HUMPHREYS. The Honorable Alexander McGillivuay, Chief of the Creek nation.'* On the 28th, we gave a short account of our proceedings to the Secretary of War. “Rock Landing, 28ill September, 1789. “Sir; _ _ r 'We have the mortification to inform you that the parties have separated without forming a treaty. The terms which were offered by us at the commencement of the negotiation, were not agreeable to Mr. McGillivray, but neither would he come forward with written objections, or propose any conditions of his own. His verbal communications were inadmissible, upon the spirit or words ot our instructions. _ , We shall have the honor of stating this business very, fully at a future day, and are, with the greatest 'respect and esteem, your most obedient humble servants, B. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN, D. HUMPHREYS. The Honorable the Secretary of I Car, New York.'' ■'> 4 » Having made all the necessary arrangements concerning the goods and stores belonging to the public, we,departed from the Rock Landing, and arrived at Augusta on the 2d of October. The same evening, and early the next,day, we wrote the following letter to the Governor of the State of Georgia: “Atjgusta, 2d October, 1789. “Sir: __ We make use of the first moment after our arrival to acquaint your honor that we have not been able to conclude a treaty of peace between the United States and the Creek nation. However, positive and repeated assurances were given to us by Mr. McGillivray, and all the.chiefs of the Creeks present, that the tranquillity which now prevails, shall be inviolably preserved on the part of their people. Being much fatigued with our journey, we cannot have the honor of waiting upon you until to-morrow morning, when we shall do ourselves the pleasure of stating such further particulars as may be interesting to the State over which you preside. We have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient humble servants, B. LINCOLN, G. GRIFFIN. D. HUMPHREYS. His Honor the Governor of Georgia.'* - “ Augusta, 3d October, 1789. “ Sir: . _ 'As a v ariety of reports have been circulated throughout the United States, relativ e to the circumstances under which the treaties of Augusta, in 1783, at Galphinton, in 1785, and at Shoulderbone, in 1786, were formed; and as it is highly important that facts should be ascertained, we take the liberty of requesting your honor that you will be pleased to assist us in obtaining the information necessary for that purpose. The principal points to which our attention has been attracted, are: whether all lands belonging to the Upper and Lower Creeks are the common property of the whole nation: or, whether the lands stated to have been ceded to Georgia by the tliree treaties, or either of them, were acknowledged by the Upper Creeks to be the sole property of the Lower Creeks? 'Whether the acknowledged proprietors of the lands stated to have been ceded to Georgia were present or fully represented at the said treaties? Whether the Creeks present at the said treaties did act with a full understanding of the cessions they are -stated to have made? , And whether the said treaties and cessions were freely made on the part of the'Creeks, unintluenced by any threats or implication of force? It is also desirable that any other interesting circumstances connected with the object of these inquiries should be made known to us: for example, whether the Indians did, for any considerable length of time, acquiesce quietly in the location and settlement of the lands in question? What value in goods has been given at the several treaties, as presents or compensations for the cessions? And, in effect, whatever other matters may serve to place the conduct of the State of Georgia, on this subject, in its true point of light. After being possessed of the written and official documents, we wish to receive oral information from private characters who were present at the several transactions before alluded to. We have the honor to be, with great respect, sir, your most humble servants, B. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN,! \ ' D. HUMPHREYS. His Honor the Governor of Georgia.” To the preceding letters the Governor was pleased to send the following answer; also, a return of depredations committed by the Indians, and other documents: “Augusta, October Ath, 1789. “ Sirs: . > The communications which you were pleased to make to me first after your return from the Rock Landing, on the 2d instant, shall be laid before Council, and made the foundation of a proclamation,- the object of which shall be to meet and reciprocate the assurances of the chiefs of the Creek Indians, for preserving of peace. , With respect to the further particulars stated in your favor of the 3cl, I am sorry that.so many persons who vyere privy to the transactions to which they allude, are, at this time, engaged in their attendance on. the general election, vvhose testimony, were they present, would point to the truth of facts, through all that variety of report which originated equally from private speculation and personal disappointment. I have, however, directed such documents as are immediately within my power, to be made out for your present information. , From all the evidences which have or shall be collected, it will be found, that the lands between the mountains and the old Ogeecliee line, north of the Oconee, were ever equally claimed by the Cherokees and the Creeks; and that, by a convention had before the Revolution, the lands comprehended within the limits afterwards called the ceded lands, and now Wilkes county, were ceded at the same time, by the heads of the two nations. That, during the progress of the late war, the State had been, alternately, attacked by either, and that, at the close of it, they were respectively called upon to make some satisfaction. Accordingly, in the spring of 1783, the Chero- kees, attended by a few Creeks, came down to Augusta, talked the  matter over, avowed their claims to the lands in question; agreed to and signed a treaty; and, in the autumn of the same year, the Creeks, chiefly of the Lower towns, also came down; talked their matter"over; avowed their claim; and agreed to and signed a treaty on their part, whereby the state obtained the relinquishment of the right, or claim of right, of both nations, to the lands therein described and bounded. These treaties were laid before the Legislature, with all that order of business and deliberation required by public and fair proceedings, and the lands were divided into counties. The offices were opened, and the lands surveyed, granted, felled, settled, and cultivated, in perfect peace. The writer was present at both these conventions. The first he wrote from principles previously agreed upon, and which were made the foundation of the propositions to the Creeks in the fall. At neither were there any men in arms, or the smallest coercion used; the conduct of the Indians was voluntary, and while, on their part, they were rendering satisfaction, they also received valuable considerations in presents. When the treaties were over, it is within his most lively recollection that the commissioners, the chiefs, the citi-y.ens, and the Indians, ate, drank, and reciprocated all the usual marks of friendship, satisfaction, and'peace; nor was it until a considerable time afterwards, that any umbrage was taken by the Upper Creeks, when a new motive and principle of direction appeared to have sprung up in the nation, which pretended, for the first time, an equal claim to the hunting grounds on theOcoiiee. At the treaty of Galphinton, in the year 1785. it is said, some new opinions were disseminated; be that as it may, the treaty, and the testimony respecting the conduct of it, shew plainly, the good intentions of the State upon the occasion. The water can say but little thereupon, as hi* engagements were then in a different line, which left no surplus attention to the other departments. In the year 1786, he was of the Legislature, when the arrangements took place for the convention at Shoulderbone. To doubt the validity of treaties, had become familiar to the Indians, as well as to think triflingly of the power of the'State. To settle a substantial peace, and to remove these impressions, formed the objects of Government. The commissioners employed were respectable .men, and the officers attending were of service and distinction. A sacrifice of their fame was not to be expected, and it evidently appears, that no unworthy use was made of the force which was sent upon the ground. In the year 1787, their attacks were renewed, and repeated on almost all our frontiers. These we resisted, and called upon the Union for support. A superintendent and commissioners were appointed, and all their endeavors have not been effectual to remove the cause of the untowardness of that nation, and our citizens have continued to be killed and plundered in the most cruel and distressing manner, until the late efforts for peace; even the new commission, which the States themselves so highly respected, have been treated with an indifference which ought not to have been expected. I have the honor to be, sirs, with much estimation, your most obedient servant, GEORGE WALTON. To the Hon. B. Li XCOLX, C. Grikfix, I). II umpiireys, Esqrs. Commissioners, <Vc."“ Return of depredations committed by the Creek Indians since the commencement of hostilities in the Stale of Georgia. Whites killed, .... Do. wounded, - Do. taken prisoners, Blacks killed, - - - - Do. taken prisoners, ... Horses taken off. (their value £3,395 10s.) Horses taken off, not valued, Horned cattle taken off, Hogs destroyed, - Houses burnt, - - Sundry household furniture, farming utensils, / a 29 SO 10 110 184 459 .984 387 : - 89 wealing apparel, &.c. destroyed. “ Office of Secretary of Council, 5th October, 17S9. “ I do hereby certify, that the above estimate of losses sustained by the Indians, since the commencement of hostilities, is taken from the returns made on oath, and filed in this office. J. MERIWETHER, SecretaryE. CR From Augusta, we sent a second message by General Pickens, to the Cherokees, accompanied by a duplicate of our first; we also forwarded many printed copies of the address to the inhabitants bordering on the towns and settlements of the Cherokee nation, by the same conveyance. “Head-men and warriors of all the Cherokees: We sent to you a friendly talk from Savannah, about one moon past. But lest that should not have reached you all. we now repeat it. We farther inform you, that, although a formal treaty of peace lias not been concluded with the Creek nation, yet we have received positive and repeated assurances Irom them, that the same tranquillity which now prevails, shall be faithfully preserved on their part. Brothers: Had not the hunting season commenced, so as to prevent us from finding you at home, we should have been happy in seeing you personally, before we returned to tlie far distant white town of Congress. As that will now be impossible, we conclude by cautioning you to beware of listening to bad men, in such manner as to interrupt the truce concluded between you and the commissioner of North Carolina. Now, Brothers, in assuring you that the General Government of the United States will always do you strict justice, we bid you farewell. Done at Augusta, this 5th day of October, in the year of our Lord 1789, and in the 14th year of the independence of the United States of America.'B. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN, I). HUMPHREYS. Attest, 1). S. Franks, SecretaryR On the 6th of October we left Augusta, and arrived at Richmond on the 29th, where we had the satisfaction to meet with Piomingo, the second great chief of the Chickasaws, attended by other Indians. With him we had frequent talks, at which lie gave us the strongest assurances of the good disposition of that nation towards the United States, and also of the rooted aversion of the Chickasaws to the whole Creek nation. By this chief, we sent a duplicate of onr messages to the Chickasaws and to the Choctaws. On the 1 Oth of November, we returned to New York. Thus stating the facts in a journal of their transactions. The commissioners arc decidedly of opinion, that the failure of a treaty at this time with the Creek nation, can be attributed only to their principal chief, Mr. Alexander McGillivray— 1st. From the repeated declarations and apparent good disposition of all the kings, head-men,and warriors, to establish a permanent peace with the United States. 2d. From the proposed boundary being offered to the great council of the nation, only as the basis of amicable negotiation. 3d. From the deception and precipitate retreat of Mr. McGillivray, without stating his objections to the draught of a treaty, either verbally or in writing. 11 * 4tli. From many inquiries concerning this'man, and from Mr. McGillivray’s own declarations: that, without obtaining a full equivalent for the sacrifice, he would not renounce the close connexion which he had formed with the Spanish Government in the hour of distress—a connexion honorable and lucrative to himself, and advantageous to the Creek nation. 5th. From his frequent intimations that no treaty could be formed with the commissioners, unless a free and e .lusive port should be granted to him upon the Altamaha, or the river St..Mary; and 6th. From the most positive refusal to acknowledge the Creek nation to be within the limits, or under the protection the United States; although in express contradiction to a former letter, written by him, on the 5th of September, 1785, to General Pickens. The commissioners beg leave further to report, that, after the most accurate investigation in their power to make, after consulting the best documents, and having recourse to'creditable depositions, they are unable to discover but that the treaty of Augusta, in the year 1783, the treaty of Galphinton, in the year 1785, and the treaty of Shoulder-bone, in the year 178t3, were all of them conducted with as full and authorized representation, with as much substantial form, and apparent good faith and understanding of the business, as Indian treaties have usually been conducted, or per haps can be, where one of the contracting parties is destitute of the benefits of enlightened society. That the lands in question did of right belong to the Lower Creeks, as their hunting grounds; have been ceded by them to the State of Georgia, fora valuable consideration; and were possessed and cultivated for some years, without any claim or molestation by any part of the Creek nation. As Mr. M’Gillivray, and all the other chiefs, head-men, and warriors, have given strongassurances in their talks, and by writing, that no further liotilitics or depredations shall be committed on the part of their nation; and as the Governor of Georgia, by issuing proclamations, and by other effectual measures, will prevent the commission of hostilities and depredations upon {lie Creek nation, on the part of Georgia, the commissioners, in the best of their judgment, report, that all animosities with the Creek nation should henceforth cease. That some person should be despatched to the said nation, with the ultimate draught of a treaty, to establish perpetual peace and amity.. That, when such a draught of a treaty shall be properly executed by the leading men of the nation, all the presents intended for the Indians, and now in the State ot Georgia, should be distributed among them. That, if the Indians shall refuse to execute such draught of a treaty, the commissioners humbly submit— That the arms of the Union should be called forth for the protection of the people of Georgia, in the peaceable and just possession of their lands; and incase the Creeks shall commit further hostilities anil depredations upon the citizens of the United States, that the Creek nation ought to be deemed the enemies of the United States and punished accordingly. 15. LINCOLN, CYRUS GRIFFIN, 1). HUMPHREYS. The Commissioners to the Secretary of Jf'ar. New York, November 20, 1789. Sir: ■ . We made our communications to the Creek nation, and they have refused to conclude a tr eaty of peace with the United States; and, as in this case, we are directed by our instructions to report such plans, both for defensive and offensive measures, as may be thought best to protect the citizens of the United States on the frontiers,'in obedience to those instructions we offer the following particulars to your consideration: For defensive measures, a line of six posts ought to be established on the frontiers of Georgia, and two at least I jto guard the settlements upon the Cumberland river. The posts to consist of one complete company in each, to be covered by works of sufficient strength to resist any sudden impressions of the Indians, and to serve as places of deposite, if magazines should hereafter be formed. To them, also, the exposed inhabitants of those countries might r etire upon the alarm of danger; by this experiment, we should be satisfied how far a line of posts would be adequate to give complete protection to the citizens of the United States living on the frontiers. The stations in Georgia should be as follow: One upon the navigable waters of St. Mary; one at Beard’s Bluff', upon the Altamaha; one at the junction of the Oconee and Oakmulgee; one at the Rock Landing; one at the Middle. Trading Path; and one at the Upper Trading Path; the two latter at such positions as will be found the most convenient to protect the frontiers. ■ If the offensive plan shall become indispensable, in that case we beg leave to recommend the most vigorous and effectual operations, by carrying the arms .of the Union into the very heart of the Creek country. By this proceeding. the Creek nation will be taught to feel the weight and superiority of the United States, anil themeasure would be consistent with the honor and dignity of the republic. The forces necessary upon this occasion should consist of five regiments of infantry, seven hundred men to each regiment; one regiment ot cavalry of five hundred men, and a corps of artillery of two hundred and forty men; the whole amounting to 4,250. That, two regiments of infantry be enlisted from the States of Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina, if that State should accede to the new constitution—the cavalry from the States of Virginia anil Maryland, anil the remainder of the forces from the other States indiscriminately. We are induced to recommend only two regiments to be raised from the more southern States, because such a measure would probably comprehend all t hat-class of men, whose inclinations might lead them into the field against such an enemy; and because, if the troops should be drawn altogether, or principally from these States, anil a defeat should unfortunately take place, it might involve that country for a time in disagreeable consequences; besides, great injury might be experienced by calling forth, in the first instance, a large proportion of that body of men, which, from their local situation, ought to remain as a reserve. From the best intelligence, and from observation, we think that Augusta, in the State of Georgia, ought to he the place of rendezvous. To that town the military and quartermaster’s stores might be transported trom Savannah, by water, in 15 days. A full supply of wagons can be obtained at no great distance from thence, anil upon the road, towards the Ogecliee, which might bring with them a load of corn, or flour, each. The route from Augusta to the Creek nation is a good one, little more than 200 miles to their first towns, and about 300 miles to their western settlements. Two other routes to the Creek nation present themselves. From Beard’s Bluff’, on the Altamaha, to Flint river, the distance about 150 miles, and 70 miles from the Flint river to the Cowctas. From Bryant’s trading-house, on'St. Mary’s river, to the Flint river, and from thence to the Cowctas, is nearly the like distance as from Beard’s Bluff'. The navigation is good from the ocean to Beard’s Bluff', and to Bryant’s trading-house—from either of them a tolerable good wagon road may be bad into the Creek nation; yet both of these routes, particularly while the boats shall be going up the river St. Mary’s, on the Altamaha, would be attended with considerable embarrassment anil danger to the troops from the enemy ; and the difficulties, and long distance for the wagons, to reach Beard’s Blurt', or Bryant’s trading-house, would be almost insurmountable. In addition to the foregoing reports, we were commanded, if possible, to ascertain the following points : Those points have been ascertained, from the best information in our ability to procure. 1. The number.of warriors, in the whole Creek nation, does not exceed 4,500. 2. They are. armed pretty generally with good rifles; they receive their ammunition in presents, and by purchase from the Spaniards.   _ 3. The Lower Creeks and Seminoles are about equal to the Upper Creeks, in number; the Lower Creeks rather more numerous than the Seminoles. 4. The number of old men. women, and children, in the proportion as four to one of the warriors. 5. The number of towns in each district, could not be ascertained, probably about eighty in the whole, of which about forty-five are in the upper country. The towns are very different in magnitude ; and a few, of what are called the mother towns, have the principal direction in national affairs: that is to say. the war towns in war, and the white towns in peace. 6. Mr. McGillivray, of the half breed, is the most influential chief throughout the nation. Among ihe Upper Creeks, the ‘White Lieutenant has the ascendancy, and is considered, in some respects, as the rival of Mr. McGillivray: the Mad Dog i> next in authority. Among the Lower Creeks, the Hallowing king, and the Cussetah king—the former commanding the war towns, the latter commanding the white towns—towns unstained with blood, and which are towns of refuge: add to these the Talassee king, the 'White-bird king, the Fat king, the king of the Seminoles, and the king of the Euchees. 7. Their kinds of government approach the qualified monarchy, lit the towns, they have head-men. who are much respected, and have authority, both in peace and war. in their respective towns: in the districts, they have kings or chiefs, and warriors : the former have their influence in time of peace, and the latter in time of war. Upon all important occasions they meet in great council, and deliberate with freedom, particularly once a year, at the ceremony of thq first fruits, called the busking, when they punish great delinquents, regulate internal policy, and form plans for hunting or war the ensuing season. 8. They are, in a great measure, hunters : however, they cultivate some Indian corn, and potatoes, possess cattle and horses, a few slaves, and, lately, in some instances, have introduced the plough. 9. Of late years, they are not rigidly confined to particular districts for hunting, but are permitted to go, in small parties, throughout the whole nation: yet, pretty generally, they find it convenient to keep within their respective divisions. 10. The kinds of furs are the beaver, otter, mink, fox, squirrel, and some others, together with deer, and other skins, the whole amounting, annually, to somewhat more than £10.000 sterling. They-are principally sold to the Indian traders in the nation, and exported through the Spanish settlements. 11. The amount of’the European goods annually consumed, is about £12.000 sterling, furnished, principally, by the commercial house of whic I. Mr. M cGillivray is a partner. 12. Ginseng abounds in that country, but is not yet gathered in any considerable quantities. 15. The country of the Lower Creeks and Seminoles is level, sandy, and piney. The country of the Upper Creeks much broken, with a good soil and growth : farther to the west, and even to the Mississippi, the lands are rich, and rather low and marshy, abounding with good streams of water, and excellent timber, such as the oak. hickory, bucks-eye, elm. and large gum. See. &c. 14. 'Flic waters of the Mobile are navigable for large boats: the one branch 270 miles from the ocean, to the Hic-cory settlement, where Mr. McGillivray resides, and the western branch is about 520 miles into the Choctaw and Chickasaw country, and within 50 miles of the great bend of the Tennessee. The waters of the Apalachicola, particularly the Flint river and Cataheekee, and the waters of the Altamaha. particularly the rivers Oconee and < lakmul-gee. arc navigable for boats some hundred miles. From the northern navigable streams of these rivers to the southern navigable waters of the Tennessee, there are no established portages, but the country is level: good roads might easily be made, and the greatest distances not more than one hundred miles. 15. We could not ascertain with precision the nature of the connexion which the Creeks have formed with the Spaniards, hut. from intelligence somewhat to he relied on, we believe that connexion to consist principally in paying less duties upon the goods imported than the Spaniards themselves pay, by a guarantee of alt the Creek posses-sessions. and by military distinctions and presents to Mr. McGillivray and other considerable chiefs. We could procure no copy of any treaty subsisting between them. The predominating prejudices of the Creeks are certainly adverse to the Spaniards, particularly Mr. McGillivray has often mentioned and declared, that a connexion w ith the United States would be more natural' to the Creek nation, if they could obtain such conditions ol interest and friendship as would justify and induce them to break with the Spanish Government. lG. We hail but little opportunity to ascertain similar facts with respect to the other Indians, from our small lights upon this article of instruction. We think the Cherokee nation will be found to contain about 600 gun-men; the Chickasaws about 700. and the Choctaws about 3,000. Fheir arms are bad, scarcely any ammunition, and themselves naked. The Chcrokecs and Chickasaws cultivate foe ground more than the other Indians, and possess cattle, proportionally, in greater numbers. The Choctaws hunt only, are brave and hardy people in the woods, but indolent to a great degree at home.. In order to preserve the attachment of the several Indian nations bordering upon the United States, it appears to us expedient that sonic adequate mean* of supplying them with goods and ammunition, at moderate price>. should immediately be adopted. With our be>t endeavors to obtain information concerning the internal state of the Choctaws and Chickasaws, wc have not been able to succeed fully, so as to justify nsin giving any positive opinion upon the best mode of effecting this desirable object: however, in conformity with our instructions, we respectfully suggest, that some uniform plan of granting permits to those who may be employed in the Indian commerce should be established by the supreme authority of the United States. This would be a part of the duty imposed upon the superintendent, agent, or commissary, of Indian affairs, in the Southern department. The fees ol office for granting such permits ought to he moderate, and might be applied towards the payment of salary. An expedient of this sort is highly requisite to prevent persons of bad character from defrauding the Indians, from making still more unfavorable impressions upon the inimical tribes, and from alienating the affections ol the friendly tribes from the United States. This superintendent, agent, or commissary, by going through the Indian towns of all the different nations, would be able to collect such information as might he extremely useful in forming definite plans of trade with those people; and, in case of war with the Creek nation, he might be of solid advantage in bring the Choctaws and Chickasaws to co-opcrate with the arms of the United States. Wc have rendered to the treasury of the United States a full account of all our disbursements. The books No. 1 and 2, we now depositc in your office. They contain invoices of all the articles delivered tons for the proposed treaty, and will clearly account for the whole of them by-ascertaining those articles which were necessarily expended, and those which now remain in the State of Georgia. 'While we sincerely regret that our negotiations with the Creek nation have not terminated in a treaty of peace, we hope it will be found that the commissioners have been as diligent and attentive to the subjects of their mission, and as economical in the expenditures of the public money, as the nature of things would permit. We have the honor to be, with sentiments of respect, sir, your most humble,servants, B. LINCOLN. < CYRUS GRIFFIN. The Hon. The Secretary of I Far. J). HUMPHREYS. N. B. The commissioners wrote the following letter to Messrs. Pickens and Osborne, during their stay at Ilock-landing, and received their answer, with sundry papers enclosed, which they deposite in the War Office. .Rock Landing, September 26, 1789. “ Gentlemen: We have received the following articles of instruction from the President of the United States, which we do ourselves the honor to communicate to you, and wish to be favored with an answer. We are, with great respect, your most obedient servants, B. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN, Messrs. Pickens and Osbokne.'5 D. HUMPHREYS. [extract.] “ You will learn, by the papers delivered to you. that certain goods were left by the commissioners, after the treaties of Hopewell, in the commencement of the year 1786. It is probable that these goods may have been delivered to Messrs. Pickens and Osborne. You will therefore apply to the said gentlemen for regular invoices of all the goods in their possession for the treaty, distinguishing the means by which they became possessed thereof. “ You will also request of them an account of the moneys or goods they may have received of the States of South Carolina and Georgia, in consequence of the resolves of Congress, of the 26th of October, 1787, and August 14,1788.” “ Rock Landing, September 26, 1789. “ Gentlemen: In answer to your letter of this date, we do ourselves the honor to enclose a copy of our letter to Mr. Gervis. '-of Charleston, dated the 20th April last, with a copy of liis answer, dated the 6th of June last. We do not know of any goods being left at Hopewell. The accounts of moneys received from the States of South Carolina and Georgia, together with an account of the appropriation and expenditures of the same, we have also the honor to enclose; the vouchers of all which are. ready tor your inspection. “We have the honor to be, gentlemen, your most obedient servants, ANDREW PICKENS, II. OSBORNE. “ The Hon. The Commissioners for treating with the Indians, south of the Ohio.’’' * 1st Congress.]
