No. 136. [1st Session. HOSTILE MOVEMENTS. communicated to THE SENATE, JUNE 24, 1812. To the Senate of the United States: I transmit to the Senate a report of the Secretary of War, complying with their resolution of the 19th instant June 23d, 1810. JAMES MADISON. War Department, June 22d, 1812. Sir: I have the honor to lay before you, extracts of letters from the Governors of territories, and other agents, “ respecting the hostile and friendly movements and intentions of the Indians towards the United States,” in conformity to a resolution of the honorable the Senate, passed June 19th, 1812. The President. WILLIAM EUSTIS. Extract from a letter from Benjamin Howard, dated St. Louis, January 13, 1812. I have the honor to enclose you the copy of a letter from Mr. Johnson, at fort Madison. The information it conveys, proves, clearly, that our difficulties with the Indians are not at an end; and, my own opinion is, that, as soon as the winter is over, we have much danger to apprehend from them. I feel no hesitation in recommending a campaign to be carried on in the spring, against the hostile Indians on the Illinois; for, until some of those tribes are punished, we shall not have a durable peace with them. Copy of a letter from John Johnson, dated . Fort Madison, 7th January. 1912. Sir: 1 am sorry to inform you that, on the 1st instant, a party of Puants. about twenty, arrived at Mr. George Hunt’s house, lead mines, &c; killed two Americans, and robbed Hunt of all his goods. Mr. Hunt bearing the name of an Englishman, saved his life; at the same time another party went to Nathan Fryer that was, and killed him; after killing all the Americans there, as they thought, the head-man observed, the Americans had killed a great many of their people, and that they intended to kill all they saw. 1 expect they went upward, in search of more. Hunt and his interpreter, Vistor Lagotery. arrived here last night. Air. Hunt, on his way here, was informed by the Foxes, that a large party of Puants had set out for this place. The Foxes shewed every disposition to lie friends, and promised to save all his goods they could. On the 3d, your express left here a-foot; poor fellow, 1 fear he w ill meet the Puants. Yesterday the express left here, with M. John McRae, for St. Louis, with many letters and public papers. Will you do me the favor to show this letter to General .William Clark, and ask to w rite General Mason, informing him the goods I furnished Hunt, are all lost? Every hour I look for a war party, and God only knows w hen it will end. I hope you will cause immediate relief, by increasing our number of men at this post. In haste. I am your very humble servant, JOHN JOHNSON. His E xcellency Governor B. Howard, St. Louis. Extract of a letter from Governor Howard, dated St. Louis, March 19, 1812. Note. In the commencement of the Governor’s letter, he gives a detail of depredations and most barbarous murders. I think nothing can prevent a strong combination among the Indians against us, now, but a succession of quick campaigns against those that are avowedly hostile, or a display of efficient defensive measures. The latter, 1 think, would have a tendency to deter those that are decidedly inimical to us, from attempting further mischief, and would determine those who are wavering to remain neutral. In addition to diis. I would recommend, that, when a party does mischief, that an authority be given to pursue them quickly, on horse back, to their camp or village, and cut offithe band to w hich they belong. This was what I intended by the expedition recommended in my letter of January. Extracts from a letter of William Wells, dated Fort IVaync. 10/// February. 1812. At the request of the Little Turtle, 1 enclose you his speech to Governor Harrison, of the 25th ultimo. On the 12th nit. two British emissaries passed through this neighborhood, on their way to see the Prophet. On the 21st ultimo, they called at my house, on their return to Malden; they were twro Munsey Indians. It appears that their business was to invite all the Indians to meet at Malden very early in the spring. What took place between them and the Prophet, I have not as yet learnt. The Pattawatamy chief, Marpack, has been in the neighborhood of Malden since August last; he now is near the white settlement, on the river Raisin, in Michigan territory, and visits Malden every eight or ten days. He has about one hundred and twenty of the best warriors in this country with him, stationed in such a manner as to be unobserved by the whites; that is to say, eight or ten in one place, fifteen or twenty in another, and so on; but within such distance of each other, as to enable him to collect them all in twenty-four hours. I know this chief is hostile inclined towards the United States, and have no hesitation in saying, that lie is kept at that place by the British agents at Malden; and in case the United States have war with that Power, this chief will attack our settlements immediately. I believe many of the warriors that fought Governor Harrison, have, and are now about to join him. Copy of a speech of the Little Turtle to Governor Harrison. Fort Wayne, 25/// January, 1812. Governor Harrison: M v F riexd: I have been requested by my nation, to speak to you; and I obey their request with pleasure, because I believe their situation requires all the aid I can affinal them. When your speech by Mr. Dubois was received by the Miamies. they answered it, and I made known to you their opinion at that time. Your letter to William Wells, of the 23d November last, has been explained to 'the Miami ami Eel river tribes of Indians. My Friend: Although neither of these tribes have had any thing to do with the late unfortunate affiiir, which happened on the Wabash, still they all rejoice to hearyou say, that if those foolish Indians which were engaged in that action, would return to their several homes, and remain quiet, that they w ould be pardoned, and again received by the President as his children. Wc believe there is none of them that will be so foolish as not to accept of this friendly offer; while, at the same time, I assure you, that nothing shall be w anting on my part, to prevail on them to accept it. All the Prophet’s followers have left him, with the exception of two camps of his own tribe. Tecumseh lias just joined him with eight men only. No danger can be apprehended from them at present; our eyes will be constantly kept on them, and should they attempt to gather strength again, we will do all in our power to prevent it; and at the same time give you immediate information of their intentions. We are sorry that that peace and friendship, w hich has so long existed between the red and the white people, could not be preserved w ithout the loss of so many good men as fell on both sides, in the late action on the "Wabash: but we are satisfied that it w ill be the means of making that peace, which ought to exist between us, more respected both by the red and the white people. 102 * We have been lately told by different Indians from that quarter, that you wished the Indians from this country to visit von; this they will do with pleasure, when you give them information of it in writing. My Friend: The clouds appear to be rising in a different quarter, which threatens to turn our light into darkness. To prevent this, it may require the united efforts of us all. We hope that none of us will be found to shrink from the storm that threatens to hurt our nations. Your friend, MISHECAUSCQUAH or LITTLE TURTLE, For the Miami and Eel river tribes of Indians. Witness, Wm. Turner, Surgeon’s mate, United States’ Army. I certify that the above is a true translation. W. WELLS. Extract of a letter from Captain Heuld, dated Chicago, 1th February, 1812. An express arrived at this post on the 1st instant, from General Clark. He was sent for the purpose of finding out the disposition of the Indians: he was a Frenchman, and well acquainted with the Indians. He told me, that the Indians on the Illinois, were hostile disposed towards the United States, and that the war between the Indians and white people had just commenced, alluding to the late battle on the Wabash. Extracts from a letter of William Wells, dated Fort Wayne, 1 st March, 1812. In my letter of the 10th ultimo, I informed you that the Indian chief, Tecumseli, had arrived on the Wabash. I have now to state to you, that it appears that he has determined to raise all the Indians he can, immediately, with an intention, no doubt, to attack our frontiers. He has sent runners to raise the Indians on the Illinois, and the upper Mississippi; and lam told has gone himself, to hurry on the aid he was promised by the Cherokees and Creeks. _ .... The Prophet’s orator, who is considered the third man in this hostile band, passed within twelve miles of this place, on the 23d ultimo, with eight Shawanese, eight Winnebagoes, and seven Kickapoos, in all twenty-four, on their way as they say to Sandusky; where they expected to receive a quantity of powder and lead, from their lather the British. Extract of a letter of N. Heald, Captain commanding, dated Chicago, 1th February, 1812. An express arrived here on the first of the month from St. Louis, sent by General Clark, Indian agent at that place, for the purpose of finding out the disposition of the Indians, between here and there. This express is a Frenchman, who is well acquainted with the Indians; and he is of opinion, that there are many of them determined to continue the war against the whites. Extract from a letter from N. Ileald, Captain, dated Chicago, 11 th March, 1812. * I have been informed, and believe it to be true, that the Winnebagoes have lately attacked.'some traders on the Mississippi, near the lead mines; it is said they killed two Americans, and eat them up, and took all their goods; there was two French traders whom they robbed of all their goods, and suffered them to go off alive. This news came to me from a Frenchman at Millwaike, who has been to the Winnebago nation. The Winnebagoes who escaped from the Prophet’s town are still in this neighborhood. Extract of a letter from J. Rhea, captain thirteenth regiment of infantry, dated Fort Wayne, March 14, 1812. You say, if we have a British war we shall have an Indian war. From the best information I can get, 1 have every reason to believe we shall have an Indian war this spring, whether we have a British war or not. I am told the Indians are making every preparation. There is certainly a very deep plan going on among the Indians. Extract of a letter from Captain J. Whistler, dated Fort Detroit, Aprils, 1812. Lieutenant Eastman arrived here on the evening of the 29th ultimo, from Cincinnati, and about six miles on this side of the foot of the Miami rapids, he met twenty-four Indians (who were in the action against Governor Harrison.) They were on their return from Malden, and had been there for a length of time this winter, and had, when Mr. Eastman met them, each a new stand of arms; some of them were rifles, others smooth bore; also a quantity of ammunition. One of those Indians has shown in this town several wounds he had received in the action. Extract of a letter from Captain A. Heald, dated Fort Dearborn, at Chicago, 15th April, 1812. The Indians have commenced hostilities in this quarter. On the 6th inst. a little before the sun set, a party of eleven Indians, supposed to be Winnebagoes, came to Messrs. Russell and Leigh’s cabin, in a field on the Portage branch of the Chicago river, about three miles from the garrison, where they murdered two men; one bv the name of Liberty White, an American, and the other a Canadian Frenchman, whose name I do not know. White received two ball's through his body; nine stabs with a knife in his breast and one in his hip; his throat was cut from ear to oar—his nose and lips were taken off in one piece, and lie’s skinned almost as far round as they could find any hair. The Frenchman was only shot through the neck and scalped. Since the murder of these two men, one or two other parties of Indians have been lurking about us, but we have been so much on our guard, that they have not been able to get any scalps. Extract of a letter from General William Clark, dated St. Louis, January 12, 1812. I have this moment heard, by an express, from the commanding officer at fort Madison, to Colonel Bissell, that a party of Winnebagoes, (part of the Prophet’s party) did, on the 1st instant, rob and kill several American traders, near the Spanish mines, on the Mississippi. Extract of a letter from General William Clark, dated St. Louis, February 13, 1812. On the Sth instant, a party of that nation, (Winnebagoes) some of whom were known, fired on my express, about forty miles above the settlements, who was on bis return from Prairie du Chien, the mines, and fort Madison. On the 9th, an American family of women and children was killed on the bank of the Mississippi, a few minutes before the express passed the house. Extract of a letter from General William Clark, dated St. Louis, March 15, 1S12. ] this moment received an express from fort Madison, with letters from the agent at that post, which informs me " that, on the 3d instant, a war party of five Winnebagoes killed one of the corporals of that post, a short distance from the fort.” By express I received a talk from a. band of the Sacs, nearest our settlements, declaring their determination of continuing in friendship with the United States. Extract of a letter from General William Clark, dated St. Louis, March 22, 1812. The Winnebago bands, part of the Kickapoos, and some of the Pattawatamics, are yet friendly to the Prophet, and may join him again in the spring. Hi's brother Tecumseh returned from the Southern tribes in December last; he made great exertions to get the Shawanese anti Delawares of this territory to join the Prophet's party, but without success, lie proceeded to the Sues and Sioux country, where his councils have been more attended to. The Prophet's combination is not the only one we have to watch in this quarter. 1 strongly suspect a coalition of the Pattawatainies will take place, under that vile fellow called the Marpeuk, who has been all the winter at fort Madison, and no doubt has received his lesson, as he has sent runners to his nation, informing them, among other excitements, that he will play a new game with the Americans. The point where lhey are to build their towm is at some small lakes, sixty miles northwest of Chicago. I am informed through the Indians, that some of the Senecas, of Upper Canada, are coming over, either to join the Prophet, or reside with the Sacs, whom they have applied to for lands. Extracts of a letter from General ff'ilHam Clark, dated St. Louis, April 12, 1812. Some of the chiefs, considerate men, warriors, women and children, from the bands on the Illinois river, in all sixty, are nowhere. They came down by the invitation of Governor Edwards, to council on the dillerences existing between those bands and our citizens, &c. Near the mouth ol the Missouri, on their way to see the Governor, they were fired on by a party of the inhabitants of the Illinois territory, fortunately no one killed. They are now under my protection, and I believe so much alarmed that they w ill not visit the Governor at Kaskaskia. Those chiefs have informed me that a large party of Winnebagoes are out on a war party, intending to attack the frontiers of this territory'. Governor Howard has placed the northern I run tiers in a state of defence, and they will most probably meet with a warm reception. P. S. Since writing the within letter, Mr. Payne arrived from fort Madison, by whom I received letters, mentioning that, on the night of the 29th of March, the Puants or 'Winnebagoes shot a sentinel at that place; on the 3d instant, one of the sentinels at that post shot and killed a Puant at the gate. During the night, several shots were fired at the fort, by the Winnebagoes. Small parties are continually about the fort. From Erastus Granger, Agent to the Six Nations. Buffalo, April 18, 1812. Sin: I have held a council with the Six Nations of Indians, since my return; they are well satisfied with w hat you have done for them, and are determined to hold the United States fast by the hand. Buffalo, May G, 1812. Sir: I hail the honor of receiving your letter of the 7th ultimo, relating to a report that one hundred and fifty, or more, of the Indians under my agency, are expected to join the hostile Indians this spring. From my own observations, and the assurances made me by the chiefs, 1 am confident that not a single warrior of the Six Nations, liv ing within the United States, has expressed a wish to join the unfriendly Indians, to the westward. Buffalo, May 30, 1812. Sir: On the 29th instant I closed a council with the Six Nations of Indians; we had been four days in council. The Senecas received their money from the United States. The Cayugas and Onondagoes, were paid their annuities from the State of New York. They returned to their villages well satisfied, and with a determination to remain friendly to the United States. A deputation of thirty-one started yesterday, for Grand river, to strengthen the minds of the Indians in Upper Canada to remain neutral in case of war. From General William Hull. Staunton, June 3,1812. Sir: I am happy to inform you, that I have received reports already, from five or six Indian villages, since my speech was communicated, more favorable than I hail reason to expect. The chiefs are now on their way to visit me. and the frontiers have already become tranquil. From John Johnston. Pi qua Town, Ohio, May 1, 1812, Sir: The Indians have recently murdered two men at fort Dearborn, and report says, three more at Defiance, on the Miami of the lake. Since writing the enclosed, (above) 1 received two letters, which confirm the information of the murder at Defiance, and convey the first intelligence of the killing of two Americans at Sandusky. May 5th, 1812. The Indians have killed, within three days, a man at Greenville. The chiefs of the Wabash will not visit the President this summer. May 21s/, 1812. As far as I am informed, the disaffection among the Indians is increasing. Some families have been killed within a few miles of Vincennes. Yesterday the Shawanese chiefs sent me notice, that hostile parties would shortly visit the country, and promised their assistance in repelling their attacks. From Mr. Irwin. Chicago, March 10th, 1812. Sir: The Chippewa and Ottawa nations, hearing that the Winnebagoes and Pattawatamies, were hostilely inclined towards the whites, sent speeches among them, desiring them to change their sentiments, and live in peace.with the whites. April 16th, 1812. On the 6th instant, a party of ten or eleven .Indians surrounded a small farm house on Chicago river, and killed two men. The Indians are represented to be of the Winnebago tribe, which has been since ascertained to be the fact. From Governor IV. H. Harrison. Vincennes, 6th May, 1812. Sir: On Sunday evening last, a party of Indians attacked a house on White river, about thirty five-miles from this place; killed the owner (Mr. John McGowan,) but were driven oft* without doing further injury. Most of the citizens in this country have abandoned their farms, and taken refuge in such temporary forts as they have been able to construct. Nothing can exhibit more distress than those wretched people, crowded together in places almost destitute of every necessary accommodation. Unless something can be done soon to enable the people to return to their farms, I fear that there will be little or no corn, planted this season. On the second instant, I received a letter from Mr. Stickney, containing the result of the council lately held at fort Wayne, which has, no doubt, been communicated to you. This letter was brought to fort Harrison by an Indian, who was employed by Mr. Stickney for the purpose. On his way he was joined by the chief, Winnemac, with nine other Pattawatamies. They were very desirous of coming here, but were, very properly, detained by Captain Snelling. I have refused to suffer them to come further, because I am convinced they would be killed in despite of any endeavors of mine to prevent it. I also, suspect that there are spies amongst them, sent by the Prophet. These people were at lort Harrison when the murder was committed on McGowan, and, very probably, by a part of the same tribe. It is thus that we are served by these scoundrels; whilst some of them are making warm professions of friendship and enjoying our hospitality, others are murdering our citizens. Vincennes, May 13, 1812. The information given by the party of Pattawatamies, mentioned in my last, to Captain Taylor, at fort Harrison, was, that the Prophet was in the neighborhood of his former residence, with about three hundred Winnebagoes, and about two hundred of other tribes, and that he was daily gaining strength. May 27, 1812. No further mischief has been done by the Indians, that has come to my knowledge. Vincennes, 3d June, 1812. The information received, within a few days, from Governor Edwards, (and he has better means of acquiring it than I have, from the intercourse that is kept up between the Tippecanoe anti Illinois river) confirms that which I had previously received from a principal Pattawatamy chief, viz: that the major part of the Winnebago tribe are at Tippecanoe, with the Prophet and Tecumseh; small bands from the Illinois river and the east of Lake Michigan, makinga forceat least equal to that which they commanded last summer, and that their intentions were entirely hostile. The Governor also says, there are, at this time, nearly eight hundred warriors embodied at Peoria; that, the British agents were endeavoring to effect a peace between the Sioux and Chippewas, for the purpose of uniting both those tribes in the war against us, and they were making large deposites of Indian goodsat their establishments on Lake Michigan, and on the communication between that and Lake Superior. Substance of various letters from Governor Edwards and others. Illinois Territory, February 15///, 1812. Enclosed resolutions of the militia officers of St. Clair county, with their opinion on the measures to be adopted for the security of the settlements, with letters to Governor Howard, from N. Boilvin, and Maurice Blandeau—1st dated Prairie du Chien, January 5th, 1812; 2d dated Spanish Mines, January, 1812; Indians dissatisfied; fears entertained for the frontiers. Illinois Territory, February 18th, 1812. Indian hostilities no longer a matter of conjecture; states murders committed by them. Illinois Territory, March 23d, 1812. Advices from Chicago, Peoria, and fort Madison, all confirming the hostile intentions of the Indians between the lakes, and the rivers Illinois and Mississippi; the Sioux supposed to have joined the hostile confederacy; more murders committed. Illinois Territory, March 3d, 1812. Opinions of Governor Howard and General Clark that a formidable combination ot Indians will be effected, and that a bloody war must ensue; more murders committed; the Prophet is regaining his influence. Illinois Territory, April 2ith, 1812. Has held a council with the Pattawatamies, Kickapoos, Ottawas, and Chippewas; little dependence to be placed on their professions; hostile Indians approaching the settlements. Illinois Territory, May 6tli, 1812. Relative to the council above alluded to; the Indians composing the same, the Sacs and Foxes, from Prairie du Chien, Peoria, and traders, all confirm the hostile machinations of the Prophet, and the hostility of the Winnebagoes, who are approaching our frontiers. Illinois Territory, May 12//;. 1812. The Fox and Sac Indians at war; the policy of the United States to support the former, with a view to prevent their joining the hostile confederacy now loriniiig. Illinois Territoky, May 1 6th, 1812. Discovers that the murders mentioned, in his letter of 18th July, were committed by a party of the Kickapoos, residing near Peoria. Illinois Territory, May 20th, 1812. Appearances of hostilities continue to increase; some. Indians killed by the whites; particulars not yet received. Illinois Territory, May 22nd, 1812. Enclosing letters from Leonard White, Benjamin Talbot, and Philip Trammell, dated United States’ Saline, May 16th and 17th, as to the safety of the settlements, and the means to be resorted to for their safety. Illinois Territory, Ji/ne2d, 1812. Encloses his speech to the Kickapoos, in which he demands some murderers belonging to their tribe; thinks that a refusal on their part to deliver them up, will be a signal for war; rumors of a large collection of Indians on the left bank of the Ohio; appearances of an Indian war in no way lessened. Extract of a letter from Governor Edwards to Lieut. Colonel D. Bissell, dated Elveraide, Randolph county, Illinois territory, July 14, 1812. Such is the unfavorable aspect of our Indian relations, that I feel myself constrained to ask you to cause the block house, on the Mississippi, in this territory, to be re-occupied by such a portion of the troops, under your command, as you think you can. with propriety, spare for that service. From R. J. Meigs, Cherokee Jigent. Htwasee, 8th May, 1812. Three Cherokee chiefs, men of property and considerable information, came into the council and observed, that there would be war between the United States and the English, and that they thought it would be for the advantage of their nation to otter their aid to our government; and that they wished each to raise a number of }roung warriors, and otter their services. From Captain II. Starke. Fort M adison, January 1, 1812. Mr. George Hunt has arrived from the mines, and brings the melancholy intelligence that all the Americans at that place have been massacred by the Puants or Winnebago Indians. His life was saved only on the supposition that he was an Englishman. January 26, 1812. I omitted to mention to you, that, about the 8th instant, there was a very general council held by the Sac Indians, relative to peace or war, when their decision was for peace. From Governor IV. Blount. Knoxville, June 8th, 1812. The enclosed letters from Majors Coffee and Coleman, inform that a party of Indians had, a few days ago, killed and scalped Charles Hays. 'That the same party killed several of the children of Crawley and Manley, in Hickman county; shot and scalped Mrs. Manley, and took Mrs. Crawley prisoner. From Colonel Benjamin Hawkins. Creek Agencv, February 3d, 1812. Our Indians are, many of them, occupied in spinning, weaving, making new settlements, or improving those heretofore made. 1 believe nine-tenths of the Lower Creeks have left their old towns, and formed, or are forming settlements, on the creeks and rivers where the lands are good, and the range for stock good. Creek Agency, Jlpril 6th, 1812. On the 26th ult. Thomas Meredith, Sen. a respectable old man, travelling with his family to the Mississippi territory, was murdered on the post road, at Kittome, a creek 150 miles from this. Sam Macnac, a half breed of large property, who keeps entertainment on the road, at whose house Meredith is buried, calls it an accident. Thomas Meredith, son of the deceased, was an eye witness, says, “ there was murder committed on the body of Thomas Meredith, Sen. at Kittome creek, by Maumouth and others, who appeared to be in liquor; that is, Mau-mouth himself, but none of the others. The company were all on the other side of the creek, except my father and an old man. They fell on him without interruption, and killed him dead as he was trying to make his escape in a canoe, and sorely wounded the other, with knives and sticks, so much so, that I fear we shall have to bury him on the way.” The Speaker of the nation and some of his Executive council were with me, returning home, at the time I received the communication, which I read to them, and directed, on their return, to convene their chiefs, and cause justice to be done without delay. Maumouth is an old chief, known to all of us. Several travellers have passed and repassed since, and I hear of no further interruption. Creek Agency, May 11//;, 1812. I have just returned from the council of the Lower Creeks, and have time only, by this mail, to write you a short letter. Charles Hicks, late interpreter of the United States, for the Cherokees, addressed, by order of his chiefs, a friendly letter to the Creeks; he said ‘‘ the rumors of war which surrounded us would soon be verified, ami if the Indians joined Great Britain against the United States, they would lose every foot of land; and if they joined the United States against Great Britain, they would get no land, but would secure the friendship of the United States forever.” The reply was, they were determined not to interfere in the wars of white people, and should prepare the minds of their young people to be neighborly and friendly. The council complained to me of intrusions on their rights, by building fish traps, driving stock to range on their lands, hunting with dogs, cutting cedar and other timber, and cultivating fields on the Indian side of the Oakmnlgee, below fort Hawkins. They said, this unwarrantable conduct rendered their young men ungovernable, and was the real cause of all the depredations committed by them. I exhibited claims for damages done by the Indians, on the frontiers of Georgia; and impositions on traders, by taking exorbitant ferriage, to the amount, in all. of somewhat more than one thousand dollars, which I told them I should stop out of their stipend. I allowed claims of tlieir^ for damages done them by white people, for somewhat less than one hundred dollars. Cherokee Agency, May 25th, 1810. Amidst the most solemn assurances to me, on the part of the chiefs of this nation, that they were friendly to the citizens of the United States, and would exert themselves to keep their young people from doing acts of violence to their persons or property, as well as to the persons and property of the Floridians, (during the unhinged state of Spanish affairs I felt it my duty to watch over the safety of my neighbors in that quarter) 1 was this day informed by Mr. Cornells, our interpreter for the Upper Creeks, that, on the 23d inst. a white man, William Lott, was murdered eight miles this way from his house, by four Indians, without the least provocation. The post rider gave him the information; he went immediately, met the travellers with the dead man; one of them accompanied him to the place where the Indians fired, from whence he tracked them up, until he found one he knew, and three strangers, and ascertained the town and family of the murderers. The chiefs will meet in one week, and we shall see what can be done. We have a report, also, that two families have been killed in Tennessee. To aid the chiefs to bring the murderers to justice, it is likely a show of force will be necessary within the agency. Creek Agency, June 9th, 1812. Our chiefs have not yet returned from Tuckaubatchee, where they were convened on the demand of satisfaction for the murder of Mr. Lott, on the 23d ult. I have sent the assistant agent, accompanied by Ensign Turner, of the army of the United States, with a reiterated demand; the result of which shall be communicated as soon as received. The Indians seem much alarmed; those of the Lower Creeks, particularly, have expressed their fears, as well as determination, to aid the Upper Creeks in bringing the offenders to justice. The former have recently, on my demand, cropped and whipped two Indians, for breaking open and plundering the factory of the United States of furs, to the value of two hundred and sixteen dollars, and request me to replace the amount out of their stipend for this year. We experience some inconvenience from loose, worthless characters travelling through this agency, and some pretending to be scientific, misrepresenting every thing they see, either from design, or from associating with persons who have Hed from the restraints of civil society. You have a specimen of one of these travellers in the Georgia' Journal, of 13th May, who signs himself FrancisMcIIenry; answered in that of the 27th, by Timothy Barnard, public interpreter. This man passes himself sometimes as an Englishman, then a Virginian, and again a Scotchman. I have never seen him; I have a short letter requesting me to aid in correcting some parts of his work, relative to the Indians, which he will send me, and which I would certainly do for any man in pursuit of truth. I have lately, on complaint being made to me by the chiefs, given orders to the marshal of the agency to apprehend all such characters found in the agency, off the post road, and deliver them to the civil authority, or to whip them out of the agency. When I had Bowles arrested, and sent to answer for his crimes, I was vested unanimously, by the four nations, with absolute authority over all white and black people, within the agency. Until Congress legislate completely within this agency, 1 shall execute the authority vested in me by the chiefs. As the rumor of war approaches, and probably will be realized in a month, unless something should arrive from Europe, upon which the Government can count as leading with certainty to peace, I shall soon issue a proclamation against all offenders in the premises, and suited to the approaching crisis. Extract of a letter from. B. F. Slickney, dated Fort IVuync, May 25, 1812. My last was on the 15th instant. I told you then of the measures I had taken to make peace with the relations of the two Indians who were killed at Greenville. Before receiving this, you will undoubtedly have received more correct information of the circumstances than I could give you. The women and child who were taken prisoners, were sent tome by Mr. Johnson, with three or four horses, and_as much of the other property that was taken, as he could obtain, under the care and protection of two Shawanee chiefs and ten warriors. They arrived four days ago, when there was a general collection of Indians forming, to inform me what had been doing at a grand council they had been holding on the "Wabash, where twelve tribes were represented, consisting of the Wyandots, Chippewas, Ottawas, Pattawatamies, Delawares, Miamies, Eel River Miamies, Weas, Piankeshaws, Shawanese, Kickapoos. and Winnebagoes. The council here continued two days, and amounted to but .very little more than that they had united to secure and maintain peace. I cannot explain the whole better than by enclosing you a copy of my letter to Governor Hull. Copy of a letter from B. F. Stickney, Indian agent, to Governor Hull, dated Fort "Wayne, May 25, 1812. Sir: The time appears to have arrived, when it is necessary, if possible, to cut off the communication between the Indians within the territory of the United States and Canada. But I do not know how far it would meet the views of the Government, at the present moment. Many circumstanceshaving come to my knowledge upon this subject, I will give you an outline of them now, and more particular when I have more time: considering you the most proper person to give the immediate information to. It nas for some time been well understood, that the British Government has agents among the Indians within the United States; but has been almost impossible to distinguish them. There is a man here now, who is called Shetoon, who represents himself to be a Wyandot chief from Browns-town. His mother is said to have been a Wyandot squaw, and his father a Frenchman. He appears to be more of a Frenchman than an Indian. He came here last February, and brought a letter of introduction from Mr. Atwater (your secretary) to this agency, lie remained near here (with the Little Turtle) till April. The first of my seeing him was at a conference I held with the Indians, soon after I came here, about the lfith or 17th of April. Ilis conduct appeared to me rather suspicious then: and I mentioned my suspicion, in writing to Governor Harrison. Since then he has called a general council of Indians on the Wabash, at Massasinaway, where twelve tribes were represented. They broke up tneir council at Massnsinaway about twelve days ago, to meet here to inform me what they had been doing. When they met here, he took the lead; and it is said he took the lead at Massasinaway; when he returned here, with full evidence, having the coniidencejjof the Miamies and Delawares, my suspicions were much abated. But at length, by the observations of interpreters in my absence, of friendly Indians, and my own observation, the matter is put beyond all doubt with me, that he is an emissary employed by Elliot, although the evidence is not of that kind that would convict him in a court of law. Whether this business is fully known to his nation or not, does not appear. But it appears from the collected mass of circumstances, that he has been sent by his nation to preach peace to the rest, and that he has been employed by Elliot to preach peace in general, and tell the real views of the British Government to a few. He carries many speeches of war. as welt as peace. Black wampum and white wampum. He told to one Indian, where he thought he. was safe, that he was employed by the British Indian agent to go and advise all the Indians of this western country to be at peace with the United States: and to form a system, by which they may all be united as one nation. And the agent told him that he was going away oft’, where a greater agent (or chief) lived, where he should hear from the King, and receive his directions. By the time the agent should return, Shetoon said he was to have all the tribes ready to send each of them one chief, and one war chief, to the agent in Canada, where they would receive instructions what to do. This was told by Shetoon between here and Detroit, on his way coming here. His conduct has corresponded with this: but I believe he has been cunning enough to conceal his views from nearly all the Indians who are sincere friends to the United States: nor do the white people here suspect him of any improper views. Since he has returned from Massasinaway, he has told in his public speeches, and in public generally, that Tecumseh, the Kickapoos. and Winnebagoes, ail acknowledge the peace with Governor Harrison, and were really* disposed for peace. Rut at length he let it out to a Sliawanee chief, with whom he was not so well acquainted as he supposed himself to be, that Tecumseh was going home to plant corn himself, and should send his young men again to Canada, to get more powder and lead. (There were twenty four of Tecumseh's men passed here on their wav from Canada, the 1st of April, loaded with ammunition.) Shetoon asked the Sliawanee if he thought it was likely Tecumseh's men would be permitted to pass unmolested. Shetoon, in all his communications to me, or the Indians, appeared to be anxious to have every tiling left loose and uncertain. I had at length to fetch the matter to this point: that as they had told me many fine things, that they meant to try todo. 1 would give them one moon to give up their murderers, and make the other necessary restitutions. I pledged myself to them, that the army would not strike upon them, to destroy them, in less than a moon: if the restitution was not made within that time. I would not hold myself accountable any longer for what the warriors might do to them. The army was ready and at hand to strike when our Great Father should give the word. They have dispersed, with the appearance of a full determination to apprehend the murderers, and fetch them to justice. I have the honor to be. your humble servant, R. F. STICKNKY, Indian Jlgent. His Excellency William Hull. P. S. I shall keep Shetoon amused here as long as I can, hoping to obtain more from him. 13. F. S. 12th Congress.] 
