” NO. 195.	[2d SESSION. FLORIDA INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEBRUARY 21, 1823. Mr. METCALFE made the following report: The Committee on Indian Affairs, to whom was referred so much of the President’s message as relates to the Indians in Florida, have had the same under consideration, and respectfully submit the following report: Deeply impressed with the importance and high responsibility of the duties assigned them, and reflecting upon the ineffectual and generous efforts of the Christian, the philosopher, and the statesman, to promote the civilization and happiness of those children of nature, your committee commenced their investigations with feelings of doubt and hesitancy, though not without a strong hope that their inquiries might lead to the adoption of a system of measures by which the condition of the Florida Indians might be ameliorated, and an opportunity afforded to the few who remain within that territory to advance in the acquirements of civilized societies, by which alone they are likely to be saved from total extinction. As the original proprietors of all the territory in question, those Indians may appeal, not only to all the best feelings of our nature, to the sympathy and benevolence of the Christian and the philanthropist, but to the justice and clemency of the statesman, upon whose Jiat their future happiness and prosperity so materially depend. Confidently believing that one common feeling, favorable and friendly towards the red children in question, pervades the bosom, not only of every representative of the National Legislature, but of every enlightened citizen in the Union, the committee deem it unnecessary to urge the right of those Indians to our protection, or the moral obligation upon this Government to extend that protection, without which the whole race must inevitably perish, as they are now cut off from, and cannot retreat to, the wilderness, where, if we could send them, it would be at a vast expense, and contrary to their will, and where they could disappear but for a short time, before they would again be overtaken and borne down by that wave of white population which is rolling onward with such rapid and resistless pressure. How are we to render their condition more comfortable and happy? What plan shall we devise and pursue for the promotion and final success of an object so desirable? The committee acknowledge the difficulties presented, but in proportion to those difficulties will be the honor due to those who may devise and adopt a system of measures at once so laudable, just, and benevolent. A broad field for tried and untried experiment now lies before us, and, in the selection of measures upon which it may be said that the rights of human nature so materially depend, your committee believe that the plan which is most simple and the most natural is likely to be the most effectual, and that a departure from those principles was the great error in the regulations heretofore adopted with the various remnants of tribes, who, surrounded by our settlements, remain upon their respective reservations of land, which they hold in common, and not individually, in fee simple. Encompassed about by such a power as this, what can they do? They do not form independent communities, but are dependant upon our will, and yet without the pale of our laws. The total failure of this system to produce any beneficial effect has proven, as far as the test of actual experience can go to prove, the inexpediency of continuing and extending a similar system of measures to those with whom we are now about to commence our operations. Here we cannot come into conflict with State sovereignties. Aided by all the lights of experience which have been shed upon this interesting subject, we are at liberty to pursue the dictates of our own feelings and judgments. It would be useless and improper to tax the time and attention of members who are already well acquainted with the history of the several remnants of tribes who, from time to time, have been cut off from their hunting grounds, and confined within certain limits in the different States, with a detailed account of the regulations which have been devised and pursued for the improvement of their condition. The regulations which have been adopted in the United States and in Canada are not materially different. They have not only been unsuccessful, but we know that the objects of our solicitude, daily sinking in vice and immorality, are exceedingly degraded, and gradually wasting away. The causes that contribute to this effect among the Indians within the several States it may be difficult to remove; but in Florida it is believed they may be avoided at the commencement. Hitherto, the policy of this Government has been at war with its own professions. The Indian is called by the endearing name of brother, and he is told that we are religiously bound, by the most sacred injunction, to do unto others as we would that others should do unto us; at the same time we exclude them from any participation in the benefits of our civil and social institutions. We treat the whole race as if they were not thé descendants of Adam; and thus we baffle and tantalize the Christian, who labors for their moral and religious instruction; and hence the delusions of many wise and pious clergymen, whose efforts in their behalf, though unavailing, reflect upon them the highest honor. The Indian, at a loss how to reconcile the friendly professions of the Christian, who labors for their moral and religious improvement, with the cruel treatment inflicted upon them by the Government, doubts the sincerity of the Christian; his jealousies and suspicions are excited, and the most bitter enmity to the whites rankles in his bosom. In Canada, also, this system of embodying them together, and confining them within the narrow limits of small reservations of land, has been adopted; and here, too, after centuries of trial under the guidance and care of the priesthood, no beneficial effect is perceptible. It appears, from the history of all the experiments which have been made in this way, either in the United States or in Canada, that, instead of the favorable results which were anti cipated, those Indians are exceedingly degraded; and that, depopulating, they dwindle into insignificance, and must soon disappear entirely. It appears that, under European domination, the Indians of New Spain (now of the provinces of Mexico) were shut up in a narrow space of 600 varas (500 metres) of radius, equal to 1,640 feet, assigned, by an ancient law, to the natives, where they may be said to have no individual property, and are bound to cultivate the common property. And we are informed by that wise and respectable man who was formerly bishop and chapter of Mechoacan, that the law prohibited the mixture of castes: it prohibited the whites from taking up their residence in the Indian villages, and prevented the natives from establishing themselves among the Spaniards. And the bishop informs us that this state of insulation opposes obstacles to civilization. After the conquest of this country by the Spaniards, the conquered people were shared out, and the Indians, divided into tribes of several hundreds of families, had masters named to them in Spain from among the soldiers who had acquired distinction. From that period they have been oppressed and enslaved by the Europeans generally, and especially by the generals, the magistrates, the monks, and clergymen; many of the latter of whom, it is said, possess greater revenues than some of the sovereign princes of Germany. No validity being given to their contracts, they have been doomed to a perpetual minority. On account of their color, they have been degraded by law, as well as by the force of opinioo. The effect of such oppression is always a corruption of morals. It must be acknowledged that such oppression and degradation is calculated to weaken the moral energies of the man, and to discourage and paralyze his exertions to honorable action; and yet it appears that, in Mexico, there are examples of talents among the Indians, natural and acquired, even in the fine arts and belles-lettres; that scintillations of genius sometimes break forth from among those sons of oppression, that would do honor to any age or nation. The committee concur in the opinion that man, in all parts of the world, where he has had opportunities of improvement, no matter where born, or of whom descended, is always the master-piece of nature’s works, and the only master of arts. In the first volume of the executive papers communicated to the second session of the fifteenth Congress will be found, in a letter written by the honorable J. R. Poinsett, a very instructive account of the various regulations and changes in the mode of treating the Indians of New Spain. This letter corroborates the historical account given by Humboldt, and reflects additional light upon the subject. On the first conquest of the country, the Indians were sold into captivity, and thousands perished under the hard treatment of their cruel masters. The first attempt at amelioration was the repartimientos de. Indios, by which they were divided among the Spaniards, who had the profits of their labor, without a right of property in their persons. Next, the encomiendas, by which they were placed under the superintendence of the Spaniards. An éneomiendero was appointed, and bound to live in the district which contained the Indians of his encomienda, to watch over their conduct, instruct, and civilize them, <fcc. They were next confided to the care of missionaries and doctrinal curates. Thousands of these unfortunate people were marched every year to Potosi, to labor in the mines. Under the variety of changes and modifications in their civil and political relations, they experienced but little amelioration of condition. Besides the exactions of the Spanish Government, the corregidor, the alcaldes, the enco- miendero, the missionaries, and other officers, at the same time, or alternately, became their avaricious and cruel oppressors. They were prohibited the use of fire-arms, and, consequently, were the victims of oppression to comparatively few in numbers. But the revolutionary Government, immediately on its installation, released them from the service of the mita, (personal service in the mines,) which was the most obnoxious to them. The tribute was continued from necessity, as it afforded a revenue which could not be relinquished at that period. In 1814, they were relieved from the payment of the tribute, and took an active part in favor of the creoles. The first step of the independent Government of Mexico was to remove all the restrictive regulations by which the Indians were kept in the state of minority and pupilage; and, to the honor of that Government, they now enjoy all the rights and immunities of other citizens. About nine-tenths of the inhabitants of those provinces are said to be Indians and castes; and it appears that, within the last fifty years, insiead of diminishing, they have increased in numbers, notwithstanding the injuries they have sustained. In the interior of the United States, their numbers are not more than a unit among thousands. No danger to the whites can be apprehended under any system that may be adopted. Shall we turn our backs upon and refuse to cherish and protect the few apparently dying embers of the aboriginal Americans? In carrying into effect the views suggested by the committee, a due regard can and ought to be had to the rights and interests of the white citizens, and to the increasing prosperity of the Territory. By referring to the documents which were communicated to the committee by the honorable Secretary of War, it will be found that, previous to the cession of Florida to the United States, the Indians were incorporated among the subjects of His Catholic Majesty; and that each Indian had a right to land, as well as, and ou the same footing with, white, free black, and colored subjects, in any part of the province; a right to lands individually, but none nationally, as the full and complete jurisdiction and sovereignty was vested in, and exercised by, the Spanish Government. It must be admitted that this system combined benevolence in its leading principles, and that, in practice, it exhibited a perpetual reciprocity of interest. Under it, the Seminole Indians had attained, and were in the enjoyment of, no inconsiderable portion of prosperity and happiness. It is stated by Captain Bell, that this nation was, before the destruction of their settlements in 1812, numerous, proud, and wealthy; possessing great numbers of cattle, horses, and slaves. And it appears from the statement of George J. F. Clarke, that “since the death of King Payne, who died in the field, with Roman dignity, at the destruction of their settlements in Alachua, during the troubles of this province in 1812, and that of his brother Bowleg, who died of grief shortly after, they have had little or no order among them; and their defeats in 1818 have completely broken them up, and dispersed them in small squads or families over the country;” that “ many of them now live by cultivation and fishing among the rivers on the eastern side of the peninsula; and others, emaciated and naked, supply wood to the city of St. Augustine, carried in bundles on their backs;” and it is believed that their numbers do not exceed eight hundred souls, in Florida, who are humbled in the dust, and willing to submit to any system that will tolerate their life and living. Under such circumstances, if we regard our national character; if we love mercy, and desire to do justice; if we consider it our duty to do unto others as we would that others should do unto us, we cannot for a moment hesitate to extend to them the fostering care and protection of this Government, and to make their situation relatively equal to that in which they stood towards the Government of Spain. The sixth article of the treaty of cession of East and West Florida to the United States is as follows: “ The inhabitants of the territories which His Catholic Majesty cedes to the United States by this treaty shall be incorporated in the Union of the United States, as soon as may be consistent with the principles of the fédéra) constitution, and admitted to the enjoyment of all the privileges, rights, and immunities of the citizens of the United States.” Hence, it appears that, by treaty, we have solemnly bound ourselves to incorporate tiie inhabitants of the territories of Florida into the Union, and to extend to them all the privileges, rights, and immunities of the citizens of the United States. The obligatory force of this treaty upon the Government, it is believed, is clear and conclusive; and derives additional strength, if it be possible to give it, from the fact that those Indians were incorporated among, and were a part of, the subjects of His Catholic Majesty. The committee ate of opinion that sound policy, justice, humanity, and religion, combined with the preceding solemn obligation in favor of this incorporating system—human nature itself, appeals to us, in silent but eloquent language, for the establishment of its rights. We cannot withhold our sympathies, and, as we cannot refuse to act upon the ground of necessity, or of self-preservation, the committee are at a loss to perceive any rational objection to the measure. They are few in numbers, dispersed over an immense region of country; they will shortly have among them a very numerous white population, which, it is believed, will soon effect a material change or modification of their habits. If this policy be not pursued, what are we to do with those Indians! We cannot remove them within the limits of any of the States; we cannot remove them to perish upon the northern borders of our settlements; and shall we continue to pursue the same unprofitable and unavailing policy of embodying them together, and confining them within the narrow limits of such reservation as we may think proper to allow them! As an additional proof of the fallacy of such a system, the committee respectfully refer the House to the President’s message, and the letter accompanying it from the Rev. John Heckewelder, who, after having devoted the greater portion of a long and pious life as a Christian missionary among the Indians, at their settlements on the Muskingum, as their moral and religious instructor, attributes his failure of success to the want of good and wholesome laws, tending to their temporal welfare and happiness. He tells us, “if the Indians see that justice is done them to the same degree as it is done to the whites, they will be satisfied, knowing where to flee for relief when maliciously treated.” He also informs us that the confidence they would place in such a Government would be a great inducement towards improving their morals, and would encourage th i to industry. This is the language of experience, supported by reason and commd sense. To secure to each member of society, in his individual capacity, the fruits of his own labor, and authorial him to pass the same to those who are most near and dear to him, is believed to be one of the first steps in promoting the civilization, prosperity, and happiness of all nations. Without such security, it is believed that the energies of every people, of every creed, and clime, and color in the universe, will remain stationary and inactive, or turn to the most vicious purposes. Without such security, the “ hand of dispirited man will move but sluggishly to the task.” Without such security, who would toil and labor to remove the timbers of the forest, to plant orchards, to erect comfortable buildings, or perform any other work, for the purpose of extending and perpetuating the enjoyments, comforts, and happiness of the human family! Then, whatever may be the various opinions as to the practicability of the plan suggested by the committee, it may be respectfully asked, if we do not owe it to ourselves and to the Indians to make the experiment! It may be asked if this humane and benevolent policy is not due to the character of this nation! and whether such a measure is not in accordance with the precepts of the holy religion we profess! The committee recommend that each family, or the heads of families, respectively, provided they will settle upon, cultivate, and improve it, receive a title in fee simple (without the power of alienating it, until otherwise directed) to a reasonable and generous portion of land; and that, in making the locations, the interest and wishes of the said families, or heads of families, be consulted, having due regard to their improvements, and endeavoring to contract their settlements within reasonable limits, so as to promote the interest and prosperity of the white citizens, and encourage the settlement of emigrants in the Territory. To impose a tax upon the community, or in any other manner to compel the white population of these States to contribute sums of money for the benefit of the Indians, is neither desirable nor proper. It would be an imposition upon our own citizens; and, admitting the most faithful application of the public treasure to the objects intended, (which it is presumed would but seldom happen,) still its only effect might be to lull the Indians into a fatal security, causing them to indulge in the most slothful and demoralizing habits. If we commence the system of supporting them upon the national bounty, it will be difficult to abandon it; and whenever that support is withdrawn, it will be offensive to those who have been in the habit of receiving it. Besides, in principle, it may not be right to enslave or oppress the whites for the benefit and support of the copper-colored race. And it would be equally unrighteous to oppress, degrade, or indirectly to enslave the latter for the benefit of the former. But, as men and Christians, we should encourage and stimulate them to the exertion of their own energies and faculties. It is believed that the history of all ages and nations, Christian or heathen, will confirm the fact, that none of the sons and daughters of men ever did become extensively civilized, virtuous, or happy, except they were stimulated to industry and enterprise as before stated; that is, by giving them an idea of separate property, and securing to each individoal the fruits of his own labor, industry, and enterprise, with the power of transmitting the same to those who are most near and dear to him. The committee are, therefore, of opinion that the plans herein suggested are worthy of trial, and, if carried into effect, will, to a considerable extent, be crowned with success. But, whether successful or not, it will be doing all that we are legally or morally bound to do, or that they have a right to ask. We shall then have the approbation of an approving conscience; and we hope and trust that our faithful and disinterested exertions will receive the smiles and meet the sanction of approving Heaven. With these views and sentiments, the committee, with great deference and respect, submit the following resolution: Resolved, That the President of the United States be authorized and requested to commence a system of operations for the. gradual and ultimate effectuation of. the objects contemplated, allowing him to exercise and pur- ’ sue his own judgment as to the manner or mode of doing it, and to communicate to this House, as soon as may be, after the commencement of the next session, the progress and result of his proceedings therein. SIR:	WASHINGTON CITY, February 19, 1823. Having examined the report which you did me the honor to place into my hands relative to the Indians of the Territory which I have the honor to represent, I beg leave respectfully to observe, that it would be much to the interest of that Territory if they could be removed to some other part of the United States. But, if such a measure is not practicable, it is very probable that the benevolent system proposed in that report will, eventually, be attended with the best results. At present, those Indians are dispersed in different parts of the Territory, and ought to be concentrated as soon as possible. They ought also to be allowed the benefit of our laws, through the medium of their Indian agents, whose duty it ought to be to represent them, and to warn them from committing depredations on any of the settlements. To effect this purpose, very ample powers ought to be vested in the President of the United States, who will doubtless receive, from time to time, all the information necessary to enable him to fix upon such a system, or adopt such measures, as may be most appropriate to promote the interest of the Territory and their welfare. I have the honor to be, with much respect, your most obedient servant, JOSEPH M. HERNANDEZ. Hon. THOMAS METCALFE, Chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, January 28, 1823. In answer to the inquiries contained in your letter of the I5th instant, relative to the Indians in Florida, I have the honor to transmit the enclosed papers, which contain all the information in relation to the points embraced by said inquiries in the possession of this Department.	, I have the honor to be, very respectfully, sir, yonr obedient servant, J. C. CALHOUN. Hon. THOS. METCALFE, Chairman Committee on Indian Affairs, House of Representatives U. S. Copy of a letter from Joseph M. White, secretary to the commissioners for land titles in Florida, to the Secre- tary of War. SIR:	PENSACOLA, December 1, 1822. As a citizen of the Territory of Florida, feeling a deep interest in its prosperity, I would beg leave respectfully to invite your attention to a subject of important consideration to the General Government, and peculiar solicitude to the inhabitants of this Territory. The situation of the Indians within the limits of Florida most imperiously demands the attention of Congress at its present session, as will be fully shown from the following statement. Their numbers, from the best estimate which has been made, probably amount to three thousand souls, consisting of men, women, and children. Since the destruction of their towns, during the late Creek war, mail of them appear to have no locality, or permanency of habitation. They arc distinguished for their insolence and predisposition to habits of intoxication, and are frequently found infesting our towns and settlements. The principal bodies, you are aware, are located in the Alachua and Appalachie, or Appalachicola; and, on more than one occasion, have been reduced to great extremities for the want of the ordinary articles of subsistence. They have almost entire,ly abandoned the chase, in consideration of the scarcity of game; and their fondness for idle habits presents an insuperable obstacle to the cultivation of the soil. All the information I have been able to collect represents their condition as singularly distressing, and requiring the interposition of the United States. Situated as they are, it seems to be the better opinion of the most intelligent men in this country that the most advisable measure for adoption by the General Government would be, to subject this wretched people to their absolute control and direction. The Upper Creeks, of whom they are a remnant, and to whom they properly belong, should be compelled to receive and incorporate them with their nation; or, if deemed more proper, a particular tract of country should be marked out within the interior, where they all ought to be collected, and compelled to make a permanent settlement. That the United States are authorized to exercise such a power, I humbly conceive but little doubt can be entertained. It is distinctly understood, and is incontestably proved by the official acts of all the Spanish functionaries, that, by an act of the Spanish Government, the Indians residing in Florida were incorporated with her subjects, whilst she reserved to herself, as one of the attributes of sovereignty, the absolute disposal of the soil; and the Spanish authorities have uniformly acted upon this principle; and, although many reports were made by the. ministerial officers that lands solicited were within the Indian boundary, the governors, sub-de.legates, and the intendant granted the lands, not recognising any title or sovereignty in the Indians. The Indians were, therefore, placed on the same ground occupied by other inhabitants of the country, having no other title to real property save that conferred by actual occupation of the land; which constituted no right, without a grant from the proper authorities. The Territory having been ceded by His Catholic Majesty, without a recognition of their sovereignty, there can be no moral or political obligation upon our Government to treat with them on the subject, or to surrender to them the fairest portion of Florida. Another consideration which imperatively urges their removal into the interior is, that, in case of invasion, they would be cut off from all intercourse with an enemy, and the avenue would be closed against foreign influence. In their present situation, no confidence could be reposed in their fidelity; they would, either from choice or necessity, unite with a more formidable invader, officiate as his pioneers through our country, and ravage our defenceless frontiers. The strong repugnance that Americans will always feel at settling in their vicinity, and the consequent injury to the sale of public lands, will operate as an auxiliary motive for their removal. For the above reasons, I solemnly believe that the General Government not only, have rhe right, but are required by the strong convictions of justice, policy, and humanity, to pursue one or the other of the courses above mentioned. Pardon the liberty I have taken in the frank expression of my opinion, and be assured that it arises from a perfect knowledge that it is the sentiment of the people of this Territory, and from a lively interest I feel for its welfare, and that of the United States. I have the honor to be, &c. JOS. M. WHITE. Eitract of a communication from Mr. Penieres, late Sub-agent for Indian Affairs in Florida, to General Jackson, Governor, fyc. dated JULY 15, 1821. It appears that the Floridas have never been well peopled. Some deserted plantations and ruined villages are visible; but, according to the information I have been able to procure, this country has never contained ten thousand souls, white population; and, at present, does not contain more than five thousand. You are doubtless, general, acquainted with the population of the Indian tribes known under the collective name of Creeks. It appears that this tribe is composed of six others, which have been designated to me by the names of Mickasuky, Suhane, Moskoky, Santa Fc, Red Sticks, and Echitos. I am informed that these tribes have furnished one thousand two hundred warriors, which gives reason to suppose their population to be three thousand souls. The nation known by the name of Seminoles is composed of seven tribes, which bear the names of Latchioue, Oklèouaha, Chokeckhiatta, Pyadèknha, Tatchonyana, and Topkèlakè.* There are, besides, some remains of ancient tribes, known by the name of Outchis, Chiaas, Cana-acké, <fcc.; but they consist of only a few straggling families. There is, also, on the frontiers of Georgia, another tribe, called Lahouita, which raised one hundred nr one hundred and fifty warriors under McIntosh. Seven years ago they waged a barbarous warfare against the whites and Seminoles, who detest them. We must add to this enumeration, which will make the Indian population amount to more than five thousand of each sex and of every age, fifty or sixty negroes, or mulattoes, who are maroons, or half slaves to the Indians. These negroes appeared to me far more intelligent than those who are in absolute slavery; and they have great influence over the minds of the Indians. I have had several conferences with these chiefs, <fcc. &c. They are very mistrustful, very poor, very lazy, and very great beggars. They love the English and Americans very little. It will be difficult to form a prudent determination with respect to the maroon negroes who live among the Indians on the other side of the little mountains of Latehioue. Their number is said to be upwards of three hundred. They fear being again made slaves under the American Government, and will omit nothing to increase or keep alive mistrust among the Indians, whom they, in fact, govern. If it should become necessary to use force with them, it is to be feared that the Indians would take their part. It will, however, he necessary to remove from the Floridas this group of lawless freebooters, among whom runaway negroes will always find refuge. It would, perhaps, be possible to have them received at St. Domingo, or to furnish them the means of withdrawing themselves from the United States. Extract of a letter from Mr. Penieres, late Sub-agent for Indian Affairs in Florida, to the Secretary of War, dated ■	JULY 19, 1821. Previous to my excursion on the St. John’s, I paid a traveller’s visit to the Spanish Governor, who gave me a written permission to pass beyond the military post of Bonavista. As he received me with great kindness, I made him acquainted with my intentions, and he evinced the must lively interest towards the Indians, who were deceived in every way. I have neglected nothing to quiet their minds; but the numerous maroon negroes who live among them, the speculators, and other ill-disposed persons, keep up and increase among those unfortunate people a mistrust which it will be difficult to do away. It will, no doubt, be necessary to collect all the tribes (thirteen or fourteen in number) into one district, to remove them from the seashore, and to give them good lands, in order that they may take a liking to agriculture. Those Indians appear to me to be more lazy, more ignorant, and greater beggars, than those of the other States. They have seen nothing but bad examples, and it will require much time and much patience to make them better. When I shall be more acquainted with them, I will have the honor to lay before you my observations and my opinion. Extract of a communication from Mr. Penieres, late Sub-agent for Indian Affairs in Florida, to General Jack- son, Governor, fyc., dated AUGUST 27, 1821. There exists no deed, no transaction, nor any treaty with the Indians; The English had, as it is said, abandoned to them all the lands situated west of the St. John’s, and I have been told that this grant had been sanctioned about thirty years ago by the Spanish Government. Others, and more credible persons, attest that the usage of the Spanish Kings was to incorporate the Indians in the countries in which they were located. If this unequal incorporation has taken place in the Floridas, the Indians possess no lands; for the Government, which has granted, by written deeds, the greater part of the valuable lands, has made no concession of such nature to the Indians. By an inconsistency worthy of despotism, His Most Catholic Majesty has legalized, it is said, a sale made by the Indians to a Mr. Forbes of one million two hundred thousand acres of land, situated between the Appalaehicola and St. Mark’s rivers. If this sale has been actually thus confirmed, the Indian tribes were not incorporated in the mode above described, which would only have entitled them to the same rights of citizenship as are enjoyed by Europeans; but with this difference, that the latter have written titles, which the unfortunate aborigines have not. Immense concessions of land have been made on the territory of the Latehioue Indians; six hundred thousand acres of which, to my knowledge, have never been surveyed or cultivated. A great number of deeds, vague, informal, and unlimited, are in the hands of speculators; but no one purchases, for want of a guaranty, and the lands will remain uncultivated. Other considerable grants have been made to individuals, on conditions that have never been fulfilled: the interest of the State, in such eases, demands a very scrupulous investigation. I have been assured that all the records and titles, which relate to the Indians in the Floridas, arc deposited in the archives of the Captain General of Cuba. Should you think it necessary to authorize me, or any other person, to go and examine them, I am led to believe that the search of those documents would be of no avail, for the holders of grants have a great interest in destroying every thing which might prejudice their title; but it is urgent that Congress, at its next session, should come to some determination to clear up this confusion, else this country will never prosper. If the pretended purchasers of two or three millions of acres are maintained in their Indian possessions, nothing but swamps will be left for them [the Indians] and the States. Extract of a letter from General Jackson to the Secretary of War, dated SEPTEMBER 20, 1821. Since I closed my letter of the 17th instant to you, Nea-moth-la, one of the chiefs of the Florida Indians, accompanied by the Mulatto Chief and John Blount, with an interpreter, Stephen Richards, has visited me. From the enclosed talk held with them, (marked A,) you will discover the object of their visit, their disposition, and wishes. They have left me well pleased, and happy to hear that a country will be given them somewhere, by the President of the United States, in which they will be collected and settled, and receive the protection of the United States. They acknowledge that it is just that (hose who rejected peace when it was offered to them, and fled from their own country, continuing the war, ought to return to their own nation; that they believe all those are willing to return, but are afraid that they will not be protected. I have no doubt, it being made known to them that they, must return, and that on their return they will be protected, that the whole would immediately move up; and as these Indians can have no claims to lands in the Floridas, humanity and justice are sufficiently extended to them by such permission to return and live in peace with their own nation; and their nation cannot complain or object to this. There is but one point at which the natives of Florida can be concentrated, without weakening the borders of Florida too much; and that is, on the banks of the Appalachicola, adjoining the southern boundary of Alabama and Georgia, and running down the river on both sides so as to include a sufficient area for the real natives of that country. This might infringe a little upon the large grant to Forbes & Co.; but it would be better thus, than to leave St. Augustine and Pensacola exposed. There, a whole settlement would be interposed between them and the seashore, and the Georgia and Alabama settlements in the rear would insure peace with them. I have thought proper to make this suggestion for the consideration of the President; and 1 am sure it will give general satisfaction to the Indians if Congress will lay off a boundary for them where I have suggested; but still, I am of opinion, from the smallness of their numbers, and the shape of the Floridas, that it would be much better policy to move them all up, and amply provide for them by an annuity.	'A. Extract of a talk held by General Jackson with three chiefs of the Florida Indians, at Pensacola. On the 18th September, 1821, I was visited in the Executive Chamber by three chiefs of the Florida Indians, viz: Blount, Nea-moth-la, and Mulatto King, who, through tljeir interpreter, made known to me that the object of their visit was to be informed what their father the President intended to do with them; that various reports had reached them, and that Nea-moth-la had been up to see the headmen of the Creek nation; and that General McIntosh told them that I would deprive them of all their lands, only giving to each six hundred and forty acres of land for themselves and their families to live on; upon which I gave them the following talk: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: I am glad to see you, and to shake you by the hand in friendship, and to assure you that the hatchet has'been buried; your father the President never wishes to see it again raised. Your nation was once led astray by the advice and counsel of wicked and bad men; the Creek nation had listened to the same bad counsel, and, in consequence, had brought destruction upon themselves. Your father the President gave them peace. McQueen and Francis, with a number of warriors, would not regard this peace, but fled from their country, and came here, where they adhered to the false counsel of British agents and Spanish incendiaries; and your nation, having pursued the same course, compelled your father the President to send his white children to chastise and subdue you, and thereby give peace to his children, both red and while. This was four years ago; and all those Indians who bad raised the bloody hatchet were ordered to return to the Creek nation, and there live in peace, where they would again be taken by the hand in friendship by their father the President, and by him be protected. I repeat that I am glad to see yuu in friendship, and to give you assurance that your father the President has no other wish than to be in friendship with you, and that, having buried the hatchet with his red children, he is anxious to have them collected together at some one point, where he can protect them, either within the limits of your old nation the Creeks, or at such other point where they can be altogether, and within his power to protect and make them happy. I give to you a plain, straight talk, and do not speak with a forked tongue. It is necessary that you be brought together, either within the bounds of your old nation, or at some other point, where your father the President may be enabled to extend to you his fatherly care and assistance. Those who fled from their nation, and joined in the war against us, must return to their country, where their chiefs are willing to receive them, where they will be protected by their father the President; for they cannot be permitted to settle all over the Floridas, and on her seacoast. Your white brethren must be settled there, to keep from you bad men and bad talks. I will gladly meet you to-morrow in this room, and listen to your talks and wishes, and give you such information as you may require and I possess; and I wish to be informed where the red people in the Floridas are settled, that I may make it known to your father the President, that he may be enabled to judge of your situation, and point out where you are to be collected, to insure your protection, and that you may be treated as the rest of his beloved children. Your former disobedience is forgotten, and he again receives you as his children. The chief replied, that he had heard many rumors; that he had received no satisfaction until he came to see me; that he was very glad to hear this talk from me, and that he believed it to be a straight talk. On the 19th they met, agreeably to appointment, when I addressed them in the following manner: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: I am glad to see you this morning, and to shake you by the hand again, and to assure you of the kind feelings of your father the President, and of his love for his red children. I desire to know where the red people are settled in the Floridas, and also their numbers. Nea-moth-la answered, that he liked the talk he had received, and would carry it to his nation, assemble the chiefs, and give it to them; and, also, that he would give me an account of the towns, as near as possible, which he did as follows; saying that he knew of about fifteen towns, viz: Red Town, at Tampa Bay; does not know the number of souls: Ac-luck-o-na-yake, above Tampa Bay; a number of souls: O-pony’s Town, back of Tampa Bay: Tats-ta-la-hoats-ka, or Watermelon Town, on the seaboard, this side of Tampa Bay; the greater part of all these fled from the Upper Creeks when peace was given to that nation: A-ha-pop-ka, situate back of Musquito: Sow- walla village, composed of those who fled from Coosa, and followed McQueen and Francis, their prophets: Peter McQueen’s village, the other side of Tampa Bay: A-lack-a-way-ta-lofa, in the Alackaway plains; a great many souls; Took-o-sa-math-la the chief: Santa-fee-ta-lo-fa, at the east fork of the Suwanee; Lock-taw-me-coochy the chief: Waw-ka-saw-sa, on the east side of the mouth of Suwanee, on the seaboard; these are from the Coosa river: Old Suwanee town, (burnt in 1818,)on the Suwanee river; these are from the Talapoosa towns,and followers of McQueen and Francis: A-la-pa-ha-ta-lofa, west of Suwanee, and east of Mickasuky; the chief (Ockmulgee) is lately dead; these are from the Upper Creeks: Wa-cissa-ta-lofa, at the head of the St. Mark’s river; these are from Chattahoochee, Upper Creeks: Willa-nou-chee-ta-lofa, near the head of St. Mark’s river, west of Wa-cissa-ta-lofa; natives of Florida: Tal-la-has-see, on the waters of the Mickasuky Pond; these have lived there a long time; have about one hundred warriors, and I suppose about ten souls to a warrior—say one thousand souls: Top-ke-gakga, on the cast side of the Ochlochne, near to the Tallahassee village: Wethoc-ou-chy-ta-lofa, between the St. Mark’s and Ochlochne rivers, in the fork of the latter; very few of these are natives of the land: O-cheese-ulga, east of the Appalachicola, where Hambly and Blount live; about two hundred souls; Cothrin the chief: Choco-nick-la village; the chief is Nea-thock-o-motla; second chief is Mulatto King; were raised there; have about sixty warriors; on the west side of the Appalachicola: Top-hul-ga; this village and Choco-nick-la join each other; raisedin East Florida, and removed there: Tock-to-eth-la, west of Fort Scott and the Chattahoochee, ten miles above the forks; forty or fifty warriors; were raised at the Econ-cha-ta, or Red Ground, and moved down: another town in Florida, Echee- po-crassa; these moved from the Upper Creeks; about thirty warriors, and a great many women and children settled there. I asked the chiefs their opinion of the number of souls in Florida; they replied, that they supposed about two thousand souls, but were not certain. I inquired at what point those who had been raised there would wish to be concentrated; they replied, that they have not yet consulted together; but, when they returned, would assemble all the chiefs, and deliver the talk they bad with me, (which was a straight talk,) and inform me of the result. Extract of a letter from General Jackson to the Secretary of War, dated SEPTEMBER 2, 1821. I have to observe that Mr. Penieres is incorrect as to the number of the Indians mentioned, and particularly so as it regards the number of inhabitants at Pensacola. The population of Pensacola and its vicinity is estimated at 3,000. I have no doubt but a garrison would be useful at Picolata, provided the Indians are not concentrated together, and embodied on the lands reserved for the Creek nation. But this must be done, or the frontier will be much weakened by the Indian settlements, and be a perpetual harbor for our slaves. These runaway negroes, spoken of by Mr. Penieres, most be removed from the Floridas, or scenes of murder and confusion will exist, and lead to unhappy consequences that cannot be controlled. With a little trouble and expense, all the Indians in the Floridas could be removed up into the Creek nation, and at once be consolidated with them; but, if not done at first, disagreeable consequences will grow out of their remaining in the Floridas that the arm of Government will find it difficult to control. You are fully advised of my opinion on this subject heretofore, to which I refer you and the administration. Until I hear from yon positively what course the Government means to adopt with regard to the Indians in the Floridas, and where it means to locate them, I shall hold no talk with them; for I cannot suppose that the Government will permit these Indians to settle all over the Floridas, as they are at present, but that it means to consolidate them at some one point: both their safety, and the safety of the Georgia frontier, and, moreover, the best policy, require it. Extract of a letter from General Jackson to the Secretary of War, dated SEPTEMBER 17, 1821. The exposed situation of the Floridas imperiously demands that its frontier upon the coast (if it may be so expressed) should be immediately inhabited by our white citizens. The Indians at present are scattered from Florida Point to the Choctawhatchy. If you attempt to concentrate or consolidate them at the Mickasuky Pond or Old Towns, you offend those that are situated on the Suwanee, on the Alachua plains, or on the peninsula. As they have been continually at war with the United States, until conquered in the spring of 1818, when they were ordered up above the Florida line, where the nation to which they originally belonged was willing to receive them, such a measure would reconcile all. This is what they expected, and what good policy and the safety of the Georgia frontier required. If the Indians be removed within the limits of (ho country assigned to the Creek nation, (of which, the Seminoles are a part,) this object, on which the security of the southern border so much depends, will be speedily attained. With what pretence of justice can those who fled from the Creek nation, and kept up an exterminating war on our frontier, until crushed by the arm of our Government in 1818, set up such claims? The greater part of the Indians now in the Floridas consist of those who fled in the manner above mentioned; and why should we hesitate to order them up at once, when the Executive Government, with the aid of Congress, can do ample justice, by law, if necessary, to those who deserve it, by giving such equivalent as will enable them to settle their families in the upper country, and to cultivate their farms? Unless the Indians be consolidated at one point, where is the country that can be brought into market from which the five millions are to be raised to meet the claims of our citizens under the late treaty with Spain?	. Extract of a letter from Captain J. R. Bell, acting Agent for Indian Affairs in Florida, to the Secretary of War, dated ST. AUGUSTINE, September 3, 1821. Agreeably to promise on the 28th ultimo, I have the honor to enclose, herewith, a copy of a letter from George .1. F. Clarke, Esq., a native of this province, late Surveyor General and Lieutenant Governor of East Florida, on the subject of the Indians of the Floridas. Copy of a letter from George J. F. Clarke to Captain John R. Bell, commanding in the province of East Florida. SIR:	ST. MARY’S, EAST FLORIDA, August 15, 1821. I promised, on my departure from St. Augustine, to employ the first moments at my disposal in answering your inquiries respecting the Indians of this province. Foreigners insist, and on no better ground than inference, that a line of demarcation between what they please to term Indian and Spanish lands has always existed during the former and late Spanish possessions of East Florida, and during the intermediate occupancy of the same by the British. This I believe to be erroneous as relates to the time of the British possession, for I have been twenty odd years inquiring in vain for a date to such a distinction, and have only met with but few persons who gave credit to the assertion at a second or third hand hearsay, and those had given the matter a passive credence, merely because it assimilated to the customs they had been used to. But, be that as it may, I am sure that no such, or any other, line of demarcation of territory has ever existed between the Spanish Government and the Indians; nor could it have been the case; for the treaties entered into in the Floridas, and the system generally set up in the Spanish provinces on the American continent, go to preclude such a distinction. It is a remarkable fact, an effect of habit, that the people of all countries are prone to suppose their method of managing in most cases to be the best, if not the only means, whereby a desired end might be effected. But an impartial view beyond home will find evidence to the contrary; that there are at least two ways to any end. Should two persons depart back to back under the zenith, they will meet face to face under the nadir. The Spanish relation with the aborigines of America has been very different in their possessions, generally, tu those of most other nations. They obtained rights to territory by treaties of incorporation, while others resorted to purchase and conquest. Having obtained a grant from His Holiness the Pope to all those parts of the western hemisphere which they should discover, they made a lodgment on a spot of a province or kingdom, and, having fortified it, entered into treaties of incorporation with the nearest trib'es, (I mean on the continent,) and thus gradually progressed to those more remote. Cortes varied in Mexico a part of this mode of process, but not the principle. He went straight to the capital, but, after becoming firm-footed there, carried on the system of incorporation. However this incorporating system may have been abused in practice, as very many of the intentions of most Governments are, when acted on afar from home, it must be allowed that it ultimately combined benevolence in its leading principles; that, in practice, it exhibits a perpetual reciprocity of interests; and that the depopulation of the aborigines under the incorporating system has been much less rapid than in other parts, even where the purchasing system has been preferred. Witness Humboldt’s History of New Spain, recollecting, at the same time, that a great part of the comparatively small defalcation of the aborigines in that quarter will be found in the amalgamation. But where, alas! are the tribes that did inhabit the territory lying between the Floridas and the St. Lawrence? I have reference only to the Spanish settlements on the continent; for on the islands it would appear that extermination had been the order of the day, and that the afterplan of incorporation bad generally grown out of the horrors of those. In 1784 the Spanish Government of East and West Florida met the Talapoosa and Seminole nations in a body, who held those districts, with their celebrated McGilvery at their head, and formed and executed a treaty of incorporation, (or rather re-formed and re-executed the treaty that the British occupancy had rendered obsolete,) which completely made the Indians subjects of Spain, co-equal with the whites, and put the sovereignty in the hands of His Catholic Majesty. That treaty stipulates that the sovereignty, rights, and jurisdiction of His Majesty go alike through all parts of these provinces. And this the United States virtually acknowledged, in treating with Spain, and Spain only, on the boundary line between the Floridas and Georgia; and which line was, moreover, run under a military force, expressly to guard against interference with the Indians. The same treaty says, should the Indians be dispossessed of their lands, (for they had a right to lands individually, bot none nationally,) His Majesty will remunerate them in other parts of his territory. Each Indian had a right to land, as well as, and on the same footing with, white, free black, and colored subjects in any part of the province. The fact that the firm of John Forbes & Co. hold a territory of forty miles square, lying between the rivers Appalachie and Appalachicola, which descended to it from the firm of Pauton, Leslie, &. Co., who, it is said, purchased that tract from the Indians, will, until it is explained, militate against this relation of the Spaniards and Indians. But this is a solitary case, growing out of very extraordinary circumstances, with which I am acquainted, having been a servant of the latter firm eleven years, including a seven years’ apprenticeship, and which I will candidly explain to the best of ray knowledge; premising that I have, nothing to be individually grateful to them for, nor have I a hope or a fear connected with them. The house of Panton, Leslie, & Co. stands respectfully identified with the history of the Floridas. Spain, having received the Floridas from Great Britain, neglected no step to assuage the regret of the Indians at parting with their friends the British, and to conciliate their good-will. In the earliest meetings the Indians requested to be supplied with English goods, and by English merchants; and, having been desired to point out the commercial house most to their satisfaction, among the many with whom they had traded, they chose that of Panton, Leslie, & Co. This advantage gained, and carefully improved by the principals of that house, men of the first rate talents, information, and address, it soon became the monitor of the Indians, the guardian of the tranquillity of the province, and a favorite with the court of Spain. They had several commercial establishments in each province, and were allowed to import articles of commerce of every description free of duties, when foreign goods were so strictly forbidden that to be found introducing a single piece of linen would have subjected, by the laws of Spain, any other person to the penalty of working in the mines for life. They became the sole suppliers of all articles wanted by the Government, garrison, inhabitants, and Indians of both provinces. During this lucrative range of political and civil importance, that firm had credited, generally and largely, the Indians of both provinces, at that time a numerous body; for tribes, afterwards shut into Georgia by the boundary line between that Government and the Floridas, traded to their stores. And preferring, as a matter of accommodation to all concerned, to receive a body of land as a general extinction of those debts than urge individual payments, they obtained permission of the Spanish court to treat with the Indians on that head. A total extinction of debts so easily obtained was, of course, pleasing on the part of the Indians, and not injurious to Spain, who held lands only to give to the meritorious; a treaty was concluded between the house and their debtors, and Spain ratified the treaty, virtually ceding to the house of Panton, Leslie, <fc Co. a territory of forty miles square, to pay the debts of her Indian subjects. Permit me, sir, to add here, through feelings of philanthropy only, a few observations in behalf of those poor children of nature, reduced to a handful of dejected, wretched beings. They will, no doubt, find a protecting hand in the United States. They will participate in the endeavor towards civilization, already so beneficial to the more western sons of the forest, so grateful to humanity, and so exalting to a nation’s character. Since the death of King Payne, who died in the field, with Roman dignity, at the destruction of their settlements in Alachua, during the troubles of this province in 1812, and that of his brother Bowleg, who died of grief shortly after, they have had little or no order among them; and their defeats in 1818 have completely broken them up and dispersed them in small squads or families over the country. Many of them now live by cultivation and fishing among the rivers on the eastern side of the peninsula; and others, emaciated and naked, supply wood to the city of St. Augustine, carried in bundles on their backs. The whole of them, not exceeding eight hundred souls,** I suppose, will, no doubt, submit to any system that will tolerate their life and living. They are humbled to the dust, and no more can be required by a magnanimous people, admitting their sins to have been ever so great. The hand of aid and instruction, properly extended, will make them serviceable; they will learn to labor, and our good examples will wear out their former propensities. I know there are some who will smile in contempt at the idea of taming Indians; but I trust that their number and influence are very small. How limited must be the conception, how illiberal the mind, to the contrary; how little or how partially must they have studied human nature! Are we not all the children of habit, the mere reflection of education and manners? And why should those be incorrigible? It is evident that the only difference in mao, laying aside his color, is the difference in opinion; and that difference of opinion arises from the difference of education. Let the sceptical in this part of the philosophy of human nature turn his eyes to the city of Mexico, and see there the examples of talents, natural and acquired, in the fine arts and belles-lettres, manifest among Indians; let him look into the Havana, and see the many finished workmen in the useful and elegant crafts to be found there among the Africans; nay, let him look at man in all parts of the world, where he has had opportunities of improvement, no matter where born or by whom begot, and say if he is not always the master-piece of nature’s works, and the only master of arts. And after seeing what he has acquired, will he attempt to say that bounds have been prescribed to his acquirements by bis country or his color! So small a number of Indians located among the large population that Florida will shortly exhibit must change their habits generally, or, at least, so immediately and materially modify them, as to become very useful; and, even should the adults prefer indigence to industry, the laws will compel them to prefer labor to theft; for they must live by one or the other when surrounded by and interspersed among a better community, and the young must grow up in our habits. Allow me, sir, to repeat my assurance of respect and esteem. Your obedient servant, GEO. J. F. CLARKE. Extract of a letter from Captain Bell to the Secretary of War, dated JANUARY 22,1822. The Seminole nation, natives of Florida, is so far reduced in its numbers that it does not exceed more than one-third of the whole number of the Indian population now in the provinces. The other two-thirds are from the Upper Creeks, and other bands of the Creek nation. Many of these left their country as followers of McQueen and Francis, their prophets; others are those who refused the peace offered to their nation by the United States; and others, again, who for bad conduct in the nation fled to Florida for safety. Some of the Creeks in Florida may be induced to return to their nation, but the great body of them will prefer joining the Seminole nation, who cannot be prevailed upon to quit their country, the land of their nativity. This nation was, before the destruction of their settlements in 1812, numerous, proud, and wealthy, possessing great numbers of cattle, horses, and slaves; they are now weak and poor, yet their native spirit is not so much broken as to humble them to the dust. They appear sensible of their reduced situation; that they are too weak to make much resistance in war; and that the presumptive right to their lands has passed into the hands of the American Government. To that Government they now look for that liberality, justice, and protection, which it has extended to other nations of Indians. It now remains for the Government to extend its fostering care and liberality to them. The question is, bow is this best to be done? Permit me to state, that, from all the information I have collected on the subject, it appears that the Seminole nation are the proprietors of that part of the country of Florida bounded on the west by a grant in favor of Panton, Leslie, & Co.; south and west, by the Gulf of Mexico; north, by the Georgia line; and east, by a boundary agreed upon between the English and Indians, 18th November, 1765, at a congress held at Picolata, and since recognised by the Spanish authorities. Extracts from a treaty between the Spanish authorities in Florida and the Indians, concluded at Pensacola, on 3 Is/ May and Is/ June, 1784. (Referred to in the letter of George J. F. Clarke.) “ARTICLE 1. We, the above-mentioned chiefs of the nation of Talapuche, for ourselves, and in the name of all the chiefs, captains, warriors, and all other individuals, of whatever quality or condition, do promise and pledge ourselves, by the Supreme God, Creator of heaven and earth, and all things visible and invisible, to keep and maintain inviolable peace and fidelity- with His Catholic Majesty, his provinces, subjects, and vassals, and to afford all the reciprocal advantages that can contribute to the interest and glory of the two contracting parties. We offer to expose our lives and properties for the royal service of His Catholic Majesty, and we promise cheerfully to obey his orders, communicated to us by the Captain General of Louisiana and the Floridas, and, in his name, by the respective particular governors or commanders of the said provinces; and we will always live in harmony, union, and good friendship; promising, from this moment, and of our own free will, to obey the laws of the great King of Spain, in every point that is compatible with our character and circumstances, conforming ourselves with the municipal customs and regulations which now do, or may hereafter, exist in the provinces of Louisiana and the Floridas; and regulating, with common consent, and in good faith, whatever difficulties may arise in the application of this treaty.” “ ART. 13. As the generous feelings of His Catholic Majesty do not permit him to exact of the Indian nations any lands to form establishments, to the prejudice of those who reap advantage therefrom, these motives, and a conviction of his paternal love for his people, induce us to offer you, in his royal name, the security and guaranty of those lands you actually hold, according to the rights of legitimacy with which you possess them: that is to say, those lands comprised within the lines and limits belonging to His Catholic Majesty, our sovereign; and, as an additional proof of his royal clemency, should the Talapuche nation, by war or other circumstances, be dispossessed of their lands by the enemies of the Crown, he will grant them other lands that are vacant, as an equivalent, to settle thereon, without any pretensions or claims for the same, than that of their constant fidelity.” 17th CONGRESS.]	
