NO. 155.	[2d SESSION. TREATIES WITH SEVERAL TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, NOVEMBER 30, 1818. To the Senate of the United States:	NOVEMBER 30, 1818. I lay before the Senate, for their advice and consent, the several treaties which have recently been made with the Chickasaws, Quapaws, Wyandots, Senecas, Delawares, Shawanees, Pattawatamies, Ottawas, Chippewas, Peorias, Kaskaskias, Miehigamias, Cahokias, Tamarois, Great and Little Osages, Weas, Pattawatamies, Delawares, Mianiies, Wyandots, and the four Pawnee tribes of Indians. By reference to the journal of the commissioners, it appears that George and Levi Colbert have bargained and sold to the United States the reservations made to them by the treaty of September, 1816, and that a deed of trust of the same has been made by them to James Jackson, of Nashville. I would, therefore, suggest, in ease the Chickasaw treaty be approved by the Senate, the propriety of providing, by law, for the payment of the sum stipulated to be given to them for their reservations.	■	JAMES MONROE. .	TREATY WtTH THE CHtCKASAWS. To settle all territorial controversies, and to remove all ground of complaint or dissatisfaction that might arise to interrupt the peace and harmony which has so long and so happily existed between the United States of America and the Chickasaw nation of Indians, James Monroe, President of the said United States, by Isaac Shelby and Andrew Jackson, of the one part, and the whole Chickasaw nation, by their chiefs, headmen, and warriors, in full council assembled, of the other part, have agreed on the following articles, which, when ratified by the President and Senate of the United States of America, shall form a treaty binding on all parties: ARTICLE I. Peace and friendship are hereby firmly established and made perpetual between the United States of America and the Chickasaw nation of Indians. ART. 2. To obtain the object of the foregoing article, the Chickasaw nation of Indians cede to the United States of America (with the exception of such reservation as shall be hereafter mentioned) all claim or title which the said nation have to the land lying north of the south boundary of the State of Tennessee, which is bounded south by the thirty-fifth degree of north latitude, and which land hereby ceded lies within the following boundary, viz: Beginning on the Tennessee river, about thirty-five miles, by water, below Colonel George Colbert’s ferry, where the thirty-fifth degree of north latitude strikes the same; thence, due west, with said degree of north latitude, to where it cuts the Mississippi river, at or near the Chickasaw Bluffs; thence, up the said Mississippi river, to the mouth of the Ohio; thence, up the Ohio river, to the mouth of the Tennessee river; thence, up the Tennessee, to the place of beginning. ART. 3. In consideration of the relinquishment of claim and cession of lands in the preceding article, and to perpetuate the happiness of the Chickasaw nation of Indians, the commissioners of the United States before named agree to allow the said nation the sum of twenty thousand dollars per annum, for fifteen successive years, to be paid annually; and, as a further consideration for the objects aforesaid, and at the request of the chiefs of the said nation, the commissioners agree to pay to Captain John Gordon, of Tennessee, the sum of one thousand one hundred and fifteen dollars, it being a debt due by General William Colbert, of the said nation, to the aforesaid Gordon; and the further sum of two thousand dollars due by the said nation of Indians to Captain David Smith, now of Kentucky, for that suin by him expended in supplying himself and forty-five soldiers from Tennessee, in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-five, when assisting them (at their request and invitation) in defending their towns against the invasion of the Creek Indians; both which sums (on the application of the said nation) are to be paid, within sixty days after the ratification of this treaty, to the aforesaid Gordon and Smith. ART. 4. The commissioners agree, on the further and particular application of the chiefs, and for the benefit of the poor and warriors of the said nation, that a tract of land, containing four miles square, to include a salt-lick or springs, on or near the river Sandy, a branch of the Tennessee river, and within the land hereby ceded, be reserved, and to be laid off in a square or oblong, so as to include the best timber, at the option of their beloved chief, Levi Colbert, and Major James Brown, or either of them, who are hereby made agents and trustees for the nation to lease the said salt-lick or springs on the following express conditions, viz: for the benefit of this reservation as before recited, the trustees or agents are bound to lease the said reservation to some’citizen or citizens of the United States, for a reasonable quantity of salt, to be paid annually to the said nation for the use thereof; and that from and after two years after the ratification of this treaty, no salt made at the works to be erected on this reservation shall be sold within the limits of the same for a higher price than one dollar per bushel of fifty pounds weight; on failure of which, the lease shall be forfeited, and the reservation revert to the United States. ART. 5. The commissioners agree that there shall be paid to Oppassantubby, a principal chief of the Chickasaw nation, within sixty days after the ratification of this treaty, the sum of five hundred dollars, as a full compensation for the reservation of two miles square, on the north side of Tennessee river, secured to him and his heirs by the treaty held with the said Chickasaw nation on the twentieth day of September, one thousand eight hundred and sixteen; and the further sum of twenty-five dollars to John Lewis, a half-breed, for a saddle he lost while in the service of the United States. And, to show the regard the President of the United States has for the said Chickasaw nation, at the request of the chiefs of the said nation, the commissioners agree that the sum of one thousand and eighty-nine dollars shall be paid to Major James Colbert, interpreter, within the period stated in the first part of this article; it being the amount of a sum of money taken from his pocket in the month of June, one thousand eight hundred and sixteen, at the theatre in Baltimore. And the said coipmissioners, as a further regard for said nation, do agree that the reservations made to George Colbert and Levi Colbert, in the treaty held at the council-house of said nation on the twenty-sixth day of September, one thousand eight hundred and sixteen, the first to Colonel George Colbert, on the north side of Tennessee river, and those to Major Levi Colbert, on the east side of the Tombigbee river, shall inure to the sole use of the said Colonel George Colbert and Major Levi Colbert, their heirs and assigns, forever, with their buts and bounds as defined by said treaty, and agreeably to the marks and boundaries as laid off and marked by the surveyor of the United States, where that is the case; and where the reservations have not been laid off and marked by the surveyor of the United States, the same shall be so done as soon after the ratification of this treaty as practicable, on the application of the reservees, or their legally appointed agent under them, and agreeably to the definitiou in the before-recited treaty. This agreement is made on the following express conditions: that the said land, and those living on it, shall be subject to the laws of the United States, and all legal taxation that may be imposed on the land, or citizens of the United States inhabiting the territory where the said land is situate. The commissioners further agree that the reservation secured to John McCleish, on the north side of Tennessee river, by the before-recited treaty, in consequence of his having been raised in the State of Tennessee and marrying a white woman, shall inure to the sole use of the said John McCleish, his heirs and assigns, forever, on the same conditions as are attached to the lands of Colonel George Colbert and Major Levi Colbert, in this article. ABT. 6. The two contracting parties covenant and agree that the line of the south boundary of the State of Tennessee, as described in the second article of this treaty, shall be ascertained and marked by commissioners appointed by the President of the United States; that the marks shall be bold, the trees to be blazed on both sides of the line, and the fore and aft trees marked U. S.; and that the commissioners shall bo attended by two persons, to be designated by the Chickasaw nation; and the said nation shall have due and seasonable notice when said operation is to be commenced. It is further agreed by the commissioners, that all improvements actually made by individuals of the Chickasaw nation, which shall be found within the lands ceded by this treaty, that a fair and reasonable compensation shall be paid therefor to the respective individuals having made or owning the same. ART. 7. In consideration of the friendly and conciliatory disposition evinced during the negotiation of this treaty by the Chickasaw chiefs and warriors, but more particularly as a manifestation of the friendship and liberality of the President of the United States, the commissioners agree to give, on the ratification of this treaty, to Chennubby, king of the Chickasaw nation, to Teshuamingo, William McGilvery, Anpassantubby, Samuel Seely, James Brown, Levi Colbert, Ickaryoucuttaha, George Pettygrove, Immartarharmicco, Chickasaw chiefs, and to Malcolm McGee, interpreter to this treaty, each, one hundred and fifty dollars in cash; and to Major William Glover, Colonel George Colbert, Hopoyeahaummar, Immauklusharhopoyoa, Tushkarhopoyea, Hopoyeahaummar, jnn., Immauklusharhopo- yea, James Colbert, Coweamarthlar, Illachouwarhopoyea, military leaders, one hundred dollars each; and do further agree that any annuity heretofore secured to the Chickasaw nation of Indians, by treaty, to be paid in goods, shall hereafter be paid in cash.	, In testimony whereof, the said commissioners and undersigned chiefs and warriors have set their hands and seals. Done at the treaty ground, east of Old Town, this nineteenth day of October, in the year of onr Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen.	ISAAC SHELBY, ANDREW JACKSON. [Signed, also, by a number of Indian chiefs.] TREATY WITH THE QUAPAWS. A treaty of friendship, cession, and limits, made and entered into this twenty-fourth day of August, eighteen hundred and eighteen, by and between William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners on the part and behalf of the United States, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Quapaw tribe or nation, on the part and behalf of their said tribe or nation, of the other part. ARTICLE 1. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their said tribe or nation, do hereby acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States, and of no other state, power, or sovereignty whatsoever. ART. 2. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their said tribe or nation, do hereby, for and in consideration of the promises and stipulations hereinafter named, cede and relinquish to the United Slates, forever, all the lands within the following boundaries, viz: Beginning at the mouth of the Arkansas river; thence, extending up the Arkansas, to the Canadian fork, and up the Canadian fork to its source; thence, south, to Big Red river, and, down the middle of that river, to the Big Raft; thence, a direct line, so as to strike the Mississippi river thirty leagues in a straight line below the mouth of Arkansas; together with all their claims to land east of the Mississippi, and north of the Arkansas river, included within the colored lines I, 2, and 3, on the above map, with the exception and reservation following, that is to say, the tract of country bounded as follows: Beginning at a point on the Arkansas river, opposite the present post of Arkansas, and running thence a due southwest course to the Washita river; thence, up that river, to the Saline fork, and up the Saline fork, to a point from whence a due northeast course would strike the Arkansas river at the Little Rock; and thence, down the right bank of the Arkansas, to the place of beginning; which said tract of land last above designated and reserved shall be surveyed and marked off, at the expense of the United States, as soon as the same can be done with convenience; and shall not be sold or disposed of by the said Quapaw tribe or nation, to any individual whatever, nor to any state or nation, without the approbation of the United States first had and obtained. ART. 3. It is agreed between the United States and the said tribe or nation, that the individuals of the said tribe or nation shall be at liberty to hunt within the territory by them ceded to the United States, without hindrance or molestation, so long as they demean themselves peaceably, and offer no injury or annoyance to any of the citizens of the United States, or until the said United States may think proper to assign the same, or any portion thereof, as hunting grounds, to other friendly Indians. ART. 4. No citizen of the United States, or any other person, shall be permitted to settle on any of the lands hereby allotted to and reserved for the said Quapaw tribe or nation to live and hunt on; yet it is expressly understood and agreed on by and between the parties aforesaid, that, at all times, the citizens of the United States shall have the right to travel and pass freely, without toll or exaction, through the Quapaw reservation, by such roads or routes as now are, or hereafter may be, established. ART. 5. In consideration of the cession and stipulations aforesaid, the United States do hereby promise and bind themselves to pay and deliver to the said Quapaw tribe or nation, immediately upon the execution of this treaty, goods and merchandise to the value of four thousand dollars; and to deliver, or cause to be delivered, to them yearly, and every year, goods and merchandise to the value of one thousand dollars, to be estimated in the city or place in the United States where the same are procured or purchased. ART. 6. Lest the friendship which now exists between the United States and the said tribe or nation should be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by the party injured to the other: by the tribe or nation aforesaid, to the Governor, superintendent of Indian affairs, or some other person authorized and appointed for that purpose; and by the Governor, superintendent, or other person authorized, to the chiefs of the said tribe or nation. And it shall be the duty of the said tribe or nation, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he or they may be punished agreeably to the laws of the State or Territory where the offence may have been committed; and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to the said tribe or nation, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, punished in like manner as if the injury had been done to a white man. And it is further agreed that the chiefs of the said tribe or nation shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolen from any citizen or citizens of the United States by any individual or individuals of the said tribe or nation; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the. Governor, superintendent, or other person authorized to receive the same, that'it may be restored to the proper owner. And in cases where the exertions of the chiefs shall be ineffectual in recovering the property stolen as aforesaid, if sufficient proof can be obtained that such property was actually stolen by an Indian or Indians belonging to the said tribe or nation, a sum equal to the value of the property which has been stolen may be deducted by the United States from the annuity of the said tribe or nation. And the United States hereby guaranty to the individuals of the said tribe or nation a full indemnification for any horse or horses, or other property, which may be taken fruin them by any of their citizens: Provided, The property so stolen cannut be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen or citizens of the United States. ART. 7. This treaty shall take effect and be obligatory on the contracting parties as soon as the same shall have been ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. WILLIAM CLARK, AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. [Signed, also, by a number of Indian chiefs.] TREATY WITH THE WYANDOT, SENECA, SHAWANEE, AND OTTAWA TRIBES. Articles o f a treaty made and concluded at St. Mary's, in the State of Ohio, betioeen Lewis Cass and Duncan McArthur, commissioners of the United States, with full power and authority to hold conferences, and conclude and sign a treaty or treaties with all or any of the tribes or nations of Indians within the boundaries of the State of Ohio, of and concerning all matters interesting to the United States and the said nations of Indians; and the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the Wyandot, Seneca, Shawanee, and Ottawa tribes of Indians; being supplementary to the treaty made and concluded with the said tribes and the Delaware, Pattawatamie, and Chippewa tribes of Indians at the foot of the Rapids of the Miami of Lake Erie, on the twenty-ninth day of September, in the year of onr Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventeen. ARTICLE 1. It is agreed between the United States and the parties hereunto that the several tracts of land described in the treaty to which this is supplementary, and agreed thereby to be granted by the United States to the chiefs of the respective tribes named therein, for the use of the individuals of the said tribes, and also the tract described in the twentieth article of the said treaty, shall not be thus granted, but shall be excepted from the cession made by the said tribes to the United States, reserved for the use of the said Indians, and held by them in the same manner as Indian reservations have been heretofore held. But it is further agreed that the tracts thus reserved shall be reserved for the use of the Indians named in the schedule to the said treaty, and held by them and their heirs forever, unless ceded to the United States.	$ ART. 2. It is also agreed that there shall he reserved,Jjjr the use of the Wyandots, in addition to the reservations before made, fifty-five thousand six hundred and eighty acres of land, to be laid off in two tracts—the first to adjoin the south line of the section of six hundred and forty acres of land heretofore reserved for the Wyandot chief the Cherokee Boy, and to extend south, to the north line of the reserve of twelve miles square at Upper Sandusky; and the. other to adjoin the east line of the reserve of twelve miles square at Upper Sandusky; and to extend east, for quantity. There shall also be reserved, for the use of the Wyandots residing at Solomon’s town, and on Blanchard’s fork, in addition to the reservations before made, sixteen thousand acres of land, to be laid off in a square form, on the head of Blanchard’s fork, the centre of which shall be at the Big Spring, on the trace leading from Upper Sandusky to Fort Findlay; and one hundred and sixty acres of land, for the use of the Wyandots, on the west side of the Sandusky river, adjoining the said river, and the lower line of two sections of land, agreed by the treaty to which this is supplementary to be granted to Elizabeth Whitaker. There shall also be reserved, for the use of the Shawanees, in addition to the reservations before made, twelve thousand eight hundred acres of land, to be laid off adjoining the east line of their reserve of ten miles square at Wapaghkonetta; and for the use of the Shawanees and Senecas, eight thousand nine hundred and sixty acres of land, to be laid off adjoining the west line of the reserve of forty-eight square miles at Lewistown; and the last reserve hereby made, and the former reserve at the same place, shall be equally divided by an east and west line to be drawn through the same; and the north half of the said tract shall be reserved for the use of the Senecas who reside there, and the south half for the use of the Shawanees who reside there. There shall also be reserved for the use of the Senecas, in addition to the reservations before made, ten thousand acres of land, to be laid off on the east side of the Sandusky river, adjoining the south line of their reservation of thirty thousand acres of land, which begins on the Sandusky river, at the lower corner of William Spicer’s section, and excluding therefrom the said William Spicer’s section. ART. 3. It is hereby agreed that the tracts of land which, by the eighth article of the treaty to which this is supplementary, are to be granted by the United States to the persons therein mentioned, shall never be conveyed by them or their heirs, without the permission of the President of the United States. ART. 4. The United States agree to pay to the Wyandots an additional annuity of five hundred dollars, forever; to the Shawanees, and to the Senecas of Lewistown, an additional annuity of one thousand dollars, forever; and to the Senecas, an additional annuity of five hundred dollars, forever; and to the Ottawas, an additional annuity of one thousand five hundred dollars, forever; and these annuities shall be paid at the places and in the manner prescribed by the treaty to which this is supplementary. ART. 5. This treaty shall take effect and be obligatory on the contracting parties as soon as the same shall be ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof. In testimony whereof, the said Lewis Cass and Duncan McArthur, commissioners as aforesaid, and the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the Wyandot, Seneca, Shawanee, and Ottawa tribes of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at St. Mary’s, in the State of Ohio, this seventeenth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen. LEWIS CASS, DUNCAN McARTHUR. [Signed, also, by the sachems; chiefs, and warriors of the above tribes of Indian TREATY WITH THE PEORIA, KASKASKIA, MICHIGAMIA, CAHOKIA, AND TAMAROIS TRIBES. A treaty made and concluded by and between Ninian Edwards and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners on the part and behalf of the United States of America, of the one part, and the undersigned principal chiefs and warriors of the Peoria, Kaskaskia, Michigamia, Cahokia, and Tamarois tribes of the Illinois nation of Indians, on the part and behalf of the said tribes, of the other part. Whereas by the treaty made at Vincennes on the thirteenth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and three, between the United States, of the one part, and the head chiefs and warriors of the tribe of Indians commonly called the Kaskaskia tribe, (but which was composed of, and rightfully represented, the Kaskaskia, Michigamia, Cahokia, and Tamarois tribes of the Illinois nation of Indians,) of the other part, a certain tract of land was ceded to the United States, which was supposed to include all the land claimed by those respective tribes, but which did not include, and was not intended to include, the land which was rightfully claimed by the Peoria Indians, a tribe of the Illinois nation, who then did, and still do, live separate and apart from the tribes above mentioned, and who were not represented in the treaty referred to above, nor ever received any part of the consideration given for the cession of land therein mentioned: and whereas the said tribe of Peorias are now also disposed to cede all their land to the United States, and, for the purpose of avoiding any dispute with regard to the boundary of their claim, are willing to unite with the Kaskaskia, Michigamia, Cahokia, and Tamarois tribes, in confirming the cession of land to the United States which was made by the treaty above referred to, and in extending the cession so as to include all the land claimed by those tribes and themselves, respectively: ARTICLE 1. For which purpose, the undersigned head chiefs and warriors of the Peoria, Kaskaskia, Michigamia, Cahokia, and Tamarois tribes of the Illinois nation of Indians, for the considerations hereinafter mentioned, do hereby relinquish, cede, and confirm to the United States all the land included within the following boundaries, viz: Beginning at the confluence of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers; thence, up the Ohio, to the mouth of Saline creek, about twelve miles below the mouth of the Wabash; thence, along the dividing ridge between the waters of said creek and the Wabash, to the general dividing ridge between the waters which fall into the Wabash and those which fall into the Kaskaskia river; thence, along the said ridge, until it reaches the waters which fall into the Illinois river; thence, a direct line, to the confluence of the Kankakee and Maple rivers; thence, down the Illinois river, to its confluence with the Mississippi river; and down the latter to the beginning. ART. 2. It is mutually agreed by the parties hereto that all the stipulations contained in the treaty above referred to shall continue binding and obligatory on both parties. ART. 3. The United States will take the Peoria tribe, as well as the other tribes herein above mentioned, under their immediate care and patronage, and will afford them a protection as effectual against any other Indian tribes, and against all other persons whatever, as is enjoyed by the citizens of the United States. And the said Peoria tribe do hereby engage to refrain from making war, or giving any insult or offence to any other Indian tribe, or to any foreign nation, without first having obtained the approbation and consent of the United States. ART. 4. In addition to two thousand dollars worth'of merchandise this day paid to the above-mentioned tribes of Indians, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, the United States promise to pay to the said Peoria tribe, for the term of twelve years, an annuity of three h*dred dollars, in money, merchandise, or domestic animals, at the option of the said tribe, to be delivered at the v.illagAf St. Genevieve, in the Territory of Missouri. ART. 5. The United States agree to cede to tîie said Peoria tribe six hundred and forty acres of land, including their village on Blackwater river, in the Territory of Missouri, provided that the said tract is not included within a private claim; but, should that be the case, then some other tract of equal quantity and value shall be designated for said tribe, at such place as the President of the United States may direct. And the said Peoria tribe hereby agree to accept the same, together with the presents now given them, and the annuity hereby promised them, as a full equivalent for all and every tract of land to which they have any pretence of right or title. In testimony whereof, the commissioners aforesaid, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors as aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals. Done at Edwardsville, in the State of Illinois, this twenty-fifth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, and of the independence of the United States the. forty-third. NINIAN EDWARDS, AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. A	[Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the above tribes of Indians.] TREATY WITH THE OS AGES. A treaty made and concluded by and between William Clark, Governor of the Missouri Territory, superintendent of Indian affairs, and commissioner in behalf of the United States, of the one part, and a full and complete deputation of considerate men, chiefs, and warriors of all the several bands of the Great and Little Osage nations, assembled in behalf of their said nations, of the other part. ARTICLE 1. Whereas the Osage nations have been embarrassed by the frequent demands for property taken from the citizens of the United States, by war parties, and other thoughtless men of thoir several bands, (both before and since their war with the Cherokees;) and as the exertions of their chiefs have been ineffectual in recovering and delivering such property, conformably with the condition of the ninth article of a treaty entered into with the United Slates at Fort Clarke, the tenth day of November, one thousand eight hundred and eight; and as the deductions from their annuities, in conformity to the said article, would deprive them of any for several years; and being destitute of funds to do that justice to the citizens of the United States which is calculated to promote a friendly intercourse, they have agreed, and do hereby agree, to cede to the United States, and forever quit claim to, the tract of country included within the following bounds, to wit: Beginning at the Arkansas river, where the present Osage boundary line strikes the river, at Frog Bayou; thence, up the Arkansasand Verdigris, to the falls of Verdigris river; thence, eastwardly, to the said Osage boundary line, at a point twenty leagues north from the Arkansas river, and with that line, to the place of beginning. ART. 2. The United States, on their part, and in consideration of the above cession, agree, in addition to the amount which the Osages do now receive in money and goods, to pay their own citizens the full value of such property as they can legally prove to have been stolen or destroyed by the said Osages since the year one thousand eight hundred and fourteen^ provided the same does not exceed the sum of four thousand dollars. ART. 3. The articles now stipulated will be considered as permanent additions to the treaties now in force between the contracting parties, as soon as they shall have been ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the said United States. In witness whereof, the said William Clark, commissioner as aforesaid, and the considerate men and chiefs aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals at St. Louis, this twenty-fifth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, and of the independence of the United States the fortv-third. WILLIAM CLARK. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Osage tribes of Indians.] TREATY WITH THE WEAS. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at St. Mary's, between the United States of America, by their commissioners, Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass, and Benjamin Parke, and the Wea tribe of Indians. ARTICLE 1. The said Wea tribe of Indians agree to cede to the United States all the lands claimed and owned by the said tribe, within the limits of the States of Indiana, Ohio, and Illinois. ART. 2. The said Wea tribe of Indians reserve to themselves the following described tract of land, viz: Beginning at the mouth of Raccoon creek; thence, by the present boundary line, seven miles; thence, northeasterly, seven miles, to a point seven miles from the Wabash river; thence, to the Wabash river, by a line parallel to the present boundary line aforesaid; and thence, by the Wabash river, to the place of beginning; to be holden by the said tribe as Indian reservations are usually held. ART. 3. The United States agree to grant to Christmas Dageny and Mary Shields, formerly Mary Dageny, children of Me-chin-qua-me-sha, sister of Jacco, a chief of the said tribe, and their heirs, one section of land, each; but the land hereby granted shall not be conveyed or transferred to any person or persons by the grantees aforesaid, or their heirs, or either of them, but with the consent of the President of the United States. ART. 4. The said Wea tribe of Indians accede to and sanction the cession of land made by the Kickapoo tribe of Indians, in the second article of a treaty concluded between the United Slates and the said Kickapoo tribe, on the ninth day of December, one thousand eight hundred and nine. ART. 5. In consideration of the cession made in the foregoing articles of this treaty, the United States agree to pay to the said Wea tribe of Indians one thousand eight hundred and fifty dollars, annually, in addition to the sum of one thousand one hundred and fifty dollars, (the amount of their former annuity,) making a sum total of three thousand dollars, to be paid in silver by the United States, annually, to the said tribe, on the reservation described by the second article of this treaty. In testimony whereof, the said Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass, and Benjamin Parke, commissioners as aforesaid, and the sachems, chiefs, nnd warriors of the Wea tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at Saint Mary’s, in the State of Ohio, this second day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen.	JONATHAN JENNINGS, W	LEWIS CASS, BENJAMIN PARKE. [Signed, also, by the sachetns, chiefs, and warriors of the Wea tribe of Indians.] TREATY WITH THE PATTAWATAMIES. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at St. Mary's, in the State of Ohio, between Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass, and Benjamin Parke, commissioners of the United States, and the Pattawataniie nation of Indians. ARTICLE I. The Pattawatamie nation of Indians cede to the United States all the country comprehended within the following limits: Beginning at the mouth of the Tippecanoe river, and running up the same to a point twenty-five miles in a direct line from the Wabash river; thence, on a line as nearly parallel to the general course of the Wabash river as practicable, to a point on the Vermilion river, twenty-five miles from the Wabash river; thence, down the Vermilinn river, to its mouth; and thence, up the Wabash river, to the place of beginning. The Pattawatamies also cede to the United States all their claim to the country south of the Wabash river. ART. 2. The United States agree to purchase any just claim which the Kickapoos may have to any part of the country hereby ceded below Pine creek. ART. 3. The United States agree to pay to the Pattawatamies a perpetual annuity of two thousand five hundred dollars, in silver, one half of which shall be paid at Detroit, and the other half at Chicago; and all annuities, which by any former treaty the United States have engaged to pay to the Pattawatamies, shall be hereafter paid in silver. ART. 4. The United States agree to grant to the persons named in the annexed schedule, and their heirs, the quantity of land therein stipulated to be granted; but the land so granted shall never be conveyed by either of the said persons, or their heirs, unless by the consent of the President of the United States. In testimony whereof, the said Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass, and Benjamin Parke, commissioners as aforesaid, and the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the Pattawatamie tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at St. Mary’s, in the State of Ohio, this second day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, and of the independence of the United States the forty-third. JONATHAN JENNINGS, LEWIS CASS,	• BENJAMIN PARKE. [Signed, also, by the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the Pattawatamie tribe of Indians.] Schedule referred to in the foregoing treaty. There shall be granted to James Burnett, John Burnett, Isaac Burnett, Jacob Burnett, and Abraham Burnett, two sections of land, each; and to Rebecca Burnett and Nancy Burnett, one section of land each; which said James, John, Isaac, Jacob, Abraham, Rebecca, and Nancy, are children of Ca-ki-mi, a Pattawatamie woman, sister of To-pi-ni-be, principal chief of the nation; and six of the sections herein granted shall be located from the mouth of the Tippecanoe river, down the Wabash river, and the other six sections shall be located at the mouth of Flint river. There shall be granted to Perig, a Pattawatamie chief, one section of land on the Flint river, where he now lives. There shall also be granted to Mary Chatalie, daughter of Neebosh, a Pattawatamie chief, one section of land, to be located b«low the mouth of Pine river. JONATHAN JENNINGS, LEWIS CASS, B. PARKE. TREATY WITH THE DELAWARES. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at St. Mary's, in the State of Ohio, between Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass, and Benjamin Parke, commissioners of the United States, and the Delaware nation of Indians. ARTICLE 1. The Delaware nation of Indians cede to the United States all their claim to land in the State of Indiana. ART. 2. In consideration of the aforesaid cession, the United States agree to provide for the Delawares a country to reside in upon the west side of the Mississippi, and to guaranty to them the peaceable possession of the same. ART. 3. The United States also agree to pay the Delawares the full value of their improvements in the country hereby ceded, which valuation shall be made by persons to be appointed for that purpose by the President of the United States; and tu furnish the Delawares with one hundred and twenty horses, not to exceed in value forty dollars each; and a sufficient number of pirogues to aid in transporting them to the west side of the Mississippi; and a quantity of provisions, proportioned to their numbers and the extent of their journey. ART. 4. The Delawares shall be allowed the use and occupation of their improvements for the term of three years from the date of this treaty, if they so long require it. ART. 5. The United States agree to pay to the Delawares a perpetual annuity of four thousand dollars; which, together with all annuities which the United States by any former treaty engaged to pay to them, shall' be paid in silver, at any place to which the Delawares may remove. ART. 6. The United States agree to provide and support a blacksmith for the Delawares, after their removal to the west side of the Mississippi. ART. 7. One half-section of land shall be granted to each of the following persons, namely: Isaac Wobby, Samuel Cassman, Elizabeth Petchaka, and Jacob Dick; and one-quarter of a section of land shall be granted to each of the following persons, namely: Solomon Tindell and Benoni Tindell, all of whom are Delawares; which tracts of land shall be located, after the country is surveyed, at the first creek above the old fort on White river, and running up the river; and shall be held by the persons herein named, respectively, and their heirs, but shall never be conveyed or transferred without the approbation of the President of the United States. ART. 8. A sum nut exceeding thirteen thousand three hundred and twelve dollars and twenty-five cents shall be paid by the United States to satisfy certain claims against the Delaware nation; and shall be expended by the Indian agent at Piqua and Fort Wayne, agreeably to a schedule this day examined and approved by the commissioners of the United States. ART. 9. This treaty, after the same shall he ratified by the President and Senate of the United States, shall be binding on the contracting parties. In testimony whereof, the said Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass, and Benjamin Parke, commissioners as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors of the Delaware nation of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at St. Mary’s, in the State of Ohio, this third day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen. JONATHAN JENNINGS, LEWIS CASS, BENJAMIN PARKE. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Delaware nation of Indians.] TREATY WtTH THE MIAMIES. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at St. Mary's, in the State of Ohio, between Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass, and Benjamin Parke, commissioners of the United States, and the Miami nation of Indians. ARTICLE 1. The Miami nation of Indians cede to the United States the following tract of country: Beginning at the Wabash river, where the present Indian boundary line crosses the same, near the mouth of Raccoon creek; thence, up the Wabash river, to the reserve at its head, near Fort Wayne; thence, to the reserve at Fort Wayne; thence, with the lines thereof, to the St. Mary’s river; thence, up the St. Mary’s river, to the reservation at the pontage; thence, with the line of the cession made by the Wyandot nation of Indians to the Uuited States, at the foot of the Rapids of the Miami of Lake Erie, on the twenty-ninth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventeen, to the reservation at Loramie’s store; thence, with the present Indian boundary line, to Fort Recovery; and with the said line, following the courses thereof, to the place of beginning. ART. 2. From the cession aforesaid, the following reservations, for the use of the Miami nation of Indians, shall be made: one reservation extending along the Wabash river, from the mouth of Salamanie river to the mouth of Eel river, and from those points, running due south, a distance equal to a direct line from the mouth of Salamanie river to the mouth of Eel river; one other reservation of two miles square on the river Salamanie, at the mouth of Atche- pong-qwa-we creek; one other reservation of six miles square on the Wabash river, below the forks thereof; one other reservation of ten miles square, opposite the mouth of the river A Boutte; one other reservation of ten miles square, at the village on Sugar Tree creek; one other reservation of two miles square, at the mouth of a creek called Flat Rock, where the road to White river crosses the same. ART. 3. The United States agree to grant by patent, in fee-simple, to Jean Bapt. Richardville, principal chief of the Miami nation of Indians, the following tracts of land: Three sections of land beginning about twenty-five rods below his house, on the river St. Mary’s, near Fort Wayne; thence, at right angles with the course of the river, one mile; and from this line and the said river, up the stream thereof, for quantity. Two sections upon the east side of the St. Mary’s river, near Fort Wayne, running east one mile with the line of the military reservation; thence, from that line and from the river, for quantity. Two sections on the Twenty-seven Mile creek, where the road from St. Mary’s to Fort Wayne crosses it, being one section on each side, of said creek. Two sections on the left bank of the Wabash, commencing at the forks, and running down the river. The United States also agree to grant to each of the following persons, being Miami Indians by birth, and their heirs, the. tracts of land herein described: To Joseph Richardville, and Joseph Richardville, jun., two sections of land, being one on each side of the St. Mary’s river, and below the reservation made on that river, by the treaty of Greenville, in one thousand seven hundred and ninety-five. To Pe-mct-che, or the Crescent, one section below and adjoining the reservation of Anthony Chesne, on the west side of the St. Mary’s river, and one section immediately opposite to Macultamunqua, or Black Loon. To Keen-qua-tak-qua, or Long Hair, Aronzon, or Twilight, Pe-con-be-qua, or a Woman striking, Augh-qua-mau- da, or Difficulty, and to Miagh-qua, or Noon, as joint tenants, five sections of land upon the Wabash river, the centre of which shall be the Wyandot village, below the mouth of Tippecanoe river. To François Godfrey, six sections of land on the Salamanie river, at a place called La Petite Prairie. To Louis Godfrey, six sections of land on the St. Mary’s river, above the reservation of Anthony Shane. To Charley, a Miami chief, one section of land on the west side of the St. Mary’s river, below the'section granted to Pe-met-che, or the Crescent. To the two eldest children of Peter Langlois, two sections of land at a place formerly called Village Du Puant, at the mouth of the river called Ponceau Pichoux. To the children of Antoine Bondie, two sections of land on the border of the Wabash river, opposite a place called l’Isle à I’Aille. To François Lafontaine and his son, two sections of land adjoining and above the two sections granted to Jean Bapt. Richardville, near Fort Wayne, and on the same side of the St. Mary’s river. To the children of Antoine Rivarre, two sections of land at the mouth of the Twenty-seven Mile creek, and below the same. To Peter Langlois, youngest child, one section of land opposite the Chipaillo, at the Shawanee village. To Peter Labadie, one section of land on the river St. Mary’s, below the section granted to Charley. To the son of George Hunt, one section of land on the west side of the St. Mary’s river, adjoining the two sections granted to François Lafontaine and his son. To Mesh-e-no-qua, or the Little Turtle, one section of land on the south side of the Wabash, where the portage path strikes the same. To Josette Beaubien, one section of land on the left bank of the St. Mary’s, above and adjoining the three sections granted to Jean Bapt. Richardville. To Ann Turner, a half-blooded Miami, one section of land on the northwest side of the Wabash river, to commence at the mouth of Fork creek, on the west bank of the said creek, and running up said creek one mile in a direct line; thence, at right angles with this line, for quantity. , To Rebecca Hackley, a half-blooded Miami, one section of land, to be located at the Munsee town, on White river, so that it shall extend on both sides, to include three hundred and twenty acres of the prairie in the bend of the river, where the bend assumes the shape of a horse-shoe. To William Wayne Wells, a half-blooded Miami, one section of land at the mouth of the Fork creek, where the reservation for Ann Turner commences, running down the Wabash river, on the northwest bank, one mile; thence, back, one mile; thence, east, one mile, to the boundary line of the grant to Ann Turner. To Mary Wells, a half-blooded Miami, one section of land at the mouth of Stony creek, on the southeast side of the Wabash river, the centre of which shall be at the mouth of said creek, running with the meanders thereof, up and down the Wabash river, one half mile, and thence back, for quantity. To Jane Turner Wells, a half-hlooded Miami, one section of land on the northwest side of the Wabash river, to commence ou the west bank of said river, opposite the old limekiln; thence, down the said river, one mile, and back, for quantity. ART. 4. The Miami nation of Indians assent to the cession made by the Kickapoos to the United States, by the treaty concluded at Vincennes on the ninth day of December, one thousand eight hundred and nine. ART. 5. In consideration of the cession and recognition aforesaid, the United States agree to pay to the Miami nation of Indians a perpetual annuity of fifteen thousand dollars, which, together with all annuities which by any former treaty the United States have engaged to pay tu the said Miami nation of Indians, shall be paid in silver. The United States will cause to be built fur the Miamies one grist mil) and one saw-mill, at such proper sites as the chiefs of the nation may select, and will provide and support one blacksmith and one gunsmith for them, and provide them with such implements of agriculture as the proper agent may think necessary. The United States will also cause to be delivered, annually, to the Miami nation, one hundred and sixty bushels of salt. ART. 6. The several tracts of land, which, by the third article of this treaty, the United States have engaged to grant tu the persons therein mentioned, except the tracts to be granted to Jean Bapt. Richardville, shall never be transferred by the said persons or their heirs, without the approbation of the President of the United States. ART. 7. This treaty shall be obligatory on the contracting parties after the same shall be ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof. In testimony whereof, the said Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass, and Benjamin Parke, commissioners as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors of the Miami nation of Indians, have hereunto set their bands, at St. Mary’s, the sixth day of October, in the year of our Lurd one thousand eight hundred and eighteen. JONATHAN JENNINGS, LEWIS CASS, BENJAMIN PARKE. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Miami nation of Indians.] TREATY WITH THE WYANDOTS. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at St. Mary's, in the State of Ohio, between Lewis Cass, commissioner of the United States, thereto especially authorized by the President of the United States, and the chiefs and warriors of the Wyandot tribe of Indians. ARTICLE 1. The Wyandot tribe of Indians hereby cede to the United States all the right reserved to them in two tracts of land in the Territory of Michigan; one including the village called Brownstown, and the other the village called Maguagua, formerly in the possession of the Wyandot tribe of Indians, containing in the whole not more than five thousand acres of land; which two tracts of land were reserved for the use of the said Wyandot tribe of Indians and their descendants, for the term of fifty years, agreeably to the provisions of the act of Congress passed February 28, 1809, and entitled “ An act for the relief of certain Alabama and Wyandot Indians.” ART. 2. In consideration of the preceding cession, the United States will reserve, for the use of the said Wyandot Indians, sections numbered twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, thirty-four, thirty-five, thirty- six, twenty-seven, and that part of section numbered twenty-two which contains eight acres, and lies on the south side of the river Huron, being in the fourth township, south of the base line, and in the ninth range, east of the first meridian, in the Territory of Michigan, and containing four thousand nine hundred and ninety-six acres ; and the said tract of land shall be reserved for the use of the said Wyandot Indians and their descendants, and be se cured to them in the same manner, and on the same terms and conditions, as is provided in relation to the Alabama Indians by the first section of the before-mentioned act of Congress, except that the said Wyandot Indians and their descendants shall hold the said land so long as they or their descendants shall occupy the same. In testimony whereof, the said Lewis Cass, commissioner as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors of the said Wyandot tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at St. Mary’s, in the State of Ohio, this twentieth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen. LEWIS CASS. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Wyandot tribe of Indians.] TREATY WITH THE GRAND PAWNEES. A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded by and between William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Grand Pawnee tribe, on the part and behalf of their said tribe, of the other part. The parties being desirous of establishing peace and friendship between the United States and the said tribe, have agreed to the following articles: ARTICLE 1. Every injury or act of hostility by one or either of the contracting parties against the other shall be mutually forgiven and forgot. ART. 2. There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America and all the individuals composing the said Grand Pawnee tribe. ART. 3. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their said tribe, do hereby acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign whatsoever. ART. 4. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and the tribe they represent, do moreover promise and oblige themselves to deliver up, or cause to be delivered up, to the authority of the United States, to be punished according to law, each and every individual of the said tribe who shall, at any time hereafter, violate the stipulations of the treaty this day concluded between the said tribe and the said United States. In witness whereof, the said William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners as aforesaid, and the said chiefs and warriors as aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals this eighteenth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, and of the independence of the United States the forty-second. WILLIAM CLARK, AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Grand Pawnee tribe.] TREATY WITH THE PITAVtRATE NOtSY PAWNEES. A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded by and between William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Pitavirate Noisy Pawnee tribe, on the part and behalf of their said tribe, of the other part. The parties being desirous of establishing peace and friendship between the United States and the said tribe, have agreed to the following articles: ARTICLE 1. Every injury or act of hostility by one or either of the contracting parties against the other shall be mutually forgiven and forgot. ART. 2. There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America and all the individuals composing the said Noisy Pawnee tribe. ART. 3. The. undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their said tribe, do hereby acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign whatsoever. ART. 4. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and the tribe they represent, do moreover promise and oblige themselves to deliver up, or cause to be delivered up, to the authority of the United States, to be punished according to law, each and every individual of the said tribe who shall, at any time hereafter, violate the stipulations of the treaty this day concluded between the said Noisy Pawnee tride and the said States. In witness whereof, the said William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals this nineteenth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, and of the independence of the United States the fortv-second. WILLIAM CLARK, AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Pitavirate Noisy Pawnee tribe.] TREATY WITH THE PAWNEE REPUBLIC. A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded by and between William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Pawnee republic, on the part and behalf o f their tribe, of the other part.	'	. The parties being desirous of establishing peace and friendship between the United States and the said tribe, have agreed to the following articles: ARTICLE 1. Every injury or act of hostility by one or either of the contracting parties against the other shall be mutually forgiven and forgot. ART. 2. There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America and all the individuals composing the said Pawnee tribe. ART. 3. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their said tribe, do hereby acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign whatsoever. ART. 4. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and the tribe they represent, do moreover promise and oblige themselves to deliver up, or cause to be delivered up, to the authority of the United States, to be punished according to law, each and every individual of the said tribe who shall, at any time hereafter, violate the stipulations of the treaty this day concluded between the said Pawnee republic and the said States. In witness whereof, the said William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals this twentieth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, and of the independence of the United States the forty-second. WILLIAM CLARK, AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the said Pawnee tribe.] TREATY WITH THE PAWNEE MARHARS. A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded by and between William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Pawnee Marhar tribe, on the part and behalf of their said tribe, of the other part. The parties being desirous of establishing peace and friendship between the United States and the said tribe, have agreed to the following articles: ARTICLE. 1. Every injury or act of hostility by one or either of the contracting parties against the other shall be mutually forgiven and forgot. ART. 2. There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America and all the individuals composing the said Pawnee tribe. ART. 3. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their said tribe, do hereby acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign whatsoever. ART. 4. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and the tribe they represent, do moreover promise and oblige themselves to deliver up, or cause to be delivered up, to the authority of the United States, to be punished according to law, each and every individuual of the said tribe who shall, at any time hereafter, violate the stipulations of the treaty this day concluded between the said Pawnee Marhar tribe and the said States. In witness whereof, the said William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals this twenty-second day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, and of the independence of the United States the forty-second. WILLIAM CLARK, AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the said Pawnee Marhar tribe. A treaty of amity and friendship made and concluded at St. Louis, this 6th day of October, A. D. 1818, in presence of his excellency William Clark, Governor of Missouri Territory, commander-in-chief of the militia thereof, and superintendent of Indian affairs far the same, between the tribe of Cherokees residing on the Arkansas, and their allies the Shawanees and Delawares, of the one part, and the several bands composing the Big and Little Osage nations, of the other part. Whereas the parties are anxious that the war which has existed between them shall cease and determine, and that the most perfect harmony and friendship should exist, they have agreed to the following articles: ARTICLE 1. There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between the Cherokees of Arkansas, and their allies, and all the bands of the Big and Little Osage nations. ART. 2. The Cherokees and their allies shall deliver to the Osages, as early as possible in the ensuing spring, all the prisoners which they or their allies may have in their possession; and the Osages, in like manner, agree to deliver to the Cherokees such persons as may be in their possession. ART. 3. The Osages do hereby grant to the Cherokees and their allies an undisturbed passage to the hunting country, with permission to occupy and hunt on all the lands which they claim south of the Arkansas river. ART. 4. It is agreed by the parties that no private revenge shall be taken for property stolen, but that complaint shall be made to the agents of the different nations, who shall have full power to return such property. In witness whereof, we, the chiefs aod considerate men of the Cherokees and Great and Little Osage tribes, do sign our names. [Signed by forty-six chiefs and principal men of the Big and Little Osages, twelve Cherokee chiefs, &c., and one Shawanee chief.] [This treaty is not signed.] i HEAD-QUARTERS, DIVISION OF THE SOUTH, SIR:	NASHVILLE, December 1, 1817. On the 27th of October last I left this to visit a friend and nephew of mine, who was lying dangerously ill, of which you have been advised by the adjutant general already; and, having performed the last duty to him, who expired on the 20th ultimo, I reached this on the 30th. • On my return journey I received your letter of the 25th October, marked “ private;” also a copy of the adjutant general’s to you of the I9th ultimo. I perfectly coincide with Colonel Butler, and for the reasons he has assigned, that nothing can be done with the Chickasaws on the subject named until the arrearages due them are paid; as it would, in my opinion, completely jeopardize the objects in view, which, I fully agree with you, are of the greatest importance. Indeed, it is my opinion that, until their arrearages are paid, even to name the subject would tend to frustrate the object of the Government. So soon as the money arrives, I will proceed to the Chickasaw nation, and use my best exertions to obtain a relinquishment to their title to the lands proposed; of which, although not sanguine, 1 do not despair of effecting so soon as they are made friendly disposed, by the change of their agent and the receipt of their annuities. I sincerely hope that General Platt will accept of the agency, as the chiefs of that nation have expressed their wish to General Meriwether and myself that their agent should be taken from the eastward. Should General Platt not accept, and you will forward the amount due the Chickasaw nation to Colonel Robert Butler, (who has been for a long time doing the extra duty of quartermaster general from real necessity,) and furnish him with particular instructions for its appropriation, I will undertake to see the faithful distribution thereof, and take that moment to obtain their relinquishment to the lands proposed. Your several communications of the 11th and 30th October and the 6th and 13th of November, with their respective enclosures, have been received and attended to. Notification has been made, and proposals will be received, for the repair of the old Natchez road, from where the Reynoldsburg road intersects it, to the Mississippi line. The adjutant general has been directed to order Lieutenant Colonel Lindsay to form the recruits of the 4th battalion into two companies, and have them marched to Mobile without delay. I am, sir, &c.	■ ’	ANDREW JACKSON, Major General Commanding. To the ACTING SECRETARY OF WAR.	* STR:	WASHINGTON CITY, February 6, 1818. In the event of its being thought necessary to extinguish the Quapaw claim to the lands south of the Arkansas river, I must beg leave to suggest the necessity of the commissioners having specific instructions on the following points: 1st. A conference to be held with a deputation of that tribe for the purchase of all or such part of their claim as it may be thought necessary to extinguish at this time; the western line, at least, to include the white settlements. 2d. Or whether it would be better to extinguish all their claim, with a view to exchange that part lying northwest and west of the settlements with the Cherokees for lands east of the Mississippi, reserving to the Quapaws for their own use a sufficient quantity, including their villages, <fcc. 3d. The terms on which the purchase should be made, either by an amount in goods and an annuity, or by a fixed sum paid in hand, or by instalments. 4th. The terms on which the quantity reserved by them shall be held—whether as tenants in common, or shall they have power to divide it amongst themselves, and the right to dispose thereof, afterwards, separately? 5th. They have expressed an unwillingness to sell the noted hot spring and a valuable salt-lick now worked to advantage. Shall they be allowed to reserve them? If so, on what terms? or what shall be proposed to induce them to give them up? 6th. If it is thought best to confer with them at St. Louis, (which is believed to be the cheapest way,) then I would suggest the propriety of Colonel Auguste Chouteau being associated. I have, &c. WILLIAM CLARK. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 7, 1818. I have the honor to inform you that Auguste Chouteau, Esq. has been appointed a commissioner, to be associated with you, in making a treaty or treaties with the several tribes of Indians named in your commission transmitted by this Department on the 1st of November last. Mr. Chouteau is appointed in the place of Governor Clark, who has declined acting. The placing that gentleman’s name before yours in the instructions addressed to you for holding the treaty was wholly accidental, and therefore should not be placed to an intention of giving him a precedence in the commission. It is hoped this explanation will be satisfactory, and that your excellency will consent to act as commissioner, as , the President is desirous to avail himself of your talents and experience in concluding the treaty. The objects of holding a treaty are explained in the letter of the Acting Secretary of War to you and Governor Clark, dated the 1st November last. Mr. Chouteau is directed to apply to you for information as to the time and place of holding the treaty.'I have the honor to be, &c. ' J. C. CALHOUN. Governor NINIAN EDWARDS, Kaskaskia. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 2, 1818. I have the honor to enclose to you a commission to treat with the Chickasaw Indians for that portion of their country which lies in the States of Kentucky and Tennessee. The object and importance of extinguishing their title to that tract of country are so obvious as to require nu comment; and the President anticipates, from your weight of character and knowledge of the Indians, that the object in view will be effected. The President is very anxious to remove the Indians on this side to the west of the Mississippi; and if the Chickasaws could be brought to an exchange of territory, it would be preferred. It is intended to acquire from the Quapaws a large tract of country, in order to make the exchange with the Indians on this side; and if the Chickasaws will agree to the exchange, they may have it for lands in that quarter; but the terms of the cession, as well as the time and place of holding the treaty, are left to your judgment and discretion. Congress have appropriated $53,000 for the expenses incidental to holding treaties with the Indians; and Colonel McKenney, the superintendent of Indian trade, has been directed to purchase and forward to the Chickasaw Bluffs $6,500 worth of goods, suitable to the taste of the southern Indians, to be distributed under your orders, in pres ents, to effect the objects of the treaty. He will furnish you with an invoice, and advise you of the goods being forwarded. Should moneyed presents be necessary to the chiefs, you are authorized to make them, and to draw on the Department, provided the whole amount drawn for, including your compensation and that to your secretary and interpreters, does not exceed $4,500. The contractor will furnish, on the requisition of either of you, the rations which it may be necessary to issue to the Indians while attending the treaty. Notice should he given to him, in order that he may be prepared to furnish the rations. Your compensation will be at the rate of eight dollars a day while actually engaged; and that of the secretary, whom you are authorized to appoint, will be at the rate of five dollars per day. You will render to this Department the usual accounts and vouchers for settlement. I have the honor to be, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. General ISAAC SHELBY and General ANDREW JACKSON, Commissioners, Syc. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 2, 1818. I have the honor to enclose you a commission to treat with the Miamies, Delawares, and other tribes of Indians who have claims to the tract of land in the State of Indiana watered by the White river and the Wabash. By a reference to a map of Indiana, it will be seen that the part of it to which Indian title is extinguished is of an inconvenient form; and the object of the present negotiation is to acquire from the tribes interested such additional cession as, being added to the present, will render it more convenient and compact. You will designate the time and place the most suitable, in your opinion, for holding the treaty. The terms to be offered depend so much on the whims and tempers of the tribes interested in the land, that no particular instructions can be given to you; but the President, reposing full confidence in your judgment and discretion, expects that you will acquire it on terms as advantageous to the United States as is practicable. Congress have appropriated ($53,000) fifty-three thousand dollars for the purpose of holding Indian treaties; ($21,000) twenty-one thousand dollars of which will be applied to the treaty with which you are charged. Colonel McKenney, superintendent of Indian trade, has been directed to vest $15,000 in such goods as are most agreeable to the taste of the Indians, to be distributed as presents to them under your orders. He will send the goods to Cincinnati, and you will be furnished with an invoice as soon as the purchases are effected. On their arriving at Cincinnati, they will be subject to your orders. The residue ($6,000) is intended for your pay and that of a secretary to the commission, interpreters, &c., and such moneyed presents as you may judge proper to make to the chiefs. You are authorized to draw on the Department for that amount. The contractor will issue, on your requisition, such rations as may be necessary for a supply of the Indians while attending the treaty. You will give him notice of the time, and place of holding the treaty, so that he may be prepared to make the issues. Your compensation will be at the rate of eight dollars a day while actually engaged; and that of your secretary, whom you are authorized to employ, five dollars a day. You will render this Department the usual accounts and vouchers for settlement at the Treasury. I have the honor to be, <fcc. J. C. CALHOUN. His Excellency JONATHAN JENNINGS, His Excellency LEWIS CASS, and Honorable BENJAMIN PARKE. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 8, 1818. I have the honor to enclose a commission to you to treat with the Quapaws. A principal object of the negotiation is to acquire lands on the west of the Mississippi, in order to exchange with such of the Indians on this side as may choose to emigrate to the west. The time and place of holding the treaty are subject to your discretion. The terms of the cession must, of course, depend on the temper and wishes of the Indians; after ascertaining which, you will propose such terms to them as, in your opinion, will be the most advantageous to the United States. The lands reserved for the Quapaws must be held by the tenure by which the Indians usually hold their lands, as the Senate would probably ratify no treaty which recognises in the Indians the right of acquiring individual property, with the power of selling, except to the United States. You will be allowed at the rate of eight dollars a day while actually engaged in performing the duties of your commission; and the secretary, whom you are authorized to appoint, at the rate of five dollars a day. You are authorized to draw on this Department for a sum not exceeding $3,000, to defray the expenses of the commission, and to make such presents to the Indians as are usual or necessary. You will render the usual vouchers for settlement, for such sums as may be disbursed under your directions. I have the honor to be, «fee. J. C. CALHOUN. Governor WILLIAM CLARK and AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU, Esq. Commissioners, Syc. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 8, 1818. His excellency Jonathan Jennings, his excellency Lewis Cass, and the honorable Benjamin Parke, having been appointed commissioners to hold a treaty with the Indians in the State of Indiana; Colonel John McKee, General William Carroll, and David Burnett, Esq. commissioners to hold a treaty with the Choctaws; and his excellency Isaac Shelby and General Andrew Jackson, eommissioners to hold a treaty with the Chickasaw nation of Indians, it becomes necessary to place at the disposition of these commissioners merchandise suitable for Indian presents, to be distributed by them in such manner as they may think best calculated to promote the views of the Government in the proposed negotiations. You are, therefore, requested to purchase $15,000 worth of goods, properly assorted, to suit the tastes and habits of the northern Indians, and forward them to Cincinnati, consigned to such person as you may judge proper, and in whom yon can place confidence, to be held subject to the orders of the commissioners to treat with the Indians in Indiana; and $13,000 worth of such goods as are in your judgment adapted to the fancy and climate of the southern Indians; to be put up in two parcels of $6,500 worth each; one to bo forwarded to the Chickasaw Bluffs, consigned to some discreet person on whom you can rely, to be held subject to the orders of the commissioners to treat with the Chickasaw Indians; and the other to be forwarded to New Orleans, to be consigned in like manner, and subject to the orders of the commissioners to treat with the Choctaws. You will furnish the commissioners, in each case, with an invoice of the goods, and advise them of their being forwarded, tu whom consigned, and of the probable time of their arrival at the place of their destination. 1 bave the honor to be, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. THOS. L. MCKENNEY. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 11, 1818. I have the honor to enclose you a commission to renew the negotiation with the Shawanees, Delawares, Pattawatamies, Ottawas, and Chippewas. I also enclose a copy of the resolution of the Senate, by which you will perceive that the consideration of the treaty has been postponed, and that it has been recommended to the President to renew the negotiation. The resolution itself will best explain the views of the Senate, and you will consider it as a part of your instructions. You will determine the time and place of renewing the negotiation, of which you will give due notice to the contractor. On the requisition of either of you, he will make the necessary issue of rations to the Indians while attending the treaty. I am fearful that the change of tenure proposed by the Senate will indispose the Indians to renew the negotiation, and that they will expect not only a great increase of their annuity, but a great increase of lands to be reserved for their use. No particular instructions can be given to you on these points, as they depend on the disposition of the Indians. The President reposes entire confidence in your, judgment and discretion, and expects that the land will be obtained on as favorable terms as possible. The Wyandot and Seneca delegates expressed a desire that their relations in Canada, not exceeding one hundred and fifty persons, might be permitted to join them, and might be taken into the estimate in the lands to be reserved for their use. The President thinks the request reasonable, and I now state ittu apprize yon of his opinion in case they should mention it at the treaty. You will be allowed at the rate of eight dollars a day while performing the duties of your commission, and your secretary at the rate of five dollars per day. You will appoint your secretary. To defray the expenses attending the commission, and make the usual and necessary presents, you are authorized to draw on the Department for a sum not exceeding $7,000. You will render the usual vouchers for the sums which may be disbursed under your directions. I have the honor to be, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. His Excellency LEWIS CASS and General DUNCAN MCARTHUR, Commissioners, fyc. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 29, 1818. In the absence of the Secretary of War, 1 have had the honor to submit yonr letter to the President of the United States, and have it in charge to communicate his sentiments on the subject in reply. The great object is to remove, altogether, these tribes beyond the Mississippi. If that be accomplished, every difficulty is removed; there then eeases to be any qnestiun about the tenure by which the Indians shall hold lands. To effect this removal, you are aware that great exertion and address must be used on the part of the commissioners, and some sacrifices be made by the United States.	- To achieve this plan, other lands, equal in quantity to what the Indians may wish to retain in Ohio, will be granted to them west of the Mississippi; and you are authorized to give them, in cash, on the spot, from 20,000 to 50,000 dollars, and an equal sum in goods, if the object cannot be effected by a less sum. You are also authorized to grant a liberal annuity—say double the amount which you granted to the several tribes by the treaty of the Rapids of the Miami. The United States will pay the expense of removal, giving permission, if necessary, to remain on certain lands, with limits defined, for three years; or until lands which may suit them can be procured west of the Mississippi. The interests of the Government demand that the cession should be obtained at the least expense. If the removal of the tribes can be effected, permanent annuities to a reasonable amount will indubitably contribute much to the advantage of the United States, in restraining the Indians from engaging in wars on their own account, or as allies of any foreign hostile Power. The measure of removal is important in a national point of view, and especially to that section of country advanced, of which a settlement of these Indians, who have already made a considerable progress in civilization, and evinced a fidelity to our institutions, will be formed. If joined by the Six Nations of Indians, whose friendship and steady adherence to our Government have been well tried, they would form a defence for our settlements, formidable for the quality of its force, and important from its relative position to us and to the hostile Indians. These considerations induce the President to desire that they should be removed beyond the Mississippi. But it is impossible to determine here to what particular part of country the Indians should be removed; so much depends on the preference which they themselves may give to one portion over another, and the impossibility, perhaps, of granting the spot which they may select. Therefore, in indicating the portion of country to which they may be willing to remove, you will exercise your judgment. It is evident, however, that the location must be beyond the Mississippi, or west of Lake Michigan. It is understood that it will not be difficult to procure a cession from the Indians west of the Mississippi. Governor Clark will be instructed on this point, and I am directed to request you to correspond with him on this subject. The confidence reposed in the zeal and knowledge of the commissioners precludes the necessity of more enlarged instructions on this point, and, at the same time, affords the best hopes that, in the progress of the negotiation, every exertion will be made “to conduct it to a successful issue, npon terms as advantageous to the United States as practicable.” Secondly, if a treaty cannot be obtained upon the above terms, make the best contract you can for the territory, granting small reservations to families or to individuals, with the right of pre-emption to the United States. If indispensably necessary to abandon this principle, let the deviation be restricted as much as possible. Let the title to the lands reserved, for example, be to the present incumbent for life, and the fee to their offspring, making the assent of the President to any sale by the immediate or future descendants indispensable. Should it be found indispensable to the formation of a treaty, on satisfactory conditions, that some lands should be ceded in fee to some few persons in the tribe, half-breeds, or others of great influence, it may be done, guarding the sales in the manner above stated. This, however, should be avoided, if possible, as it would be to sacrifice the interest of the tribe to the accommodation of individuals—perhaps of the innocent and ignorant to the artful and unprincipled. If reservations are made to the Indians in any form whatever, the precise number of acres should be stipulated in preference to “miles square or square miles.” In these views you will perceive the great importance which the President attaches to the successful termination of the negotiation, on principles of justice and liberality to the Indian tribes. The best interests of the western community will be greatly advanced by the removal of these tribes to a more remote part of the country. An efficient white population will supply the place of their feeble society, and will give strength and vigor to our frontier, as well as develop, by the progress of improvement, many resources which will largely contribute to the power and safety of our institutions. You are authorized to draw bills on this Department, payable after the ratification of the treaty, for such sums as you may require, after the sum of $7,000, already set apart, shall be expended. A copy of this letter will be sent to General McArthur for his instruction. I have the honor to be, &c. C. VANDEVENTER, Chief Clerk. His Excellency LEWIS CASS, Detroit. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 29, 1818. I have the honor to transmit to you, by order of the President of the United States, an extract of a letter of instructions to his excellency Governor Cass, respecting the negotiation which he, in conjunction with General McArthur, is about to open with the Wyandots, Delawares, &c. The President requests that you will take proper measures, as early as practicable, to ascertain what tribes of Indians west of the Mississippi may be disposed to relinquish their lands, or a suitable portion of them, to the United States, and the probable terms upon which they will make the cession. He desires your excellency to communicate the result, as well as your views of the subject generally, to Governor Cass aud General McArthur, or to either of them. I have the honor to be, &c. .	C. VANDEVENTER, Chief Clerk. His Excellency WILLIAM CLARK, St. Louis, Missouri Territory. SIR:	ST. LOUIS, July 9, 1818. A very full and respectable deputation of the principal chiefs and warriors from the four Pawnee tribes having arrived here a short time since, (in compliance with the general views of the Government, and the instructions received from your Department of the 9th June, 1817,) we entered into negotiations with them, and concluded treaties which wo have the honor herewith to transmit for the President’s approbation. The Pawnee tribes are warlike and powerful, and inhabit the country about the river Platte, stretching immediately between us and the Spanish settlements, with whom they are now at war. Their numbers and warlike character, the commanding position they occupy in relation to the Missouri trade, and the contemplated establishment at the mouth of Yellow Stone river, coupled to the facility with which (in the event of hostilities between us and the Spanish provinces) they might be sent down in force upon our extended western frontier, evince the wisdom and propriety of cultivating industriously their friendship, in conformity with the general policy of the Government. Since the conclusion of the late war with England, and the general pacification with the Indians of the Mississippi and Missouri, the Pawnees have committed several wanton and unprovoked murders; and did not, perhaps, in strictness, deserve to have been dealt with so favorably. But they were strangers to the whites—that is, to the Americans; had never visited our settlements, and knew nothing of the character or strength of our Government. They had met with hunting parties occasionally, and, finding them weak and contemptible in their estimation, they had learned (with the help of a few lessons from the Spaniards) to look upon the Government in the same light. Believing, as we did, that their conduct had grown out of these misconceptions, and perceiving the most clear and unequivocal proofs of their humiliation and repentance, we deemed it best to forgive their injuries, and grant them the protection and friendship of the United States; and no Indians with whom we have treated have ever discovered such entire satisfaction, pride, and pleasure at the event. These people travel principally on horseback, are but little used to marching, and know nothing of canoes. In consequence, we have thought it most advisable, to send them home with a handsome present, in order to impress them still more strongly and favorably towards us, and to operate thereby (in some measure) upon the. neighboring tribes nf the Missouri above them. To further the views of the Government in relation to the Quapaws, we have despatched an agent (Mr. Benjamin O’Fallon) to them, to communicate our wishes, and make the necessary arrangements for a treaty with them at this place as soon as possible. As yet, we have received no information as to the probable result of his mission. Our colleague, Governor Edwards, being absent in Kentucky, we have been compelled to proceed in these matters without his counsel or co-operation. We have the honor to be, most respectfully, sir, your obedient servants, WM. CLARK, To the Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War.	'	AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, August 19, 1818. I enclose an extract of a letter from Mr. Ogden, of New York, in relation to the removal.of the Six Nations of Indians, and request your attention to the subject when you meet the Indians for the purpose of entering into negotiations with them, agreeably to the instructions from this Department; and ascertain whether the Indians on Fox river and its vicinity, or any of the tribes inhabiting the country north of the State of Indiana and Illinois Territory are disposed to make a grant of lands to the Six Nations, and permit them to reside among them. In the event of any of them assenting to the proposal, you will report it to this Department, when you will be instructed to make any arrangements that may be necessary to facilitate the removal of the Six Nations to the country thus selected for their future residence, provided it meets their approbation. I have the honor to be, &c. Governor LEWIS CASS, Detroit. SIB:	ST. LOUIS, September 6, 1818. We have the honor herewith to transmit the treaty concluded with the Quapaws on the 24th ultimo; by which it will be seen that a large tract of valuable country (which at all times heretofore has been considered their property, as well by the former governments as by the Osages, their neighbors,) has been ceded to the United States, embracing all the white settlements in that quarter, and extending far to the west of them. The current of emigration is setting with considerable force to the Red river and Washita; and, unless early measures are taken to limit and circumscribe those settlements, by assigning to the Cherokees and other Indians the lands intended for them, (which seems to have been intended by the Government,) the whole country purchased will probably be soon occupied by the white settlers, thinly scattered in every direction. Within the purchase are several very valuable salines, one of which has been worked by individuals for some time past, and several medicinal springs which are much resorted to from the lower country. These are objects of great public interest, and are thought to be well worth the attention of Government. Whatever disposition it is proposed to make of that country in general, it would perhaps be good policy, and very essential, to reserve the warm springs, with a small portion of the adjoining lands, which are poor and broken. The land reserved by the Quapaws is quite sufficient for their purposes, and, in truth, is perhaps more than they actually need. It fronts on the Arkansas river more than a hundred miles, including all their villages, and extending to the Washita, being a tract of level, low, rich land, interspersed with swamps, and a great portion of which is subject to annual inundation. This tribe is anxious to have an agent, and we are inclined to think the Government would do well to indulge them. Mr. Charles de Villemont, a native of Louisiana, the old Spanish commandant of the post at Arkansas, who now resides near their villages, was mentioned by them as the person whom they would wish appointed. We would beg leave also to suggest the propriety of having the boundary lines of the reserve run and marked out as soon as it may be found convenient, in compliance with the stipulations of the treaty. Our accounts of expenses incurred in negotiating the purchase of the Quapaws are likewise forwarded herewith. We have, &c. WM. CLARK, AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	ST. MARY’S, September 18, 1818. Accompanying this, we have the honor to transmit to you a treaty, yesterday concluded by us with the Wyandot, Shawanee, Seneca, and Ottawa tribes of Indians. The proposition to remove to the west of the Mississippi was made to the three former tribes, and enforced as far as we believed it politic to enforce it. It was received by them with such strong symptoms of disapprobation, that we did not think it proper to urge them too far upon the subject. The time has not yet arrived for them voluntarily to abandon the land of their fathers, and seek a new residence in a country with which they are unacquainted, and among powerful and hostile Indians. As our settlements gradually surround them, their minds will be better prepared to receive this proposition, and we do not doubt but that a few years will accomplish what could not now be accomplished except at an expense greatly disproportioned to the object. • The treaty now concluded requires few observations from us. We trust all its stipulations will be found in strict conformity with our instructions. The Chippewa, Pattawatamie, and Delaware tribes of Indians are not parties to this treaty. None of the provisions in the treaty to which this is supplementary, which related to them, has now been affected, and their participation was therefore unnecessary, and might have been injurious. We have promised to the tribes, parties hereunto, that they shall receive a quantity of goods equal in value to $12,000. These goods cannot now be distributed, because such distribution would provoke the jealousies of the other tribes, who are waiting the result of the treaty to be negotiated for a cession of land in Indiana. It is thought politic to make a general distribution to all the tribes at the same time, and it is certainly proper that these tribes should receive as much, in proportion to their numbers, as any others.	. At the conclusion, therefore, of that treaty, bills will be drawn upon the War Department for the amount of goods which we think it correct to purchase, payable after the ratification of the treaty; and we trust they will be duly honored. We transmit an extract from the speech of the Ottawas in relation to the grant made by them to Doctor William Brown by the treaty concluded last year at the foot of the Rapids. We cannot but hope that the claim will be confirmed. Doctor Brown’s professional services to these Indians have been long continued and gratuitous, equally uncommon in their occurrences and honorable to him.	, Very respectfully, sir, we have the honor to be your obedient servants, LEWIS CASS, DUNCAN MCARTHUR. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. Extract from a speech of the Ottawas in council to the commissioners of the United States. FATHERS: YOU last year promised us that you would grant to our friend Dr. William Brown two sections of land at Macon, but we do not find that he has received them. He has rendered us many services, for which we have never paid him. It is owing to him that some of us are now here. It is fortunate for us that he came here, as many of us are sick, and he has attended us. We wish he may get the land. SIR:	ST. MARY’S, September 21, 1818. I have the honor to transmit you a treaty concluded by me with the chiefs of the Wyandot tribe of Indians, in conformity with the instructions from the War Department of May 19, 1817. The delay in concluding this treaty has arisen fron the difficulty of effecting the exchange until the land in the Territory of Michigan was surveyed. It could not be located prior to that time without unnecessarily interrupting the continuity of the surveys, and the time which would have been gained was not of sufficient importance to justify this measure. The surveys were not returned until the beginning of last July, and I have embraced the first opportunity which the meeting of the Wyandot chiefs afforded since that time to effect the object. 23 E My letter to the Secretary of War of the 30th July, 1816, contains all the information which it is in my power to give upon this subject; and it renders it unnecessary for me to trouble you with any of the details connected with it. Very respectfully, sir, I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, LEWIS CASS. HEAD-QUARTERS, DIVISION OF THE SOUTH, SIR:	NASHVILLE, July 13, 1818. I shall proceed to-morrow to the Tennessee river, to meet, under an appointment, James Colbert, interpreter to the Chickasaw nation, preparatory to holding a treaty with that nation. It is my duty, however, to state to you my impression that no negotiation can be carried on, with any possibility of success, until Government have fulfilled their engagements with the Chickasaw nation. The annuities due for lands purchased more than two years ago still remain unpaid; 1 hope, therefore, that early remittances will be made to liquidate all claims against the United States, previous to any propositions being made for further purchases from the Chickasaw nation. With respect, &,c.	• ANDREW JACKSON, Maj. Gen. Commanding. The remittance to Colonel Butler in January last, subject to my direction, was redeposited in the Nashville Bank, to the credit of the United States, previous to my moving southwardly. A. J. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	' CHICKASAW AGENCY, July 29, 1818. Yesterday I received a letter from General Jackson, dated the 24th instant, at Cypress, Tennessee river, relative to the time and place it will suit this nation to meet the United States commissioners to confer on the subject of selling or exchanging land. Major Colbert, on the 17th instant, wrote General Jackson, in answer to a letter he had received from'him, that they would meet him at Cypress on the 5th August, which letter the general unfortunately did not receive before he left home for Cypress; if he had, it would have prevented his setting out as early as he did to meet the chiefs from the nation. Major Colbert is now with me, and says that himself and some others will set out to-morrow to meet the United States commissioners at Cypress, and endeavor to agree upon the time and place of holding the treaty; but, from the disposition I now discover in the leading men of the nation, it is not probable they are willing to sell or exchange any more land. From the ill health of Governor Shelby, General Jackson is desirous of having the treaty held as near Nashville as the chiefs can be got to assemble. This proposition for accommodating the comfort of Governor Shelby I sincerely hope may be agreed to; but I much doubt their acquiescence, as, on its being suggested to them, they replied “ that all treaties heretofore made with them had been holden in their own nation, and no other place was proper.”	, I am, respectfully, &c. H. SHERBURNE, Agent for the Chickasaw Nation. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, July 30, 1818. I regret exceedingly the delay which has taken place in the payment of the annuity to the Chickasaw Indians. It has arisen from the long delay of the arrival of their agent. The former agent being dismissed, it was not thought proper to make the payment through him. The annuity of this year was transmitted in goods, through the superintendent of Indian trade, as it was understood that goods, in lieu of money, would be acceptable to the Indians. They have, I presume, been received. The annuity for 1817, and a sum of about $7,000 to be paid under their late treaty, have been transmitted to their agent this day. He has been directed to pay the whole immediately, unless directed otherwise by you or Governor Shelby. It is possible that the payment of so large an amount at the time of negotiating the treaty might be turned to some account. If you judge it advisable to have it then paid, you will direct the agent accordingly. I enclose a copy of a letter to Governor Shelby of the,date of this, which will point out the extent of power intended by the instructions accompanying the commission to be given to you, in regard to which he appears to labor under a mistake. I have the honor to be, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. General ANDREW JACKSON, Nashville. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, July 30, 1818. Your letter of the 16th July, relating to the proposed negotiation with the Chickasaw Indians, was received this morning. In the instruction which was given to you, it was not intended to place any limitations on the powers of the commissioners as to the terms on which the land should be acquired. The goods sent to the Chickasaw Bluffs, and the sum for which you were authorized to draw, were intended to be used at your discretion in bringing about the treaty, by presents to the principal chiefs, or otherwise. Should a larger sum be necessary in that way, you are authorized to draw for it, provided it does not exceed $5,000. The treaty itself you will, of course, make on such terms as yon may judge proper. The goods sent to the Bluffs were ordered to be selected with great care; and I think you will find them useful to put the Indians in a good temper to negotiate. You are authorized to take such measures, and to incur such expense, to have the goods brought to the place of the treaty, as you may judge proper. About $30,000 (two years’ annuity, and a sum due under the late treaty with the Chickasaws,) will be shortly paid to the nation. I have directed the agent, Colonel Sherburne, to pay it immediately, unless you or General Jackson should direct the suspension of the payment. It is possible that the payment at the time of making the treaty might be turned to advantage. It is submitted, however, to your discretion. 1 have the. honor to be, <fcc. His Excellency ISAAC SHELBY, Shelbyville, Kentucky. HEAD-QUARTERS, DIVISION OF THE SOUTH, SIR:	NASHVILLE, August 18, 1818. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 30th ult., with its enclosure. The 1st day of October has been fixed upon by the chiefs of the Chickasaw nation for holding the treaty; and Colonel Sherburne, their agent, will be instructed to withhold the payment of the sums which may be due the Indians until that time, as the payment of so large an amount at the time of negotiation will, no doubt, have considerable effect in forwarding the objects of the treaty, and will also be a saving of considerable expense. There being no contractor’s agent for the State of Mississippi, it will be necessary that a contract should be made with some individual for furnishing the necessary supplies for the Indians. I have, however, directed the adjutant general of this division to make a requisition on the contractor for 75,000 rations, to be delivered at the time and place of holding the treaty. Your letters of the 27th and 28th ult. have been received, and shall receive, in due time, that attention which they merit. I have the honor to be, &c. ANDREW JACKSON, Maj. Gen. commanding. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. / SIR:	ST. MARY’S, October 6, 1818. We have the honor to forward to you treaties concluded at this place with the Pattawatamies, Delawares, Weas, and Miamies, for the purchase of lands in the State of Indiana. Owing to the peculiar circumstances under which we are placed, a detailed communication is deferred, and which you will receive from Governor Jennings, together with a statement of the disbursements incident to the negotiation. We have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servants, JONATHAN JENNINGS, LEWIS CASS, B. PARKE. The Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	ST. LOUIS, October —, 1818. In compliance with the wishes of Government, as expressed in your letter of the 8th of May, I have, with much difficulty, succeeded in bringing about a peace between the Osages and Cherokees. As it was thought by both parties that no treaty they could make would be considered as reciprocally binding upon them, unless it should be ratified and confirmed in my presence, I invited both tribes to send a deputation of eight or ten of their principal men to meet in council at this place. The Osage chiefs and considerate men (to the number of about sixty) arrived early last month, and have waited the coming of the Cherokees, which was not until last week. Their conferences resulted in a solemn treaty, a copy of which I have the honor herewith to forward. Finding the Osages willing to pay for the property which they have taken, to a very considerable amount, from the citizens of this Territory; and knowing the views of the Government on the subject of Indian emigration to the west of the Mississippi; finding, too, that it was the intention of the Cherokees to demand of the Osages the country west of their settlements on the Arkansas, which the Osages were determined not to cede to them; and believing the Shawanees may be induced to exchange their lands in Cape Girardeau for the lands on the Arkansas and White rivers, I thought it advisable to enter into a treaty, by which the Osages have ceded to the United States the country north of Arkansas, from their old boundary line to the Three Forks, with a width of sixty miles, which will include a large body of very fine land. The treaty is likewise herewith enclosed. The Osages have determined to unite themselves in one village, and have requested that Mr. Peter Chouteau may be re-appointed their agent. Mr. Chouteau has certainly more influence with that nation than any other person; and if the agency should be re-established, (which I would strongly recommend,) it would perhaps be well to gratify their wishes. They complain of the mode in which they have received their annuities from the factor at Fort Osage, and desire that they may for the future be delivered to them, unopened, at their village on the Osage river. The request is certainly a reasonable one; and if they unite themselves into one village, (which I have advised, from a wish to bring them more under the eye and superintendence of the agent, and the control of the Government,) it perhaps would be well to remove their blacksmiths to the spot they select for their village, which will tend to unite them as much as any other indulgence that could be extended. Mr. O’Fallon, the agent for the Missouri tribes, has been instructed to sound them on the subject of ceding a portion of their lands, in conformity with the wishes of the Government, communicated in a letter received from Major Vandeventer, of the 20th June, 1818. On this subject I have written to Governor Cass, who is authorized to treat with the Indians of Ohio and Michigan, and have informed him of the late treaty with the Quapaws, from whom a cession has been obtained of nearly thirty millions of acres. This, together with the cession now made by the Osages, places an immense country at the disposal of the United States. It is the wish of the Indians that the lines of the late cession, as also those of the Cherokee lands on the Arkansas, may be run and marked as soon as possible, and the whites moved off, and prevented from settling upon the lands set apart for them. The Osage deputation left this yesterday, and the Cherokees will follow in a few days, both parties apparently much pleased with the arrangements that have been entered into. Enclosed, I send you a communication from the Shawanees and Delawares who reside within our settlements near the Mississippi, by which you will be apprized of their wishes in regard to an exchange of country, &c. I have, &c. WM. CLARK. Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 27, 1819. I have the honor to enclose you a commission to act as commissioner to survey and mark off the tract of land reserved by the Quapaw tribe of Indians under the second article of the treaty concluded with said tribe on the 24th August, 1818, of which an extract is enclosed for your instruction. Your compensation will be at the rate of eight dollars per day, including your pay as agent, during the time vou are actually engaged in ascertaining and surveying said boundary lines, you providing for your own expenses. To aid you in the performance of this duty, and insure as speedy a completion of it as practicable, you are authorized to employ a skilful surveyor, who will be allowed five dollars per day, and the necessary number of chainmen and axemen, who will be allowed at the rate of two dollars per day in full for their services. So soon as the survey is completed, you will make your report of it, accompanied by a plat of the land, to this Department. You will, also, immediately after the completion of the survey, give due notice to all intruders on the land surveyed to depart therefrom within a definite period of time; and, should it be found necessary, you will make a requisition on the commanding officer at Belle Point for that purpose. Your Indian agency comprises the performance of the necessary duties as well to the Quapaws as the Cherokees. I am, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. REUBEN LEWIS, Indian Agent and Commissioner, fyc., Arkansas, M. Territory. 15th CONGRESS.]	
