No. 53. . [2d Session- GENERAL VIEW. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, DECEMBER 1, 1794. Mr. Parker, from the committee to whom was referred that part of the speech of the President of the United States which relates to the improvement of harmony with the Indian nation, within the limits of the United States, by fixing and conducting of trading houses, made the following report: That, in their opinion, it would conduce to the honor and prosperity of the United States to cultivate peace with the Indian tribes. It appears to your committee that the establishment of trading houses, under the direction of the President of the United States, would have a tendency to produce this laudable and benevolent effect. From the best information the committee can obtain,.they are induced to believe a sum, not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars, would answer the purpose. The articles to be purchased by an agent or agents, and sold at such posts or places as may be the most convenient for the several nations of Indians within the limits of the United States. That the agent or agents to be appointed should receive stated salaries for their services, to take an oath or affirmation for the faithful discharge of his or their duties, and moreover give bond and sufficient security for the due performance thereof. It. should be the duty of the agent or agents to make up their accounts half yearly, and transmit them to the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States. That, as this transaction is intended to conciliate the affection of the Indians, it should not be the object of Government to profit thereby; hence, a stated price should be fixed on the articles to be sold, having regard to the profit or loss on the articles received in payment, in such manner that, although nothing is to be made by the Government, the capital should be kept entire. The committee therefore submit the following resolutions: Resolved, That one hundred thousand dollars be appropriated, for the purpose of carrying on trade with the Indian nations. Resolved, That a bill or bills be brought in. conformably with the above report, to be in force for and during the term of------. and no longer. * I 3d Congress.] 
