No. 17. [3d Session. INDIAN DEPREDATIONS. COMMUNICATED to CONGRESS, JANUARY, 27. 1791. Gentlemen of the Senate and House of Represcntatives: In order that you may be fully informed of the situation of the frontiers, and the prospects of hostility in that quarter, I lay before you the intelligence of some recent depredations, received since my message to you upon this subject, of the 24th instant. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, January_27, 1791. Rufus Putnam, Esq. to the President of the United States. Marietta, January 8, 1791. Sir: The mischief which I feared, has overtaken us much sooner than I expected. On the evening of the 2d instant, between sunset and daylight-in, the Indians surprised a new settlement of our people, at a place on the Muskingum, called the Big-bottom, nearly forty miles up the river, in which disaster eleven men, one woman, and two children, were killed: three men are missing, and four others made their escape. Thus, sir, the war, which was partial before the campaign of last year, is, m all probability, become general: for I think there is no reason to suppose that we are the only people on whom the savages will Wreak their vengeance, or that the number of hostile Indians have not increased since the late expedition. Our situation-is truly critical: the Governor and Secretary both being absent, no assistance from Virginia or Pennsylvania can be had. The garrison at fort Ilartnar, consisting at this time of little more than twenty men, can afford no protection to our settlements, and the whole number of men, in all our settlements, capable'ol bearing arms, including all civil and military officers, do not exceed two hundred and eighty seven, and these, many of them, badly armed. We are in the utmost danger of being swallowed up. should theenemy push the war with vigor during the winter; this I believe will fully appear, by taking a short view of our several settlements, and I hope justify the extraordinary measures we have adopted, for want of a legal authority in the territory to apply for aid in the business. The situation of our people is nearly as follows.: At Marietta are about eighty houses, in the distance of one mile, with scattering houses about three miles up the Ohio. A set of mills at Duckcreek, four miles distant, and another mill two miles up the Muskingum. Twenty two miles up this river is a settlement, consisting of about twenty families; about two miles-from them; on Wolf Creek, are five families and. a set of mills. Down the Ohio, and opposite the little Kenhawa, commences the settlement called Belle Prairie, which extends down the river, with little interruption, about twelve miles, and contains between thirty and forty houses. Before the late disaster, we had several other settlements, which are already broken up. I have taken the liberty to enclose the proceedings of tlie Ohio company and justices of the sessions on this occasion, and beg leave, with the greatest delerence, to observe, that, unless Government speedily send a body of troops for our protection, we are a ruined people. The removal of the women and children, &c. will reduce many ot the poorer sort to the greatest straits; but if we .add to this the destruction of their corn, forage, and cattle, by the enemy, which is very probable to ensue, I know of no way they can be supported; but, if this should not happen, where these people are to raise bread another year, is not easy to conjecture, and most of-them have nothing left to buy with. But my fears do not stop here; we are a people so far detached from all others, in point of situation, that we can hope lor no timely reliet, in case of emergency, from any of our neighbors; and, among the number that compose our present military strength, almost one half are young men, hired into the country, intending to settle by and by; these, under present circumstances, will probably leave ms soon, unless prospects should brighten; and, as to new settlers, we can expect none in our present situation; so that, instead of increasing in strength, we are like to diminish daily; and, if we do not fall a prey to the saVagesJ we shall be so reduced and discouraged as to give up the settlement, unless Governl'nent shall give us timely protection. It has been a mystery with some, why the troops have been withdrawn from this quarter, and collected at the Miami; that' settlement is, 1 believe, within three or four days’ march of a very populous part of Kentucky, from whence, in a few' days, they might be reinforced with several thousand men, whereas, we are not within two.hundred miles'.of any settlement, that can probably more.than protect themselves. But, I forbear suggestions of this sort, and will pnly observe further, that our present situation is truly distressing; and I do, therefore, most earnestly implore the protection of Government, for myself and friends inhabiting these wilds of America. To this we conceive ourselves justly entitled; and so far as you, sir, have the means in your power, we rest assured that we shall receive it in due time. 1 have the honor to be, with the highest possible respect, sir, your most obedient and most humble servant, RUFUS PUTNAM. To the President of the United States of Jhnerica. 'Rufus Putnam., Esq. to the Secretary of JUar. Marietta, January 8th, 1791. Dear Sir: » I snatch a moment’s time, to tell you, that, on the 2d instant, the Indians surprised a blockhouse of ours, about 40 miles up the Muskingum, killed 14 persons, and carried off three others; these last lodged in a hut, about 50 rods from the block-house^4 .others, who also lodged a distance from the block-house, made their escape. This event clearly proves that the expedition against the Shawanese will not produce peace, but, on.the contrary, a more general and outrageous war.; in winch case.there is with us but one alternative; Government' must' either give us some troops, or we must evehtually.be obliged to quit the country; our numbers are too small to make head against a host of savages, without aid from the General Government. Being confident that we deserve, we endeavor to believe that \ve shall obtain, their protection; and, in the mean time, are taking all'possible measures in our. power for our own preservation, and shall endeavor not only to defend the town of Marietta, but the most considerable out-settlements that remain, till such time as Congress shall.take their measures respecting the war, which has been blown into a flame by the expedition against the Shawanese. I hope Government will not be long in deciding what part to take: for., if we are not to be protected, die sooner we know it the better—better for us and better for Government; better that we withdraw ourselves at once, than remain to be destroyed by piecemeal; and better that Government disband their troops now in the country, and give it up altogether, than be wasting the public money in supporting a few troops, altogether inadequate to the purpose .of giving peace to the territory. I have the honor to be, with very great respect, sir, your very humble servant, RUFUS PUTNAM. Hon. H. Knox, Esq. Captain David Zeigler to Governor St. Clair. ■ ■ Fort Harmar, January 8, 1791. Sir: _ I have the mortification to inform your Excellency, that, on the 2d instant, in the evening, the settlements called Big Bottom, consisting of 16 men, one woman, and t\vo children, were destroyed by the savages, and.only two men escaped, and three supposed taken prisoners, as the bodies werenotTound. As soon as I got acquainted, assisted Colonel Sprout to make a detachment with as many men 'as 1. possibly could spare, towards that settlement; the Indians were gone before the party arrived. ■ ■ . Since your departure, no Indians had made their appearance here, and they are, to a great number^ at the Great Rock, and White Woman’s creek, and do not seem to be inclined to come in. The 4th instant was the day I hail appointed for George White-Eyes, the old, which is amongst tis, to go as far as said place, but now he is apprehensive of danger, not only from them, but, also, from his own people, which obliged tne to save him from trouble. Polly, the Wyandot woman, is also here, and informed me, the lst.instant, in a crying manner, that she apprehended all the savages were hostile inclined; when being in their town, numbers of the Chippewas and Ottawas have passed to join those banditti, with their usual mode of singing, by giving farewell to their nation for some time. To give credit to all that, I let your Excellency judge. _ Since this unhappy affair happened, the Ohio company voted troops to he raised for their defence, and for such time, until more troops will be sent on to this post. They also voted three block-houses to be erected; the troops so raised, to have the same pay and rations (but no clothing) as the. troops' got last war in the service of the United States; this I am afraid will hurt the establishment. _ - - _ Upon application from the directors of the Ohio, in giving them assistance, shall order Ensign Morgan, with fifteen 'men, on his return, to guard one of those block-houses, and any other aid possible, on my part, they shall have. All our settlements must become more careful, otherwise they.may meet with the same fate. The French families, I expect, will take shelter in this garrison, so quartered at Campus Martius, as hy their law-made. The women and children in the different settlements will repair to said place. No new commissary has made his appearance as yet, and of course no provision. I have the honor to be, with the highest esteem, your Excellency’s most ob’t. and most humble serv’t, DAVID ZEIGLER, Capl. 1st United States’ regt. His Excellency Arthur St. Clair, Governor Western Territory. 1st Congress.]
