No. 69. [1st Session. CHEROKEE LANDS. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, FEBRUARY 2, 1796. Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House of Representatives: I transmit, herewith, the copy of a letter, dated the 19th of December last, from Governor Blount to the Secretary of War, stating the avowed and daring designs of certain persons, to take possession of lands belonging to the Cherokees, and which the United States have, by treaty, solemnly guarantied to that nation. The injustice of such intrusions, and the mischievous consequences which must necessarily result therefrom, demand that effectual provision be made to prevent them. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, February 2. 1796. Copy of a letter from Governor Uittiam Blount to the Secretary of Jfar, dated Knoxville; December 19, 1795. Sir: Believing it not only my duty to prevent infractions of treaties, if in my power, and to report such as have happened, but to give you information of such sources, as from which, infractions may probably flow, I shall now state to you one that will give Government much trouble. Recourse being had to the lollowing acts of the Legislature of North Carolina, namely, "An get for opening the Land Office for the redemption of the specie and other certificates, and discharging the arrears due the army;” (page 4 46, Iredell’s revisal) to “An act for the relief of the officers and soldiers in the continental line, and for other purposes therein mentioned:” (page 421, Iredell's revisal) and to ‘‘An act to amend an act, entitled An act. for the relief of the officers and soldiers of the continental line, and for other purposes;” (page 449, Iredell’s revisal) it will appear, that North Carolina opened offices for disposing of all her unappropriated lands, except a part, which is, by the fifth section of the first recited act, reserved for the Cherokees. The grantees under these acts contend, that they have a legal right to the lands granted, and that to that right is attached the right immediately to possess them, notwithstanding the lands granted maybe guarantied to Indians by treaty; and many of them declare, they will take the possession, be the consequences what they may, unless prevented by superior force. People, in general, are ever partial to their own claims, and some of these grantees, who have taken the counsel of persons reputed learned in the law, are the more confirmed as to their right immediately to possess the lands granted, any treaty to the contrary notwithstanding. Government appears to have the alternative, either to extinguish the claims of the grantees, or Indians, to the innds in question, or to take effectual measures to prevent the grantees from taking possession, or again be involved in an Indian war by their so doing. Few of these grantees originally resided in this territory, but many of them have arrived in the course of the last fall, and others are daily arriving. I have the honor to be. very respectfully, your obedient servant, WM. BLOUNT. The Secretary of War, Philadelphia. '4th Congress.] 
