No. 73. [2(1 Session. THE WIDOW OF A CHEROKEE CHIEF. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 17, 1797. Mr. Dwight Foster, from the Committee of Claims, to whom was referreil the petition of the widow of the late Scolacuttaw,'or Hanging Maw, one of the chiefs of the Cherokee Indians, reported: That she complains against the conduct of one John Heard, and a number of armed men, who, she states, in the year 1793, contrary to law and the good faith of Government, attacked the dwelling house of the petitioner and her husband; killed and wounded a number of well disposed Indians; burnt and destroyed and carried away then-property, and wounded the petitioner. She now prays, that some provision may be made for her. After examining the statement made by the petitioner, and the tacts lipon which she rests her present application, the committee have found some difficulty in deciding what measures would be most advisable for the House to adopt. Previous to the attack on the Hanging Maw, the frontier settlers of Tennessee, and the Indians in that quarter, had been guilty of mutual acts of aggression and hostility. A party of (lie Indians had killed some settlers; then-trail was discovered, conducting across the Tennessee; this circumstance induced a belief in their pursuers, that the Hanging Maw had been concerned in that business, and occasioned bis being wounded, and the misfortunes complained of by his widow. The general opinion, however, represents the Hanging Maw as having been uniformly friendly to the settlers, as vigilant to apprize them of the approach of banditti, and constant in his exertions, on all occasions, to compose differences between them and his nation, and, withal, as possessing considerable influence over the Indians. The same disposition is also attributed to his widow, the present petitioner, who, instead of exciting her people to acts of retaliation, has abated nothing in her friendship to the white people. All these circumstances seem to countenance, if not to require for her. a pension from the Government, or some other relief from the Legislature. Such a provision might also be considered as extending its influence beyond the particular object, or. as an inciting cause to other Indians, to pursue a similar line ol conduct, under circumstances alike cruel and distressing, should they happen. Hut. on the other hand, it i? to he considered, there are citizens on the frontiers, who have suffered injuries as cruel, and deprivations as severe, by tlie Indians, and who have been thereby left in situations of distress, that would equally call for assistance from the Legislature. Questions arise, whether both descriptions of sufferers ought to be provided for? Whether the abilities of Government would he competent to meet all possible claims of this nature? And, whether help can be extended, by law, to the one, and consistently refused to the other? It may be said. that, those who settle upon the frontier?, voluntary assume all the risks and dangers attached to that position, and, therefore, can have no just claim upon Government, for consequences resulting from their choice; whilst, on" the contrary, policy requires that the minds of Indians, who may be roused to hostility by acts of the settlers, should be quieted by small pecuniary interpositions. Under these views of the subject, the committee have hesitated what report to make; but, upon the whole, as the authority t ested in the Executive Department is competent to meet this claim, and should the petitioner, from her sufferings and her attachment to the United States, appear to the Executive to be entitled to any annual relief, as it may be afforded out of the appropriations for contingent expenses in the Indian Department, without an interference of the Legislature, and, as tin? mode will probably involve the fewest difficulties, the. committee think she should apply to that department; and that the prayer of her petition ought not to be granted. 4th Congress.] 
