NO. 177.	[1st SESSION. EXTINGUISHMENT OF THE INDIAN TITLE TO LAND IN GEORGIA. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 7, 1822. Mr. GILMER, from the select committee appointed to take into consideration the treaties made by the United States with the Creek nation of Indians, on. the 9th of August, 1814, and those with the Cherokee nation of Indians, on the 8th of July, 1817, and on the 29th of February, 1819; and also the articles of agreement and cession between the United States and the State of Georgia, entered into on the 24th of April, 1802, and to report whether the said articles have been executed according to the terms thereof, and the best means of executing the same, reported: That, on the 24th of April, 1802, the State of Georgia ceded to the United States all that portion of its territory which now forms the States of Mississippi and Alabama. That the consideration given therefor, on the part of the United States, was $1,250,000, and an obligation to extinguish the Indian title to all the lands within the limits of Georgia, whenever the same could be peaceably done, and on reasonable terms. The committee are of opinion that this agreement might have been more satisfactorily complied with than it was at the treaty made with the Creek nation of Indians on the 9th day of August, 1814; that the terms of that treaty were imposed upon the Indians, and they were compelled to yield up to the United States a large portion of their lands; that the United States demanded that the best part of those lands should be within what was at that time the Territory of Alabama; that, by this means, the Indians have been driven within the limits of Georgia, instead of being withdrawn; that lands could have been as easily procured of the Indians within the limits of Georgia as the Territory of Alabama, and that good faith required rather a punctual performance of a fair and bona fide agreement, than a bargain, by which the treasury of the United States might be filled. The United States, also, in the same treaty, guaranty to the Indians the integrity of the remaining part of their territory. Whether this guaranty was consistent with the previous agreement made by the United States with Georgia, is respectfully referred to the consideration of the House. The committee cannot but express the opinion, however, that this guaranty and that contract appear to them to create very opposite and conflicting obligations. On the 8th day of July, 1817, a treaty was made by the United States with the Cherokee nation of Indians. It appears that, some time previous to the making of that treaty, the Cherokees had represented to the President of the United States that their upper and lower tribes wished to separate; that the Upper Cherokees desired to be confined to a smaller section of country, and to engage in the pursuits of agriculture and civilized life, and to begin the establishment of fixed laws and regular government; that the Lower Cherokees preferred continuing the hunter’s life; and, as game had become scarce in the country which they occupied, they proposed exchanging it for one on the western side of the Mississippi river, which would be better suited to their habits of life. To carry into effect these wishes of the Indians, the above treaty was held. The United States had it now in their power to have so far complied with their contract with Georgia as to have extinguished the title of the Cherokee nation of Indians to most of its lands within the limits of that State; for the Upper Cherokees resided beyond the limits of Georgia, and had expressed a desire to retain the lands on the Hiwassee river, which are also beyond those limits. The Lower Cherokees, who wished to exchange their lands, resided mostly within that State; yet, favorable as this opportunity seems to have been for a faithful compliance with their contract, the United States neglected to take advantage of it. They purchased an inconsiderable tract of country within the limits of Georgia and the bounds of the Lower Cherokees, and a considerable tract within the State of Tennessee and the Upper Cherokees, apparently in opposition to the wishes of the Indians, the interests of Georgia, and good faith in themselves. By the eighth article of the last-mentioned treaty, the United States granted to each head of any Indian family who should choose to remain on the eastern side of the Mississippi river 640 acres of land, for life, to the possessor, with a “ reversion,” in fee-simple, to his children. The committee cannot but view this attempt on the part of the United States to grant lands in fee-simple within the limits of Georgia as a direct violation of the rights of that State. The United States have no jurisdiction over the country, or interest in the soil of the lands belonging to the Indians within the limits of Georgia. If there ever was any doubt of the truth of this assertion, it ceased to exist after the articles of agreement and cession made in 1802; by the second article of which the United States cede to that State all claim, right, or title which they may have had to the jurisdiction or soil of any lands within its limits: yet, in direct opposition to the terms of their own agreement, the United States have, in numerous instances, in pursuance of the said eighth article of the treaty last referred to, granted lands belonging to Georgia to the Indians, and have also given to the Indian nation the right of changing their title of occupancy to that of fee-simple to all the lands which they held in that State. But it is not the rights of Georgia alone that are violated by this treaty; the rights of Congress are equally disregarded. By the same eighth article of the said treaty, all the Cherokee Indians, who may choose to do so, are authorized to become citizens of the United States. The committee are not aware of the existence of a power of conferring the rights of citizenship in any other branch of the Government than Congress. They think it unnecessary to make further comment on this part of the subject. The State of Georgia would, however, have had less reason to complain than at present, notwithstanding all these causes, if the remaining terms of this treaty had been executed as agreed upon. The Indians contracted that they would, in addition to the lands which they had ceded absolutely, convey an additional quantity, which should bear the same proportion to the whole quantity of lands belonging to them as the Indians on the western side of the Mississippi river bore to their whole nation. The number of all the Indians was to be ascertained by the month of June, 1818, and commissioners were then to be appointed to divide the lands according to the proportion just named. The State of Georgia had a right to expect that those lands would be laid off within its boundary. But the United States make another treaty with the same Indians, to wit, on the 27th day of February, 1819, by which they yield up to the Indians all the advantages derived from the former, upon certain conditions. The committee are of opinion that the United States had no such power. It has already been shown that they have no jurisdiction-over, or right to, the soil of the lands belonging to the Indians within the limits of Georgia. They exercise the power of treating with the Indians for those lands by virtue of the obligation they are under to that State by their contract, and their general duty to treat with the Indians for the benefit of the States. They act as commissioners appointed by the constitution; and whenever their duty has been performed, by purchasing lands for the benefit of any State, and the terms accepted by that State, all power over the lands acquired ceases to exist. The treaty of the 8th July, 1817, had been so far accepted on the part of Georgia, previous to the treaty of the 27th of February, 1819, that most of the lands acquired thereby had been disposed of to its citizens by an act of its Legislature. The treaty, therefore, of the 27th February, 1819, so far as it affects any rights acquired by Georgia under the previous treaty, is void. The United States are bound to carry the first treaty into effect. It appears, from the last treaty, that the United States are endeavoring to fix the Cherokee Indians upon the soil of Georgia, and thereby render it impossible for them ever to comply with their contract with that State. By this treaty, fee-simple titles to lands within the State of Georgia are granted in a still more objectionable manner than in the former, and all the Indians who choose are to be made citizens in the same manner as in the former treaty. Leases made in pursuance of the former treaty are made void by the latter. . There is one other feature in the last treaty which the committee think too objectionable to pass over in silence. It is agreed, on the part of the United States, that twelve miles square of the lands ceded by the Indians shall be disposed of, and the proceeds vested, under the direction of the President of the United States, in such stock as he may think proper; and the interest arising therefrom to be applied by him for the benefit of the Indians. They, however, can take no further notice of it than to bring the subject before the House for their consideration. As to so much of the resolutions as directs the committee to report the best manner of executing the articles of agreement and cession therein referred to, they suggest that it will be necessary for the United States to relinquish the policy which they seem to have adopted with regard to civilizing the Indians, and rendering them permanent upon their lands, and changing their title by occupancy into a fee-simple title, at least in respect to the Creek and Cherokee Indians. Their contract with Georgia must remain forever unperformed so long as this policy is pursued. They would further recommend appropriations of money to be made, sufficiently large to enable the Government, from time to time, to hold treaties with those Indians who possess lands within the limits of Georgia, for the purpose of extinguishing their title thereto. From the view which the committee have thus taken of the subject-matter referred to them, they recommend the following resolutions for adoption by the House: 1. Resolved, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That so much of the above treaties as pretends to grant to the Indians fee-simple titles to lands within the limits of Georgia is a violation of the sovereign rights of that State. 2. Resolved, That so much of the said treaties as purports to grant to the Indians the rights of citizenship is a violation of the rights of Congress. 3. Resolved, That the sum of	be appropriated, for the purpose of holding treaties with the Creek and Cherokee Indians, for the extinguishment of their title to lands within the limits of Georgia. 4. Resolved, That so much of the treaty made the 27th of February, 1819, as directs a large portion of the public lands to be sold, and the proceeds to be vested in some public stock by the President of the United States, and to be disposed of by him for the benefit of the Cherokee Indians, does not accord with the general policy of this Government, and the power uf Congress over the public property of the United States. I7th CONGRESS.]	
