NO. 248 REFUSAL OF THE CHICKASAWS AND CHOCTAWS TO CEDE THEIR LANDS IN MISSISSIPPI. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 15, 1827. [SIR: Conformably nicate to the Senate e	, -I - --	[Juiouwuvti Ul Uli ULI UI UJC JtlOl OC39IVIJ VI Wt|- gress, to hold treaties with the Chickasaw and Choctaw tribes of Indians, for the purpose of extinguishing their the* resol t”dS W’th'n *'le ^tate oi" M'ss'ss'PPb” I transmit, herewith, the enclosed copies of the papers required by I have the honor to be your obedient servant, The PRESIDENT of the Senate. FLORENCE, ALABAMA, November 27, 1826. innnt<.»jy‘len .'J’6 co™m's®‘ollers appointed to treat with the Chickasaw and Choctaw nations had closed all comi as wi i oth nations, by an entire failure to succeed with either, they were impressed with the belief that it was important to our Government that every thing appertaining to the correspondence with those nations, as well as their feelings towards the United States, should be communicated to you in person, by one of our body, in a more clear and pointed manner than it could be dune in a written communication; and, to this end, General Coffee was selected as the person to perform that service, which he has consented to. It was the intention of General Hinds and myself to have made a joint communication to you, to this effect; but, in the hurry of business, we separated at the treaty ground, without having done so. I now take the liberty to say to you, that it was our opinion that you should be more folly advised on the subjects relative to our conferences with those nations than we could make in a written communication; and, therefore, we obtained General Coffee’s consent that he would go on to Washington in a few weeks, when he will give every information necessary touching that business. I have the honor to be vour most obedient, humble servant, • '	WM. CLARK. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War. SIR:	TREATY GROUND, NEAR WILSON’S, IN THE CHOCTAW NATION, November 19, 1826. Agreeably to previous notice given to the Choctaw nation, we, the undersigned cemmissioners on the part of the United States, met the nation here in council on the 6th of the present month. After the mingoes, chiefs, and warriors had convened in council, and notified us that they were in readiness to commence business, we proceeded to inform them of the views of the United States in wishing to obtain a cession of their country here, and to remove them to their lands on the west of the Mississippi; in which communication we endeavored, as far as we were informed on the subject, to explain to them the wishes of our Government, and the advantages that would result to the Choctaw nation by their removal to the west. After which, we offered them the terms on which the United States would pay the nation for the country they claim on the east side of the Mississippi, if they would consent to cede the same. The commissioners were aware of the friendly disposition the United States feel towards the Choctaws, and the earnest desire to do them justice in all transactions had with that nation. Il was therefore determined to offer them, in the first instance, the full extent that would be given them for their country; and which offer was so liberal, on the part of the United States, that the nation certainly would have accepted it, had they not determined previously that they would not accede to any terms offered them. After the council,-in behalf of the nation, had given a pointed refusal to the offer, with a declaration, on their part, that they would not sell their country upon any terms that might be offered them, it was then proposed by the commissioners of-the United States that the nation should cede a small tract of country on the Tombigbee river, and to adjoin Monroe county, in the State of Mississippi, so as to enable that State to form a judicial district, for the convenience and benefit of that part of the State which is so unhappily cut off from the other settlements by an extensive Indian country; and, to obtain this small cession, it had been determined to pay the nation the most liberal price. Much pains was taken to impress on their minds this very desirable object, as well as to assure them that, if they would agree to make the cession, they should receive for it a consideration to their entire satisfaction. To this proposal they also returned a flat denial, in which they vainly boasted of the many favors they have done for the United States heretofore, and ended with a determination to hold fast to all the country they now claim. Thus it will be seen that we have failed in every proposition that has been made them for the whole or any part of their country. But, for your better information, we herewith enclose you a copy of the journal of our proceedings, which shows the precise terms offered this nation, and their pointed and positive rejection of them. George S. Gains, Esq., the special agent appointed to prepare the minds of the chiefs and leading men of the nation with an understanding of the views of the Government, had been among them, and, no doubt, had used his best endeavors to effect the objects of his appointment; but to no purpose. It is stated, and believed, that some short time after the appropriation had been made to meet the expense of this treaty, a plan was adopted to defeat the objects of the Government by a few individuals, who have of late grown up into influence and importance in the nation. Meetings were called in the northeast and northwest districts, in which Mushulatubbe and Robert Cole were the presiding medal chiefs, who were known to have been always friendly to the United States; and, if they had been continued.in office, they would probably have agreed to a cession of lands to meet the views of our Government. It was therefore resolved to remove them from office, and put David Folsom and Greenwood Leflore in their places—two mixed-blood young men, who were known to be unfriendly to a cession, and who, it is said, and believed, pledged themselves to oppose the treaty before they were appointed to office. On inquiry, it appears that the course of procedure was unprecedented, and, it would seem, was adopted for the special purpose before mentioned. Indeed, it appears that they have no fixed government; it has lately passed out of the hands of the old acknowledged chiefs, and is now placed in the hands of young men, without years and experience to justify the measure. The three great ruling chiefs at present are young men; and a majority of the. thirteen young men, who were selected and sent forward by the nation in council to transact the business with the commissioners, were young men who could not have experience or weight of character to justify it. The government seems to be in the hands principally of half-breeds and white men, who dictate to some of them, without regard to the interest of the poor Indians. It is also stated, and believed, that at one of the meetings of the Choctaws some of the most intelligent and best informed Chickasaws were invited and attended their council; at which time it is believed that cross-resolutions were enterefl into by both nations, each pledging to the other a fixed determination not to cede any part qf their country. From the best information that we can collect, and by the best informed men here, no doubt can exist but that the nation is fast declining in wealth and comforts generally, excepting a few half-breeds, who have been enlightened by education and otherwise, and who have settled on the road that leads through the nation, are gathering a harvest on that road, and who reap the greater part of the profits arising from the road and the annuities. It is, therefore, their interest to continue things as they now are. We have the honor to be, with great respect, sir, vour obedient servants, '	WILLIAM CLARK, THOMAS HINDS,'The Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War.	JOHN COFFEE. Ajournai of the proceedings of the United States commissioners appointed to negotiate, with the Choctaw nation for a cession of the whole or a part of their country east of the Mississippi river. The commissioners, having concluded their negotiations with the Chickasaw nation, proceeded on to the Choctaw nation. They arrived at Wilson’s, near to the treaty ground, on the 5th and 6th of November, 1826. Generals Hinds aod Coffee, and the secretary, William S. Fulton, travelled on horseback; and Governor William Clark travelled in his.carriage. The nation was not ready to commence the negotiation until the 10th day of November, 1826.	. FRIDAY MORNING, November 10, 1826. This day, at 12 o’clock, the Choctaw nation met in council. The United States commissioners, being notified that the council was ready to receive them, went into council. Upon their arrival, the medal chief, Tapeau Homa, who is the successor to General Pushamataha, addressed the commissioners. He stated to them that the Choctaw nation received the commissioners of their father the President as brothers; that he was glad to see them, and take them by the hand. It was then stated, that, as the commissioners wished all the communications which pass between them and the representatives of the nation to be in writing, the nation had selected thirteen individuals (who were pointed out to the commissioners) to act on the part of the Choctaw .nation, and to carry on the correspondence with the commissioners. This was agreed to, provided all the communications of this committee be made agreeably to the fairly ascertained instructions of the people. Governor Clark then addressed the council. He stated the objects of the mission, and informed the Choctaws that his brother commissioners and himself had prepared a short address preparatory to the proposed talk of their father the President, which would be the only talk that would be delivered to the council this day. General Coffee then read the following talk, which was interpreted to the nation in council by Major John Pitchlynn, the interpreter appointed by the commissioners for this service. FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	TREATY GROUND, CHOCTAW NATION, November 10, 1826. We, the commissioners of the United States, have met you here, by order of our great father the President. We come to make you proposals, on the most liberal terms, for the cession of your lands; such terms as your father the President believes to be calculated to promote your best interests, both now and hereafter. But since we came into the nation, we have been told that resolutions have been entered into, either in council or by sundry individuals, that if any man in this nation would propose the sale of any land to the commissioners of the United States at this time, such person should suffer death. Now, if such threats have been made, to prevent individuals from speaking freely, as well in your private as your public councils, it may become the duty of the commissioners to adopt and pursue a different course from the one they now propose to follow; for, under these threats, there certainly is not a man among you who would risk his IQe for the privilege of speaking his mind candidly. The commissioners of the United States are in hopes that this report is not true. They have been taught to believe that the Choctaw nation had become more civilized than to suffer such an outrage to be committed upon their national character, now considered to be much enlightened. At this day, such a course of conduct wou)>1 be despotic, cruel, and savage. It would carry you back to the state of barbarity you were in fifty years agq'ytnd would prove to the world that all was lost which had been done towards civilizing your people and preparing m for social life. It would prove that all the labors and sacrifices of your missionaries have been in vain, ana(fedt further exertions need not be made for your benefit. Your brothers the commissioners take this early opportunity to call on you for a denial of the fact, if this report is untrue, which they sincerely hope will prove to be the case; but if this report is true, they likewise hope that yon will frankly state to them that it is a fact that you have entered into such a resolution as we have mentioned. In order to give you the necessary time to inquire if such threats have been made, and, if so, to enable you to apply the corrective, by giving such assurances to your people as are necessary to remove all doubts and fears from their minds, the commissioners will decline saying any thing to you to-day of the terms they intend offering you, in compliance with their instructions from the President of the United States. They will present them to you tomorrow, if you are then ready to receive them. In the mean time, we will expect your answer to this talk. WILLIAM CLARK, THOMAS HINDS, * JOHN COFFEE. To the Mingoes, Chiefs, Captains, and Warriors of the Choctaw nation. After some explanatory remarks, in answer to an interrogatory on the part of the nation, the council adjourned. SATURDAY, November 11, 1826. This evening the commissioners, at four o’clock, attended the council; when the following talk was read, on the part of the nation, by James L. McDonald, and interpreted by Mackey, United States interpreter: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	TREATY GROUND, CHOCTAW NATION, November 11, 1826. The communication which was yesterday delivered to the Choctaws assembled in council has received their attentive consideration. In reply to that part in which you state that, since your arrival in the nation, you have heard that it had been determined, in some of our public or private councils, that if any one should pretend to sell land to the commissioners of the United States he should suffer death, we have only to say that you have been grossly misinformed. It is true that several councils have been held among us since the last spring, for the purpose of adopting certain laws and regulations for the benefit of our country, in which the intended treaty has occasionally become the subject of discussion; but in no one of them has the resolution or law referred to been adopted. The privilege of speaking freely and candidly eur sentiments on any subject is highly prized by us, and we have been far indeed from wishing to restrict it. The contrary has been the fact. At every council which has been held, the liberty of speech has not only not been denied, but every captain and counsellor, and, indeed, individuals of every degree, have been invited and urged to deliver their opinions freely and boldly. On so important a question as a treaty, by which there was a possibility that their country might be ceded away, either in whole or in part, the important; and our brothers the commissioners may rest assured that our chiefs to deprive any man of its free exercise. We regret that such reports should brothers the commissioners should have so readily given credence to them; for they are not only untrue, but would detract from the national character which you have ascribed to us. In one instance, at a council held in the northwest district of the nation, a resolution, it isstrue, was entered into, that if any man should so far forget his duty as to accept money as a bribe to sell his country, he should suffer a severe penalty. But this measure, whether necessary or not, was not unjustifiable; nor was it intended to check any man in the free and unbiassed expression of his sentiments. The circumstances of the times, perhaps, called for it; and we are persuaded that you cannot consider such a law unjust or impolitic among any people, either savage or civilized. Having thus given you the assurance that some, at least, of our proceedings in council have been misrepresented, we do not consider it necessary to trace out and disprove any threats which may have been made by private individuals. They have not been made by any of the chiefs or leading men. We, as a council, are answerable for such acts or resolutions only as we ourselves have passed, and not for the acts or threats of individuals. Of the justice of this remark, ourjbrothers the commissioners cannot but be fully sensible. Having made this explanation, we have only to add, that we are pleased once more to take you by the hand, and that we are now prepared to give our respectful attention to the talk which you have in charge to deliver front our father the President of the United States. Nettuckachee, his X mark. E-a-ho-ka-tubbee, his X mark. John Garland, his X mark. Jesse Brashears, his X mark. Joel H. Nail, Israel Folsom, Selectmen, acting as commissioners on the part of the Choctaw Council. To Generals WILLIAM CLARK, THOMAS HINDS, and JOHN COFFEE, Commissioners of the United States. After this communication had been interpreted, General Coffee rose, and said that the commissioners were highly pleased to learn that the report which they had heard was untrue; that it was not the belief of the commissioners that such barbarous laws had been adopted in their councils, but that they had originated with bad, evil-disposed persons. But, as the object which the commissioners had in view (which was to have a public disavowal of such a law being in existence) had been now fully accomplished by what had been said, this subject would not be further considered; and the commissioners would now proceed to give their talk, as they had proposed. FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	TREATY GROUND, CHOCTAW NATION, November 11, 1826. As we informed you yesterday, we will now deliver to you the talk of our great father the President of the United States. We shall explain his views and reasons for wishing to remove his red children to the west of the Mississippi, and also the terms upon which he is willing to purchase the land you now live on. From long experience, the Choctaws know that their father the President has been to them a kind and indulgent parent. They have seen and felt that his fatherly kindness has been extended alike to his red children and his white children, and that he is equally desirous to promote the interest and happiness of both. After many years spent in reflection, he has determined upon a plan that will best promote the true interest and real happiness of the Choctaws, and all the other tribes of red people who are under the protection of the strong arm of our Government. As his plan has been the result of many years of observation, your father the President expects you to receive his talk, which he sends you by your brothers the commissioners, as coming from your father and best friend; from one who has always been desirous of seeing his red children flourish and prosper, even to the end of time. He expects that you will, like dutiful children, receive his talk, and take all his proposals into serious consideration. After they have been interpreted to you by your beloved interpreter, Major Pitchlynn, who has so truly and faithfully served you through a long life, you will take this written talk with you to your camps, and there have it read over and explained to all your people. He expects that you will have it explained in full council, and to small parties, until every chief, captain, and warrior shall fully understand all the talk which is given to you by your kind father the President. After it is all explained and understood, then, like brothers who love one another, let each one give his opinion of his father the President’s talk. Let no one be prevented from speaking his mind freely. Invite all to give their candid opinions, without the fear of any one incurring the displeasure of his red brothers; and let the true and unbiassed voice of the nation be obtained. When the real will of your people has been properly known, then put it into writing, and give it to your brothers the commissioners, who are ready to receive the talks of their red brothers, and to answer them in a spirit of friendship. The United States have a large unsettled and unappropriated country on the west side of the great river Mississippi, into which they do not intend that their white settlements shall extend. This is the country in which our father the President intends to settle all his red children. When he gets them there, he proposes to introduce among them such wholesome rules and regulations for their government as will be best suited to their various conditions, and such as may be approved by each nation separately. He calculates that then, under one general superintendence, and an agent to each tribe, he will be enabled to carry on the work of civilization, promote education and agriculture, introduce among them all the mechanic arts which their necessities may require, and do all things for the general good of all the Indian tribes. In this way only can the future growth and prosperity of our red brothers be easily promoted by our Government. The operation of this great plan has already commenced. Many of the Indian tribes were originally settled in that country. Many of the tribes who lived north of the Ohio river, and east of the Mississippi, are now preparing to remove to the west, and are making frequent applications to their father the President for lands, and for assistance to remove to this new and promising country. The Cherokees and Muscogees have procured lands, and are removing over the river; and, what is still more interesting, the Choctaws have already procured to themselves and their posterity more than five times as much land in that fine country as they are now living on in this. Already have a large portion of your nation removed, and no doubts are entertained that, in'a few years, the principal part of them will remove. Your people will go over the river slowly for a few years, and more rapidly afterwards, until all are removed, excepting a few of your old men, who may not be willing to break up and seek a new home. These may remain among the white people, and take reservations for themselves and their families. For all such, a liberal provision will be made. We shall now proceed to state the views which the General Government of the United States has at present in contemplation. It is the policy and interest of the Government to extinguish the Indian title to all the lands on this side of the Mississippi. We must have a dense and strong population throughout all the country on the east of this great river. The security of our southern frontiers requires this, and, without it, we cannot defend the country nor protect its citizens. The experience of the late war with Great Britain shows the necessity of having supplies of both men and provisions near at hand, whenever an invading foe shall again assail us. Wars have prevailed among all the nations of the earth. Our nation has suffered from two wars, and it is but natural to expect that at some future day we will again be called upon to defend our country. It is, therefore, all-im- portant that the whole of the country east of the Mississippi shall be thickly settled. When this is accomplished, the United States can, at a very short notice, call out troops and feed them for the defence of our southern coast. Your father the President believes that his Choctaw children will not oppose his reasonable views as herein expressed, more particularly as he wishes both parties to be mutually benefited. His proposals are designed for the benefit of the Choctaws and their posterity, as well as for the protection and preservation of our common country. WILLIAM CLARK, »	THOMAS HINDS, JOHN COFFEE. General Coffee observed that the foregoing was only half of the talk which the commissioners intended to offer the council, before they required of the nation a reply; that the commissioners wished part of the subject to be well understood by all the people, before the terms which the commissioners intended to offer them were submitted for consideration; that, whenever the commissioners were informed that the council was prepared to hear the remainder of the talk, the commissioners would deliver it to the council. All that the commissioners desired was, a full and candid examination of the subject now submitted to the Choctaw nation. The council then adjourned. SUNDAY MORNING, November 12, 1826. This day the council did not meet, and no public business was done by the commissioners. MONDAY MORNING, November 13, 1826. This morning the council met, and the commissioners, being notified, attended. General Clark said that the commissioners had waited some time for the purpose of giving every opportunity for as many of the nation as possible to assemble; and that, agreeably to the promise made, the remaining part of the talk of their father the President would now be read to the council. The following talk was then read by the commissioners, and interpreted to the nation by Major Pitchlynn, the interpreter: FRIÇNDS AND BROTHERS:	TREATY GROUND, CHOCTAW NATION, November 13, 1826. We. the commissioners of the United States, delivered you, on Saturday last, a part of the talk of your father the President. As we then promised, we will now proceed to lay before you the terms upon which he proposes to purchase your lands on this side of the Mississippi. 1. In the first place, it is proposed that reservations, to the amount of three hundred thousand acres gf land, shall be granted, with good title, to such of the nation as may wish to remain here, and become citizens sing ,"t to the laws of the United States; to be divided ont and allotted to individuals, as the Choctaw nation may ,ana/ffon among themselves. 2. In addition to the supplies provided by the treaty made at Doake’s Stand, consisting of one blanket, one kettle, one rifle gun, one pair of bullet moulds and wipers, and ammunition for hunting and defence, for one year, to each warrior, and also corn fur himself and family for the same time, the commissioners will make further provision for the women who shall remove, by giving to each one blanket, one -hoe, one- axe, and one cow and calf; and to such as have families, one wheel, and one pair of cards, in addition, and a supply of provisions for the whole number of women for one year. 3. Provision is proposed also to be made for the transportation of every man, woman, and child, who shall remove, and for all losses sustained by the removal of stock. It is also proposed to pay the full value of all good improvements which are left by those who remove over the river. 4. And, in addition to the foregoing, they propose to give to the Choctaw nation, as a compensation for their lands on the east side of the Mississippi, the sum of one million of dollars, to he paid in such manner as shall hereafter be agreed upon between the United States commissioners and the Choctaw nation. 5. The foregoing sum of one million of dollars the commissioners propose shall be appropriated in the following manner, provided it shall meet with the approbation of the Choctaw nation, viz: That a suitable sum shall be set apart, and paid by annuity or otherwise, for the education of the Choctaw nation; that a sufficient sum shall be set aside to provide the nation with a suitable number of blacksmiths, wheelwrights, and plough-makers, for twenty years; that the remaining part of the before-mentioned sum of one million of dollars shall be paid to the nation, in equal annuities, for twenty years. 6. It is further proposed that two years shall be allowed for the purpose of enabling the nation to remove with ease to themselves; and that they shall not be molested in their possessions in this country until after that time. WILLIAM CLARK, THOMAS HINDS, JOHN COFFEE. General Clark then addressed the nation as follows: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS OF THE CHOCTAW NATION: I wish to speak a few words as a friend to the red people. I have spent half the period of an accustomed life among them. I am a stranger among you, but I will speak freely what I think. Thirty-six years ago, I passed through your country, and then saw your distressed condition. Now I see part of your nation much improved in prosperity and civilization. This improvement affords me much happiness. But I fear I only see those whom good fortune has made prosperous and wealthy, who, I am informed, constitute a very small proportion of your nation. I have been informed that a very large majority of the Choctaw nation are in a very destitute and miserable situation, and are now seeking food and clothing among the swamps, and by picking cotton on the lands of the white planters. If this be the fact, cannot provision be made to better the sitnation of those of your nation whose poverty and wretchedness render them unable to attend this council? I hope, my friends and brothers, that, in your deliberations upon the propositions now before you, you will take into consideration not only the interest and claims of those present, but at least equally much the interest and claims of the great body of the Choctaw nation who are absent. Should the Choctaw nation conclude to cede their lands, agreeably to ihe. proposition before them, and the more wealthy and civilized prefer to remain on reservations, let me recommend that the poorer and less enlightened move without delay, in a body, to their lands west of the Mississippi and Arkansas Territory. There, they will be within my superintendency, and under the protecting wing of one who will see that justice is extended to them, and will take pleasure in advancing their interest in every respect. In my declining years, it would be a great consolation to me to see them prosper in agriculture, and advance in rapid progression in that state of civil government best calculated for their permanent happiness as a nation. Recollect that no body of people can exist long as a nation, without such regulations and governments as are suited to their situation, and calculated to protect their lives and property; and that such a system of government cannot exist in the centre of a larger Government surrounding them on every side. My friends and brothers: I have noticed in the course of my life the decline, more or less, of all the nations of the red skins. Some of them, who were numerous and powerful when I was a boy, became quite or nearly extinct in consequence of remaining in a country surrounded by white settlements. The remnant of two of those tribes I took under my care twelve years ago; since which time, they have nearly doubled. I will observe that I have no personal interest in the sale of your lands, as I live a great way from your country, and never expect that myself or any of my children will ever reside in this country. As the mutual friend of both parties, I earnestly advise you not to hesitate accepting the proposals now before you, as best for yourselves and your posterity. The more indigent of the Choctaw nation can promise themselves nothing by remaining in this country, but much by a removal. Here, it is evident, they cannot advance, but, with the usual progress of decline of the red skins thus situated, must at last be lost as a nation. Governor Clark further remarked, that, although he had come amongst the Choctaws a stranger, he was happy in becoming acquainted with them; that he had come among them for the purpose of giving them satisfactory information in relation to the country belonging to the nation on the west side of the Mississippi, and what would be their situation there, in case of their removal. It was with the most pleasing expectations that he had come amongst them, as he entertained strong hopes that they would consent to remove to the west of the Mississippi, hoping to have it in his power to act for them as a father and friend. He said that, as the best proof he could offer them that they would be protected, peaceful, and happy, and possessed of every thing calculated to improve their condition, he would inform them that all the tribes now under his care were at peace, excepting some wild tribes that were out of reach; that the greatest harmony prevailed among them; and that their situation was gradually improving. TUESDAY EVENING, November 14, 1826. This evening the council met, and the commissioners, being notified, attended; when Governor Clark remarked that the commissioners were now ready to hear the reply of the Choctaw nation to the talks of their father the President. Mr. McDonald then read to the council the' following reply: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	TREATY GROUND, CHOCTAW NATION, November 14, 1826. Your talks of the 11th and 13th instant, giving the views of our father the President of the United States, and stating the terms upon which it is proposed that we shall cede away all our lands east of the Mississippi, have been fully interpreted and explained to the chiefs, captains, and warriors here assembled, and it now becomes our duty to give their decision; which is, that they cannot accede to your propositions. Regarding the welfare of their wives and children, and that of those of the Choctaw nation who are absent from this council, they have determined not to part with their country. This determination is made with great unanimity on the part of those here present, and we are satisfied that we speak the sentiments of nine-tenths of the nation. It would be needless to enter into the various reasons which have determined us to decline the acceptance of your proposals. It is sufficient that this is the land of our birth, and that when once sold it could never be recovered. It is a sure asylum for our infirm and aged countrymen, where, surrounded by their offspring, and among the plains, and the hills, and the streams of their youth, they might pass the remnant of their days in peace; and where, if undisturbed, we may all remain as prosperous and happy as in any other country. Here our forefathers have lived; here we wish to live; and when we die, let our bones be laid by the side of those of our kindred. Why should we sell? Why seek new homes, when we are living here in peace, and, to such as are reasonably industrious, in plenty? But it is urged that the game is gone, and that those who live by hunting alone are suffering. For all such, a country is provided. Sixteen years ago we sold a large scope of our country here, for lands west of the Mississippi. Let those who wish to live by hunting go there. Ample provision is made for all such, in the treaty of Doake’s Stand, and all are free to go who wish it; but those of us who cultivate the earth will remain here. It is with real pain that we have heard this proposition urged upon us. Our situation, we fear, has not been properly represented to our father the President; but we rely upon his kindness and justice, and we are satisfied that, when our situation and wishes are fully known, he will press the subject no further. We do not wish to make a long talk; our people are impatient to return to their homes. Our words are therefore few. To please our father the President, we could do many things—have done many things, and at much sacrifice to our feelings; but we cannot consent to part with our country. In communicating this our determination to the President of the United States, you will do but justice in assuring him that we entertain for him the highest respect and veneration, and that we shall ever continue to rely upon his paternal protection. We are, respectfully, your friends and brothers, General Humming Bird, Nettuck-a-chee, Ah-che-la-tah, E-a-ho-ka-tubbee, Red Dog, John Garland, Lewis Perry, Selectmen, acting as commissioners on the part of the Choctaw nation. To Generals WILLIAM CLARK, THOMAS HINDS, and JOHN COFFEE, Commissioners of the United States. General Coffee then remarked, that, from the anxiety indicated in the answer of the Choctaw nation to the talks of the commissioners to return home, he felt it his duty to apprize the nation that the commissioners had another talk to make to the nation; that the President had instructed the commissioners to make other proposals, in case of a refusal on the part of the nation to cede their lands on this side of the Mississippi; the commissioners, therefore, required of the council to detain all of the nation who are now present until after the next talk was made. If the people should now go home, the commissioners would be compelled to inform the President that his 99 E Choctaw children would not listen to his talks; that but few of them had attended the treaty; and that those who did attend had gone home without giving the commissioners an opportunity to be heard. He hoped that all would remain.	. Genera] Hinds remarked, that he was much disappointed to find so few of the Choctaw nation assembled on this important occasion; that complaints as to inconveniences under which those who were here labored, came very improperly from men when the dearest interests of themselves and their posterity were involved in the business upon which they had been called together, and upon which so few of the nation were now assembled. Suspicions have fallen upon the conduct of some men, and a belief prevails that your chiefs have exerted an improper influence, as much time has been allowed and much pains taken to collect the Choctaw nation together at this time. The commissioners of the United States have been sent here more for the benefit of the. nation than to serve their own Government, and it was these who had a right to complain if any one had. They were far from their homes, and had submitted to many inconveniences in order that the voice of the President might be heard by the Choctaws. He has a right to be heard by his Choctaw children, and he will be heard; and it is foolish for a few leading men, self-created chiefs, to attempt to erect themselves into a barrier between the Government and the Choctawnation. After so much pains had been taken by the Government to apprize the nation of the importance of this business, how could they call themselves a large nation when there were so few of them now assembled to listen to the proposals that were made? Is not this treatment disrespectful and unjust? It will not be borne with by the President. If the nation is large, and cannot be assembled here, their people must be on the other side of the river; and the commissioners would place your headmen in an unpleasant situation, if they should go over the river and there treat with the Choctaw nation. The President was determined to be heard; and if the nation would not assemble here to receive his talks, he would send somewhere else and obtain a hearing. He said he knew they would not believe him, and that he did not care whether they did or not. The terms which the President has offered you have astonished you. He has never before made such offers to any Indian nation. But it seemed that no terms that could now be offered would be received by the Choctaws. The new-made chiefs stand committed. They have blindly promised that they would not sell their lands. The have bound themselves, hand, foot, body, and mind, and dare not act. They are in an awkward situation; they hold their power by a precarious tenure. No set of men are fit to govern a people, who will voluntarily bind themselves to do nothing, thereby precluding themselves from acting for the benefit of their people. They believed that it was Mississippi alone that wanted their lands. This is not the fact. It is true the State of Mississippi, of which he was a citizen, suffered very much on account of having so much of her territory still covered by the Indian title. She wanted the land, but the United States wanted it more. The United States was much more deeply interested. Her future safety required that this large country should be populated. The United States was a great nation, and the Choctaws had experienced nothing but justice and liberality from the Government. She had fostered and protected this people. She had educated several of her children; and the very men fur whom she had done the most are now doing every thing in their power to defeat the views and plans of the Government. The Choctaws deceived themselves, if they supposed this state of things could exist much longer. The Government would not suffer a few men, who are too blind, or bigoted, or self-interested to attend to their nation’s interest, to blast the hopes and prospects of all the Choctaws and of their posterity forever. He said he regarded the Choctaws as brothers, but he felt it his duty, as a commissioner of the United States, to say what he thought upon this occasion; and, however disagreeable what he had said might be to some men, he had done his duty, and told them the truth. He said he had now given his sentiments to the nation, and had nothing further to add. WEDNESDAY, November 15, 1826. This morning the council met, and the commissioners, being notified, attended accordingly; when the following talk was delivered by the commissioners, and interpreted to the nation by Mr. Mackey, United States interpreter: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	TREATY GROUND, CHOCTAW NATION, November 15, 1826. We have received your answer to the proposals of the President to purchase your lands here, and to remove you west of the Mississippi, and we are greatly disappointed to learn that you are not disposed to meet the views and wishes of the President, which are so liberal to your nation. You say that to please your father the President you have done many things, and would do many things; but you say, in substance, that you are determined to do nothing; that it was needless to give the various reasons that determined you to decline his proposals; and, finally, you assure the President that you entertain for him the highest respect and veneration, and that you continue to rely on his parental protection. There appears to be a strange inconsistency between your words and your actions. We fear that you presume too much upon the goodness of our Government, by supposing that it will indulge you in refusing to receive the terms that have been offered you, and which have been so liberal as to convince you of the desire of the United States to do your nation full justice. Your counsellors may tell you that you have nothing to fear by your opposing the wishes of our Government; they may tell you that our Government is magnanimous, and will never force you to do,any thing that you may obstinately oppose; that they will let you go on in your own way, and will still support you and your nation, and supply you with all your wants, and educate your children, without you, on your part, doing any thing in return. But you may be assured that you are badly advised when you are told of all these things. It is true that the United States is your friend; that she has a desire to promote your interest and see your nation prosper; but, in her kindness to you, she will not abuse the interest of the white people, by making them pay a tax to support you. This would be unnatural, and will not be done. Any man who will examine the subject will plainly see that the United States cannot, nor will not, indulge you in the course you are pursuing. You' must submit to the wishes of our Government, or it will make such laws for you as to it may seem best suited to your condition, and compel you to abide by them. You may be told that we (the commissioners) will try to scare’ you by unfair representations; but it is not true. We have no particular interest, more than all other citizens have. We are the agents of our Government, and are speaking its language. The President sent us here to tell you the truth, and we have done so. We are not trying to deceive you. We have offered you all that we arc authorized to do, and have not withheld any thing from you. But you do not seem to understand your true interest, as your father the President does. Notwithstanding your refusal to sell us the whole of your country, from a desire to remain in the land of your fathers, it is still hoped you have not set your minds against our Government altogether, by a determination that you will not serve or oblige it in any manner whatsoever. It is therefore proposed that you cede to the United States a sma Parl o jour 50ll.ntry uPon the Tombigbee river, and adjoining Monroe county, of a size sufficient to enable the <tate ot Mississippi to form a judicial district. This is all-important to that State. The peculiar situation of the people in Monroe county requires it. They are. so far removed from the other settlements of that State, by the extensive country you hold between them, that they never can have the benefit of the laws until there are counties enough settled adjoining them to form a judicial district, and have a resident judge settled with them. It is therefore proposed that yon cede to the United States a tract of land, to join the Tombigbee river, such as you can spare with great convenience to yourselves, and still have a sufficiency of land to answer all your purposes. There can be no doubt but you would promote civilization and facilitate the education of your children by having your settlements more dense and compact. You could every where in your nation, then, have schools for your children to go to, and return home and sleep every night. If that were the case, all your people would send their children to school and educate them. They could hear from the children every day how they were treated and how they learned; and, in addition to this, when the settlements are more compact, your people can have the benefit of all the mechanics that are sent among you. They will be near to the blacksmiths, the wheelwrights, the ploughmakers, and many other trades that would be useful to you. If you will agree to cede to the United States such a tract as is proposed, any one who may now be settled there shall have reservations to cover his improvements and a good title to the land. And we will pay the nation a liberal price in money, to be paid in such way as the commissioners and the nation may agree upon. When you shall signify to us your willingness to accommodate your father the President in this small cession, your brothers the commissioners will then offer you terms of both price and payment for the lands. The liberal price we have offered you for the whole of your country induces us to believe that you are convinced that we (the commissioners) are determined to act liberally towards you; and therefore we expect a frank and candid answer from you as soon as the voice of vour nation is known. WILLIAM CLARK, THOMAS HINDS, JOHN COFFEE. General Coffee observed, that, although the nation had refused to cede to the United States the whole of their lands, that determination ought not to influence them in making up their minds upon the proposals which are now- made. The proposition now made was entirely different from that upon which the nation bad already acted. He hoped that, as it was so reasonable, and as the commissioners were disposed to compensate them so fully, the nation W’ould not hesitate in agreeing to make the cession required. The commissioners were willing, at this time, to recognise the justness of their refusal to part with all their lands here, as it was the country of their birth and the land of their fathers; and, as the present proposal was calculated to benefit them in their continuance here, he hoped that no objections would be made to the cessions required. Governor Clark remarked, that the commissioners had now done their duty, and had shown the liberality of the Government towards the Choctaws. He then called upon their principal chief, and presented him with an Indian pipe, made by one of the northern tribes. He told the chief that he gave it to hi<m in token of friendship, and requested him to smoke it with his people, and desire them to open their ears and lay to their hearts the good talks which be and his brother commissioners had made them. He said that he hoped that the Choctaws would long remember the advice and counsel which had been given them during the present negotiation; that it was customary amongst the red skins under his charge to send pipes upon important occasions and messages, and that those to whom they were sent were thereby requested to consider well, while they smoked the pipe, the message which was sent. He therefore requested the chief to smoke this pipe, and consider well the talk which he had made to the council on the 13th of this month. And the council adjourned. THURSDAY MORNING, November 16, 1826. This morning, owing to the. inclemency of the weather, the council of the Choctaw nation met at the cabins of the commissioners. The following talk, in answer to the last talk of the commissioners, was read to the council io presence of the commissioners: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	TREATY GROUND, CHOCTAW NATION, November 16, 1826. When the chiefs and leading men of the Choctaw nation were notified that commissioners of the United States had been appointed to meet in council, they determined, as a mark of respect to the President, to attend and listen to the talk which he had sent them. It is to be regretted that, comparatively, but so few of our warriors have attended with us; but it is sufficient for the business which brought us here that all the chiefs, and almost all the leading men, are present. Our council speaks the voice of the nation. The day before yesterday we gave an answer to the propositions contained in your talk of the 13th instant. We refused, but in respectful terms, to sell our country. You have now varied your proposition, and requested us to cede to the United States a portion of our lands bordering on the Tombigbee river, and adjoining the county of Monroe. The views of our father the President on this point, as expressed by you, have been fully explained to the council; and we are authorized to say that to this proposition, also, we are compelled to give their decided negative. A strong and sufficient reason may be briefly given. As it is the wish of the great body of our people to remain on their lands east of the Mississippi, and have the arts of civilized life introduced among them here, it is important that the limits of our country should be distinctly marked and defined. The Mississippi bounds us on the west; our brothers, the Chickasaws, bound us on the north; and the Tombigbee river presents an admirable natural boundary on the east. Ten years ago, at a treaty held at the Choctaw trading-house, the advantage of having so distinguished a boundary between us and the white people was strongly urged by the commissioners of the United States. It was stated, in substance, that, by having a broad and deep river for our boundary, we should be less liable to intrusion from the whites, and our people would remain in greater security. The argument was strong; the advice, seemed good; and we ceded away all our lands east of the Tombigbee. The argument which seemed strong and good then, is equally so now; and we should indeed be justly chargeable with inconsistency, if we consented to alter a boundary so distinctly marked by nature. Our resolution has been taken from a firm conviction of its propriety and necessity, and not from mere motives of obstinacy. The reason which we have assigned will speak for itself. We feel perfectly friendly to our white brothers of Monroe county; we are sorry that they should experience any inconveniences from the circumstance of their situation; but, by remaining as they are, they would suffer far less inconvenience than we should, were we to sell that portion of our country which you require. We were once the proprietors of an extensive tract of country. By the treaty of Poosha-e-puek-na, in 1805, a large portion of it to the south was ceded to the United States; again, in 1816, all our lands east of the Tombigbee were ceded in like manner; again, in 1820, by the treaty of Doake’s Stand, anotherlarge scope of country was ceded to the United States, for the benefit of Mississippi. By this treaty, lands were given us west of the Mississippi; and here again we were assailed with propositions to purchase back a portion of the country just ceded to us. We listened to our father the President. We sent a delegation of headmen to the city of Washington, who ceded back several millions of acres for the benefit of Arkansas. Again, last winter, another proposition was sent to the nation. requesting that we should cede back a further portion of our lands west of the Mississippi; and, finally, we are now urged to sell all or a portion of our country here. Where shall we stop? Where shall we find a resting-place? We ought to be permitted at least to breathe awhile and to look around us. . We repeat, that we entertain the highest respect for our father the President. We have proved it by meeting you here, and listening patiently to his talks. And, although his propositions have given us much pain, because we felt we could not comply with them, our confidence in his justice and wisdom is not diminished. We know full well that the United States are a great and powerful people; but we are persuaded, also, that thev are just and magnanimous. Your Government sustains a high character among the nations of the earth, and we cannot believe that her course towards the unhappy aborigines of this country will be such as to leave a blot on her history to detract from the admiration of future times. We are, respectfully, your friends and brothers, Selectmen, acting as commissioners on the part of the Choctaw Council. To Generals WILLIAM CLARK, THOMAS HINDS, and JOHN COFFEE, Commissioners of the United States. General Coffee then remarked, that some of the statements contained in the answer of the nation were incorrect. He was one of the commissioners who concluded the treaty made at the Choctaw trading-house, and that the intention of the Government in holding that treaty was merely to quiet the Choctaw claitq to a tract of country, the title to which the Government had already acquired from the Creeks. That the Government only intended to prevent a difficulty from taking place. As a proof that the Government considered the country then treated for as belonging to it, no reservations were permitted to be made, and the commissioners did not grant a single reserve. The fact that the Tombigbee may have been spoken of as a good natural boundary, is not denied; but as to its v being urged as a reason for the cession, it is not the fact. He would only say, in conclusion, that his individual opinion was, that the President would never again attempt to hold another treaty with this nation. The commissioners, at the request of Major Mitchell and Captain Barney, presented their claims against the Choctaw nation. Governor Clark having previously demanded of the Choctaws satisfaction for several murders committed by Choctaws upon the Delaware nation, Colonel Daniel Folsom at this time addressed Governor Clark. He told him that, by mistake, some of his warriors had killed some of the Delawares, who were their grandfathers. That he regretted it, and the nation regretted it. That there had been war for a long time between his nation and the Osages; and that the warriors had killed the Delawares for Osages. After they had found their mistake, they threw away their scalps, and returned home without any honors. That, as Governor Clark was the father of all the northern tribes, he wished to send by him to the Delawares a token of regret and friendship; and hoped that he would settle the cause of quarrel between the two nations. He desired Governor Clark to take charge of a roll of tobacco and a strand of beads, and give them to the chief of the Delawares, and trusted that the Delawares would receive them; and that all the paths between them wnuld be made white, and that they may be sufficient to restore peace and friendship. The truth, he said, required but few words, and he had spoken the truth. Governor Clark replied, that he received the token sent by the Choctaws to the Delawares with pleasure; and he was happy to learn that the deed complained of had been committed by mistake. It was likely tn have caused the most distressing consequences; and, but for his interference, much difficulty would have occurred. He had hoped that it was a mistake, and had, therefore, prevented the Delawares from avenging the murders. The Delawares, he said, are my children, and the death of their people gave me much pain and dissatisfaction; but he had hoped that the murders could be explained when he came among the Choctaws, and had therefore restrained his children the Delawares. The Delawa'res will do whatever I tell them. I will give the nation this token of peace, friendship, and reconciliation; and can now assure the Choctaws that it will be received by them in full satisfaction for the injury they have sustained. He further observed, that, as war had for so many years raged between the Osages and 'the Choctaws, he would now require of the Choctaws to send to the Osages the pipe of peace. This was absolutely necessary, on account of the unfortunate occurrence just alluded to. When he first got charge of the Osages, they were a desperate and abandoned tribe. They were now much civilized. The Choctaws are enlightened, and must offer them peace. It would be an act of magnanimity on their part, and it would afford him the highest satisfaction to be instrumental in bringing about a peace. He loved all the red skins, and wished universal peace to be established amongst them. Part of the Choctaw nation were now under his protecting wing; but he felt as anxious for the prosperity of those here, as for that of those over whom he was a father and protector. The business of our mission, he remarked, is now concluded. You have said no to every thing we have offered you. It now nnly remains for us, as commissioners, to inform your father the President of the result. To him belongs the right to take such further steps as the welfare of the nation requires. He regretted that the Choctaws difiered so widely in their views from their intelligent white brothers. They surely did not recollect the situation of their nation at the close of the revolution. The British nation considered the Indian tribes as mere tenants at will. They grant away the lands they live on, without asking it of the natives. All this country was granted to Georgia. The Spanish nation do not consider the Indians as having-any title to lands. By the revolution we claim, by right of conquest, all the rights which the British nation bad to this country. We have the right. But our people are magnanimous, as you have said; but when our national safety requires it, all other considerations must yield to the force of necessity. This is one of the weakest points, and the preservation of our country does require that this country must be populated. It will be impossible to permit this valuable point to remain much longer undefended, and unprovided with the necessary means of giving protection to the South. He yet hoped that he would have it in his power to promote the welfare of the whole Choctaw nation. He further observed, that he would like to be the bearer of the pipe of peace from the Choctaws to the Osages; or, if this nation would send a delegation with him, he promised to do every thing in his power to aid them in their mission. Genera] Coffee remarked, that he hoped the Choctaws would take the advice of Governor Clark. He advised them as a friend to send a peace talk to the Osages. Governor Clark had spent a long life in doing good among the red people. He was like a father to them. It was in his power to do whatever was best to promote their interest. He loved all the red skins, and had now offered a very valuable service to the Choctaws. He could conclude a permanent peace between the two nations, and he hoped that the Choctaws would send by him to the Osages the pipe of peace. The council having finished all the business, it was broken up; and the United States commissioners and the leading members of the council shook hands with one another in token of friendship. [NOTE.—The commissioners feel constrained to remark, that there were several respectable and intelligent half-breeds, who attended the treaty, who were in favor of accepting the proposals made to the nation for a cession of the Choctaw lands east of the Mississippi. Mr. Jesse Brashears, whu was appointed one of the selectmen who acted as commissioners on the part of the nation, withdrew himself from their committee, on account of the violent hostility which was manifested towards him for having expressed himself friendly to a cession. Mr. John Pitchlynn, Mr. Alexander McKay, and several other well informed half-breeds, used every prudent means to persuade their nation that it was to their interest to accept the proposals made to them by the commissioners. And many others, no doubt, approved highly of the terms, but were deterred from expressing their sentiments by the overbearing conduct of the majority. At a private council of the nation, held in the night, to ascertain the voice of the people upon the proposals which had been made to them, there were present a number of white men, among whom was the contractor, Mr. William Easton, when Mr. David Mackey, a half-breed, attempted to express his views in favor of a cession. Mr. James L. McDonald then rose, and observed, that Mr. Mackey would not be allowed to speak; and Mr. Mackey was accordingly silenced by the order of the council.] THURSDAY EVENING, November 16, 1826. This evening the council met, and invited General Clark to attend. The pipe of peace and the tobacco were then handed by the pipe-bearer to the five principal warriors, and by them to the chiefs and to Colonel David Folsom, who made a peace talk to Governor Clark, and presented him with the pipe and tobacco, and requested him to give them to the Osages, and make to them a peace talk for the Choctaws, their uncles. That they now buried the sharp hatchet under the ground, and wished every thing to be made white between the Osages and his people. That his nation never had made an effort to obtain peace with the Osages; but they now took the talk of their white brothers, and hoped that a permanent peace would be concluded. That they relied altogether on Governor Clark, and would trust the mission entirely to him. That when a peace shall be made, their people west of the Mississippi will be able to ramble over their hills and along their streams in safety. They wished to be at peace with all; and it was now truly a happy thing to conclude a peace with their old enemies. The pipe which was now presented was made by a native Choctaw, who would give it to Governor Clark, to make all things white between them and the Osages. Governor Clark replied, that he received the pipe with pleasure. That he knew he would be able to effect the peace now proposed. That he would take down the talk of Colonel Folsom, and give it to the agent of the Osages, and send with it a peace talk of his own; and, after the peace was made, he would send the result, in writing, to Colonel Ward and Captain McClellan, the agents of the Choctaws. That he hoped the chiefs would compel the warriors to be at peace, and bury the tomahawk. That all the northern tribes were alive and on the watch, from the late murders which the Choctaws had committed. That the Shawanees, Piankeshaws, Weas, and Peorias had said, if these Choctaws will come over and kill the Delawares, who are at peace with them, they may come and kill us also. He would now be able to put all this business at rest. The candid and prompt manner in which the Choctaws had come forward and offered peace and explanations, would enable him to bear testimony to their sincerity and truth; and be knew it would be in his power to make the hearts of all his red children glad, and spread quiet and joy among them. AU the war chiefs then shook hands with Governor Clark, and sent the peace talks to the Osages. Governor Clark took leave of the council, by repeating his wishes for the peace, happiness, and prosperity of all the red skins as well as of the Choctaws. The foregoing is a correct copy of the proceedings of the commissioners during the negotiations with the Choc- taw.nation of Indians. WILLIAM CLARK, THOMAS HINDS, • JOHN COFFEE. Attest:	WILLIAM S. FULTON, Secretary to the Commissioners. SIR:	TREATY GROUND, CHICKASAW NATION, November 2, 1826. Pursuant to the instructions contained in the appointment from the War Department, under date nf the 24th of May last, directed to General William Clark and the undersigned, as commissioners to hold treaties with the Choctaw and Chickasaw nations for a cession of their lands, a meeting of the Chickasaw nation and the undersigned, as commissioners on the part of the United States, was held at the council-house in said nation, commencing on the 16th of October, and ending this day; during which time, we endeavored to explain to the nation the policy and views of our Government for wishing to remove them west of the river Mississippi, and the many advantages that would result to their nation by such removal. They were offered lands on the west of the Mississippi, in exchange for their lands here, with great additional compensation; or that the United States would purchase a part of their country here, and pay them a liberal price for it in money, by instalments, with various other valuable considerations. But we failed in every proposition that was made them, or which we felt authorized to make under our instructions. The nation in council most positively determined that they would not sell or exchange their lands, or any part of them. They alleged that they are here on the land of their fathers, and that they love their land, and cannot leave it. They offer various reasons for holding their country here, and never to part with it; all of which are set out and fully stated in the journal of our proceedings; as well, also, as our specific proposals to the nation, a copy of which is herewith enclosed to you. In the course of the correspondence and communications with the nation, it was well ascertained that the Chickasaws had a very imperfect knowledge of the country west of the Mississippi, and which had been offered them in exchange for their lands here. It was therefore thought advisable to send out an exploring party of the Chickasaws, to view and examine the country well, and report to the nation; under a belief that, after having a full knowledge of the country, the nation would be willing to exchange and remove. As an inducement to this course, it was proposed that they should send four Chickasaws, and the Government would send with them an agent, who should accompany them the whole route, and pay all expenses of the whole party; and to pay the four Chickasaws for their time two dollars each per day, for the whole time they should be employed; and, strange as it may appear, after two days’ delibe- The special agent, Colonel John D. Terrell, seems to have been active and zealous in communicating with the chiefs and leading men of the nation, endeavoring to prepare their minds for a cession of their lands. But it seems to have had no other effect than to prepare them for an organized opposition to the views of Government, through the influence beforf observed. The absence of General Hinds from this State, and the great distance of the residence of General Clark from the scene of operations, prevented a consultation on the proper time for holding a treaty. The agent of the Chickasaw nation reported it impracticable to subsist the Indians embodied, until their crops of corn were matured for bread-stuffs, and that they would not leave them until they were gathered in and secured, lest in their absence they might be destroyed. These were the reasons that delayed the meeting until the time that was appointed. The knowing and managing ones in the nation seemed to anticipate the Government in offering reservations of land to cover the improvements of such as wished to remain on them and become subject to the laws of the United States. To prevent such from agreeing to the cession, they caused resolutions to be entered into by the nation in council, that no person should be allowed a reservation, in case a cession was made, under a severe penalty. They seemed encouraged in that course of proceeding by the late transactions between the United States Government and the Creek nation, and the murder of Genera] McIntosh, as that transaction was frequently referred to by individuals, and justified. Genera) Clark informs us that he had been detained at St. Louis, engaged in official business, until the 15th day of October, when he embarked on board a steamboat for the Chickasaw Bluffs. The boat grounded, and lay seven days, which detained him on his journey until the 31st October, and too late for him to take part in the negotiations with this nation. We have the honor to be, sir, with great respect, vour obedient servants, 'THOMAS HINDS. JOHN COFFEE. A journal of the proceedings of the commissioners appointed io hold treaties, on the part of the United States, with the Chickasaw and Choctaw nations of Indians, at Al dish's, in the Chickasaw nation, six miles eastwardly of the Old Agency; this being the place appointed by the Chickasaw Agent to hold the Chickasaw treaty. SUNDAY EVENING, October 15, 1826. General Thomas Hinds and General John Coffee arrived at this place, where they met the Chickasaw agent (Major Benjamin F. Smith) and the contractor, (William Easton, Esq.,) who had arrived before them. General Hinds and General Coffee (the commissioners) appointed William S. Fulton secretary to the commissioners, who had been nominated, and came from Florence, in Alabama, for the purpose. The agent, informed the commissioners that he had very lately been advised that the chiefs of the nation had changed the place of meeting from the one they then occupied to the National Couneil-houJt, distant about twelve miles; but he (the agent) was unwilling to remove, as the chiefs had first agreed to meet atMcLish’s; and, in consequence of this agreement, this place had been appointed for the purpose, where the contractor had concentrated ali the provisions for the commissioners and rations for the Indians. MONDAY MORNING, October 16, 1826. The agent left the commissioners, and went to the council-house, to meet the chiefs, and endeavor to remove them to the place first appointed. In the evening, he sent a messenger to the commissioners, informing them that the chiefs had not arrived at the council-house. •	TUESDAY, October 17, 1826. The old Chickasaw chief (Captain Sealy) came to see the commissioners. They requested him to ride, in company with their secretary, (William S. Fulton,) to the council-house, and see the agent and the chiefs, and determine on the place for holding a treaty. When they returned, in the evening, they informed the commissioners that it had been determined that the treaty would be held at the council-house. WEDNESDAY MORNING, October 18, 1826. This morning the commissioners paid their bill at McLish’s, amounting to §45, and ordered the contractor to remove their supplies, and the rations for the Indians, to the. council-house, (distant, by the wagon road, about fifteen miles.) I’he commissioners removed themselves to Levi Kemp’s, one and a half mile from the council-house, and lay ali night.	. THURSDAY MORNING, October 19, 1826. The commissioners pay their bill at Kemp’s, amounting to §15 50, and go to the council-house, the place fixed for the negotiations with the Chickasaws; but few of the Indians had come in. The chiefs present inform the commissioners that their people will be on the ground in a few davs. FRIDAY MORNING, October 20, 1826. The Indians come slowly in. Supplies arrived, and rations issued to the Indians, with back rations. (The commissioners are engaged in making preparations for business.) SATURDAY MORNING, October 21, 1826. Most of the chiefs have arrived. A prospect of commencing business in a day or two. SUNDAY MORNING, October 22, 1826. The chiefs Tesh-a-mingo, Pi-si-at-anst-tubia, Captain McGilvery, Captain Sealy, Levi Colbert, and lhe King, all present; all the secondary chiefs also present. Pi-si-at-anst-tubia in very bad health; confined to his camp. In the evening, the chiefs informed the commissioners that in the morning the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Chickasaw nation would convene in council, and would, when convened, receive the first talk of their brothers the commissioners. MONDAY MORNING, October 23, 1826. At 11 o’clock, the nation met in council: Present, the King, Levi Colbert, Martin Colbert, J. McClish, Em- mubbia, and Ash-ta-ma-tut-ka; commissioners Teshamingo, Captain McGilvery, Captain Sealy, absent. Pisi-at- anst-tubia, the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the different districts of the nation, also present. The council then informed the commissioners that they were prepared to receive their talk. The commissioners, accompanied by their secretary, then went into the council, when they delivered the following talk, which was interpreted to the council by Malcolm McGee, the interpreter appointed by the commissioners: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: We have met you here in council, by order of our great father the President of the United States. Like a kind and good parent, he is ever mindful of the best interests and true happiness of all his children. He has the same feelings of friendship for his red children that he has for his white children, and is always desirous of promoting alike the interests and happiness of both. By his long experience and sound judgment, he knows what is best for all of us. When, therefore, he offers his advice and counsel, he expects all his children to receive them as coming from their father, their friend, and protector. He wishes all his children to prosper, increase, and be happy, until the end of time. In the same friendly spirit, he expects them to consider well, and in good faith to receive, the talk he has sent them by their brothers the commissioners. We will new proceed to state to you the talk of our great father the President; after you have taken time to reflect upon his proposals, as explained to you by his commissioners, you will give a candid and respectful answer to them. This he expects as due from affectionate and dutiful children to a kind and indulgent father. You have been apprized of the object of holding this treaty. It is the policy and interest of our Government to extinguish the Indian title to all lands on this side of the Mississippi. We must have a dense and strong population from the mouth to the head of this father of rivers. The security of our southern frontier requires this; and, until it be accomplished, the Government cannot successfully defend the country, nor protect its citizens. All the southern tribes of Indians must be prepared, sooner or later, to witness this state of things. They are in progress, and have been for many years, and it is useless for them to expect it will be otherwise. If, however, they should be opposed to this policy of our Government, and prolong the time of its consummation by throwing obstacles in the way, they must be prepared to expect the speedy adoption of the only alternative which is left to the Government to protect its citizens. If the different tribes are permitted to hold their lands on this side of the Mississippi, the laws of the United States must be extended to the Indian country, and the Indians, as well as the whites living among them, be subjected to their operation. Which of these alternatives will our red brothers, the Chickasaws, choose? Would it not be wise in them to embrace the present opportunity of placing themselves in a situation more advantageous and desirable than that which they at present occupy! Your father the President proposes to give his Chickasaw children a fine tract of country on the other side of the Mississippi river, of equal ectent, in exchange for their present lands. We know that you are attached to the country of your birth, and the lands in which the bones of your fathers are buried; but if the United States offer you one of equal or greater advantages, and are willing to pay you liberally for your improvements, would not the nation best consult its real interest by making the exchange! By removing to that country, you will be freed from the intrusions and interruptions of your white brethren. You will then be enabled to live in peace and quietness; nor will you be ever asked for any portion of the lands which will be given to you. The Government will guaranty to you and your children forever the possession of your country, and will protect and defend you against all your enemies. Your father the President will also, in addition to what has already been promised, defray all expenses of removing you to the country on the west side of the Mississippi, and furnish you with all things necessary for your comfort and convenience, should you think it your interest to accept his liberal offer. We, your brothers, know that many of the Indian tribes have often resolved to sell no more of their lands; but have you not as often noticed that these very tribes have been compelled to relinquish that determination, from the force of surrounding circumstances! They have been obliged, from the rapidly increasing numbers of their white brothers, to yield to the pressing solicitations of their father the President, who was constrained to ask them for more of their lands: in this way their limits have been greatly reduced, and their nations almost annihilated. These things are well known to the most of you; and this will, at some future period, be your own situation, unless you should avoid it by accepting the offer which is now made to yon ,by our father the President. The lands which are offered you are rich, well watered, and abound with game of all descriptions. If you think it will ever be your interest to exchange your country for lands oh the other side of the Mississippi, you ought not to let the present opportunity slip. By acceding to the wishes of the United States at this time, you will be able to make a better selection than at any future period. When once our red brethren shall all be settled together on the other side of the Mississippi, it will be more fully in the power of our Government to administer to their wants and necessities, and to protect and defend them against their enemies.	. We, the commissioners of our common parent, the President, are particularly anxious that you, his Chickasaw children, shall seriously reflect upon this subject, and give to it that attention which its importance so much merits. Until then, we shall forbear entering into particulars, resting satisfied in again assuring you that the Government of the United States is most liberally disposed towards you, and will pledge to you its-faith most rigidly to adhere to all engagements which it may make with vou. THOMAS HINDS, JOHN COFFEE. To the principal Headmen, Chiefs, and Warriors of the Chickasaw nation.	■ A copy of this talk was handed to the headmen of the nation, who requested until the next day to return their answer. The council adjourned. TUESDAY, October 24, 1826. At eleven o’clock the council again met; the commissioners, being notified, attended accordingly; when Mr, Martin Colbert, on behalf of the Chickasaw nation, returned the following answer to the talk of the commissioners: To our beloved brothers, the Commissioners of the United States: We have received the talk of our father the President of the United States, by the hands of our brothers the commissioners on the part of the United States. We find it is the wish of our father to exchange lands with us, lying on the west side of the Mississippi river; which we are very sorry to hear, as we never had a thought of exchanging our land for any other, as we think that we would not find a country that would suit us as well as this we now occupy, it being the land of our forefathers, if we should exchange our lands for any other, fearing the consequences may be similar to transplanting an old tree, which would wither and die away, and we are fearful we would come to the same. We want you, our brethren, to take our talk. We have no lands to exchange for any other. We wish our father to extend his protection to us here, as he proposes to do on the west of the Mississippi, as we apprehend we would, in a few years, experience the same difficulties in any other section of the country that might be suitable to us west of the Mississippi. Friends and brothers: we know that our white brothers are crowding upon us daily, which we know is not just. We further consider that there are a number of nations west of the Mississippi that have been enemies to us as well as to our white brothers. It would be as much impossible to unite us with them as it would be to unite oil and water, and we have every reason to believe that those tribes that have left their country are not well satisfied; and, if that should be the case, we are fearful that those tribes will take satisfaction of us for injuries done by us as well as our white brothers. We are a small tribe, and unable to defend our rights in any country. Our father the President, we know, has sound judgment; is calculated to choose for us, his ignorant children, and has given us our choice; and we, being ignorant children, are likely to choose the worst of the two evils. Our father the President wishes that we should come under the laws of the United States; we are a people that are not enlightened, and we cannot consent to be under your Government. If we should consent, we should be likened unto young corn growing and met with a drought that woold kill it all. We hope our brothers the commissioners will take our situation into serious consideration; they know we are not qualified to become citizens of the United States, and we are ignorant of the. pressure of laws. LEVI COLBERT, EMMUBBIA, ASH-TA-MA-TUT-KA, J. MeCLISH, M. COLBERT. The answer was handed to the commissioners; and the council was addressed by General Hinds, who promised to give them another talk on the next day. He expressed the disappointment felt by the commissioners at the manner in which the talk of the President had been received by his red brethren; they had not returned such an answer as their father the President had a right to expect from his Chickasaw children. He informed the council that all communications which are made will be given in writing, and copies forwarded to their father the President for his consideration. It was agreed by the nation to submit their communications in writing. The council then adjourned.	.	■ WEDNESDAY, October 25, 1826. The council met, agreeably to adjournment; and the commissioners being notified that the council was ready to receive their communication, they went into council, when the following talk was delivered to them by the commissioners, and interpreted to the council by Malcolm McGee: Friends and brothers: The commissioners of our father the President have received the answer of his Chickasaw children to their talk of yesterday, and are sorry and disappointed to find it was not such a one as their father the President had expected from his Chickasaw children. The commissioners herewith send you a talk of our late father President Monroe to the Congress of the United States. This talk will prove to you that measures have been for some time in progress, by which all our Indian brethren will ultimately he removed from this to the other side of the Mississippi river. You will also see that this plan of the Government is not new, nor hastily adopted; it is the result of mature deliberation, and will not be relinquished until finally accomplished. The objections of our red brethren to the policy of our Government cannot prevent it. Already have your neighbors and relations, the Creeks, Cherokees, and Choctaws, secured to themselves a country beyond the Mississippi, where tbeir names and their nations may be preserved. Would it not be wise in you to follow their example, whilst it is yet in your power, and before it is too late to do so with advantage? You will be then, as you are now, tbeir neighbors and friends. Having a common interest, you would be able to make a common cause, and mutually defend one another against all your enemies; in addition to this, you will have for your protection the faith of the Government of the United States, pledged to you by the sacred seal of the treaty. We are also bound, by every feeling of brotherhood and a common interest, to secure you against the encroachments of your white brethren, and to defend you against your and our enemies. Are yon willing to sit down in delusive security, and see your nation gradually diminish, and your people dwindle away, until the very name and language of a Chickasaw is forever lost? Your father the President is persuaded that this will be your fate, unless you join your red brothers on the west of the Mississippi. His wisdom and foresight, together with his ability and disposition to protect you, will enable you to guard against it, if you will, like dutiful children, receive his talk. Here, you have a country greatly teo large for you, if you intend to depend upon the earth for a support, and entirely too small, if you intend to depend upon game for subsistence. If you wish to remain here and be civilized, you must contract your limits, and you must apply to the ground for support. When your people, who are now scattered over a wide surface, and far separated from each other, shall be brought together, and compelled to live near to one another, the march of civilization will then be rapid; industry will spread its blessings over your land; your population will increase, and you will speedily arrive at that state of improvement which your father the President so much desires. So soon as this is accomplished, his red children will be entitled to all the civil and political rights of his white children. You say that to remove would be similar to transplanting an old tree, which would wither and die. The trees of the forest, and particularly the most useless trees, are most difficult of transplanting; but fruit-trees, which are more particularly designated by the Great Spirit for the nourishment and comfort of man, require not only to be transplanted, but to be nourished, and cultivated, and even pruned, in order to bring forth good fruit. Yon say you are attached to the land of your fathers: this is right; it is natural that you should be so. But how seldom does it fall to the lot of your white brothers to leave their bones in the land of their fathers! We may repine at it, and regret it; but, such is the ever-changing condition of our people, that all of them submit to their lot. A wise man will cheerfully submit, when he is convinced that the change, although disagreeable to him, is for the benefit of his country and his children. lou say you are a small nation, and, by removing, you yviil be more exposed to your enemies. From all dangers from this quarter the United States will be bound to protect you; the strong arm of our Government will protect all jhe tribes on the west of the Mississippi, and keep them at peace with one another. Our Government has protected all the Indians who have removed, and will feel doubly bound to defend the Chickasaws, who have never shed the blood of a white man. But should yon still be opposed to exchange your lands here for a country west of the Mississippi, your father the President has directed his commissioners to say to you that the interest of his white children makes it his duty to call upon yon to sell him a part of your land. His white children never will be satisfied until they have a communication, through their own settlements, between the city of New Orleans and the State of Tennessee. In the late war, when the British invaded Louisiana, our white brothers of New Orleans and of Natchez were compelled to call upon their brothers in Tennessee and Kentucky to defend them. The distance was so great, and the difficulties of the march so numerous, that the country of t|^e Mississippi was, for a long time, left exposed; our towns would have been burnt, our property plundered, and uur country lost, but for the timely and miraculous relief by our brothers of Kentucky and Tennessee; they encountered every difficulty to give security to our southern border. This state of things must not again occur. The wide country between Mississippi and Tennessee must be settled; we must have men near at hand, to defend our seaports and our southern white brothers. You have more land than you can use; your white brethren have to protect and defend their own, and the country uf their red brothers; they have to defray all the expenses of the Government in peace, and to feed and support their.armies in time of war. The only advantage the Government derives from its red children is, to get occasionally some of their lands at a fair and reasonable price. By refusing to sell us lands, you withhold the only means in your power of contributing to the support and prosperity of the Government of the United States. Should you obstinately persist in this, your father the President will be compelled tu do that which you ought most willingly, and of your own accord, to do: you must see the necessity of selling a part of your lands, so as to enable us to connect our lower and upper countries. If our Choctaw brothers will act towards the Government with that liberality which we have a right to expect, we shall be enabled, with what we calculate on getting from you, to accomplish this most desirable object. Your father the President says you must sell to your white brothers that part of your land which you can most conveniently spare, and which their necessities compel them to have. It is not proposed by your father the President to take any portion of your country, without giving you ample compensation; he would not defraud you; and your brothers the commissioners would scorn to take advantage either of your weakness or your necessities. They are resolved to deal fairly and honorably with you, and to pay a full and liberal value for your lands, in money, for the benefit of the whole nation; and, in addition to this, will give reservations, with good titles, and of reasonable sized tracts, to such of the natives as live in that portion of the land which may be ceded to the United States. To obtain the objects of your father the President, it is propused that you sell us a part of your country on the Tombigbee river and its waters, and adjoining Monroe county, of a size sufficient to form a judicial district, and to be bounded by such lines as we your brothers, and your chiefs and headmen, may agree upon. THOMAS HINDS, JOHN COFFEE. General Coffee then addressed the council. He stated to his red brothers that they were now called upon to act on the most important question for their future welfare ever submitted by their father the President to their consideration. It required them to weigh well the consequences, before they acted. He told them he felt most deeply interested in the decision they were called upon to make. Their father the President felt for them all the solicitude and anxiety for their future welfare which he felt for his white children. He said their father the President was willing to treat with them upon the most generous terms, and felt disposed to make as good a bargain for their benefit, as he would for the benefit of his white children. He stated that the commissioners, as well by the instructions of their father the President, as from the strongest feelings of friendship and concern which they themselves felt for them, would give them, in exchange for their lands, the full value in lands and otherwise for the lands which they wished to purchase. He told them that, in addition to giving them a country west of the Mississippi, of equal extent with that which they now hold, which they might choose, after taking as much time as they wanted to make the selection, and paying all the expenses of exploring the country, and furnishing an agent to assist their people in viewing the land, they would also give reservations, with a fee-simple, title, to those who had improvements and who wished to remain, and to such as the nation considered entitled to the same, as beads of families or otherwise; which would be secured to them and to their heirs forever. That they might hereafter sell the same, and, if they preferred it, afterwards remove to the country which would be ceded to them west of the Mississippi; that, by complying with the wishes of his Government, it would be in their power to become real masters of the soil, which, being now held in common, was not the property of any of them, and thereby raise their children up to be truly heirs to the lands of their fathers. He told them that they could educate their children so as to make them valuable citizens, when his red brothers would soon be placed in a situation to become entitled to all the privileges of their white brothers. He said that the United States required this country, in order to have it settled by a dense population for the defence of the South; and, as it is the policy of this Government in time of peace to prepare for war, the State of Louisiana could not be properly defended unless a complete communication was obtained between the upper and lower countries. He told them that they well knew that, in the last war, the troops of Tennessee and Kentucky suffered materially in their march through the Choctaw and Chickasaw nations; that this country was necessary for the purpose of raising troops, .as well as for contributing apart towards defraying the expenses of the State and National Governments. He told them that the offer which was now made to his red brothers was such a one as was calculated to benefit them to an equal or greater extent than any which would hereafter ' be offered them; that it was highly important to the Government of the United States to extinguish the Indian title to this section of country; and that, therefore, it felt disposed to give to its red children more than what would be considered a full compensation for their lands. He told them that he felt seriously impressed with the importance of the decision they were now about to make, and urged them not to make up their minds until they had fully investigated all the consequences to which their determination must inevitably lead. He concluded by solemnly assuring them that their anxiety arose from the conviction that the question they were now called upon to determine was not only important to them, but that it became doubly important from the consideration that there were involved in it the dearest interests of their posterity. The council then adjourned. THURSDAY, October 26, 1826. The council was not convoked this day; the answer of the Indians to the first talk of the commissioners not being prepared. FRIDAY, October 27, 1826. This day, at eleven o’clock, the nation met in council; the commissioners, being called upon, attended; when the following answer was read in behalf of the nation: To our beloved brothers, the Commissioners of the United States: Friends and brothers: We have taken your talk of yesterday into mature consideration. We are sorry to hear that our talk has so much disappointed our father the President, and our brothers the commissioners. As 91 E for the talk of the late President Monroe, we have nothing to reply. The object of the General Government we cannot understand. It appears from what you say, that all the objections which we, his red children, can make, will have no weight with the policy of the General Government. You say that our neighbors and friends, the Creeks, Cherokees, and Choctaws, have secured themselves a country beyond the Mississippi, where their names may be preserved forever. Have not our father the President and our white brothers the same power there as they have here? We would always like to be neighbors to our brothers the Choctaws; but, thinking it would not be to the advantage of the natiun to cross the Mississippi, we are resolved to remain in our native country, where we are freed from our red enemies. We have always looked up to our father the President for protection, as dutiful children; we have every feeling of gratitude that children can have to a father; we have always been in readiness to assist our white brothers as well as our own. You say, “ Are you willing to sit down in delusive security, and see your nation dwindle away until the name of Chickasaw is forever lost?” No, we are not; but if it be the will of the Great Spirit that we should lose our name and language, we must submit. We know the wisdom, foresight, and abilities of our father the President are great; therefore we look up to him for his protection. You say that the country we have is greatly too large for us. We have always taken the talks of our father the President heretofore, and reduced our lands to very small bounds, not more than what will support us comfortably; we, as well as our white brothers, have a rising generation to provide for. We have abandoned the idea of hunting for’ a support, finding the game will not du for a support. Our father the President introduced missionaries to come amongst us to advance us to a state of civilization; we accepted them, and are making all the progress that people can; we have also been providing means for the support of missionaries, to enable us to go on with the education of our children, and to have them enlightened. Industry is spreading amongst us; population is increasing; we hope soon to arrive at that state of improvement that is so much desired by our fadier the President; we consider ourselves as the tree of the fores't, but not of the useless kind. We are a fruitful tree, and have provided means, by the assistance of our father the President, to cultivate and improve it, in order that we may bring forth good fruit. You say it is right that we should bo attached to the land of our forefathers, but “ how seldom do we see our white brothers leave their bones in the land of their fathers!” We can only account for that in this way: that our white brothers appear always to be desirous of changing their condition. It is not the case with your red children; they have no desire of changing an old friend for a new one; we are satisfied to remain here for the support of our children. We know that the United States have always protected us, and that the strong arm of your Government has extended its protection west of the Mississippi for the peace and happiness of our red brethren; we also have every reason to expect that the Government of the United States feel themselves bound, by every tie of gratitude, to defend and protect their brothers the Chickasaws, as we have never shed the blood of any of our white brothers. Therefore, we feel ourselves freed from any danger of our red enemies where we are, and wish not to incur any expense to our father the President. You say that our father the President has directed our brothers the commissioners to ask us for more lands. We are sorry to hear that our white brothers will trouble our father the President so much, and will not be satisfied with the present communication that they enjoy. They already have a free communication through their settlements, except a very small strip of land that crosses them through our brothers the Choctaws. If the city of New Orleans or Mobile should ever be invaded by any foreign Power, you are not situated as you were in the late war with the British. You now have a free communication from Mobile or New Orleans to Tennessee or Kentucky, so that our white brothers never will have to experience the same difficulty that they encountered in the late war. And the Government of the United States has a very strong arm extended to the protection of their southern borders. It is not the wish of your red brothers that this state of things should ever occur again. We know that our father the President is at great expense, either in time of peace or war; and the only advantage, you say, that the Government derives from his red children is, to get occasionally some of their lands. We think that our father the President cannot reflect much upon his children the Chickasaws; we have always dealt very liberally with him; we have reduced ourselves to very small bounds, and have not more than we can reasonably do with. We are sorry that we cannot assist our father; but so it is, that we arc so reduced that we cannot. Our father the President must exercise his own judgment; we are his children, and are at the discretion of our parent; we, your Chickasaw children, are weak in our judgments; we cannot see the necessity of selling any more of our lands to our father the President. Our brothers the commissioners say that our father the President has directed them to say that we must sell a part of our country that we can most conveniently spare. We, your Chickasaw children, cannot see any land that we can spare, nor yet do we see the necessity of our white brothers to compel them to have it. We, your Chickasaw children, have no idea that our father the President is disposed to take any advantage of his Chickasaw children, nor our brothers the commissioners; we have every confidence in them, that they will discharge the duty of a father and brothers; we have no doubt that our brothers the commissioners are disposed to deal fairly and honorably with us. It is true vVe are poor for monev, but we love our lands better. LEVI COLBERT, EMMUBBIA, ASH-TA-MA-TUT-KA, J. McCLISH, MARTIN COLBERT. TREATY GROUND, October 27, 1826. After the address was read, General Coffee said a few words expressive of his astonishment at the headstrong obstinacy of his red brothers; he said that he feared that, at some future day, they would bitterly lament the existence of that influence by which he believed them to be at present so much deluded. He said that it only remained for the commissioners to inform their father the President of their unqualified refusal; and in order that every thing! might be brought fairly before them, which would be submitted to the approbation of their father the President, the commissioners would offer their red brothers another talk to-morrow. General Hinds then called the attention of the council to the peculiar situation of the State of which he was a dt'zen. He mentioned that more than one-half of the country within its chartered limits was still subjected to the Indian title, and was a place of refuge for criminals, as well as other violators of the laws; that the growth and prosperity of his State were greatly retarded by the occupancy of so much of its territory by the Indians; that his State, which, but for this circumstance, would have been at this day one of the most flourishing in the Union, was thereby kept down, its revenue materially injured, its population retarded, and its weak and exposed situation continued. He told his red brothers that ours was a Government of written laws, and that all the power of the Government was in the people; that their father the President Was bound to obey the wishes of the people, and that his red brothers might be assured that the people would not permit the present state of things to continue much longçr. He told them that the subject of extending the laws of the State of Mississippi over the Indian country vvithin her chartered limits was brought before the Legislature of that State at their last session, and that the investigation of the subject had been deferred partly for the purpose of ascertaining what could be done by the General Government, by negotiations with the Indians. If these negotiations failed, the Legislature of Mississippi would again take up the subject, and, in all probability, the laws of the State would be extended throughout her chartered limits at the next session. He believed that the determination expressed by his red brothers had been hastily formed, and he wished them to reconsider the subject. He desired them to look beyond the present moment. He told them that they ought not rashly to withdraw themselves from under the protection of our Government; that but for it they would have been long since destroyed. If they obstinately persisted, the States interested and the General Government would have to adopt such measures as they deemed necessary for their own advancement and security, and which, he feared, would operate most seriously upon the Chickasaws. He concluded by observing that another talk would be offered them, and another opportunity afforded them to save themselves and their posterity from the dangers by which they were surrounded. The council then adjourned. SATURDAY, October 28, 1826. Owing to the inclemency of the weather in the forenoon, the council did not meet until the afternoon. At 3 o’clock the council met; and the commissioners being notified, attended, and submitted the following talk, which was interpreted to the nation by Malcolm McGee: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	TREATY GROUND, CHICKASAW NATION, October 28, 1826. Your brothers the commissioners intended to have given you a short and final talk this morning. But they have been informed that very improper means have been used to defeat the objects of our Government, and to prevent you from making a treaty. It is possible that all the chiefs and people of the nation may not know cf the existence of such improper practices. Your brothers have determined to inform you of what they have heard, that you may know that bad rnen live among you. If you do not love those men who threaten to destroy you for doing your duty, yon can drive them from your nation. You ought not to permit men to live among you who give bad advice to your young people. Such men as advise their children to bad acts are your greatest enemies. They encourage your people to commit acts of barbarity,'and destroy the growth of civilization among you. That man who can advise his own son, in cold blood, to commit murder, is not only a great enemy to his own people, but he is an enemy to mankind. Your brothers the commissioners herewith transmit to you a copy of a statement made to them by Walter Bunch, of a conversation which took place in his presence a few weeks since in this nation. If it does not surprise you, it ought, at least, greatly to shock you. If your councils have been at all influenced by such threats, we assure you, most solemnly, that nothing but a noble and magnanimous disregard of them can save you from destruction. TREATY GROUND, CHICKASAW NATION, October 28, 1826. Walter Bunch, who resides at the Chickasaw Bluffs, in the State of Tennessee, informs the commissioners that he was present at the house of old James Allen, a white man, long a resident, and who has a large family of children, half-breeds, (some of whom are grown,) in the Chickasaw nation, when a conversation took place at the house of said Allen, in the nation, about two or three weeks since, and in the presence of several men. The subject of conversation was the prospects of the approaching treaty: some of the company gave an opinion that the Indians would sell their land; when old James Allen remarked, that his son, George Allen, would kill the first chief that proposed to sell any of their lands, and that he (the old man) thought it right that he should do so. George Allen was present and heard the remark, and did not contradict what the old man his father said, but seemed willing that the impression should go out as his father had spoken. WALTER BUNCH, his X mark. Witness: WM. S. FULTON. General Coffee observed that this matter was submitted to the nation for their investigation; that it behooved them to ascertain the truth of this statement, and, if they found that there was a man among them who had used such means to intimidate the chiefs, he ought to be hurled out of the nation. The principal talk was then submitted to the council, and interpreted as follows: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	TREATY GROUND, CHICKASAW NATION, October 28, 1826. We have received your answer to our talk of Wednesday last, and perceive nothing like sound objections to the just and liberal propositions contained in the talk of your brothers the commissioners, in behalf of our father the President of the United States. Our Chickasaw brethren have long enjoyed the bounty and protection of our Government, and have been styled the most favored of all the Indian tribes. The humane and salutary measures adopted, and many years pursued, for the improvement of their condition, have increased their wealth, advanced their civilization, and greatly promoted their prosperity and happiness. In every well-organized Government, the people are bound to contribute something for its support and their own protection. Our Chickasaw brothers are protected by the United States; they enjoy all the blessings of a government of laws; and yet they contribute nothing in return to its support. The citizens of the United States are compelled to discharge their obligations even to their red brethren; but they are totally exempt from the operations of our laws. Not only this, but their country affords a shelter to many of our own people, who take refuge in it to avoid their contracts and the penalties of the criminal law. It is neither reasonable nor just that this state of things should continue, and you -deceive yourselves greatly if you calculate on a long continuance of them. The indulgence hitherto granted you by this Government was founded more on compassion for your ignorant, helpless, and unprotected condition, than any acknowledged political right upon either its bounty or protection. The condition of your nation has materially changed. You have accumulated much wealth, and considerably advanced in civilization; it becomes necessary, therefore, that the United States should change the policy heretofore pursued, and adopt a course better suited to your improved state, and more consistent with the rights and interests of your white brethren. The tomahawk and scalping knife must be laid aside for the scythe and pruning knife; the bow and arrow, for the plough; the wandering hunter must change his garb and his occupation for one more congenial with the pursuits of civilization. As you are no longer disposed to listen to the voice of your father the President, you must be prepared to receive such laws and regulations as the United States may think proper to introduce among you for the internal regulation of your affairs. What would be ybur condition if the Government were to withdraw its protection from you? Would not your country be soon filled with your white brethren, from whence it would be impossible for you to remove them? Our people are surrounding you on all sides, and increasing like the waters of some great river which has been dammed up. Beware lest the obstructions which at present restrain them should be removed before you provide a place of refuge. The mighty torrent would overwhelm you, and your people.and your country be lost forever. This is the most important subject ever presented to the consideration of the Chickasaws. Upon their decision hangs the destiny of their people to the latest generations. If they decide correctly, they may at some future day be a great and respectable nation. If it be their misfortune to make a wrong decision, as has been before said, their name, and their language may be forever lust. Would it not be well, in so important a matter, (one that is fraught with great evil and much good,) to take the whole subject again under advisementl We fear you have not sufficiently weighed the subject; that you have not been sufficiently impressed with its importance. To assist in your deliberations, and for the information of the nation, the commissioners have prepared written propositions to accompany this talk, which they wish taken into serious consideration by the Chickasaw nation. We still hope they may be induced, after again reflecting upon the subject, to cede to the United States (if not the whole) a part of their lands, either on the Mississippi or Tombigbee rivers, as may best suit their'own convenience. It is all-important to the State of Mississippi that there should be a direct communication between the upper settlements ' of that State and the settlements of the State of Tennessee, either along the Mississippi or Tombigbee. If our Chickasaw brothers will consent to sell to their father the President a slip of their country along either of those rivers, so as to enable the settlements of the two States to be directly connected, we will pay them liberally in money, besides granting reservations to such of the nation as may live on the lands ceded, upon such terms and in such way as may be agreed upon. The reservations will be made to them and their heirs forever, with the privilege of living on them or selling them, as they may prefer. THOMAS HINDS. JOHN COFFEE. The following propositions are submitted to the consideration of the Chickasaw nation:	'In the first place, the commissioners propose to give the Chickasaws a country on the other side of the Mississippi, of equal extent with theirs on this side, to be selected out of any of the lands (nut given to others) belonging to the United States, lying north and west of the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas. Secondly. They will grant reservations to such of the nation as may prefer to remain here, with good titles, and with the privilege of keeping or selling them, as they may choose. Thirdly. All those who prefer moving on the other side of the river shall be paid the value of the improvements they may leave behind, to be valued by disinterested persons; and, in addition, will be paid all necessary expenses in moving, and provisions for one year, or an equivalent in money. Fourthly. In addition to the above-named liberal propositions, the commissioners are willing to pay to the whole nation a large sum in money, by annuities. Fifthly. To enable the Chickasaws to choose a good country, they promise to defray all necessary expenses which the commissioners of the nation and an agent of the United States may incur in exploring the country. Lastly. As there will be much difficulty and loss experienced in removing stuck from this to the country on the west side of the Mississippi, it is proposed by the commissioners that the United States shall compensate such of the Chickasaws as may be injured in that wav. THOMAS HINDS, JOHN COEFEE. General Coffee then addressed the council. He stated that, as the commissioners had been induced to believe that the voice of the nation had not been properly consulted or expressed in the answers which had been returned to the talks of the commissioners, they had been induced to bring the whole subject again before the nation. He wished them again to take the subject into serious consideration. The commissioners bad drawn up distinct proposals to accompany' this talk, wbifch would enable the nation to see fully the views of the United States Government. The offers made were of the most liberal character; and he yet hoped they would be acceptable to the nation, when properly understood. He stated that the commissioners were here in the discharge of a trust required of them by their father the President. The difference of opinion between them and their red brothers should not destroy the harmony which had prevailed hitherto. The commissioners had met their red brothers as friends, and intended to part with them as such; but it would be highly pleasing to the commissioners if the nation would sell to them a part of their lands. He told them that their little children, who were now beginning to rup about, when they shall have grown up, and find their nation declining, the worst habijs introduced among them by mixing with the whites, and all the advantages of a wandering life taken away from them, they would exclaim. Oh, that our fathers had consulted our interest and happiness instead of their own! If they had, when it was in their power, provided a home for us, we would not be, as we now arc, confined, tied down, and shut up within a narrow range, in no way suited to our nature; and our people would not be dying away like the leaves in autumn. Then, we should have bad a country which we could always call our own; now, we are in no better situation than if we had no country at all. In a few years we shall all be’ gone, and the light of the Chickasaws will be extinguished forever. He concluded by remarking, that himself and General Hinds felt it to be their duty again to call the attention of the nation to the object of their mission. He hoped that the people and headmen of the nation would weigh well the subject before they finally acted upon it. General Hinds remarked, that the commissioners were much dissatisfied at the determination expressed by the nation not to sell any of their lands. The obstinate refusal of the liberal offers of the United States appeared to hint to be so unreasonable, that he was induced to believe that the offers of the commissioners had not been properly represented to the people. It is said that our red brothers are incapable of understanding the views of their father the President, or the nature of the offers he has made them. He stated that he was aware that there are many men in the nation, and particularly those who rule her councils, who do understand the full extent of the views of his.Government, and the liberal character of the offers which have been promised to his red brothers. We have waited with patience, and have given those who are informed a long time to explain those things to the people. He believed that those who did understand them had not given the necessary explanations to the nation at large. They had taken upon themselves, by so doing, an awful responsibility; and at some future day, when the people shall become convinced of their error, of the injury which has been done them, and how much they were imposed upon by those to whom they had intrusted the management of this business, then will their bitter imprecations fall upon them, and they will be compelled to bewail the consequences of having obstinately persisted in their blind- sighted and ruinous course. The commissioners have now discharged their duty to their Government and to the Chickasaws. Let the nation beware lest it fail in its duty. If calamity shall hereafter fall upon this people, let the blame also fall upon their own heads. The council then adjourned. SUNDAY, October 29, 1826. This day the nation did not meet in council, and no business was transacted by the commissioners. MONDAY, October 30, 1826. At 3 o’clock in the afternoon the nation met in eouncil. The commissioners were notified to attend, and attended accordingly; when the following answer to the talk of the commissioners delivered on Saturday last was read by Mr. J. McClish. TREATY GROUND, CHICKASAW NATION, FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	MONDAY, October 30, 1826. We have received your answer to our talks on Saturday; we are sorry to hear that you cannot see any sound objection we have to our father’s request. It is true that we long enjoyed the bounty and protection of our father the President, and have been so favored. When a parent has good dutiful children, it is natural to extend his protection for the improvement of their condition, to advance them into a state of civilization, and promote their prosperity and happiness. You say that in every well-organized Government the people are bound to contribute something for its support. Have we not, your Chickasaw children, always received the talks of our father, and divided our lands with you, until the present? Look back, and see how far you have come! You say that our country affords a shelter to many of your own people—a place of refuge to avoid their contracts. We are sorry to hear that such an impression has gone abroad among our white brethren; if there are any such characters amongst us, it is not known to the nation. You say that the indulgence hitherto granted us by our father the. President was from our ignorant, helpless, and unprotected condition. We know that we are an ignorant people, and unenlightened; therefore, we hope out- father the President will extend his protection to his ignorant children, and take them under his cate. It is true that our nation are gradually advancing in a state of civilization, but not so much enlightened as our white brethren think. There is a very small portion of our people that have become enlightened; therefore, we cannot see the policy of the Government of the United States in changing the policy heretofore pursued. As for the tomahawk and scalping knife, we never have raised them against our white brethren; the bow and the arrow we are willing to exchange for the plough; and the hunting we have laid aside for the pursuit of agriculture and civilization, and are at all times disposed to listen to the voice of our father the President. You say, what would be our condition if the Government of the United States were to withdraw its protection from us? When children are rejected from their parents, they are generally in a deplorable state; but we hope that this will not be our case. We have to look to our father to still extend his strong arm of protection to us, until we are more enlightened and advanced in civilization. We know that this is a very important subject before the nation. We, the commissioners on the part of the nation, have to act agreeably to the voice of the. people. We are desirous of promoting our rising generation into a state of respectability. We cannot act contrary to the will of the nation. They are determined on staying in their native country. Under these considerations, we can only say to our brothers the commissioners that they are still opposed to selling any more of their lands; consequently, we can do no more. LEVI COLBERT, EMMUBBIA, ASH-TA-MA-TUT-KA, J. McCLISH, MARTIN COLBERT. General Coffee said he wished to inquire of the chiefs whether the different talks of the commissioners had been read and explained to the people at their camps by the principal headmen. No satisfactory answer was given to this inquiry; but it was remarked that the people understood all the proposals which had been offered. One of the principal chiefs, Tesh-a-mingo, was then called upon to give to the commissioners his understanding of the proposals, in order to ascertain whether he could explain the terms of purchase or exchange which the commissioners had offered to the nation. He remarked, once or twice, that he understood them, but would not attempt to inform the commissioners what they were. Another principal chief, Pi-si-anst-tubia, was then requested to give a statement of the proposals, as he understood them. He remarked that he had ears to hear, and that he could understand, and that he had heard all the talks of the commissioners explained. He would not undertake to describe his own ideas of what the proposals amounted to. General Coffee said he did not wish to impute any blame to any one; but as one of their own headmen said it was impossible to make the people understand the business, he was desirous to ascertain whether the chiefs themselves understood it, as he knew it would be impossible that the people could be correctly informed, if the chiefs were themselves ignorant of the nature of the proposals which were offered to the nation by their father the President. The chiefs stil] refused to give any explanations. General Coffee then proposed to the council, that, if the nation would agree to send four men to explore the country, which the United States proposed to give in exchange for theirs, the commissioners would enter into an agreement witht he nation tn pay all expenses, allow so much per day for services, and stipulate that the United States should send an agent with them, to show the country offered in exchange. This proposition was submitted to the council by Levi Colbert, and a verbal answer was proposed to be returned to this proposal on to-morrow. The- council then adjourned. TUESDAY, October 31, 1826. This day Levi Colbert, with several other chiefs, called on the commissioners with a verba] answer, rejecting their proposals to send an exploring party over the Mississippi. The commissioners, after urging the propriety of the measure, induced them to take a written article of agreement, stipulating the te’rms upon which the commissioners propose to send out the exploring party; which was, at last, agreed to be submitted to the nation for approval or rejection, and which was as follows: Articles of an agreement made and entered into by and between Thomas Hinds and John Coffee, commissioners appointed by the President of the United States to treat with the Choctaw and Chickasaw nations of Indians, for a cession of their lands within the limits of the State of Mississippi, for and in behalf of the United States, of the one part; and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Chickasaw nation, by Levi Colbert, Emmubbia, Ash-ta-ma-tut-ka, J. McClish, and Martin Colbert, commissioners appointed by the said nation, with full power to act for them in the premises, of the other part: Now, be it known, that the President of the United States hath appointed the said Thomas Hinds and John Coffee to hold a treaty with lhe Chickasaw nation, for a cession of a part or the whole of their lands, or to make an exchange for their lands, by giving them an equal quantity of land west of the Mississippi, of any unappropriated land belonging to the United States that lies north and west of the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas: and whereas the said nation, having been convened together in full council, have determined that they are not disposed to sell any part of their lands, not having, as they conceive, more land than their nation requires for its own use: and whereas they have also determined that they cannot exchange their lands for lands west of the Mississippi river, and that they have no desire to leave the country that they now live in; and furthermore, that they have not a sufficient knowledge of the United States’ lands west of the Mississippi river to justify them in making the exchange, even if they had a wish to do so: Now, therefore, to remove the last objection made to the exchange, and to enlighten the said nation on that subject, by enabling them to view and explore the country offered them in exchange by the United States, it is hereby agreed, on the part of the Chickasaw nation, to send four men, (Chickasaws,) as commissioners, to be well qualified for the purpose, who shall start from said nation early next spring, to examine and explore the country to be given the Chickasaw nation in exchange for their lands here, who shall make themselves well acquainted with the situation and appearance of the country, in all respects, particularly the quality of the soil, the water, and timber, and every other quality calculated to render it either desirable or objectionable to said nation as a residence, in case they should hereafter think of making the exchange offered them by the United States; the exploration to be completed in the course of the ensuing spring and summer, so that the commissioners shall return to the nation some time next fall, provided no accident happens to prevent their returning in that time; and, in that case, to return as soon as practicable. And the commissioners on the part of the United States agree that the United States shall furnish an agent to go with the commissioners of the nation throughout the whole tour, who shall start with them from the nation, and travel with them until their return; that the United States’ [agent] shall be furnished with means to pay all travelling expenses of the said exploring party throughout tfae whole tour, and until their return to the nation. And the United States commissioners further agree, that each of the four Chickasaw commissioners aforesaid shall be paid by the United States for their services, and the use of their horses, during the whole time engaged in this service, the sum of two dollars per day, in money, from the time of their departure until their return to the nation. It is further agreed, on the part of the Chickasaw nation, that the said four Chickasaw commissioners shall, if so required by the President of the United States, as soon as may be after their return home from the exploring tour, go to the city of Washington, with the agent of the United States who accompanied them, and there make report of their observations on the country which they have viewed; after which report shall be made, the United States and the Chickasaw nation may act in the premises as they may think proper. This agreement to be binding on the parties as soon as it shall be approved by the proper authorities of the United States. In testimony whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and seals, this	day of	, in the year of our Lord eight hundred and twenty-six.	. . The chiefs, after some altercation, at last agreed that certain questions might be propounded to the people at the council to-morrow; and the chiefs then took leave of the commissioners.	t In the afternoon, General William Clark, one of the commissioners appointed to hold treaties with the Cho' taw and Chickasaw nations of Indians, arrived; the proceedings of his brother commissioners were read to him, and a full view afforded him of the present state of the negotiation. WEDNESDAY, November 1, 1826. At three o’clock this day the council met, and the commissioners, being notified, attended; when, at the request of the council, the articles of agreement which had been submitted to their consideration were interpreted to the people in full council, and an answer in writing promised to be given to-morrow. General William Clark then addressed the council. He said he came among the Chickasaws a stranger, but, as a commissioner, he felt it his duty to say a few words to the council. He told them that he had been appointed a commissioner, and associated with General Thomas Hinds and General John Coffee to treat with them for their lands; and that he should have met them sooner, had he not been compelled to settle a difficulty between some of his red children, which it was necessary he should do before he left home. He told them it was the wish of their great father the President that he should come among them, and become acquainted with them. He said he had indulged the pleasing hope that, after they had consented to accept the offers of the Government, he would have had it in his power to have made such arrangements with them as to have placed their nation comfortably on lands which he had in view for them, within the bounds of his superintendency. He remarked, that he had seen the talks made to them by his associates, Generals Hinds and Coffee. He assured the nation they would have been approved of by him, had he beem present with them. He said, you express fears of difficulties, in case of removal west of the Mississippi, from yo'ur former enemies in that quarter; and that future application will be made to purchase your lands there. You would not experience the difficulty you apprehend by a removal west of the Mississippi, as a country has been purchased of the Osages and Kanzas expressly for the settlement of such of the southern Indians as may remove to that country. The Osages, who were your former enemies, are now at peace with all the tribes who have removed from this side of the Mississippi; and, by the treaty lately concluded with them, it is made their interest to continue so. The tribes who have moved from the States of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, and who are placed under my charge, are all well pleased with the country assigned them west of the Mississippi; and others, yet residing in Ohio, have asked my assistance in procuring them lands west of that river, in exchange for theirs. This he considered a strong proof of the advantages derived from removal by Indians generally. He said he did not believe that any of the tribes with whom the Chickasaws have been at war, beyond the Mississippi, would be disposed to take satisfaction for past|injuries done them by their nation. Indeed, they dare not incur the displeasure of the United States. You will not be more under the laws of the United States west of the Mississippi than in your present situation» He said it was his wish that the several Indian nations now within his superintendency, and such as may remove there, should he formed iny> governments calculated for their mutual security and protection: the laws to be made by the people, and they to be governed by them, either in tribes ur a collection of tribes, according as they may agree upon among themselves. He said, the country offered you being outside the limits of the States, such regulations and laws as you may adopt, in case of removal, may be much easier enforced there than here, where you are surrounded by State authorities. The decisions, as communicated to my brother commissioners by your committee, which were made previous to my arrival, appear to be a conclusive expression of'your objections to any exchange of country as proposed by the United States commissioners; but as I may not have exactly understood you on the subject of an entire or partial sale of your country, I must request the nation now assembled to say whether they are willing to sell to the Upited States, upon the terms proposed, the whole or a part of their lands. He stated that he considered the persons appointed by the Chickasaw nation to negotiate with the commissioners of the United States the proper persons to reply to his request. He considered it necessary that he should hear himself, from the authorized agents of the nation, a declaration of their willingness or unwillingness to sell as proposed. A verba) answer was all he wished. Levi Colbert, on behalf of the agents of the nation, replied, that the different statements made in reply to the talks of the commissioners were true; that there was not a man in the nation who would consent to sell either the. whole or a part of their lands. General Clark then informed the council that it was his wish to be useful to the nation, and, in case they would think proper to enter into the agreement then under their consideration, he would afford to the exploring party every assistance in his power; that he would make them a map of all the country, and describe to them that which he intended for the Chickasaws. He would give them letters to agents and influential men, who would be useful to them in giving counsel and information, and would so prepare the way for them that they would be exposed to neither danger nor difficulty, but would be able to make the fullest and most satisfactory observations, and find the tour to be so agreeable, that they would, no doubt, return home with cheerful hearts. General Hinds remarked, that, owing to an assertion contained in the answers of his red brothers to the last talk of the commissioners, that it was unknown to the nation if there were any persons among them who were indebted to any of the citizens of the United States, and who would not pay them, the United States commissioners had received petitions from Perry Cobie and William Easton, both citizens of the United States, exhibiting large sums to be now due them from Indians (Chickasaws) and white men, which had been owing to them a long time, and their payment refused; and as the petitioners had no means of coercing payment, they had requested the United States commissioners to submit them to the council. He said he considered the course which would be taken in relation to these claims as a matter entirely among themselves. It afforded proof, however, of the absolute necessity of the laws coming among them, and that they should not wish that wrongs should any longer he permitted to exist, without affording the means of obtaining redress. The nation was in the habit of trading much with white men, and ought to be made liable for their contracts made with white men. It also afforded proof that their assertion was not true, and that their nation did afford a place of refuge for the violators of the law. The petitions were read, and handed to Levi Colbert; and then the council adjourned. . THURSDAY MORNING, November 2, 1826. After having the written articles, proposing to send an exploring party, (as heretofore noted,) two days in their possession, this morning the chiefs returned the following written answer: TREATY GROUND, CHICKASAW NATION, T FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	WEDNESDAY, November 1, 1826. We have laid before the council, this evening, the talk of our brothers the ciflnmissioners, and have come to the determination as follows: As we have no wish to exchange our lands here for any other, we think it unnecessary to run our father the President to any further expense; therefore, we have to refuse your propositions. If we were to accede to the offers made to us by our brothers the commissioners, in exploring that section of country west of the Mississippi river, it would incur great expense to our father the President for no effect, as we are entirely opposed to exchanging countries. We are happy to see our brother, commissioner William Clark, and are thankful for his counsel. If we had any idea of exchanging our lands with the Government, we would be happy in receiving his information of the situation of that country.	* As this appears to be the last talk we shall have to swap together at this time, we wish to tell our brothers the commissioners, that, as we met like brothers, we hope to part in the same kind of spirit. LEVI COLBERT, EMMUBBIA, ASH-TA-MA-TUT-KA, J. McCLISH, MARTIN COLBERT. The foregoing is a correct copy of the proceedings of the commissioners during their negotiations with the Chickasaw nation of Indians. THO. HINDS, ,	JNO. COFFEE. Attest: 'WILLIAM 8. FULTON, Secretary to the Commissioners. CONGRESS.] 
