NO. 146.	[2d SESSION. EXCHANGE OF LANDS WITH THE INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 17, 1817. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, WASHINGTON, January 16, 1817. - In compliance with the resolution of the Senate of the 14th of this month, requesting information respecting the “exchange of lands with any of the Indian tribes now completed, or contemplated under the act of Congress approved on the 26th day of March, 1804, entitled ‘ An act to erect Louisiana into two Territories, and to provide for the temporary government thereof,’ ” I have the honor to enclose the papers marked A, B, C, and D, which embrace all the information relative to the measures which have been taken in relation to an exchange of lands with the Cherokee nation of Indians. I have the honor to be, with great respect, vour most obedient, humble servant, GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of War. A. My Children, deputies of the Cherokees of the upper and lower towns'.	JANUARY 9, 1809. I understand by the speeches which you have delivered me that there is a difference of disposition among the people of both parts of your nation; some of them desiring to remain on their lands, to betake themselves to agriculture and the industrious occupations of civilized life, while others, retaining their attachment to the hunter’s life, and having little game on their present lands, are desirous to remove across the Mississippi, to some of the vacant lands of the United States, where game is abundant. I am pleased to find so many disposed to insure, by the cultivation of the earth, a plentiful subsistence to their families, and to improve their minds by education; but I do not blame those who, having been brought up from their infancy to the pursuit of game, desire still to follow it to distant countries. I know how difficult it is for men to change the habits in which they have been raised. The United States, my children, are the friends of both parties, and, as far as can reasonably be asked, they will be willing to satisfy the wishes of both. Those who remain may be assured uf our patronage, our aid, and good neighborhood; those who wish to remove are permitted to send an exploring party to reconnoitre the country on the waters of the Arkansas and White rivers—and the higher up the better, as they will be the longer unapproached by our settlements, which will begin at the mouths of those rivers. The regular districts of the government of St. Louis are already laid off to the St. Francis river. When this party shall have found a tract of country suiting the emigrants, and not claimed by other Indians, we will arrange with them and you the exchange of that for a just portion of the country they leave, and to a part of which, proportioned to their numbers, they have a right. Every aid towards their removal, and what will be necessary for them there, will then be freely administered to them, and, when established in their new settlements, we shall still consider them as our children, give them the benefit of exchanging their peltries for what they will want at our factories, and always hold them firmly by the hand. I will now, my children, proceed to answer your kind address on my retiring from the Government. Sensible that I am become too old to watch over the concerns of the seventeen States and their Territories, 1 requested my fellow-citizens to permit me to retire, to live with my family, and to choose another President for themselves, and father for you. They have done so, and in a short time I shall retire and resign into his hands the care of your and our concerns. Be assured, my children, that he will have the same friendly dispositions towards you which I have had, and that you will find in him a true and affectionate father: indeed, this is now the disposition of all our people towards ynu. They look upon you as brethren, born in the same land, and having the same interests. Tell your people, therefore, to entertain no uneasiness on account of this change, for there will be no changeas to them. Deliver to them my adieus, and my prayers to the Great Spirit for their happiness. Tell them that, during my administration, 1 have held their hand fast in mine, and that I will put it into the hand of their new father, who will hold it as I have done. TH: JEFFERSON. B. Extract of a letter from William II. Crawford, Secretary of War, to Messrs. Clark, Edwards, and Chouteau, commissioners, fyc., St. Louis, dated MAY 27, 1816. The adjustment of the Cherokee claim to the settlements they have made under the permission given them by Mr. Jefferson, will necessarily occupy your attention. It is difficult to give precise instructions upon this subject. In deciding upon it, you must keep in view the fact that the Cherokee nation refuse to make any cession of their lands in consideration of the settlements which have, been assigned to their countrymen. This may have proceeded, in some degree, from a knowledge that no lands had been specifically assigned to the Cherokee emigrants by the United States. In any arrangements of this kind, there ought to be an express provision that an assignment should not be binding upon the United States unless the same extent of country should be ceded by the Cherokees who have not emigrated, or at least an extent of country equal to what the emigrants would be entitled to upon an equal partition of their lands according to their relative numbers. C. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, September 12,1816. The extracts mentioned in the postscript of my letter of the 11th instant, not being prepared at the closing of the mail, are now forwarded, together with an extract from a letter from this Department, unde,r date of the 27th of May, 1816, to the commissioners, to whom the complaints of the Cherokees on the Arkansas have been referred. The bearing of these papers upon the negotiations in which you are engaged is so obvious as to require no explanation from me. Should an arrangement be made, founded upon the principle of exchange as contemplated by Mr. Jefferson and the Cherokee emigrants, a cession adjoining the settlements of Georgia may possibly be obtained. A part of the lands ceded by the Cherokees to the State of Georgia in the treaty of 1783 was relinquished by the treaty of 1790, a considerable portion of which has never been receded, and none of it regularly. That part, at least, ought to be receded, and if the cession could be extended to the Chattahoochee, it would not be more than what the State bad a right to expect. This, however, is mentioned rather as what is expected than what is attainable. General Meriwether, one of the commissioners, is fully acquainted with all the circumstances, and will give the explanations which may be necessary, should there be a prospect of obtaining a cession. I have the honor'to be, &c. WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD. General ANDREW JACKSON, 1 DAVID MERIWETHER, and > Commissioners, fyc. JESSE FRANKLIN, Esqs. ) D. Extract of a letter from William H. Crawford, Secretary of War, to Messrs. Clark, Edwards, and Chouteau, commissioners, tyc., St. Louis, dated SEPTEMBER 17, 1816. Upon the subject of an eventual cession from the Osages or Quapaws becoming necessary to secure the Cherokee emigrants in their possessions, no precise instructions can be given. Those settlements were made upon an understanding which has never been fulfilled, or even acknowledged by the Cherokee nation, since that period. On the contrary, when urged upon that point last winter, they rejected the idea of exchange of lands in consideration for those upon which their emigrant brethren had settled, and said that they should be compelled to return and live with the nation. They even refused to consider them as entitled to any part of the annuities payable to the Cherokees. This subject has been referred to the commissioners now holding a treaty in the Chickasaw nation with the four southern tribes. Should the condition upon which the settlements upon the Arkansas were founded be recognised by the nation, it will then become the duty of the United States to provide permanently for those emigrants, by securing them in the peaceful enjoyment of their possessions. Should the nation, however, persevere in the sentiments by which their deputation was animated last winter, all obligation on the part of the United States is extinguished. To their own nation they must look for indemnity for any losses which they may sustain in consequence of their emigration. The United States cannot be bound if the conditions on the otjier part are violated. The result of the pending negotiation will remove all doubt on the subject, either by releasing us from all obligations, or by defining the extent of the duties imposed upon us in relation to the settlers upon the Arkansas. 14th CONGRESS.]	
