No. 135. [1st Sessiox. NORTHWESTERN FRONTIERS. . COMMUNICATED TO T1IE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JUNE 13, 1812. Mr. McKee, from the committee to whom was referred so much of the President’s message as relates to Indian affairs, reported: That the attention of the committee has been directed to the following inquiries: 1st. Whether any, and what, agency the subjects of the British Government may have had in exciting the Indians, on the Western frontier, to hostilities against the United States; 2d. The evidence of such hostility, on the part of the Indian tribes, prior to the late campaign on the Wabash; 3(1. The orders by which the campaign was authorized and carried on. The committee have obtained all the evidence within their power, relative to these several inquiries. The documents accompanying the President’s message to Congress, ot the 11th instant, contain all, and some additional evidence to what had been obtained by the committee, in relation to the first inquiry. Those documents afford evidence as conclusive as the nature ot the case can well be supposed to admit of, that the supply of Indian goods furnished at fort Malden, and distributed during the last year by the British agents, in Upper Canada, to the Indian tribes, were more abundant than usual; and it is difficult to account for this extraordinary liberality on any other ground than thatof an intention to attach the Indians to the British cause, in the event of a war with the United States. That the Indian tribes should put to hazard the large annuities which they have been so long in the habit of receiving from the United States; that they should relinquish supplies so necessary to their comfort, if not to then-existence, by a hostile conduct, in the absence of all other evidence, is not the least convincing proof that some agency has been employed to stimulate the savages to hostilities; and, haring pursued a course of conduct which must lead to a forfeiture of those advantages, renders it at least probable that they had assurances of receiving an equivalent elsewhere. Additional presents, consisting of arms and ammunition, given at a time when there is evidence that the British were apprised of the hostile disposition of the Indians, accompanied with the speeches addressed to them, exciting disaffection, are of too decisive a character to leave doubt on the subject. With regard to the second subject of inquiry, the committee are of opinion, that the evidence accompanying this report, together with the official communication made to the Executive, by the British Government, affords such evidence of the hostile views and intentions of the Indians, as to render it the duty of the President of the United States, to use the necessary means of protecting the frontiers from the attack with which they were threatened. Accordingly, in pursuance of the provisions of the act of Congress, entitled “An act for calling forth the militia, to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions,” the Executive ordered the 4th regiment of infantry, with one company of riflemen, under the command of Colonel Boyd, from Pittsburg to Vincennes, subject to the further orders of Governor Harrison, who was authorized, with this force, and such additional number of companies from the militia as should be deemed necessary, to establish a new post on the Wabash, and to inarch against, and disperse, the armed combination under the Prophet. These considerations, together with the documents, are respectfully submitted. Sir: War Department, December 19//t, 1811. In answer to the call of the honorable committee of the House of Representatives, contained in your letter of the 25th ultimo, for “all evidence tending to shew what agency the subjects of his Britannic Majesty may have had in exciting the Indians on the Western frontier to hostility with the United States; the evidence of hostility towards the United States, on the part of the Shawance Prophet, and his tribe, and which, it is presumed, gave rise to the expedition under the command of Governor Harrison; and the orders, or authority, vested in Governor Harrison by the Government of the United States, under which the expedition is carried on:” I have the honor to state, that the information received by this Department, relative to the subjects of inquiry, is contained in the correspondence of the Governors of the Michigan, Indiana, and Illinois territories, and of other officers and agents of Government, on the Northern and Western frontier, extracts from which, embracing the objects of inquiry ot the honorable committee, together with the memorials of the inhabitants of the Indiana and Illinois territories, are herewith transmitted. On the information and representation of facts therein contained, the 4th regiment of infantry, with one. company of riflemen, under the command of Colonel Boyd, were ordered from Pittsburg to Vincennes, subject to the further orders of Governor Harrison, who was authorized, with this force and such additional number of companies from the militia as should be deemed necessary, to establish a new post on the Wabash, and to march against, and disperse, the armed combination under the Prophet. I-have the honor to be, with great respect, sir, your most obedient servant, W. EUSTIS. ’ Hon. Samuel McKee, Chairman of a Committee II. of R. Michilimackinac, Index to the extracts of letters addressed to the Tl ar Department. 24 May, 1807, Captain Dunham, of the U. States’ Army. Do. - - 30 August :, 1807, “ Dunham and others. Jeffersonville, falls of Ohio,  - 14 April, 1808, Governor Harrison. Vincennes, - - 19 May, 1808, Ditto. St. Louis, - - 5 April, 8 April, 1809, General Clark. Fort Wayne, - - -  1809, W. Wells. St. Louis, - - 30 April, 1809, Gen. Clark, with an enclosure from Boilvin Vincennes, - - 3 May, 1809, Governor Harrison. Sandusky, - - 7 June, 1809, S. Tupper. Detroit, - - 16 June, 1809, Governor Hull. Vincennes, - - 13 June, 1810, Governor Harrison. Do. - - 26 June, 1810, Do. Do. -  11 July, 1810, Do. Do. - - 18 July, 1810, Do. St. Louis, Vincennes, - - 20 July, 1810, General Clark. - - 25 July, 1810, Governor Harrison. 101 Detroit^ - - - 27 July, Fort Wayne, - - - - 7 August, Vincennes, - - - 1 August, St. Louis, - - - 12 Sept. Vincennes, - - - 6 Feb. Fort Wayne, - - - - 8 Feb. Chicago, - - - 13 May, St. Louis, - - - , 24 May, Chicago, - - - 2 June, Vincenness, - - - 19 June, Illinois territory, - - - 20 June, Old Station, - - - 21 June, Illinois territory. - - - 27 June, Vincennes, - - - 2 July, St. Louis, - - - 3 July, Illinois territory, - - - 6 July, Vincennes, - - - 10 July, Belle Fontaine, - - - 22 July, Vincennes, - - - 6 August, Illinois territory, - “ - 11 August, Fort Wayne, - - - - 18 August, Nashville, - - - 10 Sept. Do. - - - 9 Sept. Vincennes, - - - 17 Sept. Do. - - - 25 Sept. Do. - - - 6 October, On the Wabash, - - - 13 October, Do. - - - 28 October, Vermillion river, - - - 2 Nov. Chickasaw, - - - 29 Nov. St. Louis, - - - 23 Nov. 1810, Governor Hull. 1810, Captain Johnston. 1810. Governor Harrison. 1810, General Clark. 1811, Governor Harrison. 1811, Captain Johnston. 1811, ‘ W. Irvine. 1811, General Clark. 1811, Saliene, Indian Interpreter. 1811, Governor Harrison. 1811, Governor Edwards. 1811, W. Whiteside. 1811, Governor Edwards. 1811, Governor Harrison. 1811, General Clark. 1811, Governor Edwards. 1811, Governor Harrison. 1811, Colonel Bissell. 1811, Governor Harrison, 1811, Governor Edwards. 1811, J. Shaw. 1811, Gordon, 7 Enclosed by Governor Blount, 1811, Robertson, 5 16th Sept. 1811. 1811, Governor Harrison. 1811, Do. 1811, Do. 1811, Do. 1811, I)o. 1811, T)o. 18fl,   J. Neilly. 1811, Genera! Clark. Extracts of letters addressed to the War Department. MrcmuiHACKiNAC, May 24th, 1807. There appears to be a very general and extensive movement among the savages in this quarter. Belts of wampum are rapidly circulating from one tribe to another, and a spirit is prevailing, by no means pacific. The enclosed talk, which has been industriously spread among them, needs no comment. There is certainly mischief at the bottom, and there can be no doubt, in my mind, but that the object and intention of this great Manitou, or second Adam, under the pretence of restoring to the aborigines their former independence, and to the savage character its ancient energies, is, in reality, to induce a general effort to rally, and to strike, somewhere, a desperate blow. Extract from a talk delivered at Le Maiouitinong, entrance of lake Michigan, by the Indian chief Le Maiquois, or the Trout, May 4th, 1807. as coming from the first man whom God created, said to be now in the Shawanee country, addressed to all the Indian tribes, (referred to above.) liI am the father of the English, of the French, of the Spaniards, and of the Indians. I created the first man, who was the common father of all these people, as well as yourselves: and it is through him, whom I have awaked from his long sleep, that I now address you. But the .Americans I did not make. They are not my children, but the children of the evil spirit. They grew from the scum of the great water, when it was troubled by the evil spirit, and the froth was driven into the woods by a strong east wind. They are numerous, but I hate them. “ My children: You must not speak of this talk to the whites. It must be hidden from them. I am nowon the earth, sent by the Great Spirit to instruct yon. Each village must send me two or more principal chiefs to represent you, that you may be taught. The bearer of this talk will point out to you the path to my wigwam. * I could not come myself to Abre Croche, because the world is changed from what it wans. It is broken, and leans down, and, as it declines, the Chippewas, and all beyond, will fall off and die. Therefore, you must come to see me, and be instructed. Those villages which do not listen to this talk, and send me two deputies, will be cut off from the face of the earth!” Michii.iwacki.vac, Jlugust 30th, 1807. The cause of the hostile feelings, on the part of the Indians, is principally to be attributed to the influence of foreigners trading in the country. Jeffersonville, Falls of Ohio, 14th Jlpril, 180S. A young man from the Delaware towns came to inform me, that a Pattawatainy Indian had arrived at the towns, with a speech from the British, in which they were informed that they (the British) were upbn the point of commencing hostilities against the United States, and requesting the Delawares to join them. Vincennes, May 19//;, 1808. The prophet has selected a spot on the upper part of the Wabash, for his future and permanent residence, and has engaged a considerable number of Pattawatamies, Ottawas, Chippewas, and other Northern Indians, to settle there, under his auspices. An intelligent man, who passed, a few weeks ago, through some of the villages of the Pattawatamies that are under the Prophet’s influence, says, that they are constantly engaged in what they term religious duties; but that their prayers are always succeeded by, or intermixed with, warlike sports. This combination of religious and warlike exercises, and the choice of weapons of their own manufacture, sufficiently indicates the designs of their author. St. Louis, Jlpril 5th, 1809. The Indian prophets have been industriously employed, the latter part of the winter and spring, privately counselling with, ana attempting to seduce the Kickapoos, Saukeys, and other bands of Indians residing on the Mississippi and Illinois rivers, to war against the frontiers of this country. Fort Wayne, 8th Jlpril, 1809. The Indians appear to be agitated respecting the conduct, and, as they say, the intentions of the Shawanee Prophet. The Chippewas, Ottawas, and Pattawatamies are hurrying away from him, and say that their reason for doing so is, because he has told them to receive the tomahawk from him, and destroy all the white people at Vincennes and Ohio, as low down as the mouth of the Oliio, and as high up as Cincinnati; that the Great Spirit had directed that they should do so, at the same time threatening them with destruction, if they refused to comply with what he proposed. St. Louis. April 30th, 1809. I have the honor to enclose you a copy of a letter, which confirms my suspicions of the British interference with our Indian affairs in this country. (Extract from the enclosed letter:! " I am at present in the fire, receiving Indian news every day. A chief of the Puant nation appears to be employed by the Briti-h to get all the nations of Indians to Detroit, to see their fathers, the British, who tell them that they pity them in their situation with the Americans, because the Americans had taken their lands and their game: that they must join and send them off'from their lands; they told the savages that the Americans could not give them a blanket, nor any thing good for their families. " They said they had but one father that had helped them in their misfortunes, and that they would assemble, defend their father, and keep their lands.” It appears that four English subjects have been at Riviere a la Roche this winter, in disguise: they have been there to get the nations together, and send them on the American frontiers. Other Indians are pushed on. by our enemies, to take the fort of Belle Vue. Vincennes. 3d May. 1809. ------is decidedly of opinion that the Prophet will attack our settlements. His opinion is formed from a variety of circumstances, but principally from a communication made to Mr.-----. by two chiefs, his friends, the substance of which was, that the Prophet and his followers jhad determined to commence hostilities as soon as thev could be prepared, and to " sweep all the white people from the Wabash and White river, after which they intended to attack the Miamies. ” About eight davs ago. he (the Prophet! had with him three hundred and fifty warriors, well armed with rifles, and tolerably supplied with ammunition: tney have also bows and arrows, war clubs, and a kind of spear. Sandusky, 7tli June, 1S09. The conduct of British traders, in introducing spirituous liquors among the Indians in this part of the country, and their determined hostility to the measures of our Government, have long been subjects of complaint, and their infamous stories have much embarrassed our operations. Detroit. June 16th, 1S09. The influence of the Prophet has been great, and hi- advice to the Indians injurious to them and the United States. We have the fullest evidence, that his object has been to form a combination of them in hostility to the United States. The powerful influence of the British ha> been exerted in a way alluring to the savage character. Vincennes. 14/72 June, 1S10. I have received information from various sources, vvhich has produced entire conviction on my mind, that the Prophet is organizing a most extensive combination against the United States. The person who had charge of the boat, sent up the river with the annuity salt, has just returned, and reports that the Prophet and the Kickapoos who were with him. refused to receive that vvhich he was directed to deliver to them, on his way up the Wabash; but he was ordered by the Prophet to leave the salt on the bank of the river, as he could not determine whether he would receive it or not. until his brother, the war chief, arrived from Detroit. On the return of the boat, the master w as directed to take the salt on board, as they were determined to have nothing to do with it. Whilst they were rolling the salt into the boat, the Prophet seized the master by the hair, and shook him violently, asking him whether he was an American. Vincennes, 26th June, 1810. Winemac assured me that the Prophet, not long rince. propo-ed to the young men to murder the principal chiefs of all the tribes; observing, that their hands would never be untied until this was effected; that these w ere the men who had sold their lands, and who would prevent them from opposing the encroachments of the white people. An Ioway Indian informs me, that, two years ago this summer, an agent from the British arrived at the Prophet’s town, and, in his presence, delivered the message with which he was charged, the substance of which was, to urge the Prophet to unite as many tribes as he could against the United Statesfbut nut to commence hostilities until they gave the signal. From this man. and others of his nation, I learn that the Prophet has been constantly soliciting their own, and other tribes of the Mississippi, to join him against the L’nited States. Vincennes. July 11 th, 1810. I have received a letter from fort Wayne, vvhich confirms the information of the hostile designs and combination of the Indians. The people in the neighborhood where the horses were stolen, are so much alarmed, that they are collecting together for their defence. Vincennes, July IS th, 1S10. From the lovvays, I learn that the Sacs and Foxes have actually received the tomahawk, and are ready to strike whenever the Prophet .gives the signal. A considerable] number of the Sacs went, some time since, to see the British superintendent, and on the first instant, fifty more passed Chicago for the same destination. A Miami chief who has just returned from his annual visit to Malden, after having received the accustomed donation of goods, was thus addre^ed by the British agent: " My son. keep your eyes fixed on me; my tomahawk is now up; be you ready, but do not strike until I give the signal."St. Louis, July 20th, 1810. A few weeks ago the post-rider, on his way from Vincennes to this place, was killed, and the mail lost; since that time we have had no communication with Vincennes. A part of the Sacs, and the greatest part of the Kieka-poos. who reside east of the_ Mississippi, have been absent some time on a visit to the Indian Prophet. One hundred and fifty Sacs are on a visit to the British agent, by invitation, and a smaller party on a visit to the island of St. Joseph, in Lake Huron. Vincennes. July 25/72. 1810. There can be no doubt of the designs of the Prophet and the British agent of Indian affairs, to do us injury. This agent i< a refugee from the neighborhood of----, and his implacable hatred to his native country prompted him to take part with the Indians, in the battle between them and General Wayne’s army. He has. ever since nis appointment to the principal agency, used his utmost endeavors to excite hostilities, and the lavish manner in vvhich he is allowed to scatter presents amongst them, shews that his Government participates in his enmity and authorizes his measures. Detroit, July '27th, 1807. Large bodies of Indians from the westward and southward continue to visit the British post at Amherstburgh, and are supplied with provisions, arms, ammunition. &c. Much more attention is paid to them than usual. Fort Wayne. August 7th, 1810. Since writing vou on the 25th ultimo, about one hundred Sawkeys have returned from the British agent, who supplied them liberally with every thing they stood in want of. The party received forty-seven rifles and a number of fusils, with plenty of powder and lead. This is sending firebrands into the Mississippi country, inasmuch as it will draw numbers of'our Indians to the British side, in the hope of being treated with the same liberality. Vincennes, August Is/, 1810. A number of the inhabitants of the northern frontier of the Jeffersonville district, have been driven oft' by the Indians, and much of their property destroyed. Sr. Louis, September 12th, 1810. On the night of the 20th of July, four white men, who reside near the Missouri, about one hundred miles from this place, who had been in pursuit of horses which had been stolen from them, were killed in their camp, and one wounded, by the Indians. Gomo, tne principal chief of the Pattawatamies, assured me, that the portion of the Pattavvatamies under his authority did not commit the murder. He blames the Prophet, with whom he disclaims any connexion. ' Vincennes, February 6th, 1811. If the intentions of the British Government are pacific, the Indian department of Upper Canada have not been made acquainted with them: for they have very lately said every thing to the Indians, who visited them, to excite them against us. Fort Wayne, February 8th, 1811. ------ has been at this place. The information derived from him is the same I have been in possession of for several years, to wit: the intrigues of the British agents and partizans? in creating an influence hostile to our people and Government, within our territory. I do not know whether a garrison is to be erected on the Wabash or not; but everv consideration of sound policy urges the early establishment of a post, somewhere contiguous to the Prophet’s residence. Chicago, May 13th, 1811. An assemblage of the Indians is to take place on a branch of the Illinois, by the influence of the Prophet—the result will be hostile, in the event of a war with Great Britain. St. Louis, May 24Z/t, 1811. From the hostile appearance of the Indians towards the lakes and about the head of the Wabash river, I have thought it a duty to keep out spies, and have at this time spies among those tribes. I enclose you a talk from the Ioways (from which the following jis extracted): “I tell you this, although death is threatened against those who discover it: The time is drawing nigh when the murder is to begin, and all the Indians who will notjoin are to die with the whites.” Chicago, June 2, 1811. Several horses have been stolen by the Indians. The Indians in this quarter are inclined to hostility. Vincennes, June 19, 1811. I informed you, by my last, that I had sent a pirogue up the Wabash, with the annuity salt. All the salt was taken by the Prophet, five barrels of which only were destined for the Prophet’s town. ----- informs me, by the pirogue, that there are about six hundred men, and that Tecumseh is daily expected, with a considerable reinforcement, from the lakes. Illinois Territory, June 20, 1811. Indians hostile. Enclosing a deposition, which proves that a man was murdered, and a woman taken prisoner. Old Station, June 21, 1811. It is with pain I inform you that I just received an express, that on yesterday, nine o’clock, P. M. the Indians killed one man, and mortally wounded another. Illinois Territory, June 27, 1811. Inconsequence of the hostile appearance of the Indians, block houses are erecting on the frontier, in front of the settlements. As much of the regular military force should be afforded for protection as can be spared. Vincennes, July 2, 1811. We wrere informed, four weeks ago, that it was the intention of the Prophet to commence hostilities in the Illinois territory, in order to cover his principal object, which was an attack upon this place. These events require no comments; they merit, and, no doubt, will receive, tne immediate attention of the Government. The people are in great alarm, and have talked of collecting in stations. A despatch has also been received from the Illinois territory, informing of hostilities and murders. St. Louis, July 3, 1811. All the information received from the Indian country, confirms the rooted enmity of the Prophet to the United States, and his determination to commence hostilities as soon as he thinks himself sufficiently strong. His party is increasing, and from the insolence w'hich himself and party have lately manifested, and the violence which has lately been committed by his neighbors and friends, the Pattawatamies, on our frontiers, I am inclined to believe that the crisis is fast approaching. A number of horses have been taken from the Mississippi, by Pattawatamies, Winnebagoes, and others, under the influence of the Prophet. Illinois Territory, July 6th, 1811. An express has been received, with information of several other murders having been committed by the Indians on the frontiers. In fact, I consider peace as totally out of the question; we need not expect it till the Prophet’s party is dispersed, and the bands of Pattawatamies about the Illinois river are cut off. Hostility, with them, has grown into a habit; there is no reason to believe that they will make sufficient satisfaction for the murders they committed, and the goods and horses which they stole last year, or for the very aggravated and increased instances of similar hostilities in the present year> Energetic measures would lessen his power of forming coalitions with other tribes, but we have not the power of taking any efficient means to arrest his progress; if we do not make preparation to meet him, an attack is certain; if we make preparation formidable enough to deter him, though no war actually take place, we have to encounter all the expense, inconvenience, and injury, to which a war with him would subject us; and there seems to be no reasonable ground to hope for a change for the better, whilst he is permitted to increase his strength with impunity. Vincennes, July 10th, 1811. I have supposed, that if the Prophet does not immediately throw off the mask and commence the war, that calamity might yet be avoided, by marching a considerable force up to our exterior boundary on the Wabash, and requiring the immediate dispersion of the banditti he has collected. Belle Fontaine, July 22d, 1811. On the eleventh instant, I detached a subaltern, sergeant, corporal, and fifteen privates, with a month’s provisions, to the Illinois river, to choose a proper site for a block house, for temporary accommodation and defence; with orders to scout and reconnoitre the country, and to watch every movement of the Indians. Vincennes, 6th August, 1811. The Shawanee chief, Tecumseh, has made a visit to this place, with about three hundred Indians, though he promised to bring but a few attendants; his intentions hostile, though he found us prepared for him. Tecumseh did not set out till yesterday; he then descended the Wabash, attended by twenty men, on his way to the southward. After having visited the Creeks and Choctaws, he is to visit the Osages, and return by the Missouri. The spies say, his object in coming with so many, was to demand a retrocession of the late purchase. At the moment he was promising to bring but a few men with him, he was sending in every direction to collect his people. That he meditated a blow at this time, was believed by almost all the neutral Indians. Illinois Territory, August 11//;, 1811. Nothing but the most perfect conviction of the necessity, could have induced the calling out of the militia. Whether the Prophet intends to make war, or not, partial war must continue to be the consequence; the hostility which he excites against the United States, is the cement of union among his confederates; and such is the nature of Indians, that they cannot be collected, and kept, together, under such circumstances, without having their minds prepared for war; and, in that situation, it is almost impossible, to restrain them from premature acts of hostility. Were this the only danger, it would be sufficient to justify the dispersion of the Prophet’s party. Fort Wayne, August 18th, 1811. It appears that the fruit of the Shawanee Prophet, and his band, is making its appearance in more genuine colors than heretofore. I have lately had opportunities of seeing many of the Indians of this agency, from different quarters, and by what I have been able to learn from them, particularly the Pattawatamies, I am induced to believe the news circulating in the papers, respecting the depredations committed in the Illinois territory, by the Indians, is mostly correct, and is thought by them to have proceeded from Mar Poe, and the influence of the Shawanee Prophet. Several of the tribes have sent to me for advice. Nashville, September 10//;, 1811. As I passed through the Chickasaw nation, a respectable man of that nation informed, that a deputation of eighteen Northern Indians, and two Creeks, were on their way to the Creek nation, but would not tell their business, nor the object of their mission. The party consisted of six Shawanese, six Kickapoos, and six of some tribe far to the Northwest, the name of which they refused to tell; from the manner in which they proceeded, the Indians are of opinion their intention is to stimulate the Creeks and Cherokees to hostilities against the United States. Nashville, September 9th, 1811. There is in this place a very noted chief of the Chickasaws, a man of truth, who wishes the President should be informed that there is a combination of the Northern Indians, promoted by the English, to unite in falling on the frontier settlements, and are inviting the Southern tribes to join them. Vincennes, September nth, 1811. --------states, that almost every Indian from the country above this, had been, or were then gone, to Malden, on a visit to the British agent. We shall probably gain our destined point at the moment of their return. If then the British agents are really endeavoring to instigate the Indians to make, war upon us, we shall be in their neighborhood at the very moment when the impressions which have been made against us are most active in the minds ot the savages.-----------succeeded in getting the chiefs together at fort Wayne, though he found them all preparing to go to Malden. The result of the council discovered that the whole tribes, (including the Weas and Eel rivers, for they are all Miamies) were about equally divided in favor ol the Prophet and the United States. Lapourier, Ihe Wea chief, whom I before mentioned to you as being seduced by the Prophet, was repeatedly asked by---------- “what land it was tlint he was determined to defend with his blood, whether it was that which was ceded by the late treaty, or not?” but he would give no answer. ---------reports, that all the Indians of the Wabash have been, or now are, on a visit to the British agent at Malden; he has never known more than one-fourth as many goods given to the Indians as they are now distributing. He examined the share of one man, (not a chief) and found that he had received an elegant rifle, twenty-five pounds of powder, fifty pounds of lead, three blankets, three Strouds of cloth, ten shirts, and several other articles. He says every Indian is furnished with a gun, (either rifle or fusil) and an abundance of ammunition. A trader of this country was lately in the King’s store at Malden, and was told that the quantity of goods for the Indian department, which had been sent out this year, exceeded that of common years by £‘20,000 sterling. It is impossible to ascribe this profusion to any other motive than that of instigating the Indians to take up the tomahawk; it cannot be to secure their trade, for all the peltries collected on the waters of the Wabash, in one year, if sold in the London market, would not pay the freight of the goods w hich have been given the Indians. Although I am decidedly of opinion that the tendency of the British measures is hostility to ns, candor obliges me to inform vou, that, from two Indians of different tribes, I have received information that the British agent absolutely dissuaded them from going to war against the United States. One of them (a Delaware) says that he was present at the audience given by the agent, to three hundred Sacs from the Mississippi. The latter informed him that they had taken up the tomahawk against the United States, at the request of the Prophet, and that they came there to get arms and ammunition. That--------told them he would supply their wants, but strongly advised them to decline the meditated war. VrNCENNES, September 23th, 1811. As Captain Piatt was coming from Louisville to this place, his horses, and that of another traveller, were taken from the stable, on the White river, thirty-five miles from this; and the night after, four others from the Iloperon settlement. The trail of the horses from the latter place was very visible, and two white men, and a free negro, who speaks some of the Indian languages, went immediately in pursuit of them. They crossed the Wabash, and on the second day, near night, they came to the Indian camp. There were but three Indians in the camp, and they soon discovered their own horses. Captain Piatt’s, and a number more. They agreed to give up the four horses taken from Iloperon. Our people commenced their return, and had gotten but a few miles, when they perceived the Indians following them; having but one gun amongst them, they endeavored to escape by flight, but the two foremost Indians soon came so near as to fire on them. They had no other alternative than to abandon all the horses, even those which they had rode, and betake themselves to a thick swamp, which luckily presented itself. Vincennes, October 6th, 1811. The Indians have been again plundering our citizens. They took eight horses from a detached settlement in the Illinois territory, about thirty miles above Vincennes, in open day-light. On tiie Wabasii, October 13//;, 1811. The Prophet has not contented himself with throwing the gauntlet, but has absolutely commenced the war. His parties were in our neighborhood, for the first time, on the night of the 10th instant. Our sentinels were fired upon, and one of the best men of the fourth regiment badly, though not mortally, wounded. On the Wabash, October 28th, 1811. The Delaware chiefs arrived in camp yesterday, and gave an account of their efforts to induce the Prophet to lay aside his hostile designs. They were badly treated and insulted, and finally dismissed with the most contemptuous remarks upon them and us. ■ The party which fired upon our sentinels, arrived at the town when the Delawares were there; they were Shawanese, and the Prophet’s nearest friends. Vermillion River, November 2d, 1811. A letter from Colonel Miller, (whose indisposition was such as to oblige me to leave him at the new fort) announces, that an attack has been made upon a boat loaded with corn, which was ascending the river from the fort, to this place. It was fired on, four miles above the fort, and one man killed. Chickasaw, November 29th, 1811. The Shawanese Indians, and some of the Kickapoos, solicited the king of this nation for men to join the Prophet’s party. I am told that there are some Creeks gone to join the Prophet’s party; how many, I have not heard. I have been constantly advising this nation against, and showing them the consequences of, joining the Prophet. St. Louis, November 23d, 1811. One of the bands of the Pattawatamies, on the Illinois river, have lately killed about twenty head of cattle, and a number of hogs, the property of the inhabitants of the village of Peoria, and have threatened the white settlers of that village with destruction, if they take part with the Americans in preference to them. A like conduct has been pursued by some of the Indians about Prairie du Chien, who have ascended the Mississippi above that place, and are wintering with a trader, who, as I am informed, has smuggled a very large supply of British goods into the Mississippi, by Prairie du Chien. I am willing to believe, that when the unfriendly bands, towards the lakes, hear of the defeat of the Prophet, and the loss which has been sustained by his followers, that their tone will be changed, (if no exertions are made by the British agents) and they wall most probably come into the measures of their chiefs, who have been willing to be on friendly terms, and do us justice. To effect a permanent termination of the differences which now exist, I presume the Prophet’s party will be pursued in every direction, caught, and punished, and temporary establishments of regular troops made, calculated to prevent Indian combinations, and check British inlluence with those tribes towards the lakes. A Pattawatamy chief, called the White Rabbit, is, at this time, on a mission lrom the Prophet to the Sacs, Foxes, and Sioux, the object of which is to gain them over to his party; those tribes to act in the spring. I do not believe the mission will succeed; indeed, I have not been under any apprehension of the Prophet’s gaining over any of the Indians of this side of the Mississippi. The Sacs, Foxes, and some of the Ioways, were, at one time, partially under the influence of the Prophet and British, and would have done a great deal of mischief, if their plans had not been fortunately discovered in time. I am informed that the British agents, or suspected persons, have been, indirectly, tampering with the Sacs, Ioways, and Sioux; if they meet with any success, it will be partial. Memorials from Ike inhabitants of the Indiana and Illinois Territories, addressed to the President of the United * States. At a meeting of a very considerable number of the citizens of the county of Knox, at the seminary, in Vincennes, on Wednesday, the 31st of July, 1811, when Colonel Ephraim Jordan was appointed president, and Captain James Smith, secretary: Thereupon, General W. Johnson addressed the meeting, in which he informed them of the present situation of the inhabitants, of not only the town, but country, in regard to the Shawanee Prophet, his brother Tecumseh, and their confederacy of Indians, and advised, that, for the safety of the citizens, some resolutions should be fallen into; and the following were adopted, viz: 1. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this meeting, that the safety of the persons and property of this frontier can never be effectually secured, but by the breaking up of the combination formed by the Shawanee Prophet on the Wabash. 2. Resolved, That we consider it highly impolitic and injurious, as well to the inhabitants of the United States, as that of the territory, to permit a formidable banditti, which is constantly increasing in number, to occupy a situation which enables them to strike our settlements, without the least warning. 3. Resolved, That we are fully convinced that the formation of the combination, headed by the Shawanee Prophet, is a British scheme, and that the agents of that power are constantly exciting the Indians to hostilities against the United States. 4. Resolved, That the assemblage of Indians at this place, at this time, and under the circumstances which attend it, was calculated to excite the most serious alarm; and but for the energetic measures which have been adopted by our Executive, it is highly probable that the threatened destruction of this place, and the massacre of the inhabitants, would have been the consequence. 5. Resolved, That a temporising policy is not calculated to answer any beneficial purpose with savages, who are only to be controlled by prompt and decisive measures. 6. Resolved, That we approve highly of the prompt and decisive measures adopted by the Governor of the territory. We are convinced that the situation in which we stand with the Prophet, and his adherents, rendered them necessary for our safety, and from them we confidently expect such a termination of the presumptuous pretensions of this daring chief, as must be pleasing to every patriot, and honorable to himself. 7. Resolved, That a committee, to consist of the Rev. Samuel T. Scott, Rev. Alexander Devin, Colonel Luke Decker, Colonel Ephraim Jordan, Daniel McClure, and Walter Wilson, Esquires, and Colonel Francis Vigo, or a majority of them, be, and they are hereby, appointed to prepare, and forward to the Executive of the United States, a respectful address on behalf of this meeting, assuring him of our attachment to his person and administration, and requesting him to take such measures as his wisdom may dictate, to free the territories, in this quarter, from future apprehensions from the Prophet and his party; and that lie also be requested to insist upon the surrender, by the Indian tribes, of those who nave murdered our fellow-citizens, and provide compensation for such as have lost their property. 8. Resolved, Tliat these resolutions be printed in the Western Sun; and, also, that an address may be prepared, and forwarded to the President, in pursuance of them. E. JORDAN, President. JAMES SMITH, Secretary. To James Madison, President of the United States. Sir: lu obedience to the wishes of a numerous meeting of our fellow-citizens, assembled for the purpose of taking into consideration the state of this country, in relation to Indian affairs, we have the honor to address you. In approaching the Chief Magistrate of our country, who is so deservedly celebrated for the talents which distinguish the statesman, and the virtues which adorn the man, we should not do justice to our own feelings, and the feelings of those whom we represent, if we neglected to express our confidence in his administration, and our sincere respect and esteem for his person. In fulfilling the duty which has been assigned to us, sir, it is scarcely necessary that we should do more than to refer you to the resolutions which are enclosed; they contain a true statement of facts, and a true picture of the feelings of the citizens of this part of the country. It is impossible to doubt but that the combination which has been formed on the Wabash, is a British scheme; and it is equally certain that this banditti is now prepared to be let loose upon us, and that nothing but vigorous measures will prevent it. In this part of the country we have not, as yet, lost any of our fellow-citizens by the Indians; but depredations upon the property of those who live upon the frontiers, and insults to the families that are left unprotected, almost daily occur. The impunity with which these savages have been so long suffered to commit crimes, has raised their insolence to a pitch that is no longer supportable. We are not, sir, advocates for unnecessary rigor towards our Indian neighbors. The character which some of us sustain, as ministers of the Gospel of Christ, will shield us from the suspicion that we wish to plunge our country in an unnecessary war; our object is peace; but we are fully persuaded that blessing can now only be secured to us by the exertion of some vigor. Let the savages be made sensible, that every aggression from them will meet with prompt punishment, and Indian depredations will seldom be heard of. Since the adoption of the resolutions under which we act, we have listened to the speech delivered by the brother of the Prophet to Governor Harrison, and if a doubt remained upon our minds as to the designs of the confederacy he has formed, it has been completely removed. Shall we then quietly wait the stroke, when we see the weapon suspended over us? We hope and trust this will not be expected, and that the General Government will take effectual measures to avert the danger. What these measures shall be, we will not presume to dictate; but we beg leave most respectfully to observe, that we conceive that the country will forever be exposed to those alarms, which are at once so injurious to its settlement, and the interests of the United States, so long as the banditti under the Prophet are suffered to remain where they now are. The people have become highly irritated and alarmed: and if the Government will not direct their energies, we fear that the innocent will feel the effects of their resentment, and a general war be the consequence. The Western country, sir. is indebted to your predecessor for an undeviating attention to its prosperity; and the gratitude and attachment which they feel towards that distinguished patriot can never be effaced. With equal confidence they look up to his successor, who, pursuing the same course of politics with regard to European Powers, is to them sufficient proof of coincidence of sentiment in that w hich relates to the continent. That you may be the means, under Providence, of establishing the affairs of your country, and settling its interest in every quarter of the globe, upon a secure and lasting foundation, and that you may long live to enjoy the blessing of your countrymen for the happiness procured for them, is the sincere prayer of your fellow-citizens. SAMUEL T. SCOTT. ALEXANDER DEVIN. LURE DECKER. EPHRAIM JORDAN. DANIEL M’CLURE. WALTER WILSON. FRANCIS VIGO. At a large meeting of the inhabitants of the county of St. Clair, Illinois territory, where Colonel William Whiteside was conducted to the chair, and Samuel D. Davidson, Esquire, appointed secretary: Resolved, unanimously. That the following memorial be presented toNinian Edwards, Governor of the territory aforesaid, as the joint sense of the meeting, to be signed by the chairman; which humbly sheweth, that we are highly gratified with the prompt, speedy, and prudential manner in which your Excellency has issued your orders for the defence of the exposed frontiers of said country, to oppose the repetition of Indian hostilities; and that we have the utmost and incontrovertible confidence in your abilities and patriotism, for our safety in the present alarming times, as the constitutional channel between the General Government and us: I Therefore, we confidently request of your Excellency to forward the annexed memorial to the President of the United States, with such statements as may appear reasonable and just, to gain the object prayed for, as we are confident your Excellency must feel and see with us, that one or more garrisons, established and defended by the regular veterans of the United States, would be of the utmost safety to the extensive and exposed frontiers of both the Louisiana and Illinois territories,'in a more particular manner as the great and numerous tribes of Indians, who had the hardihood and insolence to ivage war against the United States, (and, in some instances, with effect) a few years since, that by the treaty ol Greenville, and other subsequent treaties, have relinquished their title to their former hunting ground, which is now transformed into substantial plantations, and arc changing their habitations fast from the lakes and waters of the Ohio, down the Illinois river to the Mississippi, where, undoubtedly, it would be necessary to establish a fort, in order to set reasonable bounds to their savage fury and unprovoked disturbance; we beg leave to refer your Excellency to a view of the great and manifest benefits lately obtained by the garrisons established far up on the two great rivers, several hundred miles above their junction, when, before the establishing of these strengths, there did not a season pass by but some innocent person fell a victim to savage barbarity, on both sides of the river, and we confidently believe it would have the same salutary effect, in establishing one fort or block house on the first eminence above either the mouths of the Missouri or the Illinois rivers, and another in the seditious village of Peoria, the great nursery of hostile Indians and traitorous British Indian traders; we hope it will not be thought superfluous to mention, that the above request is not to gratify our pride or avarice, in obtaining military pomp to decorate our streets, or the expenditure of public money to buy our produce, but it is to keep the improving citizen in peace, on a remote region from the United States, who is now working to convert the fertile and extensive plains of the Mississippi into the fairest portion of the Union. From different circumstances, the inhabitants of this country are not in possession of a sufficiency of arms to repel any attack that may be offered: owing to the present alarm, it is not in our power to buy any, and a considerable portion of the militia are not circumstanced to buy. If your Excellency will be pleased to make use of your good office to obtain from the General Government the use of what rifles and muskets may be thought, in your wisdom, needful, it certainly would be of great service to this frontier country. WM. WHITESIDE, SAM’L. I). DAVIDSON.. At a numerous meeting of the militia officers, and other inhabitants of St. Clair county, Illinois territory, at the court house, the---------day of-------, 1811, to take into consideration the alarming situation of the frontiers of this coun- ty, from the numerous and horrid depredations lately committed by the Indians; Colonel William Whiteside was conducted to the chair, and Samuel D. Davidson appointed secretary. Resolved, That there be a memorial immediately signed by the chairman of this meeting, and countersigned by the secretary, stating to the President of the United States the necessity of his ordering what number of regular troops he. in his wisdom, may think requisite, to be stationed for the defence of said county. Resolved, That the said memorial be sent to the Governor of said tenitory, requesting him to forward the same to the President of the United States, and make such statement (to accompany said memorial) as the urgency of the subject does require. To James Madison, President of the United States, greeting: The memorial of the inhabitants of the aforesaid county humbly sheweth: That the inhabitants residing on the frontiers aforesaid have sustained frequent and repeated damages from the different and numerous tribes of Indians, on and in the neighborhood of the Illinois river, these five or six years past, by stealing their horses, and other property, as well as the cruel murder of some few of the citizens. In lieu of retaliating. the said citizens curbed their passions, and restrained their resentment, lest they should be so unfortunate as to draw a stigma on the Government, by punishing the innocent for the transgressions of the guilty; and, in one instance, restrained the vindictive spirit, by taking two Indians prisoners, who were in possession of stolen property, after a chase of one hundred miles, and gave them up to the law. We are become the victims of savage cruelty in a more hasty and general manner, than what has lately been experienced in the United States. Last spring there were numbers of horses stolen. On the second of June, a house of Mr. Cox was robbed of valuable effects, five horses stolen, a young man massacred, and his sister taken prisoner; sad and conclusive presages of war! There was likewise a man severely wounded, when following the aforesaid Indians. On the 20th of the same month, (June) a man was killed and scalped, and another mortally wrounded, which can be more fully stated by the Executive of said territory. Those who have suffered, are not intruders, but are living on their own farms, on the northwestern frontier of said county. From our knowledge of the danger we are in, and our long suffering, wre think we ask nothing but what is reasonable, and what will be advantageous to the United States, when we implore you to station what number of soldiers you may think sufficient, to establish a garrison at the village of Peoria, commonly called Opea, on the Illinois river; and one other on the eastern bank of the Mississippi, at or near the place once viewed qnd adopted by Captains Stoddart and Bissel, six or eight miles below the mouth of said Illinois river, both sites being covered by treaty. We beg leave to refer you to the Governor of said territory concerning the urgency and necessity of the case: not doubting, but that you will grant our request, if you think it will be for the w elfare of the Union. WM. WHITESIDE, SAM’L D. DAVIDSON. War Department, January 17th, 1812. Sir: In addition to the information, heretofore given, in answer to your letter of the 25th of November, I have the honor to enclose extracts from the speeches of the Seneca and Ottawa nations of Indians. With great respect, sir, your obedient servant. W. EUSTIS. Hon. Samuel McKee, Chairman. Extract of a speech of Red Jacket, in behalf of himself and the other deputies of the Six Nations.—Taken from the interpretation of Mr. Jasper Parrish, in presence of Erastus Granger, U. S. Jlgent to the Six Nations. Washington City, Febntary l  '!//;, 1810. Brother: At the time we were making bright the chain of friendship at Canandaigua, the commissioner on your jiart told us, that the time might come when your enemies would endeavor to disturb our minds, and do away the friendship we had then formed with you. That time, Brother, has already arrived. Since you have had some disputes with the British Government, their agents in Canada have not only endeavored to make the Indians at the westward your enemies, but they have sent a war belt amongst our warriors, to poison their minds, and make them break their faith with you. This belt we exhibited to your agents in council, and then sent it to the place from whence it came, never more to be seen among us. At the same time, we had information that the British had circulated war belts among the Western Indians, and within your territory. 'We rested not, but called a general council of the Six Nations, and resolved to let our voice be heard among our Western brethren, and destroy the effects of the poison scattered among them. _ We have twice sent large deputations to their council fire, for the purpose of making their minds strong in their friendship with your nation; and, in the event of a war between the white people, to sit still on their seats, and bake no part on either side: so far as our voice has been heard, they have agreed to hearken to our counsel, and remain at peace with your nation. Brother: If war should take place, we hope you will inform us of it through your agents, and we will continue to raise our influence with all the Indians with whom we are acquainted, that they will sit still upon their seats, and cultivate friendship with our people. [Signed by all the Chiefs.] Extractfrom the speech of the Ottawa nation of Indians, delivered to the Secretary of War, by their delegation, on the 5th of October, 1811. Father: A man of the Pattawatamy nation, who pretends to be a prophet among us, has frequently endeavored to stir up a hostile disposition in our minds towards the American people. He has very lately sent a speech to us and the Chippewa nation, fraught with bad and foolish advice. Father: Our ears are closed to those bad birds which sing around us, and we have returned for anstver, that whosoever listened to the advice of the Prophet or his followers, would be destroyed by the American People. 12th Congress.] 
