No. 118. [tst Session. THE CII OCT AAV S. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 30, 1808. To the House of Representatives of the United States: The Choctaws being indebted to their merchants beyond what could be discharged by the ordinary proceeds of their huntings, and pressed for payment, proposed to the United States to cede lands to the amount of their debts, and designated them in two different portions of their country. These designations not at all suiting us, were declined. Still, urged by their creditors, as well as by their own desire, they at length proposed to make a cession which should be to our convenience. By a treaty signed at Pooshapukanuk, on the sixteenth of November, one thousand eight hundred and five, they accordingly ceded all their lands south of a line to be run from their and our boundary at the Omochito,"eastwardIy to their boundary with the Creeks, on the ridge between 'the Tombigby and Alabama, as is more particularly described in the treaty, containing about five millions of acres, as is supposed, and uniting our possessions there from Adams to Washington county. The location contemplated in the instructions to the commissioners, was on the Mississippi. That in the treaty being entirely different, I was, at that time, disinclined to its ratification, and have suffered it to lie unacted on. But progressive difficulties in our foreign relations have brought into view considerations other than those which then prevailed. It is now, perhaps, as interesting to obtain footing for a strong settlement of militia along our southern frontier, eastward of the Mississippi, as on the west of that river, and more so than higher up the river itself. The consolidation of the Mississippi territory, and the establishment of a barrier of separation between the Indians and our southern neighbors, are also important objects; and, the Choctaws and their creditors being still anxious that the sale should be made, I submitted the treaty to the Senate, who have advised and consented to its ratification. I, therefore, now lay it before both Houses of Congress, for the exercise of their constitutional powers as to the means of fulfilling it. TH: JEFFERSON. January 30, 1808. [Note. For treaty, see No. 117.] 10th Congress.] 
