No. 32. [2nd Session. SOUTHERN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE. NOVEMBER 15, 1792. War Department, November, \5tli 1792. Sir: I have the honor to submit to the honorable the Senate, by order of the President of the United States, an extract of a letter from James Seagrove Esq, temporary agent to the Creek Nation, dated the 28th ultimo, containing further information relative to Indian affairs in the Southern department. , I have the honor to be, sir, with perfect respect, your most obedient servant, II. KNOX, Secretary of IFar. The President of the Honorable the Senate of the United States. Extract of a letter from James Seagrove, Esq. to the Secretary of War. dated St. Mary’s, 2,8th October, 1792. My last respects were under date of the 17th instant, per the sloop Polly, via Savannah. Since then, I have received frequent accounts from the Creek nation, all of which are favorable tor our country. The greatest part of the chiefs, and many of their people, are on their way to me. In four days from this time, I expect part of them in. Yesterday, my interpreter, Mr. Bryant, arrived from the nation, and brought me a letter from General McGil-livray, a copy of which I now enclose. I know not how you may like this letter of the General’s; I confess it does not by any means please me. It is, however, as I expected: that, if matters did not succeed to the wish of his Spanish friends, that we should see him back in the nation, acting with the same duplicity he ever hath done. His pretensions as to being the means of bringing the Indians to meet me at tliis time, are fallacious, as on a review of matters will plainly appear. The Cowetas and Cussetahs were the first to request it, at the Rock Landing, in July last. At that time, he was not in the nation, and his absence since must have prevented, not having had any intercourse with the people. Their different talks to me, plainly show it was their own act. The favorable change of sentiment, as well as conduct of the Creek nation, since his absence, is conspicuous in a great degree. Would to God he had continued a few months longer with his friends in West Florida; but no, that w ould not answer their purpose; he is sent back to distract our measures, and, if possible, prevent any thing being done. His assertions with respect to the Indians being averse to running the line, are absolutely false. I am confident that all those interested in the event, are anxious to have it done, which doubtless you have observed in their communications with me. Unfortunate man! 1 really pity him. He must now feel severe stings for his want of integrity to the United States, and gratitude to his benefactors, and is extremely hard driven to keepliis head above water, and carry on his scene of deception toward them. I have reason to dread that lie comes determined to undermine and injure our cause all in his power; but I hope the Indians are, or will be convinced, that the United States are their best friends, and will not be led by him. Observe again, we have his frivolous excuse, want of horses to attend our meeting. It is saying veiy little for his influence or consequence in the nation, that he cannot command a horse to ride. He can find plenty for any oilier service, but the truth is, he isashamed to meet many of the chiefs. who. he knows, would upbraid him for his conduct, and at the same time fears offend W his Spanish friends. These, sir, are my sentiments of this man, and though I shall act to him as placing the greatest confidence in all he does or says, yet, in my heart, I must despise him, and of course will watch strictly all his plans and designs, and give yon my candid opinion of them. If I am not very much opposed by his underhand machinations, I shall have the line run this winter. I think if will be the most favorable season: the difficulty in the woods will not be so great, and the health of the troops will not be in so great danger. What jlcGillivray says respecting the intrusions of the wliite people from the frontier of Cumberland, I hat-treason to Tear is but too true: but this you must have more direct from Governor Blount. It is to be lamented that the insatiable rage which our frontier brethren have for extending their limits, could not be checked, and kept within the bountls set them by the General Government. The United States, like most other countries, is unfortunate in having the worst class of people on her frontiers, where there is least energy to he expected in her civil government: and whem unless supported in the early stages of settlement by military force, civil authority becomes a nullity. I am extremely sorry to hear that the Cherokees are likely to be hostile to the United States. I am happy to say that I cannot discover a trace of disaffection or backsliding in the Creeks, in consequence of the commotions among the Cherokees. No endeavors on my part shall be wanting to keep them apart. Should the Cherokees have the audacity to take up arms against the United States. 1 fondly hone that not a moment will be lost in chastising them in the most exemplary manner. If they are allowed to proceed any length, and are successful, the infection will unquestionably spread among the other Southern tribes, and when, or w here it may end, God only knows. Permit me to suggest the idea of a spirited, powerful volunteer expedition, from the three Southern States, being immediately sent into their country, and break them up. _ About six davs past, arrived here from the Rock Landing, a detachment of twenty men. under command of Lieutenant Nicoll, of the artillery. By him I received your favor of the 11th of August last, with one thousand dollars in bank bills, as also, the w hole of the silver ware you mention, which shall be disposed of agreeably to your wish. Last evening, arrived here, the sloop Commerce, Win. Morrison, master, from Philadelphia, with the remainder of the five thousand bushel.- of corn, and some few dry goods, for Indian use. I shall discharge her as soon as possible, at the same place with the rest, where are very commodious stores provided. If nothing unforeseen take place, I shall return with the chiefs into the nation. It would be of great utility to the service, as well as to the citizens and commerce ol this country, if the Post Office would extend their posts to this place. It now comes within eighty-five miles (to Sunbury) and from thence is a very good wagon road to this place, by the way of Reed's Bluff, on the Altainulia: where is a regularly kept ferry: from thence to the Burnt Fort, on Great Setilla. where is also a ferry: and from thence to this town, only thirty-live miles. I hope you will see the great certainty this would add to all communications; and therefore will urge its being carried into effect, as soon as passible. [ENCLOSURES. ] James Duron zeunx, Indian Interpreter, to James Scagrove, Esquire. Coweta, 15th October. 1792. Sir: I am desired by the chiefs of the Cowetas and Cussetahs to inform you, that they have once more agreed to come and see you at. St. Mary's: I send you General McGillivray's letter, for fear I cannot get a horse to do myself the honor of waiting on you, as I have had the misfortune to lose, all mine, by a distemper that has proved very mortal amongst the horses with us. The Indians beg you will be so kind as to acquaint them, by a runner, the place of meeting: and to have plenty of provisions for them, as they are very scarce: some families have made none this summer. As to other particulars, I refer until I come down, which wall be with the Indians, if I can get a horse. I am. sir, &c. JAMES DUROUZEAUX. Interpreter. John Getlphin, a half-breed, to James Seagrove. Esquire. Kinnahd's Cowpen, in the Creek Nation, 15th October, 1792. Sir: I arrived here this morning, and, finding Ihe Lower Towns on their way down, Mr. Kinnard and myself thought proper for Mr. Bryant to return as soon as possible to you. Mre still find that some busy person is still trying to stop Ihe Cussetahs, and towns round them, from coming down to you. But I hope to be in the Cussetahs in two days from this time; and shall try to put a stop to such proceedings; and I flatter myself that I shall be able to bring the chiefs down to your satisfaction. We have heard that General McGillivray is come home, but don’t intend coming down. The Indians that Will kinks sent to Providence, are returned, and very much displeased at Lord Dunmore’s treatment, nol giving them any presents, and little countenance. I shall make all speed to return, but not till I see the chiefs and Indians set off, that I may be sure there will be no disappointment to you. JOHN GALPHIN. Little Tallassek, 9th October. 1792. Dear Sir: 1 wrote you some time in May last, informing you of the situation of matters in this country, and of my intention to visit the Baron de Carondelet. the new Governor of Louisiana. So, on my return, landing in Mobile, there I got a violent fever which long held me: at Pensacola I found a letter from you. On my coming home, not being fully recovered, I could not go to the Lower Towns, and I sent for the Mieos and warriors of the Cussetahs and Coweta towns to come up to me. and bring with them, what talks or letters you might have sent to them during my absence. They came, and handed me"the talk which you delivered to the Indians in July, at the Rock Landing. On my leaving the nation, I desired them, in the most pressing terms, to pay no attention to the clamor raised by Bowles, (or, as they called themselves, the English party) but to proceed to meet you at the Rock Landing without delay, and finish the business of the nation, as has been agreed upon, at the last general meeting. They gave as a reason for not doing it, that the opposite par® threatened to proceed to direct hostilities against Georgia, if the line was attempted to he run; and rather than bring on that mischief, it was agreed to postpone the matter until my return. I found the Spaniards much alarmed at the treaty of New York, and seemed bent to use every means to overset it. In the four months of my absence, their agents held several meetings to persuade the Indians to proceed to hostilities; but the chiefs Avisely declined any measures until my arrival. The Baron and I had long conversations on the subject of the treaty of New York. I observed to him, that, considering the circumstances under which I treated, we, bad no reason to complain: nor did the stipulation of it clash with those we concluded on at Pensacola, in 1784; nor would the massacre of women and children, of the State of Georgia, be of any sendee to the Spanish interest, and as he declared that his interference was only meant to support the rights and claims of the nation, agreeable to the article stipulated in the Pensacola treaty; that we, being the only proper judges of our own affairs, to let us settle them as we deemed best for our advantages. Agreeable to this, I have instructed the Cussetahs and Cowetas, (they being the representation of the White and War towns, and to whom it was left by a general voice in meeting, to settle the affairs of the limits) to lose no time in meeting, for the purpose to which they have assented,seemingly fully determined, and Durouzeaux attends and urges them on as fast as possible. And this letter will be sent express, via Kinnard’s; and the'Micoes set out in a fortnight I am concerned to remark, that the peace cannot be preserved so generally as we wish, owing to the Cumberland people persisting in attempting to extend their settlements south to the Chickasaw nation, in which they are assisted by Piamingo of that nation, who is not a real Chickasaw by descent, yet by his merit, as a warrior, has an influence over a party which he leads. A meeting between them fias been lately held on the Cherokee river, at which the Mingo of that nation likewise attended. The result, I hear, is, that he refused the demand made for extending the settlements of the whites further west and south than Cumberland; anil the. hunters of this quarter will attack all they can find attempting it, or have got beyond their bounds. The strictest inquiry has been made, without effect, to discover the murderers of young Pew: neither the gun or horse has been seen in the nation in any one’s possession. This affair will deter (I imagine) any Indian from venturing in the settlements. It is of no consequence whether a line is run or not, as I have already explained to the honorable the Secretary of War. The river is a boundary that can't be mistaken or removed. For the rest I refer you to the Cussetah, Mico, and the interpreter. We have heard of the discontents and threats of the frontier people. Let me recommend to you to settle matters as the nation now offers, and leave something to time. A distemper, the like has not been known in the memory of man, has raged among our horses for these two years, and still continues; most of the traders and Indians have no horses left. The Choctaws and Chickasaws are in the same situation. I am entirely on foot, and to fill up the measure of distress, a bad season is starving us. With most sincere esteem and best wishes, I remain, my dear Sir, your most obedient servant, ALEXANDER McGILLIVRAY. Hon. James Sf.agrove, Esqr. , Superintendent and Commissioner of Indian Affairs, for the United States. St. Mary’s, 28th October, 1792. The preceding, is an exact copy from the original. JAMES SEAGROVE. N 2nd Congress.] 
