No. 163.	[1st SESSION. TRADE AND INTERCOURSE. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, FEBRUARY 16, 1820. MR. LEAKE, from the Committee on Indian Affairs, to whom was referred the resolution of the Senate respecting the trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, made the following report: The committee have had that subject under consideration, and have discovered that the trade, as it is at present conducted with the Indian tribes, has been productive of serious injuries, as well to the interests of the Indians as to the interests of the United States in their intercourse with them; that, instead of being calculated to aid in the civilization, and add to the comfort and happiness of that unfortunate portion of the human family, and to promote the beneficial influence of the United States over them, the course pursued by those who carry on the Indian trade has in most instances produced the contrary effect, as will be seen by referring to the documents herewith presented, and marked A and B, which have been received in a communication from the Secretary of War, made to the committee at their request, which they beg leave to make a part of this report, and which are as follows: A. SIR:	CAMP MISSOURI, MISSOURI RIVER, October 29, 1819. Agreeably to your request, I lay before you my views on the subject of Indian trade on this river, the result of personal observation among the Osage, Kanzas, Ottoe, Missouria, loway, Pawnee, and Malta nations, and what 1 have collected from persons acquainted with the more remote tribes. The history of this trade under the Spanish and French colonial governments would be the recital of the expeditions of vagrant hunters and traders, who never ventured up the river beyond a few miles of this place. . The return of Captains Lewis and Clarke, and the favorable account they brought with them of the rich furs to be obtained on the upper branches of the Missouri, and the respectful reception which their admirable deportment towards the natives had gained for them, encouraged Manuel Lisa, one of the most enterprising of these traders, to venture up the Missouri with a small trading equipment as far as the Yellow Stone river. He passed the winter of 1807-’08 at the mouth of the Yellow Stone and Big Horn rivers. It is an act of justice due to the memory of the late Captain Lewis, to state that the Blackfeet Indians (in whose vicinity Lisa now lives) were so convinced of the propriety of his conduct in the rencounter which took place between him and 26 E a party of their people, in which two of them were killed, that they did not consider it as cause of war or hostility on their part: this is proved, inasmuch as the first party of Lisa’s men that were met by the Blackfeet were treated civilly. This circumstance induced Lisa to despatch one of his men (Coulter) to the forks of the Missouri, to endeavor to find the Blackfeet nation, and bring them to his establishment to trade. This messenger unfortunately fell in with a party of the Crow nation, with whom he staid several days. While with them, they were attacked by their enemies the Blackfeet. Coulter, in self-defence, took part with the Crows. He distinguished himself very, much in the combat; and the Blackfeet were defeated, having plainly observed a white man fighting in the ranks of their enemy. Coulter returned to the trading-house. In traversing the same country, a short time after, in company with another man, a party of the Blackfeet attempted to stop them, without, however, evincing any hostile intentions; a rencounter ensued, in which the companion of Coulter and two Indians were killed, and Coulter made his escape. The next time whites were met by the Blackfeet, the latter attacked without any parley. Thus originated the hostility which has prevented American traders from penetrating the fur country of the Missouri. Lisa returned in 1808 to St. Louis, and in 1809 the Missouri Fur Company was formed. The objects of this company appear to have been to monopolize the trade among the lower tribes of the Missouri, who understand the art of trapping, and to send a large party to the head waters of the Missouri river capable of defending and trapping beaver themselves. To the latter object, however, the attention of the company was more particularly directed. In the spring of 1809, tire principal partners of this company ascended the Missouri at the head of about 150 men. They left small trading establishments at the Arickara, Mandan, and Gros Ventres villages, and the main body of the party wintered in 1809-’10 at the old trading position of Manuel Lisa, at the junction of the Yellow Stone and Big Horn rivers. In the spring of 1810, they proceeded to the Three Forks of the Missouri, where they erected a fort, and commenced trapping. They had every prospect of being successful, until their operations were interrupted by the hostility of the Blackfeet Indians. With these people they had several very severe conflicts, in which upwards of 30 of their men were killed; and the whole party were finally compelled to leave that part of the country. They proceeded in a southwardly direction, crossed the mountains near the source of the Yellow Stone river, and wintered in 1810-’ll on the waters of the Columbia. At this position they suffered much for provisions, and were compelled to live for some months entirely upon their horses. The party by this time had become dispirited, and began to separate: some returned into the United States by the way of the Missouri, and others made their way south, into the Spanish settlements, by the way of the Rio del Norte. The company languished through 1812, 1813, and 1814, and finally expired. Equally unfortunate, in a commercial point of view, was another company, which embarked the year preceding the one I have described, having in view the same objects. It left St. Louis in 1808, headed by two traders, Messrs. McClinnon and Crooks, and consisted of near eighty men. They met returning, near this place, the boat sent by the United States to carry back the Mandan chief brought into this country by Captains Lewis and Clarke. You undoubtedly recollect that this boat was attacked by the Arickaras, and compelled to make a precipitate retreat. This act of hostility discouraged Messrs. McClinnon and Crooks, and they thought it prudent to decline going on. Encouraged, however, by the attempt of the Missouri Fur Company, they followed their boats in the spring of 1809. They were met, however, by the Sconi band of the Sioux, who refused to permit them to pass, and compelled them to remain among them. By affecting to submit, and commencing to erect houses, the Indians were thrown off their guard; and the party, taking advantage of their absence on a hunting excursion, embarked with their goods, and descended the river to the Ottoe village, where they passed the winter of 1809-’10. They have always attributed their detention by the Sioux to the Missouri Fur Company, or some of its members, who, to procure themselves a passage, informed the Sioux that the boat coming up was intended to trade, and that they must not permit her to pass. Considering the character of Indian traders, when in competition, the fact is very far from being improbable. In 1811, the views of these traders appear to have changed: they added to their association Mr. Wilson P. Hunt, and appear to have acted under the direction of Mr. Astor, of New York. They ascended the river again in 1811, and reached the mouth of the Columbia; but they carried no goods, nor made any attempts to trade or trap on the Missouri: whatever might have been their intentions, they were probably frustrated by the war of 1812. The dissolution of the Missouri Fur Company, the disaster that befel tie United States’ boat, and the difficulties encountered by Messrs. McClinnon and Crooks, extinguished the spirit of enterprise that had promised to carry our trade into the valuable fur country of the Missouri. Since that period, two companies have been formed, both of which dissolved unsuccessfully; and a third is now in operation, independent of several individual traders; but no attempts have since been made to carry on trade beyond the Arickaras; nor, in fact, do traders often venture beyond the upper band of the Sioux. The following statement exhibits the trade of this river, viz: The company consists of Messrs. Lisa, Pilcher, Perkins, Wood, Carson, Williams, and Tenonee. They bought out the company of 1817 and 1818 for $10,000, and bought about $7,000 worth nf goods. They trade with the Ottoes, Missourias, loways, the Mahas, Pawnees, Piankeshaws, and Sioux; their principal trading establishment is near this place; capital ------ $17,000 Seres and Francis Chouteau trade with the Kanzas and Osage nations. They have a trading-house not far from the mouth of the river Kanzas, and their capital is about -	-	-	-	$4,000 Legarc, Chouteau, and Brothers, trade with the Osage and Kanzas nations, near their village on the Osage river; their capital ---------	-	$6,000 The United States factory also trade with theOsages and Kanzas. This factory is at Fort Osage. Roberdeau and Pepin, in partnership with Chouteau and Butholl, of St. Louis, trade with the Ottoes, loways, Missourias, Pawnees, Mahas, Piankeshaws, and Sioux. Their principal establishment is at Nashanotollona; capital -	--	--	--	--	- $12,000 Pratt and Vasquer trade with the same nations. Theif principal establishment is near the Mahas village; capital -	--	--	--	--	--	$7,000 Broseau and De Lorion trade occasionally with the Sioux and Arickaras: they do not trade this year; capital ...........	$7,000 It is evident, from this statement, that the trade is of little importance in a pecuniary point of view, and that various individuals having opposite interests trade with the same Indians. These traders are continually endeavoring to lessen each other in the eyes of the Indians, not only by abusive words, but by all sorts of low tricks and manoeuvres. If a trader trusts an Indian, his opponent uses all his endeavors to purchase the furs he may take, or prevent in any way his being paid. Each trader supports his favorite chief, which produces not only intestine commotions and divisions in the tribe, but destroys the influence of the principal chief, who should always be under the control of the Government. The introduction of ardent spirits is one of the unhappy consequences of this opposition among traders. So violent is the attachment of Indians for it, that he who gives most is sure to obtain furs; while, should any one attempt to trade without it, he is sure of losing ground with his antagonist; no bargain is ever concluded without it, and the law on that subject is evaded by their saying they give, not sell it. The traders being afraid to trust the Indians, they cannot make distant hunts: this, and their attachment to whiskey, induce them to hang about in the vicinities of trading establishments. As they take furs, they sell them for whiskey; the consequence is, that but few furs are taken, as much of the hunting season is lost in intoxication and indolence. The Indians witnessing the efforts of these people to cheat and injure each other, and knowing no other or no more important white men, they readily imbibe the idea that all white men are alike bad. The imposing appearance of arms and equipments of white men, and the novelty and convenience of their merchandise, had impressed the Indians with a high idea of their power and importance; but the avidity with which beaver skins are sought after, the tricks and wrangling made use of, and the degradation submitted to in obtaining them, have induced a belief that the whites cannot exist without them, and made a great change in their opininn of our importance, our justice, and our power. Under the plea of trading with the Indians, white trappers and hunters obtain a footing in their country. The old man and his son whipped and robbed this summer by the Pawnees, and the three men killed about the same time by the Sioux, were persons of this description; the trouble these sorts of transactions may occasion the Government cannot be readily calculated. It will illustrate what I have said to narrate what happened on my visit to the Maha nation, from which I yesterday returned. The nation were preparing to start on their winter hunt, and endeavoring to obtain guns, powder, and lead, to subsist themselves while trapping: they complained bitterly that they could not procure enough of these articles; the traders were afraid to trust them; there were two traders in the camp, both jealous and apprehensive of each other; (in conversation with the Indians, they invariably abused the traders, and the traders abused each other.) The tribe separated into small hunting bands, very much dissatisfied, and the traders would send round occasionally to their bands to purchase their furs. A keg of whiskey was considered an indispensable equipment for such an undertaking. I had found, on my arrival, most of the principal men drunk. The Big Elk, who is so much our friend, and who formerly possessed unlimited power in his nation, was so drunk for two days that I could not deliver your letter to him; when I gave it, I requested the interpreter to inform him that I had been two days waiting to deliver a letter from you, but that, very much to my surprise, I had found him too drunk to transact business. He appeared affected at what I said, acknowledged how unworthy it was in him to be in that situation, and admitted he had lost much power by it. He blamed the whites for bringing liquor into the country; said that when he knew it was not to be had, he felt no inclination for it; but that when it was near and attainable, his attachment for it was irresistible. Besides, said he, your traders come among my nation, give metals, and make chiefs of every man who can obtain a party to trap beaver. It is the ambition of these chiefs that opposes me and makes me powerless. I know there are Mahas now alive as brave and as wise as I am. It was fortune or chance that placed me at the head of the nation, and I cannot control my tribe while the whites assist those who oppose me. Thus is the influence of this valuable and sensible Indian lost to his tribe and the Government, and thus is a man who possesses some traits that do honor to human nature’debased and made a beast of; he had not influence enough to lead a hunting band. By the establishment of military posts, the Government expect to secure the trade to American citizens, to obtain such an ascendency over them as will secure their assistance or prevent their being employed against us, and thereby to civilize them. The facility with which any man may become nominally a citizen of the United States gives but little advantage to those who have really claims to that character; and I appeal to your personal knowledge of the present traders to say if they are likely to instil among the Indians favorable opinions of the Government, or if the establishment of an isolated military post among the Indians is likely to obtain such an ascendency over them as will secure their assistance, or prevent their being employed against us, while the real influence is in the hands of the description of men who now trade on the Missouri. Those traders who reside near the military posts, or who are willing to lend their influence to the Government, will be the objects of jealousy to their rivals, whose establishments may be farther off. The readiest way of destroying the trade of their rival will be to create such disturbances between the tribe and the troops as will prevent the Indians, frequenting the post. This is not an imaginary apprehension. Recollect that ourdifficulty last year with the Kanzas nation arose from the intrigues of a trader, who, finding that the Kanzas were trading at an establishment near the cantonment, induced some of their young men to commit such outrages, (stopping our men, whipping them, &c.) as had nearly produced a war, and which ended in whipping the Indians and expelling them from camp. The fact cannot be legally proved, but I sincerely believe it. The impossibility of civilizing the Indians, when exposed to the temptations and delusions of interested traders, needs no comment. The establishment of a company capable of monopolizing the trade would be attended in this country with innumerable difficulties. I will not detail them, but submit with great deference to your better judgment my own opinion. Let the Government take the trade into their own hands; let their agents be honest, capable, and zealous; let their factories be established, not only where the troops may be stationed, but at all points convenient for trading with the Indians; let certain prices be fixed, and let the compensation of the factors depend upon the value of the furs they obtain; and let their accounts he rigidly inspected. The Indians would then be completely within the influence of the Government; there would then be no difficulty in giving credit; because, if the Indian did not pay, he would find no one else to trust him; neither would it be necessary to debauch the Indians with whiskey. With credits to obtain the means of subsistence, and without the incitement of whiskey to indolence, they would make more furs than when surrounded by a host of traders. In short, sir, to my humble judgment, it appears that in the present state of affairs, at an enormous expense, we obtain nothing. By placing the trade in the hands of the Government, we can, without the expense of one cent, obtain every thing they appear to desire. With sentiments of the greatest respect and esteem, your obedient servant, THOMAS BIDDLE. To Col. H. ATKINSON, Commanding 9tk Military Department. Extract of a letter from Colonel Henry Atkinson to the Secretary of War, dated ■ ST. LOUIS, November 23, 1819. I have no doubt, however, but all the posts can be established, and the objects of Government attained, without hostility with the Indians, should the Indian trade be properly regulated by law. But, under the present system, which is miserably defective, and most shamefully abused by the traders, much trouble and difficulty may be apprehended. B. SIR:	ST. LOUIS, November 26, 1819. I take the liberty of submitting to you a report made by Major Biddle, of whom I required a particular attention to Indian affairs whilst prosecuting the expedition up the Missouri in the summer and autumn. His opportunities were such as to enable him to form a very correct idea of the manner the Indian trade has been carried on, and of the character of those engaged in it. Much has fallen under my own observation, and agrees with his statements. The conduct of the traders, generally, tends more to distract and corrupt the Indians than to effect the objects contemplated by the laws establishing the intercourse. Instead of carrying on a liberal, open, and fair trade with the Indians, and impressing them with a proper sense and respect for the character and views of Government, every thing is made to bend to an underhand, backbiting policy. Each trader endeavors to impress the Indians with a belief that all other traders have no object but to cheat and deceive them, and that Government intend taking away their lands by sending troops into their country. Hence the jealousy and distrust of the Indians towards Government, and the bad opinion they have of the whites for truth and honesty. So illiberal are the traders in their conduct towards each other, that, when one of them gives a credit to a tribe to enable it to send out hunting and trapping parties, another despatches an agent, or agents, with a supply of goods and whiskey to dog the parties on their excursions, and, by the lure of a little whiskey and some trifling articles, rob them of their peltries and furs as soon as they are taken from the animal’s back, and the just creditor of bis pay. This sort of conduct has very injurious consequences; for, as it is so generally practised, every trader is afraid to give such credits as are necessary to enable the Indians to provide such articles as their women and children stand in need of; and the dogging gentry leave little or nothing in their hands at the end of their hunts to purchase with. However, notwithstanding the arts and wiles practised by the traders on the Indians, they have unbounded influence over them; for trade is the strong cord by which they are all bound. Withhold their trade, and you bring them to any terms; afford it, and you make them do any thing. If this be the fact, (and I assure yon it is,) is it just or proper that the influence over the Indians should be left in such corrupt hands'? Their friendship, at no time, while this state of things exists, can be calculated on. It appears to be an easy matter for Congress to remedy the evil; and it would seem that they will, if they can believe those who are personally acquainted with the facts. To do it, all intercourse by individual traders with the Indians should be prohibited; and let Government take the whole trade into their own hands, or confide it to a single company with a sufficient capital. The first, in my opinion, would be preferable, as all the influence desirable might be acquired by Government over the Indians. Besides, if the factories were well managed, the profits arising from them would, probably, defray all the expenses of the military that might be necessary to establish the posts and protect the trade in the Indian country. If the latter should be thought preferable, the individuals of a single company, having but one interest, would find their account in impressing the Indians with a proper regard and respect for the character and views of Government. The foregoing subject being so intimately connected with your views relative to the Missouri expedition, and deeming a change in the system so essential to the interests and views of Government in that quarter, I have tiiought proper to order Major Biddle to report in person to you, for the purpose of giving any further information on the subject that might be thought necessary. With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, H. ATKINSON, Col. 6th Inf. com'g 9th Mil. Dep. Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. To remedy the evils detailed in those documents, the committee herewith report a bill. But the committee are sensible that the provisions of this bill are calculated only for the trade.of those tribes of Indians in our immediate neighborhood which may with safety and advantage be opened to individual enterprise, and, with a vigilant administration, will produce results equally salutary to the Indians and ourselves. But the committee conceive that those provisions are insufficient for the successful prosecution of our trade with the numerous Indian tribes who occupy'the vast region extending to the Pacific ocean. It will require a system of much greater energy to effect the great objects which ought to be pursued through it. The committee, therefore, beg leave to reserve tu themselves the privilege of reporting more fully hereafter on this subject. [NOTE.—See Nos. 157, 158, 165.] 16th CONGRESS.]	
