No. 128. [2d Session. THE OS AGES. ■ COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 10, 1810. To the Senate of the United States: I lay before the Senate, for their consideration whether they will advise and consent to the ratification thereof! a treaty concluded with the Great and Little Osage Indians, on the tenth day of November, 1808, and the thirty-first day of August, 1809. January 15, 1810. JAMES MADISON. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at fort Clark, on the right bank of the Missouri, about five miles above the Fire prairie, in the territory of Louisiana, the tenth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eight. Between Peter Chouteau, Esq. agent for the Osages, and specially commissioned and instructed to enter into the same, by his Excellency Meriwether Lewis, Governor and Superintendent of Indian Affairs, for the territory aforesaid, in behalf of the United States of America, of the one part; and the chiefs and warriors of the Great and Little Osages, for themselves and their nations, respectively, on the other part. Article 1. The United States being anxious to promote peace, friendship, and intercourse, with the Osage tribes, to afford them every assistance in their power, and to protect them from the insults and injuries of other tribes of Indians, situated near the settlements of the white people, have thought proper to build a fort on the right bank of the Missouri, a few miles above the Fire prairie, and do agree to garrison the same with as many regular troops as the President of the United States may, from time to time, deem necessary, for the protection of all orderly, friendly, and well disposed Indians, of the Great and Little Osage nations, who reside at this place, and who do strictly conform to, and pursue the councils or admonitions of, the President of the United States, through his subordinate officers. Art. 2. The United States being also anxious that the Great and Little Osages, resident as aforesaid, should be regularly supplied with every species of merchandise, which their comfort may hereafter require, do engage to establish at this place, and permanently to continue, at all seasons of the year, a well assorted store of goods, for the purpose of bartering with them on moderate terms, for their peltries and furs. Art. 3. The United States agree to furnish at this place, for the use of the Osage nations, a blacksmith and tools, to mend their arms, and utensils of husbandry, and engage to build them a horse mill, or watermill, also to furnish them with ploughs, and to build for the great chief of the Great Osages, and for the great chief of the Little Osages, a strong block house in each of their towns, which are to be established near this fort. Art. 4.. With a view to quiet the animosities, which, at present, exist between the inhabitants of the territory of Louisiana, and the Osage nations, in consequence of the lawless depredations of the latter, the United States do further agree to pav to their own citizens, the full value of such property as they can legally prove to have been stolen or destroyed, by the said Osages since the acquisition of Louisiana by the United States: provided the same does not exceed the sum office thousand dollars. Art. 5. In consideration of the lands relinquished by the Great and Little Osages to the United States, as stipulated in the sixth article of this treaty, the United States promise to deliver at Fire prairie, or at St. Louis, yearly, to the Great Osage nation, merchandise to the amount or value of one thousand dollars, and to the Little Osage nation, merchandise to the amount or value of five hundred dollars, reckoning the value of said merchandise at the first cost thereof, in the city or place in the United States where the same shall have been procured. And in addition to the merchandise aforesaid, the United States have, at and before the signature of these articles, paid lothe Great Osage nation the sum of eight hundred dollars, and to the Little Osage nation the sum of four hundred dollars. Art. fi. And in consideration of the advantages which we derive from the stipulations contained in the foregoing articles, we, the chiefs and warriors of the Great and Little Osages, for ourselves and our nations, respectively, covenant and agree with the United States, that the boundary line between our nations and the United States, shall be as follows, to wit; Beginning at fort Clark, on the Missouri, five miles above Fire prairie, and running thence a due south course to the river Arkansas, and down the same to theMississppi: hereby ceding and relinquishing;, forever, to the United States, all the lands which lie east of the said line, and north of the southwardly bank of the said river Arkansas, and all lands situated northwardly of the river Missouri. And we do further cede and relinquish to the United States, forever, a tract of two leagues square, to embrace fort Clark, and to be laid off in such manner as the President of the United States shall think proper. Art. 7. And it is mutually agreed by the contracting parties, that the boundary lines hereby established, shall be run and marked at the expense of the United States, as soon as circumstances or their convenience will permit. And the Great and Little Osages, promise to depute t wo chiefs from each of their respective nations, to accompany the commissioner or commissioners who may be appointed on the part of the United States to settle and adjust the said boundary line. Art. 8. And the United States agree that such of the Great and Little Osage Indians, as may think proper to put themselves under the protection of fort Clark, and who observe the stipulations of this treaty with good faith, shall be permitted to live and to hunt, without molestation, on all that tract of country west of the north and south boundary line on which they, the said Great and Little Osage have usually hunted or resided; provided the same be not the hunting grounds of any nation or tribe of Indians in amity with the United States, and on any other lands within the territory of Louisiana, without the limits of the white settlements, until the United States may think proper to assign the same, as hunting grounds, to other friendly Indians. . I Art. t>. Lest the friendship which is now established, between the United States and the said Indian nations,, should be. interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by'the party injured,, to the other; by the said nations, or either of them, to the superintendent, or other person appointed by the President to. the chiefs of the said nations; and it shall be the duty of the said chiefs, upon complaints being made, as aforesaid, to deliver up the person orpersons against whom the complaintis made, to the end thathe or they maybe punished, agreeably to the laws of the state or territory where the offence may have been committed; and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder, shall be committed on any Indian or Indians, belonging to either of said nations, the person or persons, so offending, shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished, in like manner as if the injury had been done to a white man. And it is agreed that the chiefs of the Great and Little Osages shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses, or other property, which may be stolen from any citizen or citizens of the United States, by any individual or individuals of either of their nations; and the property so recovered, shall be forthwith delivered to the superintendent, or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to the proper owner; and, in cases where the exertions of the chiefs shall be ineffectual in recovering the property stolen, as aforesaid, if sufficient proof can be adduced that such property was actually stolen by any Indian or Indians, belonging to the said nations, or either of them, the superintendent, or other proper officer, may deduct from the annuity of the said nations, respectively, a sum equal to the value_ of the property which has been stolen. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians of the said nation, respectively, a full indemnification for any horses, or other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens; provided, that the property so stolen cannot be. recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the States. And the said nations of the Great and Little Osage, engage, on the requisition, or demand of the President of the United States, or of the superintendent, to deliver up any white man resident among them. Art. 10. The United States receive the Great and Little Osage nations into their friendship, and under their protection. And the said nations, on their part, declare that they will consider themselves under the protection of no other Power whatsoever; disclaiming all right to cede, sell, or injany manner transfer, their lands, to any foreign Power, or to citizens of the United States, or inhabitants of Louisiana, unless duly authorized by the President of the United States to make the said purchase or accept the said cession on behalf of the government. Art. 11. And if any person or persons, for hunting, or other purposes, shall pass over the boundary lines, as established by this treaty, into the country reserved for the Great and Little Osagemations, without the licence of the superintendent, or other proper officer, they, the said Great and Little Osage, or either of them, shall beat liberty to apprehend such unlicensed hunters, or other persons, and surrender them, together with their property (but without other injury, insult or molestation) to the Superintendent of Indian Affairs, or to the agent nearest the place of arrest, to be dealt with according to law. Art. 12. And the chiefs and warriors, as aforesaid, promise and engage, that neither the Great nor Little Osage nation will ever, by sale, exchange, or as presents, supply any nation, or tribe of Indians, not in .amity with the United States, with guns, ammunition, or other implements of war. Art. 13. This treaty shall take effect, and be obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as the same shall have been ratified by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. In testimony whereof, the said Peter Chouteau, commissioned and instructed as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors of the Great and Little Osage nation of Indians, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. Done at fort Clark, the day above mentioned. P. CHOUTEAU, [l. s.] And a number of Indian chiefs. We, the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the. band of Osages residing on the river Arkansas, being a part of the Great Osage nation, having this day had the foregoing treaty read and explained to us by his Excellency Meriwether Lewis, Esq. do hereby acknowledge, consent to, and confirm, all the stipulations therein contained, as fully and as completely as though we had been personally presentat the signing, sealing, and delivering the same, on the tenth day ot November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eight; the Same being the day on which the said treaty was signed, sealed, and delivered, as will appear by a reference thereto. In witness whereof, we have, for ourselves, and our band of the Great Osage nation, residing on the river Arkansas, hereunto set our hands and affixed our seals. Done at St. Louis, in the territory of Louisiana, the thirty-first day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and nine, and of the independence of the United States the thirty-fourth. A number of Indian chiefs. [Note.—For instructions, see No. 129.] 11 th Congress.] 
