No. 19. [1st Session. CHEROKEES, SIX NATIONS, AND CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, OCTOBER 26, 1791. Gentlemen of the Senate: I have directed the Secretary .of War to lay before you, for your consideration, all the pipers* relative to the late negotiations with the Cherokee Indians, and the treaty concluded with that tribe, on the 2d day of July last, by the superintendent of the Southern district; and I request your advice, whether I shall ratify the same. * These papers are not on file. I also lay before yon the instructions to Colonel Pickering, and his conferences with the Six Nations of Indians. These conferences were for the purpose of conciliation, and at a critical period to withdraw those Indians to a greater distance from the theatre of war, in order to prevent their being involved therein. (1) It might not have been necessary to request your opinion on this business, had not the commissioner, with good intentions, but incautiously, made certain ratifications of lands, unauthorized by his instructions, and unsupported by the constitution.- It, therefore, became necessary to disavow the transaction explicitly, in a letter written by my orders to the Governor of New York,.on the 17th of August last. The speeches to the Cornplanter, and other Seneca Chiefs, the instructions to Colonel Proctor, and his report, and other messages and directions, (2) are laid before you for your information; and, as evidences that all proper lenient measures preceded the exercise of coercion. The letters to the Chief of the Creeks are also laid before you, to evince that the requisite steps have been taken to produce a full compliance with the treaty made with that nation, on the 7th of August,. 1790. . GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, 26th October, 1791. 'A Treaty of peace anil friendship, made and concluded between pie President of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, find the undersigned chiefs and warriors, of the Cherokee nation of Indians, on the part and behalf of the said nation. The parties being desirous of establishing permanent peace arid friendship between the United States and the said Cherokee nation, And the citizens.and members thereof, and to remove the causes of war by ascertaining their limits, and making other necessary, just, and friendly arrangements: the President of the United States, by William Blount, Governor of the territory of the United States of America south of the river Ohio, and superintendent of Indian affairs for the Southern district, who is vested with full powers for these purposes, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States; .and the Cherokee nation, by the undersigned chiefs and warriors, representing the said nation, have agreed to the following articles, namely: Article 1. There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America and all the individuals composing the whole Cherokee nation of Indians. Art. 2. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves, and all parts of the Cherokee nation, do acknowledge themselves ail’d the said Cherokee nation to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other sovereign whosoever; and they also stipulate that the said Cherokee nation will not hold any treaty with any foreign Power, individual State, or with individuals, of any State. Art. 3. The Cherokee nation shall deliver to the Governor of the territory of the United States of America, south of the river Ohio, on or before the first day of April next, at this place, all persons who are now prisoners, captured by them from any part of the United States; and the United States shall, on or before the same day, and at the same place, restore to the Cherokees, all the prisoners now in captivity, which the citizens of the United States have captured from them. 'Art. 4. The boundary between the citizens of the United States. and, the Cherokee nation is,-and shall be, as follows: Beginning at the top of the Currahee mountain, where the Creek line passes it; thence a direct line to Tugelo river; thence northeast to the Occunna mountain, and over the same, along the South Carolina Indian boundary, to the North Carolina boundary; thence north, to a point from which a line is to be extended to the river Clinch, that shall pass the Holston at the ridge which divides the waters running into Little river from those running into the Tennessee; thence, up the river Clinch, to Campbell’s line, and along the same to the top of Cumberland mountain; thence a direct line to the Cumberland river, where the Kentucky road crosses it; thence, down the Cumberland river, to a point from which a southwest line will strike the ridge which divides the waters of Cumberland from those of Duck river, forty miles above Nashville; thence, down the said ridge, to a point from whence a southwest line will strike the mouth of Duck river. And in order to preclude forever all disputes relative to the said boundary, the same shall be ascertained, and marked plainly, by three persons appointed on the part of the United States, and three Cherokees on .the part of their nation. And in order to extinguish forever all claims of the Cherokee nation, or any part thereof, to any of the land lying to the right of the line above described, beginning as aforesaid at the Currahee mountain, it is hereby agreed, that, in addition to the consideration heretofore madeflor the said land, the United States will cause certain valuable goods to be immediately delivered to the undersigned chiefs and warriors, for the.use of their nation; and the said United States will also cause the sum of one thousand dollars to be paid annually to the said Cherokee nation. And the undersigned chiefs and warriors do hereby, for themselves and the whole Cherokee nation, their heirs and descendants, for the considerations abovementioned, release, quit claim, relinquish, and cede, all the land to the right of the line described, and beginning as aforesaid. Art. 5. It is stipulated and agreed, that the citizens and.inhabitants of the United States shall have a free and unmolested use of a road from Washington "district to Mero district, and of the. navigation of the Tennessee river. Art. 6. It is agreed,.on the part of the Cherokees, that the United States shall have the sole and exclusive right of regulating their trade. -. Art. 7. The United States solemnly guaranty to the Cherokee nafioii, all their lands not hereby ceded. Art. 8. If any citizen of the United States, or other person, not being an Indian, shall settle on any of the Cherokees’ lands, such person shall forfeit the protection of the United States; and the Cherokees may punish him or not, as they please. Art. 9. No citizen or inhabitant of the United States shall attempt to hint or destroy the game on the lands of the Cherokees; nor shall any citizen or inhabitant go into the Cherokee country, without a passport first obtained from the Governor of some one of the United States, or territorial districts, or such other person as the President of the United States may, from time to time, authorize to grant the same. Art. 10. if any Cherokee Indian or Indians, or person residing among them, or who shall take refuge in their nation, shall steal a horse from, or commit a robbery or murder, or other capital crime, on, any citizens, or inhabitants of the United States, tlm Cherokee nation shall be bound to deliver him or them up, to be punished according to the laws of the United States. ' . p ' 1 Art. 11. If any citizen or inhabitant of the United States, or of either of the territorial districts of the United States, shall go into any town, settlement, or territory, belonging to the Cherokees, and shall there commit any crime upon, or trespass against, the person or property of any peaceable arid friendly Indian or Indians, which, if committed within the jurisdiction of any State, or within the jurisdiction of either of the said districts, against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof, would be punishable by the laws of such State or district, such offender or offenders shall be subject to the same punishment, and shall be proceeded against in the same manner, as if the offence hail been committed within the jurisdiction of the State or district to which he pr they may belong, against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof. Art. 12. In case of violence on the persons or property of the individuals of either party, neither retaliation nor reprisal shall be committed by the other, until satisfaction shall have been demanded of the party of which the aggressor is, and shall have been refused. ■ . Art. 13 The Cherokees shall give notice to the citizens of the United States of any designs which they may know or suspect to be formed in any neighboring tribe, or by any person whatever, against the peace and interest of the United States. ,   , (1 & 2) These, with other papers, were transmitted to Congress, on the 11th January, 1792. Vide No.-23. Art. 14. That the Cherokee nation may be led to a greater degree of civilization, and to become herdsmen and cultivators, instead of remaining in a state of hunters, the United States will, from time to time, furnish gratuitously die said nation with useful implements of husbandry. And further, to assist the said nation in so desirable a pursuit. and at the same time to establish a certain mode of communication, the United States will send such, and so many, persons to reside in said nation, as they may judge proper, and not exceeding four in number, who shall qualify themselves to act as interpreters. These persons shall have lands assigned them by the Cherokees for cultivation, for themselves and their successors in office; but they.shall be precluded exercising any kind of traffic. Art. 15. All animosities for past grievances shall henceforth cease; and the contracting parties will carry the foregoing treaty into full execution, with all good faith and sincerity. Art. 16. This treaty shall take effect and be obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as the same shall have been ratified by the President of the United States with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. In witness of all and every thing herein determined, between the United States of America and the whole Cherokee nation, the parties have hereunto set their hands anti seals, at the treaty ground on the bank of the  Holston, near the mouth of the French Broad, within the United States, this second day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one. s WILLIAM BLOUNT, Governor in and over the territory of the United States of America, south of the river Ohio, and'Superintendent of Indian affairs for the Southern district. [Signed, by forty-one of tbe chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee nation of Indians.] Extracts from a letter from the Secretary of War to Major Richard Call, commanding officer of the troops of the United States posted in the State of Georgia, dated the 25th of May. 1791. Sjr: I request that you will immediately take the proper arrangements fur transporting such parts of Burbeck's and Savage's companies as are fit for the service, and can with propriety be detached from their respective stations, to the Rock Landing, or such other place of the Oconee as shall be healthy and proper to collect the troops at, for the purpose!)!' marking the line, next October, mentioned in the treaty of the Creeks. The contractors must furnish the provisions, and they must also furnish the wagons to transport the baggage of Smith and Burheck’s companies to the Rock Landing, and thence, with a detachment of Savage’s, and all Rudolph’s recruits, along the fine desciibed in the' treaty. You will notify bis Excellency the Governor of Georgia of the time the troops will be assembled, and the purpose lor which they are designed, and request him, if he shall judge proper, to notify three of the citizens of Georgia to attend the running of the line according to the treaty ; and you will. also, in due season, transmit the same information to Mr. McGillivray, and request him to send the three Creek Chiefs to attend the running the line as stipulated by the treaty. Extracts from a letter to the same officer, dated the 13th of July, 1791. It is a circumstance of great importance, that the force of the United States, in Georgia, should be directed with the highest prudence and. circumspection. The great object of their continuance in that State, since the treaty with the Creeks, is to preserve the peace by conciliating to each other the Creeks and the frontier citizens of that State, and by being posted so as to afford a real security tu those settlers, who had been driven by hostilities from their possessions. While, therefore, every effectual measure should be adopted for the entire security of the troops beyond the possibility of surprise or contingency, and also for the protection of the country, all hostile parade or threatening appearances are tube avoided. On the contrary, the most cordial conduct is to be observed to all well-behaved and friendly Indians. And as on this head some expenses will be necessarily incurred, anaccountis tube kept thereof, and all that is reasonable and just shall be paid, on being previously audited in this department. You will also transmit to this office regular information, with the returns of all occurrences to the troops under your command; and upon any extraordinary cases, you are to take such measures as shall relate to the defence of the troops, or the immediate protection of the country. But you are carefully to avoid every step which may involve the Union in hostilities with the Indians. War Department, 31 st May, 1791. Instructions to John lleth, an Ensign in the first .American regiment. Sir; Reposing special trust and confidence in your prudence, fidelity, and industry, I hereby authorize and instruct you in the objects herein specified, in pursuance of powers vested in me for that purpose, by the President of the United States. You have herewith delivered to you, a letter to Brigadier General McGillivray, the beloved chief of the Creek nation of Indians, and also, the sum of two thousand nine hundred dollars, with which you are to proceed to the said Creek nation of Indians. The letter addressed to Brigadier General McGillivray, which yen have perused, will point out the objects of your mission, which are— 1st. To be the bearer of the sums, which, by treaty, the United States are annually to pay to the Creek nation and its chiefs. .   , ‘ _   i 2dly. To impress upon Mr. McGillivray, by the most conciliating methods, the necessity of the Creeks delivering) up all prisoners, whether whites or negroe.s, agreeably to the treaty. 3dly.' To impress upon him the necessity of his appointing the three old Creek chiefs, agreeably to the treaty, to attend at the Rock Landing, on the Oconee, on the first day of October, in order to run the boundary line agreeably to the treaty, an authentic copy of which you have herewith delivered to you. And, in order that you may have sufficient time to render yourself acceptable to Brigadier General McGillivray, so as to accomplish the objects of your mission, you are hereby directed to stay in the Creek nation with him until the first of October next, at which time you will take your departure, and return to this city. As your objects will be conciliation, you will embrace every opportunity or means which may present itself, for that purpose. You wilJLof course avoid every thing of an irritating nature. You will soon perceive that Brigadier General McGillivray is the soul of the Creek nation, and that, by cultivating his esteem, you will succeed with the rest. Omit no opportunity of speaking of the cordial views of the General Government towards the Indians, and how much it desires to impart to them the blessings of civilization. Consult Mr. McGillivray on this point, and obtain from him, in writing, bis opinion, bow this important object can be best effected. 17 * Let him know the preparations that are making for the campaign : but that they are solely destined for the object of peace. That the Government has taken every measure to place before the Wabash, and other hostile Indians, their true situation, and that the United States require nothing of the Indians inconsistent with justice and humanity. That, if they will be quiet, the General Government will, protect them in their just rights against all lawless white adventurers. That the United States disapprove entirely of the projected settlements upon the Mississippi and Tennessee lands, by a number of adventurers under the Yazoo companies, who purchased of the State of Georgia the preemptive right. You have herewith delivered the evidence of this disapprobation, being two proclamations of the President of the United States upon the subject. - _ . Assure Mr. McGillivray, that, if the said companies proceed, in defiance of the said proclamations, to make their threatened settlements, they will be considered, to all intents and purposes, entirely without the protection of the United States. You will obtain the money in gold at Baltimore, by virtue of treasury warrants which the paymaster has delivered to you. This money you wilt deliver to Mr. McGillivray, taking triplicate receipts on the accounts herewith given you, all of which you are, upon your return, to deliver, to the paymaster. '. You will proceed, by the way of Richmond, to the territory of the United States south of the Ohio. I herewith deliver you a letter to Governor Blount, who will provide you a guide and an escort of some faithful Cherokees, to Brigadier General McGillivray. The paymaster lias also delivered you the further sum of five hundred dollars. This sum is to defray your necessary expenses during your absence. You will keep an exact account of such expenses, supported in all practicable cases with accurate vouchers. And in order that you should explicitly understand the compensation you shall receive for the services herein specified, it is hereby stipulated that your reasonable expenses shall be borne during your absence, and that the compensation for your services shall be at the rate of two dollars per day, including your pay and subsistence as an ensign, and that your rank shall be preserved to you. The business with which you are charged, is confidential and honorable. Upon the due execution of it, will, in some degree, depend your future political expectations. You will keep your business a secret, and communicate it only to Governor Blount. You will write me on all safe occasions, and inform me of your progress. 'Besides the letter to Governor Blount, I deliver'you one for General Sevier, which it is important he should receive. You may return the way you think most proper, either by the Holston or Georgia, and from thence by water. Wishing you a pleasant journey, and all prosperity, I am, sir, with esteem, your humble servant, II. KNOX, Secretary of War. Ensign John IIeth. Letter from the Secretary of War to Brigadier General McGillivray. - War Department, 31 st May, 1791. Sir: I received your letter by Mr. Swan, who arrived here in March last. I should have replied to it immediately, had a safe opportunity occurred. I have been seeking for a proper character to send to you upon the business mentioned in this letter, but I have not been able to procure one until this time. Till bearer, Ensign John IIeth. I introduce to you as a gentleman well worthy of your confidence and esteem, and I am persuaded you will show him all the kindness which his situation may requirq, and yours admits. The treaty made between the United States and the Creek nation, being founded on principles of mutual advantage, ought to be inviolably observed on both sides. It is, therefore, unfortunate, that any events should happen to cloud or interrupt that harmony which ought to prevail. The murder of the Cussetah, by some lawless whites; before your return, and the revenge taken for the same, after your return, w'ere both wrong, and circumstances from which excessive evil might have arisen. Whenever parties assume to-be judges and executioners in their ow n cause, the justice of the decision may-be justly questioned, independent of the political evils Howing from the measure. For any mischiefs committed against the treaty by the whites, complaint ought to be made to the President of the United States, whose;power is competent to render satisfaction for the injury. If revenge shall be taken for any real or supposed injury by the Indians,' unless the previous necessary statements are made to the supreme authority, all.the arrangements for peace which have been made, may be broken up, and unlimited confusion ensue. That you are fully impressed with the immense benefits to the Creeks, from an entire pacification and friendship with the United States, there can be no doubt. This conviction brought you from your own country to New York, influenced your conduct there, and, I am persuaded, pervades your reflections at this time. Your perceptions are too good for you not to see the ruinous effects of suffering the Creeks to exercise an indiscriminate revenge. As, therefore, you value the preservation of the treaty, and friendship of the United States, prevent every conduct on the part of the Creeks which would tend to interrupt the system ot cordial intercourse, the foundations of which ivere so happily laid in the treaty. Inculcate on all the chiefs, the purity, humanity, and justice, of the system towards the Indians, adopted by the President of the United States anu the General Government. 'Remember that the time has arrived that all the prisoners in the nation are to be given up, and that it is of the highest importance that this measure be faithfully fulfilled in all_ respects, and .that there be no cause of coiriplaint. I have forwarded by Mr. Heth, the sum of two thousand nine hundred dollars, which will complete the sums stipulated by the treaty of the seventh of August,' agreeably to the enclosed schedule. You will receipt for these sums in the manner pointed out in the enclosed. A proper distribution of this money will enable you to recover all the prisoners, whether whites or negroes. On a punctual and entire compliance with the treaty, in the restoration of the prisoners, every thing will depend. I know they are not many. But, if a single person, black or white, should be kept back, it will be considered as a violation of the treaty, and a germ productive of abundant evili _ - You will remember that, on the first of October, the boundary is to be marked according to the treaty. The President of the United States has made choice of an able and impartial surveyor to execute this business, and'I have’directed the troops to be in readiness at the Rock Landing to accompany him, and to run the line as specified in the treaty. I earnestly request that you will have three -discreet chiefs, whom you shall have previously and perfectly instructed upon the subject of the boundary, so that there be neither delay or mistake in the affair. I have instructed Major Call, the commanding officer of the troops, to w’rite to the Governor of Georgia to choose and direct three surveyors of their State to be present at running the boundary, besides which, I shall, upon the. return of the President of the United States, write particularly to the Governor upon the subject. I am, &e. H. KNOX. The United States of America in account current with Alexander McGillivrai/, and the Creek nation, from the 7th of August, 1790, to the 7th of August, 1791. I)r.   1791, Aug. 7th. To an annuity to the Creek nation, agreeably to the fourtli article of the treaty of peace, dated the 7th Aug. 1790, and ratified by the President of the United States of America, the 15th day of August, 1790, To an annual allowance, at 100 dollars, to each of the following chiefs: The chief of Oakfuskees, The chief of the Tuckabatches, -The present Tallasse King of the Halfway-house, The chief of the Cussetahs, The chief of the Cowetas, -The chief of the Micasukee, To Brigadier General A. McGillivray, his salary as agent of the United States, at the rate of 81,200 per annum, ------ To salary of two Interpreters, at the rate of 8200 per annum,   - < - 1790, Aug. 1,500 100 100 100 100 100 100 1,200 400 83.700 18th. 1791, May 31st. By so much paid. A. McGillivray, agreeably to his receipt. By so much to Joseph Connell, interpreter, agreeably to his receipt, - By balance due on the 7th of August. 1791, transmitted this day by Ensign John Heth. - Cr. COO 200 2,900 83,700 Received from the United States of America, by the hands of John Ileth, the sum of two thousand nine hundred dollars, being the balance of the above account, for which I have signed triplicate receipts of one tenor. Extract of a letter from the Secretary of War to Governor Blount, dated 31s/ May, 1791. This letter will be delivered to you by Mr. John Heth, who is sent to the Creeks for the purposes contained in his instructions, which he will communicate to you. I request that you would provide Mr. Heth guides, and a party of friendly and faithful Cherokees, to escort him to Sir. McGillivray. The Secretary of War to the Governor of Georgia. War Department. 1 5th July. 1791. Sir: Yesterday I received your Excellency’s letter of the sixth of the last month, containing four papers, from No. 1 to 4, relative to some recent discussions with the Creeks, all of which have been submitted to the President of the United States. 1 am commanded to inform you that the President of the United States, judging from the information which you have transmitted, conceives that it would have been improper to have complied with the request of the four Creeks’, as expressed in their message of the eighteenth of May last. But. at the same time, it is his earnest desire that every possible measure should betaken to avert the evil consequences which may arise from this refusal. The President of the United States considers it unnecessary to reiterate the considerations which press fora full and entire pacification with the Creeks, and all the other Southern Indians; he is persuaded that your Excellency, and all the citizens of Georgia, will concur in promoting the general interests of the United States in this respect. I am further commanded to inform you, that Mr. Heth, a military ollicer of the United States, is notv, probably, with Mr. McGillivray, to urge the delivery of the prisoners, and the marking the boundary, next October, agreeably to the treaty with the Creeks. I have also,the honor to transmit you a copy of a letter to Mr. McGillivray, on the late event; duplicates of which are forwarded by Governor Blount, and the other by the Rock Landing. Your Excellency will please to observe, by adverting to the Creek treaty, that tile boundaries therein described, were to be ascertained by an able surveyor, on t he part of the United States, assisted by three old citizens of Georgia, who may be appointed by the Governor of the said State, and three old Creek chiefs, to be appointed by the said nation. Mr. Andrew Ellicott has been appointed surveyor for this purpose, and the President of the United States has directed me to request your Excellency to appoint three citizens of the State of Georgia, of the description before mentioned, to assist in ascertaining said boundary. I have directed the commanding officer in Georgia to assemble the troops duly for the above purpose, and to notify your Excellency thereof. 1 have the honor, &c. H. KNOX, Secretary of I Car. Letter from the Secretary of Gar to Brigadier General McGillivray. W ar Department, 13th July, 1791. Sir: _ . His Excellency the Governor of Georgia has transmitted to the President of the United States, the papers herein enclosed, relative to some recent discussions with part of the Creeks. The message of the Lower Creeks, of the eighteenth of May, to the Governor, appears to have been formed and transmitted w ithout any agency of yours. The President of the United States persuades himself, that, had you been consulted on this occasion, the message would have been of a different aspect. But, as the affair stands, that you will exercise your influence to prevent every measure, on the part of the Creeks, which would have the complexion of retaliation. While the stealing of horses from the citizens of the United States must be reprobated by you and every other well intentioned member of the Creek nation, you cannot be uninformed that an act so atrocious merits high and prompt punishment, when committed by one white against another, and that, therefore, the Creek who was Killed, must be considered as bringing his own punishment upon himself. It is of die utmost consequence that so nefarious a practice should be discountenanced by all the well-disposed part of the Creeks; and that, when punishment is inflicted, as in the case herein alluded to, such characters should openly and avowedly approve thereof. The President of the United States is most sincerely desirous, that the treaty with the Creeks should not only he fully executed in all its parts, but that it should be the ground work of a more intimate union, arid the means of farther happiness to the Indians. He therefore views,' with concern, any event which has a tendency to a breach of the peace so happily established. Notwithstanding it may be concluded that the death of the Indian was the consequence of his own unjustifiable conduct, yet, perhaps, it may be proper, in a degree, to pay regard to the habits of the Indians, on such an event. It has been understood, that, among the Indian nations, when one Indian kills another, the offence is not considered so much a public as a private evil, for which the family of the deceased is bound to obtain satisfaction. That this satisfaction is various, sometimes by blood, and at others, by pecuniary considerations; if this idea is just, the family of the Indian who was killed may perhaps be satisfied with some pecuniary compensation. In this case, therefore, to prevent the personal and national evils arising from indiscriminate retaliation, the President of the United States desires that you would make such reasonable compensation to said family, as you may judge proper, and to inform me thereof; and immediate disbursement shall be made to your order. It is to be hoped that Mr. Heth, who was sent to you on the thirty-first of May, has safely arrived. But, lest it should be otherwise, I enclose a copy of the letter of which he was the bearer. I am, sir. &c. Brigadier General Alex. McGillivray. ‘ ‘ H. KNOX, Secretary of War. Instructions to Joseph Ellicott, Esq. War Department, 8th September, 1791. Sir: 1 Your brother, Andrew Ellicott, having been appointed by the President of the United States to run the boundary line between the United States and the Creek nation of Indians, agreeably to the treaty made at New York, August 7th, 1790, but he being prevented setting out on this, by other, public employment, and you having been deputed by him to commence this business, and the same having been approved by the President of the United States, you will accordingly depart hence, with all expedition, to Richmond, in Virginia, and from thence, by the most direct route, to Augusta, and the Rock Landing, in the State of Georgia. . When you shall arrive at the Rock Landing, you will immediately proceed to run the line up the south branch of the Oconee; by the time you shall have finished which, it is presumed your brother will have joined you; but, if he.should be prevented, you will proceed to run the line to the Currahee mountain, and the continuance thereof, as stated in the treaty. You will endeavor to obtain the best documents and maps of the old surveys, and the fullest information from oral testimony, whether from whites or Indians, in order that the business may be well and truly executed. You will mark the line by means of the troops, as described in the treaty, and report to me, from time to time, your progress. If there should be any impediment in the prosecution of’ this service, you will, without delay, let me know the nature thereof, and the means of removing the objections. . You have, herewith, delivered to you, letters for Governor Telfair, Brigadier General McGillivray, Major Call, commanding officer at the Rock Landing, and the contractors who are to furnish the supplies of provisions. The paymaster, Mr. Howell, has furnished you with one thousand dollars in advahce. to defray the expenses of this business, for which you are held accountable. 1 am, sir, &c. Mr. Joseph Ellicott. H. KNOX, Secretary of War. Letter from the Secretary of War to Messrs. Spear and McLeod, Contractors. AVar Department^ September 8, 1791. Gentlemen: I request that you will furnish Mr. Ellicott, the surveyor, and his attendants, with provisions, to enable him to run the boundary line between the United States and the Creek nation, agreeably to the treaty. \rou will keep a separate account of the'supplies with which you shall furnish him, and procure regular vouchers of their delivery. Messrs. Spear and McLeod. H. KNOX, Secretary of Wur. Letter from the Secretary of li ar to Major Richard Call. AVar Department, September 8, 1791. Sir: The bearer, Air. Joseph Ellicott, brother to Andrew Ellicott, Esq. who is appointed by the President of the United States to run the boundary line between the United States and the Creek Indians, agreeably to the treaty, is deputed, with the approbation of the President, to commence the running of the line up the south branch of the Oconee, and from thence to the Currahee mountain; and to continue the survey until the arrival of his brother, who is detained a few'days on public business. * _ 'As it is contemplated that the troops should run and mark the line, you are hereby directed toaft'ord Mr. Ellicott every aid of which you and the troops are capable. - I am, sir, &c. Major Richard Call, Georgia. - H. KNOX, Secretary of War. Letter from the Secretary of IVarto the Governor of Georgia. ■ AVar Department, September 8, 1791. Sir: I have the honor to inform you, that Andrew Ellicott, Esq. has been appointed, by the President of the United States, to run the boundary line between the United States and the Creek nation of Indians, agreeably to the treaty of the 7th of August, 1790, but that he is prevented by other public business from attending this duty immediately-But he has, with the approbation of the President of the United States, appointed his brother, Joseph Ellicott, the bearer, to commence the business, and proceed to run the line up the south branch of the Oconee, and to continue the business until his brother shall join him, whp is detained a few days on public service. I wrote to your Excellency on the 13th of July, duplicates of which were transmitted, informing, that the troops in Georgia haa been ordered to assemble for this object. I am persuaded your Excellency will have directed such citizens of Georgia as are mentioned in the treaty to be in readiness to accompany the surveyor; and it is much desired that there be no sort of impediment to the immediate establishment of the boundary. I have the honor to be, your Excellency’s, &c. &c. To the Governor of Georgia, H. KNOX, Secretary of IVar. . - Letter from the Secretary of J far to Brigadier General McGillivray. War Department, September 8, 1791. Sir: Agreeably to my letter by Mr. Heth, of the 31st May last, duplicates of which were transmitted, I have the honor to inform you, that Andrew Ellicott, Esq. has been appointed by the President of the United States, to run the boundary line between the United States and the Creek nation of Indians, agreeably to the treaty of the 7th of August, 1790; but being pm ented from setting out on this business in the first instance, he has appointed his brother, Joseph Ellicott, the bearer, with the express approbation of the President, to commence the operation, and to run the line up the south branch of the Oconee, and thence to continue the line to the Currahee mountain, until his brother shall join him, who is detained a few weeks on public service. As the establishment of the line, according to the treaty, is a matter of the highest importance to prevent future dissensions, it is relied upon with confidence, that you. and all the well-disposed part of the Creeks, will give every facility to the measure. The President of the United States directs me to express his firm expectations, that the Creek nation w ill take every opportunity to carry the treaty into eft'ect—a measure with which their happiness, and the tranquillity of the southwestern frontiers are intimately blended. 'I am, sir, <Scc. Brigadier General McGillivrav. ‘ H. KNOX. Secretary of I far. * I 2nd Congress.]
