No. 92. [1st Session. CHEROKEES, CHICKASAWS. CHOCTAWS, AND CREEKS. COilMUNiCATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 23, 1801. Gentlemen of the Senate: The States of Georgia and Tennessee being peculiarly interested in our carrying into execution the two acts passed by Congress on the 19th of February, 1799, and 13th May, 1800, commissioners were appointed early in' summer, and other measures taken for the purpose. The objects of these laws requiring meetings with the Che-rokees, Chickasaw’s, Choctaws, and Creeks, the enclosed instructions were prepared for the proceedings with the three first nations. Our applications to the Cherokees failed altogether. Those to the Chickasaws produced the treaty now laid before you for yeur advice and consent, whereby we obtained permission to open a road of communication with the Mississippi territory: the commissioners are, probably, at this time, in conference with the Choctaw’s. Further information having been wanting, when these instructions were formed, to enable us to prepare those respecting the Creeks, the commissioners were directed to proceed with the others. We have nowr reason to believe die conferences with the Creeks cannot take place till the spring. The journals and letters of the commissioners, relating to the subject of the treaty now’ enclosed, accompany it TH: JEFFERSON. December 22, 1301. ,i treaty of reciprocal advantages and mutual convenience, between the United Stales of .America and the Chickasaws. The President of the United States of America, by James Wilkinson, Brigadier General in the service of the United States, Benjamin Hawkins, of North Carolina, and Andrew Pickens, of South Carolina, commissioners of the United States, who are vested with full potvers, and the Mingo, principal men, and warriors, of the Chickasaw’ nation, representing the said nation, have agreed to the following articles: Art. 1. The Mingo, principal men, and warriors, of-the Chickasaw nation of Indians, give leave and permission to the President of the United States of America, to lay out, open, and make, a convenient: wagon road through their land, between the settlements of Mero district, in the State of Tennessee, and those of Natchez, in the Mississippi territory, in such way and manner as he may deem proper; and the same shall be a highway for the citizens of the United States, and the Chickasaws. The Chickasaws shall appoint-two discreet men to serve as assistants, guides, or pilots, during the time of laying out and opening the road, under the direction of- the officer charged with that duty, who shall have a reasonable compensation for their service: Provided, always, that the necessary ferries over the water courses, crossed by the said roads, shall be held and deemed to be the property of the Chickasaw nation. Anr. 2. The commissioners of the United States give to the Mingo of the Chickasaws, anti the deputation of that nation, goods to the value of seven hundred dollars, to compensate him and them, and their attendants, for the expense and inconvenience they may have sustained, by their respectful and friendly attention to the President of the United States of America, and to the request made to them in his name, to permit the opening of the road. And as the persons, towns, villages, lands, hunting grounds, and other rights and property of the Chickasaws, as set forth in the treaties or stipulations heretofore entered into between the contracting parties,more especially in and by a certificate of the President of the United States of America, under their seal of the first of July, 1794, are in the peace, and under the protection of the United States, the commissioners of the United States do hereby further agree, that the President of the United States of America shall take such measures, from time to time, as he may deem proper, to assist the Chickasaws to preserve, entire, all their rights against the encroachments of unjust neighbors, of which he shall be the judge; and also to preserve and perpetuate friendship and brotherhood between the white people and the Chickasaws. Art. 3. 'Plie commissioners of the United States may, if they deem it advisable, proceed immediately to carry the first article into operation: and the treaty shall take effect.^ and be obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as the same shall have been ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. In testimony whereof, we, the plenipotentiaries, have hereunto subscribed our names and affixed our seals, at Chickasaw Bluftl, the twenty-lbur'tb of October. 1801. JAMES WILKINSON, Brigadier General. [l. s.] BENJAMIN HAWKINS, [l. s.] ANDREW PICKENS. [l. s.] [Signed by the Mingo and sixteen of the principal men and warriors of the Chickasaw nation.] Instructions to William R. Davie, James Wilkinson, and Benjamin Hawkins, Esquires, Commissioners of the United States, to hold conferences, and sign a treaty, or treaties, ivith the several nations of Indians, herein ' mentioned. Gentlemen: The President of the United States having appointed you commissioners, on the part of the United States, to hold conferences with several of the Indian nations, on the east side of the Mississippi river, south of the Ohio, and within the territory of the United States, and, as it is desirable that the negotiations on the several points to be treated of, should be commenced without unnecessary delay, it is the wish of the President, that you should assemble at the military post, at Southwest Point, in the State of Tennessee, on the first day of August next, then and there to confer, conformably with the following instructions, with sucli of the principal men of the Cherokee nation, as may meet you on the part of the said nation. The objects of your negotiations, at that post, will be, to endeavor to obtain the consent of the Chcrokees to the following proposals, viz.: First. That they cede to the United States all that part of the land now remaining to them, agreeably to the several treaties, made between them and the United States, which lies to the northward of a direct line, to he run from a point or place mentioned in the treaty of Tellico, of the 2d of October, 1798, on the Tennessee river, one mile above its junction with the Clinch, to the point at or near the head of the west fork of Stone’s river, on the ridge which divides the waters of Cumberland from those of Duck river, which is struck by a southwest line from the point below where the Kentucky road crosses the Cumberland river, as described in the treaty of llolston. Second. That the Tennessee river shall be the boundary from its mouth to the mouth of Duck river; that Duck river shall he (he boundary, thence, to the mouth of Rock creek: and that a direct line shall be run, fora continuation of the boundary, from the mouth of Rock creek to the point on the ridge that divides the waters of the Cumberland from those of Duck river, as above described. Third. That a road be opened, of which the citizens of the United States shall have a free aud unmolested use, from the boundary line to a tract or parcel of land of live miles diameter, on the Tennessee river, below the Muscle shoals, at the mouth of Ocochappo, or Bear creek, reserved to the United States by the treaty, made at Hopewell, with the Chickasaws, ami thence, towards Natchez, (with permission to establish two or three white families on said road) to the commencement of the Choctaws' claim. Fourth. Should the Indians refuse to cede to the United States any of the lands above designated, you will endeavor to prevail upon them to cede all the land that lies northward of the road, from the Knoxville to the Nashville settlements, run conformably to the treaty of 1791, or, if they should be unu filing to grant this, a strip of land, from one to live miles in width, to include the said road, in its whole extent, across their lands. Should you not succeed in attaining the first object of your mission, you will endeavor to procure the consent of the Indians to our establishing' three or four white families at such points on the road, across their lands, from the Knoxville to the Nashville settlements, which they granted to the use of the United States, by the treaty of 1791. as the United States may designate. Should you succeed or fail in attaining the first and second objects, you will, nevertheless, endeavor to procure the consent of the Indians to the third, viz: for opening a road from the boundary to the Tennessee, and thence onward, as above mentioned. On obtaining the consent of the Indians to the three first above stated proposals, or the alternatives marked “fourth," you are authorized to engage, that the United States shall pay to them, annually, in goods suitable for their use, the sum of one thousand dollars, in addition to the annuities now paid them, and a sum not exceeding five thousand dollars, immediately, in cash, or such goods as they may designate. For their consent to the two above stated less important objects, viz: the establishing three or four white families on the road across their lands, and the opening the road from the boundary line to the '1 ennessee, and thence to the commencement of the Choctaws’ claim, (to the latter of which, the consent of the Chickasaws may also be necessary, as hereinafter mentioned) you are authorized to engage, on behalf of the United States, that the United States shall pay the Indians such moderate sum as you may judge expedient. It is to be observed, that, by the treaty above quoted, made at Hopewell, on the Keowee, 10th of January, 1786, with the Chickasaws, the United States have a reservation of a tract or parcel of land for the establishment of a trading post on (though not mentioned in the treaty doubtless'' the Tennessee river, at the mouth of Ocochappo, or Bear creek, to be laid out in a circle, the diameter of which shall be five miles on the said river. It is presumed that it must have been understood, that the. United States should be entitled to a road to and from the said post, as, without such right, the reservation wotdd be of no use. It is stated, that both the Cherokee and Chickasaw nations claim the land on both sides of (lie Tenuessce river, for a considerable distance; if this be correct, the consent of the Chickasaws to the opening the said road must be obtained, as well as that ol the Chcrokees. When you shall have terminated your discussions with the Cherokees, you \t ill please to proceed, in such way as you shall deem most advisable, to the Chickasaw bluffs, to endeavor to obtain from the principal men of the Chickasaw nation, who may meet you there, the consent of the nation to opening the above described road, and to establish ing two or more white families on it. After completing your negotiation with the Chickasaws, you will proceed to Natchez, to hold a treaty with the Choctaws. 'Lite Choctaws may be considered one of the most powerful nations of Indians within the limits of the United States; and a pacific and friendly disposition in and towards them should be cultivated, as well from principles of policy as of humanity. All fair and proper means should he exerted to evince to them a really friendly disposition on the part of the Government of the United States, and to fortify their minds against the artful and mischievous insinuations and practices of adventurers, who, too frequently, obtrude themselves into their and other nations. It is of importance that the Indian nations generally within the United States should be convinced of the certainty in which they mayT at all times, rely upon the friendship of the United States, and that the President will never abandon them, or their children, whilst their conduct towards the’citizens of the United States and their Indian neighbors shall be'peaceable, honest, and fair. It must be observed, that the Choctaws received, in the course of the last year, from the Government of the United States, presents to the amount of two thousand dollars, and that an appropriation of the like sum has been made for the same purpose for the present year, although that nation have no claim to such a grant, founded on any treaty or authorized agreement. It was understood that they had taken some expression of Mr. Ellicot’s for a-promise to this effect, and it may be proper and politic to continue making them an annual grant, perhaps of the same sum; but it must be impressed on their minds, that they have given not only no equivalent, but actually nothing at all for its that they are indebted for what they have received to the generosity of the United States, and not to their justice; that the grants must be viewed as presents, and not as compensation; that they may be continued or discontinued at the pleasure of the United States, without giving the Choctaws a right to claim the one, or complain of the other; and that it might be proper for them to grant a something, though an equivalent be not asked in return. It is stated that the citizens of the Mississippi territory have been subjected to some vexations by the great number of Indians encamped among them at the distribution of those presents. You will inquire into the propriety of having all future distributions made within the Indian boundary. _ In addition to the explanation and enforcement of the conciliatory disposition and friendly intentions of the United States, you will endeavor to obtain the consent of the Choctaws with reference to the above mentioned views of the presents which they have received, -to our opening a road from the point, where the road from the reserved circle shall strike their land through their country to'the Natchez, and permission for three or four white families to settle on the said road within their country, for the accommodation of travellers and our post riders, on such reasonable conditions as you may deem proper. On Dunbar’s map, a line is run northward from the 31st degree of north latitude, near the 91st degree of west longitude from Greenwich, the lands between which and the Mississippi, were, heretofore, ceded to the British Government. Although no doubt exists of this fact, it may be impolitic to require from the Choctaws a direct acknowledgment of it; you will, however, consider, and speak of it as indubitable; and endeavor, indirectly, to draw from them an acknowledgment of its authenticity. This they will not refuse, unless they should believe a doubt to exist of it in our minds. . To confirm a pacific and friendly disposition in the Indian tribes, generally, towards the United States, should, at all times, be considered an important object, and is recommended as such to your best exertions; and the, result of inquiries into the present state of society among them, made with the advantages which you will possess whilst in their countries, with a view of ascertaining the effects of the measures pursued hy our Government towards them, will be highly useful. * In all your negotiations under these instructions, yon will pay the strictest attention to the disposition manifested by the Indians, on the several points to which you are to draw their assent. The ill huntor which propositions for further cessions sometimes awaken in them, may be, in a greater or lesser degree, excited by those which you are herein charged with making. .   . . ■ 'It will, therefore, be incumbent on you to introduce the desires of the Government, in such a manner as will permit you to drop them, as you may find them illy received, without giving the Indians an opportunity to reply with a decided negative, or raising in them unfriendly and inimical dispositions. You will state none of them in the.tone of demands; but, in the first instance, merely mention them as propositions which you are authorized to make, and their assent to which, the Government would consider as new testimonials of their friendship. From the manner in which they shall receive your first overtures, you will be enabled to judge with what prospect of success you may press the respective points committed to you. Measures have been taken for furnishing, at the several times and places at which conferences are to be held, provisions for yourselves and your attendants, as well as the necessary quantities ofgoddsforthe Indians, with whom the several above mentioned negotiations are to be entered into, and for supplying with rations such of them as may attend ; the distribution of all these w ill be made under your directions, and additional quantities of goods, in the event of your success, maybe had from the factory at Tellico; the contractor for those districts, Alexander D. Orr, Esquire, is directed to furnish you, on your requisitions, with such other articles as you may need for yourselves and attendants, or additional quantities of rations for the Indians. Your compensation will be eight dollars per day,-from the date of your leaving your respective homes until your return, and all your necessary expenses will be reimbursed by the Government. Given under my hand, and the seal of the War Office of the United States, at Washington, this twenty-fourth day of June, in the vear of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and one. ■ ■ HENRY DEARBORN, Secretary of liar. War Department, July 3, 1801. Gentlemen: Having been mistaken as to some part of the line between the Cherokees and the white people, the President, on further reflection, has thought proper to direct, that the second object of your conference with the Cherokees, viz; the alteration of the boundary line from the Ohio, between the Cumberland and Tennessee rivers, should be suspended, and you will consider that part of your instructions suspended accordingly, as well in its relation to the Cherokees as the Chickasaws; and, as by information lately received, it is evident that the Cherokees have testified much dissatisfaction, on hearing that the Government were about to request them to cede more land, it is the wish of the President that you should treat the subject with great tenderness, and that you should not press them on any other subjects than those which relate to roads, and settlers thereon. You will impress upon them the belief, that the United States have no desire to purchase any of their land, unless they are quite willing to sell; that we are not in want of lands, but only wish to. be accommodated with such roads as are necessary to keep up a communication with all parts of the United States, without trespassing on the lands of the red people. It is suggested, that the Indians will oppose our request for opening roads, for the two following reasons : that their cattle and horses will travel too far from home in such roads, and be driven away, and stolen by the white people, who may travel on said roads. To obviate these objections, it may be proper to agree, on the part of the- United States, that no white people shall be allowed to travel on the road to Natchez, except such as shall have procured passes from our agents at Tennessee and at Natchez, which passes shall be countersigned by the men who may be stationed at the several houses to be established on the roads, and that gates shall be erected at some of the bridges on that road, and maintained by the. United States, to prevent the horses and cattle of the Indians from straying far from home. I am, gentlemen, &c. William R. Davie, HENRY DEARBORN, Secretary of War. James Wilkinson, and Benjamin Hawkins, Esqrs.   'P. S. Please to correct an error in the first section of your instructions."by inserting the word “ below,"’between the words, “from the point,” and “ where the Kentucky road,” &c. Note.—William R. Davie, Esq. named in the preceding instructions, having declined accepting the appointment, Andrew Pickens was appointed to fill the vacancy. To James Wilkinson, Benjamin Hawkins, and .Undrew Pickens, Esquires. Gentlemen: Your negotiations at lort Wilkinson, in Georgia, with the Creek nation of Indians, will be directed to the subjects, and agreeably to the instructions following, viz: 1st. You will endeavor to obtain front the Creeks a cession to the United States of the district of territory in Georgia, known by the name of Tallassee county; this will be your primary object: and as it is considered of great importance, you are authorized to engage that the United States will pay tncm, for their consent to such a cession, a'sum not exceeding twelve thousand dollars, and an annuity, in addition to that at present paid them, in cash, or such goods suitable for their use. as they may designate, to the amount of, not exceeding two thousand dollars. It is left to your discretion to increase or decrease the immediate payment,or the annuity, in proportion to these sums, as will be most agreeable to the Indians. 2d. You will ascertain whether the eonsent of the Creeks can be obtained, to cede to the United States the tract of land, lying between the Oakmulgee and Oconee rivers, and commonly called the O.ikmulgee fork: and if attainable, on what terms. You will make report of the resul t of your inquiries on this subject, but decline entering into any engagement, until you shall receive further instructions. 3d. By the treaty of August 7th, 1790. a mode was agreed upon between the Creeks and the United States, by which the head or source of the main south branch of the. Oconee river should be ascertained, anti a decision has been had accordingly, whether correctly or incorrectly, is a matter of doubt. But certain persons, among whom i-a Colonel Wofford, had previously settled near the Currahee mountain, on lands which, they state, they nave great reason to believe, would have fallen within the United States" line, if i( had been run to the true head, or source of the main south branch of the Oconee aforesaid. By the decision, their settlements are at the mercy of the Indians, and it is desirable that you should use your endeavors to prevail upon the Indians so far to change the present line as to include the settlements of Colonel Wofford, and those in his immediate vicinity, within the United States, for such reasonable sum as you may think proper. It may be worthy of observation, that the deputation from the Cherokee nation, lately at the seat of Government, stated that the Gherokees had claims to the last mentioned lands. In cases of controversies between the Indians, respecting the divisional lines of their countries, it must always be difficult for us to ascertain the validity of their respective claims, and unadvisable for us to interfere., except in cases like the present. You will be pleased, if by you considered of sufficient consequence, to investigate the subject, by making such inquiries, among the Cherokees as well as the Creeks, as will lead to a true knowledge of their respective rights to the lands ill question. The Creeks being a powerful and proud nation, and great jealousies having at different times arisen between them and the frontier inhabitants, all prudent means in your power should lie exerted to reconcile them, and to remove every obstacle to their mutual friendship: and every assurance of the protection and friendship of the President, which you were authorized to make to the other Indian nations, should be tendered to,the Creeks also. The information which you may obtain relative to the conduct and views of Bowles, may enable you to fortify the minds of the Creeks against his mischievous prospects, if he should continue at large in their vicinity. A quantity of goods for the Indians, and articles for your own use. will be forwarded to Mr. Joseph Clay, at Savannah, fiom whence they may be easily conveyed to fort Wilkinson: in the event-of your success, additional quantities of goods will lie transmitted immediately, to fulfil your engagements. [l. s.] Given under my hand, and the seal of the War Office, at Washington, the 17th day of July, A. 1). 1801. II. DEARBORN, Secretary of War. Chickasaw Bluffs, October 05//i, 1801. Sir: We arrived here on the 18th instant, and on the 21st we commenced our conference, with a full and respectable deputation from the Chickasaw nation, headed by their Mingo or king. We found this people, like all others of their kind, under similar circumstances—jealous of our view's, and alarmed for their rights of territory; but their confidence in Government had not. been shaken, and we experienced little difficulty in accomplishing the treaty which we have the honor to transmit you. under cover, for the consideration of the President and the Senate. Perceiving the deputation to be strongly opposed to the proposition to introduce licensed establishments on the road, for the accommodation of travellers, we waived that point, without hesitation, because we are persuaded such accommodations will be provided by the natives themselves, or by the whites who have been admitted among them, as soon as the highway is completed. We enclose you the'minutes of our conference, for the satisfaction of the Executive, and, also, an inventory of the. goods delivered on the occasion, taken from an invoice of articles, amounting to two thousand six hundred and ninety-six dollars, which, with tw’o hundred gallons of whiskey, and one thousand pounds of tobacco, comprehends all the goods and merchandise we have yet received for the purposes of the commission; To aid and inform the officers who may superintend the construction of-the proposed road, and to prevent misunderstandings, we have advised that two Indians, recommended by the deputation, should be employed to attend those officers until the guide line is established, and that the re.-ident agent of the nation should accompany them. We are also of opinion, that interpreters may be necessary with the working parties, until a clear understanding of our engagements with the nation may be generally diffused. It is easier to prevent difficulties with people jealous, tenacious, and ignorant, than to remove them after their occurrence. It seems fortunate the Cherokees did not consent to open a road from Nashville to the Tennessee, because we find the proposed route embraced by the limits of the Chickasaws, which have been clearly defined in that quarter, and explicitly recognised in a declaration of President Washington, bearing date the 1st July. 1794. now in possession of the nation, and corresponding with the authentic copy under cover, which has been furnished us by the Mingo. The whole deputation manifested great anxiety cn this subject, and expressed a strong desire that we should acknowledge this declaration, and renew the assurances attached to it: and it was on this ground, to prevent distrust, and to evince the integrity of Government, that we entered into the stipulation contained in tin-second article, viewing it, in effect, as the mere repetition of an obligation which existed in full force. We with pleasure bear testimony to the amicable and orderly disposition of this nation, w hose greatest boast i>, “ that they have never spilt the blood of a white man;"" but, with these dispositions, they are not so far advanced in the habits of civilization as their neighbors, the Cherokees, though they discover a taste for individual property, have made considerable progress in agriculture, and in stocking their farms, and arc desirous to increase their domestic manufactures. The enclosed schedule of their wants, which the deputation have requested us to submit to the Executive, strongly marks their views and their providence. “ We are about to raise cotton,v said a chief; “ we shall want canoes to carry it to market, and adzes are necessary to build them.” We, with great deference, submit these claims of the Chickasaws to the consideration of Government, and, were it not presumptuous, wm would earnestly recommend to the councils of our country, a steady perseverance in that humane and beneficent system, w hich has for its object ihe civilization, and consequent salvation, of a devoted race of human being'. The prospects of success become daily more flattering, but, to ensure it, an extension of the means, and a reform in the application, may become necessary. It occurs to us, that it may be salutary to compel all white persons who traverse the Chickasaw country, to confine themselves to the highway proposed to be opened, for which end, the authority of the National Legislature ma\ be found expedient. We hare taken measures to convene the Clioctaws at Loftus’ Heights, on the grounds of convenience and economy to the public, and of accommodation to the inhabitants, and we expect to meet them in council about the 20th proximo.   'With perfect respect, we are, sir, your obedient, humble servants, JA. WILKINSON. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. AND’W PICKENS. The lion. Henry Dearborn, Secretary of War. Minutes of a conference held at the Chickasaw Bluffs, by General James Wilkinson. Benjamin Hawkins, and Jdndrew Pickens, Esquires, Commissioners of the United States, with the king, chiefs, and principal men, of the Chickasaw twtion, on the 21 si, and concluding on the 24th of October, eighteen hundred and one. The parties being assembled, the following address was delivered by General Wilkinson, on the part of the commissioners: King, Chiefs, and Principal Men, of the Chickasmv nation: You are now addressed by commissioners from the United States, who have been appointed by your father, the President, to meet you in council, and to confer with you on subjects interesting to your own welfare, and to that of the citizens of the United States. Brothers: Your father, the President, takes you by the hand, and invites you to look up to him as your friend and father; to rely in full confidence on his unvarying disposition to lead and protect you in the paths ot peace and prosperity, and to preserve concord between you and your white brethren, within the United States. Brothers: We invite you to state to us freely, the situation of your nation, and what you wish on the part'of your father, the President, to better your condition, in trade, in agriculture, and in manufactures, that we may state the same for the consideration of Government. We invite you to open your minds freely to us, and to set forth your wishes and all your wants. When we hear from you the true state of your affairs, we shall be able to assist you with our advice, our attention, and our friendship. ' , Brothers: On the part of your white brethren, we have to represent to you, that the path from the settlements of Natchez (through your nation) to those of Cumberland, is an uncomfortable one, and very inconvenient to them in its present unimproved condition; and we are directed to stipulate with you, to make it suitable to the accommodation of those who may use it, and at the same time beneficial to yourselves. , We are your friend's, and the representatives of your father, the President. After some explanations as to the accommodation to be established on the road, Major Colbert, a chief, observed, that no answer could be given to day; that they would have to consult with each other, and when they had made up their, minds, they would speak to the commissioners. ] October 2-2.—The council being convened. Major Colbert requested the commissioners to explain fully the views of the President, with respect to the road, which was accordingly done. The Indians then went into a discussion of the subject among themselves. The commissioners being about to withdraw. Major Colbert observed, the Indians wished to settle the business as soon as possible. After some time Spent in deliberation, in their own language, the king spoke as follows: I am very glad to hear the commissioners hold such language, that does not require the cession of land, or any thing of that kind. I consider the propositions to be made for the benefit of my women and children. Major Colbert, being fully empowered by the council, gave its determination in the following words: The nation.agrees, that a wagon road may be cut through its lartd, but does not consent to the erection of houses for the accommodation of travellers. We leave that subject to future'consideration, in order that time may enable our people to ascertain the advantages to be derived from it. In the mean time, travellers wall always find provisions iii the nation, sufficient to cany them through. ’ > The council then adjourned. October 24.—The council met, and the treaty being deliberately read and interpreted, by sentences and paragraphs, was signed by the contractingparties. JAMES WILKINSON, . BENJAMIN HAWKINS, ANDREW PICKENS. Invoice of goods delivered the Chickasaw nation, agreeably to treaty, the -24th of October, 1801. 200 lbs. Rifle Powder, 500 lbs. Lead, 1000 Gun Flints, 2 pieces Stroud, 40 Blankets, 100 Shirts, - 0 Rifles, - 30 Axes, - - 30 Hoes, - - 1 dozen black silk Handkerchiefs, 2 pieces Calico, 28* yards, a 2s. 6d. 2 pieces Pulicats, a 35s. l\d. 2 dozen Scalping Knives, a 15s. - 50 gallons Whiskey, a 50 cents, - - 5 kegs for do. a 50 cents,   - 200 lbs. Tobacco, a $0 25, I piece grey Coating, 22 yards, a 6s. 6d. -1 piece striped do. (No. 4.) 47 yards, a 8s. 6d. - 3 Rifles, - - - - - - ..   - . (-   $ 00 00 - - * - - - - 40 80 - - - - - - - 10 00 - - - - - - - 40 00 - - . -   -  A - 59 20 - -   V - - - 136 00 - _ - - - - - 84 00 - _  _ - - - 26 00 - -   _ - - - 22 00 - - _ - - - - 12 80 Add oiie gun, 9 50 8 10 4 00 25 00 2 50 12'50 38 50 53 25 42 00 096 21 6 S702 21 JAMES WILKINSON, BENJAMIN HAWKINS, ANDREW PICKENS. ,  ..   Mississippi, Chickasaw Bluffs. October 27, 1801. Sir: The Chickasaws'having agreed we should open the proposed road, 1 have issued the necessary orders to Colonel Butler, and have ordered eight companies of the 2d regiment of infantry, to'ascend the Tennessee, as soon  as water craft can be provided. I expect four companies will be in'motion soon after my orders reach the cantonment, as I have directed the corps to proceed in two divisions, for the sake of despatch. I find.-on inquiry, and from observation, that the route by Bear creek is an improper one. as the bottoms, on both sides the Tennessee, .are inundated for a considerable distance during the floods, and the ground over which it passes, is hilly and much broken. Iam,--at the same time, informed by Major Colbert, that a good way, and a good crossing, may be found a little.further to the eastward, which will shorten the distance. I have, for these reasons, and to secure a'correspondence in the operations of the several cutting parties, with the advice of.the commissioners, employed-the agent of the Chickasaw nation. Mr. Samuel Mitchell, with two confidential Indians,.to commence at the Indian boundary, north of the Tennessee river, and mark a guide line through the Chickasaw country, by which, the superintending officers are to be governed in their course; this will involve some expense, but it is.certainly necessary, and. in my opinion, it will be.profitable, as it will secure a uniform course over the best ground, and will obviate the effects of dissension, caprice, or incapacity, among the officers in command, at the several points of operation. But. you may rest assured, that neither this, nor any other expense, shall be extended a dollar beyond the limits of utility and propriety. We leave this place to-morrow, and expect to be in conference with the Choctaws about the 20th proximo, at Loftus' Heights, our barrier post on this river; and should they accede to the- proposition for opening the road, of which I have no doubt, six companies will be 'put'to work at the skirts of the settlements of Natchez, under the command of' Colonel Gaither. . I am perplexed by Colonel Hawkins’ idea; of,the impracticability of assembling the Creeks before the.spring: but, should this be. the case, I will endeavor to avail myself of the interval, personally to inspect the beginnings of the several working parties, and to'examine the route which may be surveyed and marked by Sir. Mitchell. The garrison of one company at this place is remarkably healthy. 1 have heard, casually, of the death of Captain Smith, of the 3d regiment, at .the barrier post, but have understood that the troops enjoyed health. ; ■ With perfect respect arid reganl, l am, sir. Your obedient servant. JAS. WILKINSON. The Hon. Henry Dearborn, Secretary of JUar. . 7th Congress.] 
