NO. 231 PRESERVATION AND CIVILIZATION OF THE INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEBRUARY 21, 1826. [SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 3, 1826. The duty assigned me by your letter of	, enclosing “ a bill for the preservation and civilization of the Indian tribes within the United States,” is one both delicate and important. I have discharged it to the best of my judgment, by preparing, and herewith sending you, the projet of a bill for your consideration, and a report in elucidation of its purposes. I seek shelter from what otherwise would be a painful responsibility, under the superior wisdom of those to whose judgment it is committed. . I have the honor to be your obedient servant, JAMES BARBOUR. Hon. JOHN COCKE, Chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 3, 1826. The condition of the aborigines of this country, and their future destiny, have long engaged the attention of (he philosopher and statesman, inspiring an interest correspondent to the high importance of the subject. The history of the past presents but little on which the recollection lingers with satisfaction. The foture is not more cheering, unless resort be speedily had to other counsels than those by which we have heretofore been governed. From the first discovery of America to the present time, one master passion, common to all mankind—that of acquiring land—has driven, in ceaseless succession, the white man on the Indian. The latter, reluctantly yielding to a force he could not resist, has retired from the ocean to the mountains, and from the mountains to more inhospitable recesses, wasting away by sufferings and by wars, foreign and intestine, till a wretched fragment only survives of the numerous hordes once inhabiting this country, whose portion is to brood in grief over their past misfortunes, or to look in despair on the approaching catastrophe of their impending doom.‡‡‡ It were now an unprofitable task to inquire on what principle the nations of Europe were justified in dispossessing the original proprietor of his birthright. They brought with them their own maxims, which recognised power as the only standard of right, ànd fraud and force as perfectly legitimate in the acquisition of territory. It has been done, and time has confirmed the act. In the contest for dominion, the milder qualities of justice and clemency were disregarded. But that contest has long since ceased, especially in the United States; where, on the one side, arc seen a great people, familiar with arts and arms, whose energies are increased by union, and directed by an efficient Government; on the other, a few ignorant and divided tribes of barbarians. It is necessary only for the former to express its will, to receive or enforce immediate submission from the latter. The suggestions of policy or necessity should no longer stifle the claims of justice and humanity. It is now, therefore, that a most solemn question addresses itself to the American people, and whose answer is full of responsibility. Shall we go on quietly in a course, which, judging from the past, threatens their extinction, while their past sufferings and future prospects so pathetically appeal to our compassion? The responsibility to which I refer is what a nation owes to itself, to its future character in all time to come; for, next to the means of self-defence and the blessings of free government, stands, in point of importance, the character of a nation. Its distinguishing characteristics should be justice and moderation. To spare the weak is its brightest ornament. It is, therefore, a source of the highest gratification that an opportunity is now offered the United States to practise these maxims, and to give an example of the triumph of liberal principles over that sordid selfishness which has been the fruitful spring of human calamity. It is the province of history to commit to its pages the transactions of nations. Posterity look to this depository with the most intense interest. The fair fame of their ancestors, a most precious inheritance, is to them equally a source of pride and a motive of continued good actions. But she performs her province with impartiality. The authority she exercises in the absence of others is a check on bad rule. The tyrant and the oppressor see, in the character of their prototypes, the sentence posterity is preparing for them. Which side of the picture shall we elect? for the decision is left to ourselves. Shall her record transmit the present race to future generations as standing by, insensible to the progress of the desolation which threatens the remnant of this people? or shall these unfriendly characters give place to a generous effort which shall have been made to save them from destruction? While deliberating on this solemn question, I would appeal to that high Providence, whose delight is justice and mercy, and take counsel from the oracles of his will, revealed to man, in his terrible denunciations against the oppressor. In reviewing the past, justice requires that the humane attempts of the Federal Government, cueval with its origin, should receive an honorable notice. That they have essentially failed, the sad experience of every day but too strongly testifies. If the original plan, conceived in the spirit of benevolence, had not been fated to encounter that as yet unabated desire to bereave them of their lands, it would, perhaps, have realized much of the hopes of its friends. So long, however, as that desire continues to direct our councils, every attempt must fail. A cursory review is all that is necessary to show the incongruity of the measures we have pursued, and the cause of their failure. Missionaries arc sent among them to enlighten their minds, by imbuing them with religious impressions. Schools have been established, by the aid of private as well as public donations, for the instruction of their youths. They have been persuaded to abandon the chase, to locate themselves, and become cultivators of the soil; implements of husbandry and domestic animals have been presented them; and all these things have been done, accompanied with professions of a disinterested solicitude for their happiness. Yielding to these temptations, some of them have reclaimed the forest, planted their orchards, and erected houses, not only for their abode, but for the administration of justice and for religious worship; and when they have so done, you send your agent to tell them they must surrender their country to the white man, and recommit themselves to some new desert, and substitute, as the means of their subsistence, the precarious chase for the certainty of cultivation. The love of our native land is implanted in every human bosom, whether he roams the wilderness, or is found in the highest state of civilization. This attachment increases with the comforts of our country, and is strongest when these comforts are the fruits of our own exertions. We have imparted this feeling to many of the tribes by our own measures. Can it be matter of surprise that they hear, with unmixed indignation, of what seems to them our ruthless purpose of expelling them from their country, thus endeared? They see that our professions arc insincere; that our promises have been broken; that the happiness of the Indian is a cheap sacrifice to the acquisition of new lands; and when attempted to be soothed by an assurance that the country to which we propose to send them is desirable, they emphatically ask us, What new pledges can you give us that we shall not again be exiled when it is your wish to possess these lands? It is easier to state than to answer this question. A regard to consistency, apart from every other consideration, requires a change of measures. Either let him retain and enjoy his home; or, if he is to be driven from it, abstain from cherishing illusions we mean to disappoint, and thereby make him to feel more sensibly the extent of his loss. Having pointed out the incongruities of this system, so unhappily organized that it contains within itself the causes of its own abortion, I proceed to review the more modern plans of removing the different tribes from the east to the west of the Mississippi. That this plan originated in that benevolence for which its author is so distinguished, is cheerfully admitted; but that it, too, is obnoxious to many objections, I fear is no less true. The first objection is the impracticability of its execution, if that is to depend on treaties alone. Some of the tribes in whose removal we are-most deeply concerned have peremptorily refused to abandon their native land. Those who may be persuaded to emigrate will carry with them the same internal feuds which are so destructive to their kind, and for which no remedy is proposed. Different tribes are to be placed in juxtaposition, without a controlling power, between which hereditary and implacable hostilities have raged, and which are not likely to be appeased till the one or the other is exterminated. But, these difficulties surmounted, in what relation are they to stand to the United States? The history of every age teaches ns how difficult it has been to maintain tranquillity between conterminous and independent States, though civilized. How must that difficulty be increased, when one of the parties is savage? Thefts, and murders, and numberless causes of discord, must inevitably precipitate collisions, which cannot but prove fatal to the weaker party; and the same propensity which has conducted the white population to the remote regions they now occupy, will continue to propel the tide, till it is arrested only by the distant shores of the Pacific. Before this resistless current the Indian must retire, till his name will be no more. It would be, however, worse than useless to waste your time in multiplying objections to existing plans; I have, therefore, supposing it to be within the duty assigned me by the committee, submitted the projet of a bill, with such provisions as I think, under all the circumstances, are best calculated to effect the desired object. In performing the service assigned by the committee, whose wishes alone would have been a sufficient inducement on my part to render a cheerful compliance, I have a farther reason—a desire to comply with the requests of the people of the United States residing in the neighborhood of Indian settlements. The Department is continually pressed with applications, from New York to Arkansas, to adopt measures to extinguish the Indian titles to their lands, and to remove the Indians. An unavailing attempt to obtain a cession of their lands is sometimes ascribed by the disappointed to ignorance, or a want of zeal, or some worse motive, on the part of agents employed; and new attempts to negotiate are solicited with unabated importunity. The obstinacy of the Indians, arising from their partial civilization, whose removal we most wish, fully equals the zeal of those who wish to procure their lands; and hence an insuperable difficulty presents itself to effect, by treaties, the object which is so desirable—of putting an end to this fruitful source of collision. I am not arrogant enough to suppose that it is free from all objections; for I am aware that no plan which human ingenuity could suggest would be altogether exempt, as the subject is encompassed on every side with difficulties. The utmost reach of my hopes is limited to a diminution of these difficulties, both in number and extent. It is only by comparison, I am satisfied, that my scheme can solicit a preference. I submit the outlines of the bill, the principles of which are the following: 1st. The country west of the Mississippi, and beyond the States and Territories, and so much on the east of the Mississippi as lies west of Lakes Huron and Michigan, is to be set apart for their exclusive abode. 2dly. Their removal by individuals, in contradistinction to tribes. 3dly. A Territorial Government to be maintained by the United States. 4thly. If circumstances shall eventually justify it, the extinction of tribes, and their amalgamation into one mass, and a distribution of property among the individuals. 5thly. It leaves the condition of those that remain unaltered. In offering a few remarks upon these different heads, I beg to call the attention of the committee to the leading principle of the bill, namely: that nothing is proposed to be done, in reference to the Indians, without their own consent. In making this a preliminary to our acting, I have been influenced rather by a desire to relieve the proposed plan from objections, than from any settled conviction of its necessity. The relations between the United States and the Indians are so entirely peculiar, that it is extremely difficult to refer to any well settled principles by which to ascertain the extent of our authority over them. Our ancestors; as well as every European nation that seized upon their country, denounced them as heathens, utterly out of the pale of civil society, and, as a consequence, disposed of them according to their will and pleasure. From the. adoption of the Federal Government, however, they were regarded, to some extent, as an independent people. Hence, treaties were made with them for a surrender of the usufruct of their lands. On the other hand, they were denied the exercise of this right as it respects other nations, and were even restrained from selling their lands to our own citizens. And, besides regulating their trade, Congress went so far as to punish, by the decisions of our own courts, for offences committed within or without their own territories. In forbearing to go further, it is left to conjecture whether it arose from a want of authority, or the expediency of exercising it. To avoid, therefore, any difficulty which different opinions might produce on this point, their consent has been made necessary by the bill, as a requisite, to its operation. The first provision looks to the procurement of a country for their future residence beyond the settlements of the whites. Fortunately, that object can be easily effected. In adopting the limits prescribed in the bill, I have pursued the plan heretofore proposed. In including the lands as a part lying between Lakes Michigan and Huron, and the river Mississippi, I have been governed as well by the above consideration, as the fact that it is now in the occupancy of the Indians, and, from its natural features, is not desirable at present for the habitation of our citizens. The principal recommendation of this plan, next to the advantages to be gained by ourselves, is, that the future residence of these people will be forever undisturbed; that there, at least, they will find a home and a restingplace; and being exclusively under the control of the United States, and, consequently, free from the rival claims of any of the States, the former may plight its most,solemn faith that it shall be theirs forever: and this guaranty is therefore given. The second provision referred to is that of effecting their removal by portions less than whole tribes, when the latter is impracticable. Some of the tribes, in whose immediate removal we are particularly interested, have px-, pressed a fixed determination against an exchange of their lands. This difficulty is said to arise from the influence of their chiefs, who have appropriated the most fertile lands to themselves, and have become wealthy. Their consent to remove cannot be obtained; but the majority, or large portions of the tribe who have no such inducement to remain, it is asserted by those who know, or pretend to know their wishes, may be persuaded to emigrate. By the proposed plan, the fact can be ascertained; and whatever portion may be willing to go, will, under this provision, be removed. The third object of the bill is the establishment of a Territorial Government by the United States for their protection and their civilization. The bill proposes a governor, three judges, and a secretary, to be appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, and such modifications in detail as the President shall ordain, subject to the approbation of Congress.	■ I have already intimated, in a former part of this report, the consequences of sending the Indians to the country destined for their final abode, without some controlling authority. Without this, they will be exposed to endless mischiefs. . It is not necessary to prescribe particularly in the bill their government. Its organization may safely be deposited in the hands of the President, subject to the control of Congress. I will, nevertheless, suggest that, as soon as the civilization of the Indians would admit of it, I would give them a legislative body, composed of Indians, (to be selected in the early stages by the President, and eventually to be elected by themselves,) as well for the purpose of enacting such laws as would be agreeable to themselves, as for the purpose of exciting their ambition. Distinction being the object of universal pursuit with man, whether barbarous or civilized, it is presented to the Indians ' in this scheme. They will be taught that there is another road to it than through blood and slaughter. The objection, on the part of the most intelligent, to an amalgamation with the whites, is, that they can never rise to offices of trust and profit. Here, this difficulty will be removed. Let us indulge the hope that, in time, they will be competent to self-government, when they may be left entirely to themselves, and when, in consequence, their ambition will find its proper theatre, and be gratified; then, none will have any adequate motive to remain among the whites. A fourth object of the bill is, the division of their lands in such manner, and at such times, as the President may think proper. The object of this provision is to give the power to the President (when, in his judgment, circumstances will justify it) to distribute the land among the individuals by metes and bounds, in contradistinction to its being held in common by a tribe. Nothing, it is believed, has had a more injurious influence on our efforts to improve the condition of the Indians, than holding their land in common. Whether such a system may succeed on a very limited scale, when under a beneficent patriarchal authority, is yet to be ascertained. Past experience has left the strongest evidence against its practicability under less favorable auspices. The attempt of that kind in the first settlement of Virginia, and, I believe, in the early settlements elsewhere, conducted the colonists to the very brink of ruin, from which they were rescued only by abandoning it. The distribution of the soil, and the individuality imparted to the avails of its cultivation, history informs us, instantly gave a new and favorable aspect to their condition. How far the strong motives of human action may be modified by education and habit, may be left in the hands of speculative philanthropists. The only safe rule for Government is, to act on human nature as it is, and conform its changes of policy to new but well-ascertained developments. If, therefore, the position be a just one, that every attempt at a community of property has eventuated unsuccessfully, even with civilized man, it is no matter of wonder that it should have been equally so with the savage. To the lands thus granted, add liberally all that is necessary to enable them effectually to succeed in their new condition—implements of husbandry, mechanics for repairing them, domestic animals, and supplies of food. By directing a part of the funds at present paid for annuities, judiciously, under proper agents to be appointed by the United States, and as long as necessity required it, the Indian might be brought, by degrees, to a love of civilized life, and be reconciled to the performance of its duties. And although the difficulty of inducing him to labor is duly appreciated, yet, when its benefits are once realized in the individuality of its productions, and by increasing his comforts, the hope can scarcely be deemed desperate which places him under the same influences as the white man. I refer to the document B, as disclosing interesting information on this branch of the subject. The principle fixed, the time of its application to different tribes might be left to the discretion of the President, who, in its exercise, would conform to circumstances, commencing with those most convenient and most civilized, and cautiously extending its application till the whole be embraced. The money we annually expend on our Indian relations, and frequently not very profitably to them, from the manner of their appropriating it, would furnish an ample fund to meet any probable expense arising from the execution of this plan. By reference to document A, it will be seen that this year we have had to pay for this object $781,827 14. To those advantages may be added the consideration, that, after an individual distribution, the effort of the whites to dispossess them of their lands thus held must cease. The individual appropriation of land gives a sanctity to the title which inspires respect in nations the most barbarous. It would repress, with us, any thought of disturbing it. When this is effected, their distinction of tribes may easily be abolished, and the whole consolidated into one great family. And, lastly, the bill leaves those that remain to the wisdom and justice of posterity. If, as is believed, the number disposed to emigrate is comparatively great, those that remain will be so few that their condition may be regulated without committing violence on their wishes or their interests, and yet reconciling their residence with the prosperity of the whites. It is obvious, from causes that need not be enumerated, that they must soon surrender their distinction of race for the resemblance of the white man, and accept, as an equivalent, the blessings which that resemblance cannot fail to bring with it—a peaceful but sure remedy, which may be safely left to time alone to produce. I will add, that the end proposed is the happiness of the Indians; the instrument of its accomplishment, their progressive, and, finally, their complete civilization. The obstacles to success are their ignorance, their prejudices, their repugnance to labor, their wandering propensities, and the uncertainty of the future. I would endeavor to overcome these by schools; byja distribution of land in individual right; by a permanent social establishment, which should require the performance of social duties, by assigning them a country of which they are never to be bereaved, and cherishing them with parental kindness. In looking to the possible results of this plan, I am cheered with the hope that much good may be effected with comparatively little injury. Our difficulties, in their present form, will be diminished, or entirely removed. The desire to acquire Indian lands will cease, and no longer produce collisions. The Indians will at last know their lot with certainty. That many will avail themselves of this arrangement, so as to arrive at the blessings of civilization, I think there can be no reasonable doubt; that all will not, I readily admit. The imprudent of our own people are equally beyond the reach of legislative protection. • To this may be added the consolation furnished by the recollection that, in the efforts we had made, we had acquitted ourselves of a debt of justice and humanity; and if they should even fail, by the overruling influence of an inscrutable destiny whose fulfilment requires their extinction, however it may fill us with sorrow, we shall be relieved from remorse. Respectfully submitted. JAMES BARBOUR. A. Extract from the Second Auditor's statement, showing the amount of requisitions drawn by the Secretary of War on the treasury of the United States, in the first, second, and third quarters of 1825; the amount which has been accounted for on the settlement of accounts; and the balance which remains to be accounted for, as appears from the books of the Second Auditor of the Treasury. Heads of expenditure. Amount drawn from the treasury. Amount accounted for on the settlement of accounts. Balance to be accounted for. Indian department.	.	-	-	. $143,014 59 $131,138 30 $11.876 29 Pay of Indian agents,	-	-	.	. 43,318 19 42,506 69 811 50 Pay of Indian sub-agents,	-	.	-	- 19,461 65 .	18,893 78 567 87 Civilization of Indians,	-	-	-	- 11,032 91 4,246 05 6,786 86 Presents to Indians,	.... 18,728 23 15,158 97 3,569 26 Annuities to Indian tribes, ...	- 221,518 98 200,518 98 21,000 00 Claims against the Osages, -	-	-	- 2,748 00 2,628 92 119 08 Carrying into effect the treaty with the Creeks,	-	- 23,000 00 23,000 00 Do.	do.	Choctaws, -	- 3,748 72 3,748 72 Extinguishment of Indian title to Quapaw lands,	-	- 373 91 373 91 Running the line of the land assigned to Florida Indians,	- 362 44 362 44 Expenses of rations to be furnished to Florida Indians,	- 31,854 25 26,430 25 5,424 00 To defray the expenses of treating with Chuctaws lor a modification of the treaty of 18th October, 1820,	... 9,723 44 7,937 94 1,785 50 To defray the expenses of making treaties with the Indians beyond the Mississippi, ----- 3,716 21 216 21 3,500 00 To defray the expenses of holding treaties with the Sioux, Chippe- was, &c.	----- 6,400 00 6,400 00 Claims of Choctaws for services in the Pensacola campaign,	- 16,972 50 16,972 50 Towards the execution of any treaty with the Creeks that may be ratified prior to the next session of Congress,	-	- 225,853 12 34,484 21 191,368 91 $781.827 14 $535,017 87 $246,809 27 NOTE.—See report accompanying the President’s message, explaining the balance which appears to be unaccounted for. B. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, December 13, 1825. • I now proceed to report upon the remaining parts of your directions of the 3d October last, to wit: “ The effects, as already developed, of the present system for civilizing the Indians, and its probable and ulterior consequences upon them as a race, viewed both in relation to their present situation, and that which contemplates their future and permanent residence upon lands west of the Mississippi.” The effects of the present system for civilizing the Indians are everywhere, within the 'limits of its operation, salutary. The reports from the schools all testify to its excellence. Its superiority over all other plans for their improvement, and its exact adaptation to the end for which it was devised, will appear by comparing it with other efforts heretofore made for the accomplishment of the same benevolent object, and by a more detailed exposition of the consequbnces which are flowing from those now making. The wise and good have never ceased, from the earliest periods of our intercourse with the aborigines of this country, to attempt, in one form or other, their rescue from barbarism, and to introduce among them the conveniences and the blessings of civilized life. But those kind designs were limited in their operations, and partial in their effects; so much so, indeed, as to confirm in many, and eyen in some who were reluctant to admit a conclusion involving such distressing consequences, the belief that the aborigines of America were incapable of receiving and of practising the lessons of civilization! But this problem has since been solved; and these failures are now known to have been occasioned by existing and long established habits, (and which are no less difficult to subdue, where they strike deep, in the white man than in the Indian;) to the game which everywhere abounded in their native forests; to the interminable war which avarice has waged against them; and to the defects in the plans which were resorted to for their enlightening and reformation. The most that was accomplished by the missionaries of those earlier and interesting periods was to reform, comparatively, a few Indians, and control, in some degree, the savage ferocity of others; to maintain and keep alive the spirit of kindness towards them; and to secure to themselves, as laborers in a cause so holy, an enviable immortality. It is now easy to see at least some of the causes of their want of more abundant success. I will notice but one: that, however, next to the want of means and of teachers, is a principal one, and upon which all the rest, in a great degree, depended. Instead of instructing the Indians in a knowledge of the language of the country, and, by means of that mighty instrument, making avenues for their direct approach to, and intercourse with, the whites, and for their immediate acquaintance with the arts and conveniences of cultivated life, the missionaries adopted the plan of first learning the Indian language, and, by means of it, conveyed their instructions to them. They, moreover, confined themselves chiefly to lessons of morality and virtue. It is true that, without the practice of these, no people, whether civilized or savage, can attain to the excellencies of which our nature is capable; yet it is equally true that the savage man must be instructed also in the arts and conveniences of cultivated life, and made to feel the superior benefits which are to be derived from an ownership in and cultivation of the soil, and from the social virtues, over the uncertain and isolated and homeless condition of the mere hunter state. It was reserved for later times, if not to discover, at least to practise, this more practical and certain method of civilizing the Indians: hence the present system, whilst it maintains the dignity and purity of moral and religious instruction, keeps also in constant operation the means which are now leading so many' Indians to an acquaintance with the domestic arts, with mechanics, and with agriculture. It has been by the union of these, aided, it is true, by the absence of game, that the present, system for civilizing the Indians has, in the course of a very few years, produced such a striking change in the habits and practices of several of the tribes among whom it has been put in operation. Upwards of eleven hundred children, as has been shown in my report of the 30th ultimo, are now having imparted to them, and successfully too, the blessings of civilized and Christian life; whilst the older Indians, struck with its transforming effects, are themselves practising, to a very great extent, the lessons which they receive from their more fortunate offspring; and, in proof of their admiration of it, have, in many instances, contributed from their own scanty resources to its support. Several tribes have placed at the disposal of the superintendents of the schools, under the direction of the General Government, large annuities. The Choctaws have allotted twelve thousand dollars of their means per annum, for nearly twenty years, towards the support of this system; and the Chickasaws have given one year’s annuity, amounting to upwards of thirty thousand dollars, as a fund for the same object. The Cherokees on this side of the Mississippi arc in advance of all other tribes. They may be considered as a civilized people. Their march has been rapid. Less than thirty years ago they were so insensible to the conveniences of roads, as to have grown jealous of the missionary who had entitled himself to their confidence, (and justly too,) for recommending them to open a wagon road from one of their villages, for the advantage of an easier intercourse with another. Something, it is true, had been accomplished in the instruction of a few Cherokees in letters, and in the domestic arts, by the aged and venerable Moravian missionary who yet resides in the Cherokee nation; but the first school established there, under the present system, was in 1817. I cannot better illustrate the results of this system than by introducing here a statement of the present condition of the Cherokees, from the pen of a young man, a native Cherokee, who is indebted to this system for his improvement, and who was eight years ago, as he told me himself, “ a savage," without any knowledge of our language, or the principles of that sublime religion, to the cause of which he has devoted himself for the benefit of his countrymen. I shall not only be excused, but justified, I am sure, in introducing the following extracts from his letter, addressed to the editor of the Family Visitor, at Richmond, in September last. It is truth we are in quest of, and facts are the best instruments for its development. Theory, and all previously conceived opinions, which are adverse to Indian capacity and Indian improvement, must give way to the stubborn demonstration of such facts as David Brown discloses, even if there were no others; but there are many such. “ WILLSTOWN, (CHEROKEE NATION,) September 2, 1825. “ In my last letter from Creek Path to you, I stated that there was some probability of my returning to Arkansas, <fcc.; and referred to the improved condition of the Cherokees on this side of the Mississippi, in a moral, intellectual, and religious point of view, &c.; to the slow progress I make in translating the New Testament, in consequence of the ncn-existence of a dictionary or complete grammar in Cherokee; and to the philological researches of one in the nation, whose system of education had met with universal approbation, <fcc. “ Allow me, dear sir, now the pleasure to fulfil the promise I made you, that I would pick up and send you what I had omitted. Recently I have been travelling a good deal in the nation, in order to regain my impaired health. My heavenly Sovereign permitting, I expect to return to Arkansas in the month of October’next. I have made a hasty translation of the four gospels, which will require a close criticism. On my arrival at Dwight, I shall pursue the delightful work; and I hope the day is not far distant when the Cherokees, my brethren and kindred according to the flesh, shall read the words of eternal life in their own tongue. I will here give you a faint picture of the Cherokee nation and its inhabitants; in the mean time, however, it must be borne in mind that it is the mass and common people that form the character of a nation, and not officers of government, nor the lowest grade of peasantry. “ The Cherokee nation, you know, is in about thirty-five degrees north latitude; bounded on the north and west by the State of Tennessee, on the south by Alabama, and on the east by Georgia and North Carolina. This country is well watered; abundant springs of pure water are found in every part; a range of majestic and lofty mountains stretch themselves across the nation. The northern part of the nation is hilly and mountainous; in the southern and western parts there are extensive and fertile plains, covered partly with tall trees, through which beautiful streams of water glide. These plains furnish immense pasturage, and numberless herds of cattle are dispersed over them; horses are plenty, and are used for servile purposes; numerous flocks of sheep, goats, and swine cover the valleys and hills. On Tennessee, Ustanala, and Canasagi rivers, Cherokee commerce floats. The climate is delicious and healthy; the winters are mild; the spring clothes the ground with its richest scenery; Cherokee flowers, of exquisite beauty and variegated hues, meet and fascinate the eye in every direction. In the plains and valleys the soil is generally rich, producing Indian corn, cotton, tobacco, xvheat, oats, indigo, and sweet and Irish potatoes. The natives carry on considerable trade with the adjoining States; and some of them export cotton, in boats, down the Tennessee to the Mississippi, and down that river to New Orleans. Apple and peach orchards are quite common, and gardens are cultivated, and much attention paid to them; butter and cheese are seen on Cherokee tables. There are many public roads in the nation, and houses of entertainment kept by natives. Numerous and flourishing villages are seen in every section of the country. Cotton and woollen cloths are manufactured here; blankets, of various dimensions, manufactured by .Cherokee hands, are very common; almost every family in the nation grows cotton for its own consumption. Industry and commercial enterprise are extending themselves in every part; nearly all the merchants in the nation are native Cherokees; agricultural pursuits (the most solid foundation of our nationa. prosperity) engage the chief attention of the people. Different branches in mechanics are pursued. The population is rapidly increasing; in the year 1819, an estimate was made of all the Cherokees: those on the west were estimated at five thousand, and those on the east of the Mississippi at ten thousand souls. The census of this division of the Cherokees has again been taken within the current year, and the returns are thus made: native citizens, thirteen thousand five hundred and sixty-three; white men, married in the nation, one hundred and forty-seven; white women, married in the nation, seventy-three; African slaves, one thousand two hundred and seventy-seven. If this summary of Cherokee population from the census is correct, to say nothing of those of foreign.extract, we find that, in six years, the increase has been three thousand five hundred and sixty- ihree souls. If we judge the future by the past, to what number will the Cherokee population swell in 1856? “ White men in the nation enjoy all the immunities and privileges of the Cherokee people, except that they are not eligible to public offices. In the above computation of the present year, you perceive that there are some African slaves among us; they have been, from time to time, brought in and sold by white men; they are, however, generally well treated, and they much prefer living in the nation to a residence in the United States. There is hardly any intermixture of Cherokee and African blood. The presumption is, that the Cherokees will, at no distant day, co-operate with the humane efforts of those who are liberating and sending this proscribed race to the land of their fathers. National pride, patriotism, and a spirit of independence mark the Cherokee character. “ The Christian religion is the religion of the nation; Presbyterians, Methodists, Baptists, and Moravians are the most numerous sects. Some of the most influential characters are members of the church, and live consistently with their professions. The whole nation is penetrated with gratitude for the aid it has received from the United States Government and from different religious societies. Schools are increasing every year; learning is encouraged and rewarded; the young class acquire the English, and those of mature age the Cherokee system of learning. The female character is elevated and duly respected. Indolence is discountenanced. Our native language, in its philosophy, genius, and symphony, is inferior to few, if any, in the world. Our relations with all nations, savage or civilized, are of the most friendly character. We are out of debt, and our public revenue is in a flourishing condition; besides the amount arising from imposts, a perpetual annuity is due from the United States, in consideration of lands ceded in former periods. Our system of government, founded on republican principles, by which justice is equally distributed, secures the respect of the people. New Town, pleasantly situated in the centre of the nation, and at the junction of Canasagi and Gusuwati, two beautiful streams, is the seat of Government. The legislative power is vested in what is denominated, in native dialect, Tsalagi Tinilawige, consisting of a national committee and council. Members of both branches are chosen by and from the people, for a limited period. In New Town a printing press is soon to be established; also, a national library and a museum. An immense concourse of people frequent the seat of Government when the Tsalagi Tinilawige is in session, which takes place once a year.” The success which has attended the philological researches of “ one in the nation,” and whose system of education has met, among the Cherokees, with universal approbation, certainly entitles him to great consideration, and to rank with the benefactors of man. His name is Guess, and he is a native and unlettered Cherokee. Like Cadmus, he has given to his people the alphabet of their language. It is composed of eighty-six characters, by which, in a few days, the older Indians, who had despaired of deriving an education by means of the schools, and who are not included in the existing school system as participators of its benefits, may read and correspond! I have the honor to accompany herewith, in paper marked C, this alphabet, together with an example in the word “friend," and also the sound of each character, numbered from 1 to 86. The probable and ulterior consequences upon the Indians, as a race, of the system for their civilization, whether viewed in relation to their present situation, or that which contemplates their future and permanent residence upon lands west of the Mississippi, will partake, it is reasonable to presume, more or less, and according as circumstances may be favorable or otherwise, of those which have already been developed. This is the necessary conclusion, if any regard be had to the effects which have already been produced. But the system, to be universally operative, arid speedy in accomplishing the objects designed by it, should be so enlarged as to embrace the entire body of Indian children to whose tribes it may be extended. Without this, they will have to contend with opposing influences, and their progress will be less rapid. The examples of those net embraced by it will be necessarily felt. It is in the nature of man to imitate; and it being easier to imitate bad habits than good, the former will predominate, and especially among a people where the checks arising out of public opinion, and which apply to social and moral actions, are less regarded than are those which demand the exercise of self-denial and the sterner virtues. Whether, therefore, the Indians maintain their present location, or emigrate west of the Mississippi, and there settle under,some congenial and paternal Government, as was proposed by our late venerable Chief Magistrate, it cannot be otherwise, if the present system for their civilization be sustained, than that they will continue to derive from it effects similar to those which have been disclosed. It is, however, in my opinion, very certain that, should they retain their present location, they will, in the course of a few years, be lost as a race. The very improvement which is now making, the refinements which it creates, and the conceptions which it inspires, cannot, whilst they retain their present relation to us, but produce in them feelings of deep humiliation. It is true the Cherokees have a government of their own; and they aspire, among themselves, to places of honor and trust. But the more enlightened of them feel that these honors, when attained, suffer in the comparison with those which are bestowed in the States; or, however gratifying their attainment may be, that they are never free from the terrible apprehensions which arise out of the uncertainty of their continuing where they are. Indeed, those of them who have thought most upon this subject, and who feel, with the return of every year, the swell of the same ocean that has swept off so many of their tribes breaking at their feet, have no objection to pass at once under the laws of the States, and into permanent repose, except that which arises out of their apprehension that a portion of their people' are not yet prepared for it. But this portion are receiving, in their turn, the enlightening influences of the system of education; and a little time only will be required (so far, at least, as it regards the Cherokees,) to destroy this fear, when the whole tribe will, no doubt, seek to place themselves under the laws of the States, and, by that act, prepare the process for their extinction as a race. The same may be said of the other tribes, as they shall, in succession, advance to the same state of improvement. But a different result may be anticipated in regard to the question of their extinction or preservation as a race, were the entire Indian population now within the limits of our States and Territories (and which does not exceed one hundred and thirty thousand) collected and placed under the kind of government which has been referred to, and upon lands west of the Mississippi. They would be thus embodied as a separate people. The humiliating feelings arising out of their present relation to the whites and to our Government would be changed and elevated by thé connexion which would be formed between them; and they would be secured, as well by their separate state as by the power of the Government under which they would live, and of which they would form part, from all further encroachments and insults, and freed from the apprehension, which is so paralyzing to them, of any future removal. Under such circumstances, it is reasonable to suppose that they would give full scope to those feelings which characterize them as a people, and which lead them to struggle so for their preservation as a race. To this day, the fragments of tribes within the States in the north and east cling to the exterior characteristics in their leggins and belts of wampum; thus demonstrating their devotion to their race. They are not ashamed of their origin nor of their complexion. They glory in both. Remove the existing causes that operate to humiliate them in their own eyes, and to depress their energies; give them, under our laws, an assurance of protection in that western home, and a share in the Government and in the public honors; make them, in a word, part of ourselves; and their improvement, in such a state, under the existing system for their civilization, so far from producing their extinction as a people, would tend to their preservation as a race. The question of policy, as to which of those measur.es would conduce most to the public welfare and the happiness and prosperity of the Indians, and which now presents itself, is left for discussion to those who are more competent to it. But the age, I may be permitted to add, in which it is our happiness to live, has, by its enlightening and humanizing influences, decided that mercy shall rule, and liberality and kindness minister to these unfortunate people, in whatever relation it may be determined they are to stand to us. I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant, „ k T	THOS. L. McKENNEY. Io the Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War. C. 1TB <4 G^AG-rAeTV	V%.K ék&R	TO^pcer<PeJ'£cA^€ie 1 A, short 19 Woh. 36 Quegh. 53 Un (French.) 70 . 2 A, broad. 20 Cloh. 37 Sah. 54 Tun. 71 Tsooh. 3 Lab. 21 Tah. 38 Quah. 55 Kooh. 72 Mah. 4 Tsee. 22 Yahn. 39 Gnaugh (nasal.) 56 Tsoh. 73 Clooh. 5 Nah. 23 Lanh. 40 Kaah. 57 Quooh. 74 Haah. 6 Week. 24 Hee. 41 Tsahn. 58 Noo. 75 Hah. 7 WeK. 25 Ss (sibilant.) 42 Sahn. 59 Na. 76 Meeh. 8 Lech. 26 Yoh. 43 Neeh. 60 Loh. 77 Olah. 9 Neh. 27 Un (French.) 44 Kah. 61 Yu. 78 Yah. 10 Mooh. 28 Hoo. 45 Taugh. 62 Tseh. 79 Wah. 11 Keeh. 29 Goh. 46 Kelt. 63 Tee. 80 Teeh. 12 Yeeh. 30 Tsoo. 47 Taah. 64 Wahn. 81 Clegh. 13 Seeh. 31 Maugh. 48 Kahn. 65 Tooh. 82 Naa. 14 Clanh. 32 Seh. 49 Weeh. 66 Teh. 83 Quh. 15 Ah. 33 Saugh. 50 Eeh. 67 Tsah. 84 Clah. 16 Luh. 34 Cleegh. 51 Ooh. 68 Un (French.) 85 Maah. 17 Leh. 35 Queegh. 52 Yeh. 69 Neh. 86 Quhn. 18 Hah. The following characters, when put together, spell"Friend"— -«5^	8 3? and are sounded thus—Keeh- naa-leh-ech. “ Keeh" is sounded short; “ naa" broad;” “ leji,"short; and “ eeh" short. SIR:	WASHINGTON CITY, March 1, 1826. I have just read the printed copy of a letter from you to the chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs, and have also seen and examined the bill reported by that committee for the preservation and civilization of the Indian tribes within the limits of the United States; and, in obedience to your request, will now submit to you my ideas with respect to the interesting subject to which they relate. The view which is taken in the letter, of the relative condition of the United States on the one side, and the Indian tribes on the other, is, in my opinion, perfectly correct; and the obligation which is imposed upon this Government to save them from extinction, as the letter suggests, and to make persevering exertions to improve their condition, is equally the dictate of magnanimity and justice. The events of the last two or three wars, from General Wayne’s campaign, in 1794, to the end of the operations against the southern tribes, in 1818, have entirely changed our position with regard to the Indians. Before those events, the tribes nearest our settlements were a formidable and terrible enemy; since then, their power has been broken, their warlike spirit subdued, and themselves sunk into objects of pity and commiseration. While strong and hostile, it bas been our obvious policy to weaken them; now that they are weak and harmless, and most of their lands fallen into our hands, justice and humanity require us to cherish and befriend them. To teach them to live in houses, to raise grain and stock, to plant orchards, to set up landmarks, to divide their possessions, to establish laws for their government, to get the rudiments of common learning, such as reading, writing, and ciphering, are the first steps towards improving their condition. But, to take these steps with effect, it is necessary that previous measures of great magnitude should be accomplished; that is, that the tribes now within the limits of the States and Territories should be removed to a country beyond those limits, where they could rest in peace, and enjoy in reality the perpetuity of the lands on which their buildings and improvements would be made. This great measure is proposed in the bill to which I have referred; and the country west of Missouri and Arkansas, and west of the Mississippi river, north of Missouri, is the one destined to receive them. From all accounts, this country will be well adapted to their residence; it is well watered with numerous small streams and snme large rivers; abounds with grass, which will make it easy to raise stock; has many salt springs, from which a supply of the necessary article of salt can be obtained; contains much prairie land, which will make the opening of farms easy; and affords a temporary supply of game. I would recommend the following measures to be pursued: 1st. Employ commissioners, who are acquainted with the Indians themselves, and who are zealous in the business, to negotiate for their removal, and to impress upon their minds the conviction of the truth, that it is impossible for them to remain as independent nations within the limits of these States and Territories. 2d. Lay off suitable portions of country for the different tribes to remove to, and facilitate their removal by placing agents at suitable points where they will cross the Mississippi, and at other points on the line of march, to supply them with provisions, ammunition, &c. Nor should they he required to move in a body, but singly, or in families, as they pleased. In this way, a constant tide of Indian emigration is now going on from the States of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, to the west of the Mississippi. They cross at St. Louis and St. Genevieve, under my superintendency; and my annual accounts with the Government show the aid which is given to them. Many leading chiefs are zealous in this work, and are laboring hard to collect their dispersed and broken tribes at their new and permanent homes. 3d. To assist them in commencing an agricultural life, by enclosing with fences an adequate portion of ground near to each village, and have it broken up with the plough, and divided into parcels for each family, and have it planted with all the common and most useful fruit-trees; also, furnish them with stock animals, and the different kinds of fowls, and assist them in the erection of permanent houses. The condition of many tribes west of the Mississippi is the most pitiable that can be imagined. During several seasons in every year they are distressed by famine, in which many die for want of food, and during which the living child is often buried with the dead mother, because no one can spare it as much food as would sustain it through its helpless infancy. This description applies to the Sioux, Osages, and many others; but I mention those because they are powerful tribes, and live near our borders, and my official station enables me to know the exact truth. It is in vain to talk to people in this condition about learning and religion. They want a regular supply of food, and, until that is obtained, the operations of the mind must take the instinct of mere animals, and be confined to warding off hunger and cold. The nations which I have mentioned, and many others west of the Mississippi, have neither hogs nur cows, and do not want them, because they would eat up their little patches of corn, which are without fences, and because, as the whole nation have to go ont to hunt twice a year, and at that period have nothing to eat at home, hogs and cows could neither go with them, nor be left at home in safety. They want nothing but horses and dogs, which accompany them in their hunts; and in these expeditions the aged and infirm, when unable to keep up, are frequently left to die. To stop all these evils, fences, stock, and grain are the first things to be given them. 4th. Establish common schools in the villages, to teach all the children to read, write, and cipher, &c. A college education for a few, while the body of the nation is left in ignorance, has been proved, by the experience of more than two hundred years, to be a most unprofitable experiment; and besides, (because there is no other way of dividing equally the large fund for education which is now accumulating in many tribes, except by establishing common schools in every village,) the fund for this purpose is too great to be. given up to a few who choose to administer upon it. I presume that it is equal, at present, to more than two hundred thousand dollars, and is constantly increasing. Charities, among white people, are liable to be abused; and, among ignorant and careless Indians, much more so. A plan of education and accountability should be established by law. The superintendents and agents should be charged with its execution. Frequent rigorous and personal examinations should be had over the scholars and teachers, regular reports made to the Government, liberal pay given to the teachers at the end of each quarter, and after each examination; but large sums ought not to be put in their hands, to be used at discretion. 5th. Give to the tribes the idea of submission to the authority of a civil government. For this purpose, as many of the tribes or of the scattering bands as possible, understanding one language, should be collected near each other, over which a competent agent should be placed, with full power of conducting the executive part of a government, to be submitted to and adopted by the Indians, subject to such changes as may be recommended and approved by the President. It is believed that the executive agent, by his authority, will prevent the Indians from killing one another for the chief place, and keep the inferior officers (who should be Indians) within the bounds of their duty, and decide those differences by his influence or authority which are now decided by the rifle and tomahawk. Some of the chiefs who wish to be headmen themselves might object to this, but the body of the tribes would approve it when they understood it; and there would be stations enough under the agent to try the abilities and satisfy the ambition of the different contending chiefs. A general government over the whole might be necessary and proper. 6th. The presence of agents, clothed with the authority of the United States, would probably be sufficient to prevent the chiefs from killing one another, and to prevent different tribes from attacking each other, or committing depredations upon the white people; but, to make sure of this, a show of troops is necessary, and some military posts ought to be established along the frontier of white settlements; and all the nation should be made responsible, out of their annuities, for the depredations which any one of its people should commit either on the whites or on Indians of other tribes. 7th. The permanent annuities ought to be commuted for limited ones; such a change would be beneficial to both the United States and the Indians. It would free the Treasury from what would otherwise remain an everlasting charge upon it, and which, in the lapse of a century, would amount to an enormous sum, as might readily be shown by looking to the annually increasing amount for the Indian Department, which exceeds seven hundred thousand dollars for the present year, of which about one-fourth is paid in annuities. In a century, the aggregate paid in annuities may be equal to one-fourth of the present national debt, without counting the probable increase. It would be better for the Indians tu receive a large sum in a short time, than to be receiving a small one forever. The largest annuity which we pay affords but a few dollars per head, when divided among a tribe, and contributes nothing of much importance to the amount of their property; and it is property alone that can keep up the pride of an Indian, and make him ashamed of drunkenness, begging, lying, and stealing. It is property which has raised the character of the southern tribes. Roads and travellers through their country, large annuities, and large sums for land from the United States, and large presents to chiefs, have enabled them to acquire slaves, cattle, bogs, and horses; and these have enabled them to live independently, and to cultivate their minds and keep up their pride; while those even of the southern Indians who have no property, as I am informed, are in the lowest state of moral and mental degradation. An Indian will not work while in his uncultivated state; that is considered a disgrace. The period of danger to him is that in which he ceases to be a hunter, from the extinction of game, and before he gets the means of living from the produce of flocks and agriculture. In this transit from the hunter to the farming state, he degenerates from a proud and independent savage to the condition of a beggar, drunkard, and thief; neglecting his family, suffering for food and clothes, and living the life of a mere animal. To counteract the dangers of this transit, property in cattle, hogs, and horses is indispensable; and, to furnish these, the permanent annuities should be commuted into a gross sum, payable in equal annual parts, for a moderate term of years; and the women and children, upon whom the labor of cultivating the ground devolves, should be assisted in making fences, to which their own means and strength are inadequate; also, in planting orchards, and instructed in raising cotton, and in spinning and weaving it into cloth, and making it up into garments. Small mills should be built, and a miller provided, to save the women from the labor of pounding the corn; useful mechanics employed to make their ploughs, carts, wheels, hoes, axes, &c., and for the purpose of teaching the young Indians how to use and make them. Most of these provisions I have found incorporated in your letter to the committee; and the adoption of others, herein suggested, I now recommend; and, if enacted into a law, I anticipate the commencement of a new era of prosperity in the condition of a people who bave strong claims upon the justice and generosity of this Government. I have the honor to be your obedient servant, WILLIAM CLARK, Superintendent Indian Affairs. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War.	« 19th CONGRESS.]	
