No. 111. [1st Session. THE CIIEROKEES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 24, 1806, To Ike Senate of the United Stales: A convention lias been entered into, between the United States anil the Cherokee nation, for the extinguishment of the rights of the latter, and of some unsettled claims in the country north of the river Tennessee, therein described. This convention is now laid before the Senate for their advice and consent as to its ratification. TH. JEFFERSON. January 24, 1806. .Articles of a Convention made, between Henry Dearborn, Secretary of War, being specially authorized thereto by the President of the United States, and the undersigned chiefs and head-men of the Cherokee nation of Indians, duly authorized and empowered by said nation. Article 1. The undersigned chiefs and head-men of the Cherokee nation of Indians, for themselves, and in behalf of their nation, relinquish to the United States, all right, title, interest, and claim, which they or their nation have or ever had to all that tract of country which lies to the northward of the river Tennessee, and westward of a line to be run from the upper part of the Chickasaw old fields, at the upper point of an island, called Chickasaw island, on said river, to the most easterly head waters of that branch of said Tennessee river, called Duck river, excepting the two following described tracts, viz: One tract bounded southerly on the said Tennessee river, at a place called the Muscle Shoals; westerly by a creek called Tekeetanoeh, or Cyprus creek, and easterly by Chuwalee, or Elk river, or creek; and northerly by a line to be drawn from a point on said Elk river, ten miles on a direct line from its mouth, or junction with Tennessee river, to a point on the said Cyprus creek, ten miles on a direct line from its junction with the Tennessee river. The other tract is to be two miles in width, on the north side of Tennessee river, and to extend northerly from that river three miles, and bounded as follows, viz: Beginning at the mouth of Spring creek, and running up said . reek three miles on a straight line; thence westerly two miles, at right angles with the general course of said creek; thence southerly, on a line parallel with the general course of said creek, to the Tennessee river: thence up said river by its waters, to the beginning: which first reserved tract is to be considered the common property of the Cherokees, who now live on the same, including John D. Chesholm, Autowwe, and Checkout; and the other reserved tract, on which Moses Melton now lives, is to be considered the property of said Melton and Charles Hicks, ill equal shares. And the said chiefs and head-men, also, agree to relinquish to the United States, all right, or claim, which they or their nation have to .what is called the Long island, in Holston river. Art. 2. The said Henry Dearborn, on the part of the United States, hereby stipulates and agrees, that, in consideration of the relinquishment of title by the Cherokees, as stated in the preceding article, the United States will pay to the Cherokee nation, two thousand dollars in money, as soon as this convention shall be duly ratified by the Government of the United States; and two thousand dollars in each of the four succeeding years, amounting in'the whole to ten thousand dollars; and that a gristmill shall, within one year from the date hereof, be built in the Cherokee country, for the use of the nation, at such place as shall be considered most convenient; that the said Cherokees shall be furnished with a machine for cleaning cotton; and also, that the old Cherokee, chief, called the Black Fox, shall be paid annually one hundred dollars by the United States, during his life. Art. 3. It is also agreed, on the part of the United States, that the Government thereof will use its influence and best endeavors to prevail on the Chickasaw nation of Indians to agree to the following boundary between that nation and the Cherokees, to the southward of the Tennessee river, viz: beginning at the mouth of Cany Creek, near the lower part of the Muscle Shoals, and to run up the said creek to its head, and, in a direct line, from thence, to the Flat Stone or Rock, the did corner boundary. But, it is understood by the contracting parties, that the United States do not engage to have the aforesaid line or boundary established, but only to endeavor to prevail on the Chickasaw nation to consent to such a line, as the boundary between the two nations. Art. 4. It is further agreed, on the part of the United States, that the claims which the Chickasaws may have to the two tracts reserved by the first article of this convention, on the north side of the Tennessee river, shall be settled by the United States, in such manner as will be equitable, and will secure to the Cherokees the title to the said reservations. Done at the place, and on the day and year, first above written. HENRY DEARBORN. [Signed, also, by seventeen of the chiefs and head-men of the Cherokee nation.] 0th Congress.] 
