NO. 228.	[1st SESSION. TREATY WITH THE CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, ON THE 31sT JANUARY, 1826. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, January 31, 1826. I transmit herewith to the Senate, for their consideration and advice withjregard to its ratification, a treaty concluded by the Secretary of War, duly authorized thereto, with the chiefs and headmen of the Creek nation, deputed by them, and now in this city. It has been agreed upon, and is presented to the consideration of the Senate as a substitute for the treaty signed at the Indian Springs on the 12th of February last. The circumstances under which this received, on the 3d of March last, your advice and consent to its ratification, are known to yon. It was transmitted to me from the Senate on the 5th of March, and ratified in full confidence, yielded to the advice and consent of the Senate, under a firm belief, founded on the journal of the commissioners of the United States, and on the express statements in the letter of one of them (of the 16th of February) to the then Secretary of War that it had bee.n concluded with a large majority of the chiefs of the Creek nation, and with a reasonable prospect of immediate acquiescence by the remainder. This expectation has not merely been disappointed. The first measures for carrying the treaty into execution had scarcely been taken, when the two principal chiefs who had signed it fell victims to the exasperation of the great mass of the nation; and their families and dependants, far from being able to execute the engagements on their part, fled for life, safety, and subsistence, from the. territories which they bad assumed to cede to our own. Yet, in this fugitive condition, and while subsisting on the bounty of the United States, they have been found advancing pretensions to receive exclusively to themselves the whole of the sums stipulated by the commissioners of the United States in payment for all the lands of the Creek nation which were ceded by the terms of the treaty. And they have claimed the stipulation of the eighth article, that the United States would “ protect the emigrating party against the encroachments, hostility, and impositions of the whites and of all others,” as an engagement by which the United States were bound to become the instruments of their vengeance, and to inflict upon the majority of the Creek nation the punishment uf Indian retribution, to gratify the vindictive fury of an impotent and helpless minority of their own tribe. In this state of things, the question is not whether the treaty of the 12th of February last shall or shall not be executed. So far as the United States were or could be bound by it, I have been anxiously desirous of carrying it into execution; but, like other treaties, its fulfilment depends upon the will not of one, but of both the parties to it. The parties on the face of the treaty are the United States and the Creek nation; and, however desirous one of them may be to give, it effect, this wish must prove abortive while the other party refuses to perform its stipulations, and disavows its obligations. By the refusal of the Creek nation to perform their part of the treaty, the United States are absolved from all its engagements on their part; and the alternative left them is, either to resort to measures of war, to secure by force the advantages stipulated to them in the treaty, or to attempt the adjustment of the interest by a new compact. In the preference dictated by the nature of our institutions, and by the sentiments of justice and humanity which the occasion requires for measures of peace, the treaty herewith transmitted has been concluded, and is submitted to the decision of the Senate. After exhausting every effort in our power to obtain the acquiescence of the Creek nation to the treaty of the 12th of February, I entertained for some time the hope that their assent might at least have been given to a new treaty, by which all their lands within the State of Georgia should have been ceded. This has also proved impracticable; and, although the excepted portion is of comparatively small amount and importance, I have assented to its exception, so far as to place it before the Senate, only from a conviction that between it and a resort to the forcible expulsion of the Creeks from their habitations and lands within the Slate of Georgia there was no middle term. The deputation with which the treaty has been concluded consists of the principal chiefs of the nation, able not only to negotiate, but to carry into effect the stipulations to which they have agreed. There is a deputation also here from the small party which undertook to contract for the whole nation at the treaty of the 12th February, but the number of which, according to the information collected by General Gaines, does not exceed four hundred. They represent themselves, indeed, to be far more numerous; but, whatever their number may be, their interests have been provided for in the treaty now submitted. Their subscriptions to it would also have been received, but for unreasonable pretensions raised by them after all the arrangements of the treaty had been agreed upon, and it was actually signed. Whatever their merits may have been, in the facility with which they ceded all the lands of their nation within the State of Georgia, their utter inability to perform the engagements which they so readily contracted, and the exorbitancy of their demands, when compared with the inefficacy of their own means of performance, leave them with no claims upon the United States other than impartial and rigorous justice. In referring to the impressions under which I ratified the treaty of the 12th February last, I do not deem it necessary to decide upon the propriety of the manner in which it was negotiated. Deeply regretting the criminations and recriminations to which these events have given rise, I believe the public interest will best be consulted by discarding them altogether from the discussion of the subject. The great body of the Creek nation inflexibly refuse to acknowledge or to execute that treaty. Upon this ground it will be set aside, should the Senate advise and consent to the ratification of that now communicated, without looking back to the means by which the other was effected. And in the adjustment of the terms of the present treaty, I have been particularly anxious to' dispense a measure of great liberality to both parties of the Creek nation, rather than to extort from them a bargain of which the advantages on our part could only be purchased by hardship on theirs. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. SIR;	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, January 25, 1826. In execution of the power which you conferred upon me to negotiate with the Creek tribe of Indians, represented in this city by their principal chiefs, clothed with full powers by the nation fully assembled in council, and, if possible, to obtain such an arrangement as would put an end to the serious difficulties growing out of the treaty of the Indian Springs of February last, I proceeded, immediately on receiving your instructions to that effect, to convene the delegation in this office, believing that a less restrained intercourse of views would thereby be effected than in a written correspondence, and the result be more propitious to your wishes. From information previously received from General Gaines, it was believed that their acquiescence in the treaty negotiated at the Indian Springs was utterly unattainable; but that their consent to the relinquishment of their lands within the State of Georgia might be effected on reasonable terms. To that end, after perceiving the entire inutility of pressing them to an acquiescence in the treaty of the Indian Springs, I directed my efforts; confidently anticipating, from the information above referred to, immediate success. To my surprise, (and certainly very much to my regret,) feeling, as I did, the utmost anxiety that such an arrangement should be made, and knowing that nothing could be more acceptable to yourself, I found them determined to surrender their lands only to the east of the Chattahoochie. Every effort was made which propriety would permit to induce them to meet your wishes. Lest, from any ignorance of their character, I should fail in approaching them in some way accessible to one familiar with their motives of action, I availed myself of the aid of a distinguished citizen, whose intercourse with the inhabitants of the forests gave him the desired qualifications; and, if success had been attainable, he must have succeeded. He entered into my views with alacrity, and pursued the object with a patience and assiduity which has entitled him to my thanks. Every effort, however, was fruitless. The Chattahoochie, as forming a natural boundary, was a sine qua non. Indeed, such a boundary seemed, with them, of more consequence than the land which was involved in the contest. They continually urged that an artificial line was no security with the untutored Indian against those trespasses which the conterminous whites perpetrated upon them; and candor has forced the acknowledgment from those experienced in the subject, that there is much of weight in their solicitude for a natural boundary. Finding them pertinacious in adhering to this line, which, if established, would still leave a small portion of land within the limits of Georgia, (to gratify whose wishes, if practicable, had been a leading motive with you, in whatever connected itself with this subject,) I had determined to put an end to the negotiation. In reflecting, however, on the posture of things in that event, and the consequences which might ensue, and believing that an amicable arrangement of this controversy was alike called for by the wishes of the American people and the interests of those unfortunate people, I proposed to them, after having obtained your consent, a line of compromise, and finally agreed to that which is inserted in the treaty which I herewith enclose; and which, according to the map on which I treated, will have acquired for Georgia some four or five hundred thousand acres of land west of the Chattahoochie, and, with the lands on the east side of the Chattahoochie, making, it is believed, nearly three millions of acres which Georgia acquires by the treaty; and leaving, within the limits of Georgia, a small fraction of land belonging to the Creeks, not equal, perhaps, to one- tenth of the part ceded. In arranging the details, great difficulty occurred. I found the delegation invincibly opposed to taking any land to the west of the Mississippi; in consequence, the pecuniary consideration was obliged to be increased; to an amount, however, comparatively small, in respect to the land which must have been given, according to the scale heretofore adopted, of acre for acre. To the intrinsic difficulty arising from the negotiation, others, of no small magnitude, were added. The delegation of the major part of the Creek nation peremptorily refused to enter into a treaty in common with the delegation of the minor or McIntosh party. To provide for the latter, on liberal principles, was an indispensable condition, from which nothing would have justified me in departing. To obviate this difficulty, I ascertained from each party what would be satisfactory, and incurporated the whole in the treaty, which was to be signed exclusively by the delegation of the majority. The treaty was prepared on these data, and signed by the delegation of the major party. Out of abundant caution, I designed to obtain the signature of the delegation of the minor party to a paper to accompany the treaty, expressing their entire satisfaction with the arrangement. After the treaty had been executed, and an intimation made to the minor party of the above wish, they declined complying therewith, unless a new provision should be made in their favor, namely, that of the value of their improvements within the territory retained by the Indians; which, being unreasonable, was refused. This, however, has no bearing on the validity of the treaty. Their number, according to a census taken by General Gaines, is very small—not above one-fortieth of the nation; they themselves stated the number at sixteen hundred, at the opening of the conference with them. They suppose, now, that three thousand may be induced to emigrate. Whatever the number may be, there is no difficulty in saying that the treaty has been made with the representatives of a vast majority of the nation; and I think, on reference to the conditions of the treaty, it will be found that ample justice has been done the smaller party. Respectfully submitted: The PRESIDENT OP THE UNITED STATES.	JAMES BARBOUR. TREATY WITH THE CREEKS. Articles of a treaty, made at the city of Washington, this twenty-fourth day of January, one thousand eight hundred 'and twenty-six, between James Barbour, Secretary of War, thereto specially authorized by the President of the United States, and the undersigned chiefs and headmen of the Creek nation of Indians, who have received full power from the said nation to conclude and arrange all matters herein provided for. Whereas a treaty was concluded at the Indian Springs, on the’twelfth day of February last, between commissioners on the part of the United States, and a portion of the Creek nation, by which an extensive district of country was ceded to the United States: And whereas a great majority of the chiefs and warriors of the said nation have protested against the execution of the said treaty, and have represented that the same was signed on their part by persons having no sufficient authority to form treaties or to make cessions, and that the stipulations in said treaty are therefore wholly void: And whereas the United States are unwilling that difficulties should exist in the said nation which may eventually lead to an intestine war, and are still more unwilling that any cessions of land should be made to them, unless with the fair understanding and full assent of the tribe making such cession, and for a just and adequate consideration; it being the policy of the United States, in all their intercourse with the Indians, to treat them justly and liberally, as becomes the relative situation of the parties:* Now, therefore, in order to remove the difficulties which have thus arisen, to satisfy the great body of the Creek nation, and to reconcile the contending parties into which it is unhappily divided, the following articles have been agreed upon and concluded, between James Barbour, Secretary of War, specially authorized as aforesaid, and the said chiefs and headmen, representing the Creek nation ef Indians: ARTICLE 1. The treaty concluded at the Indian Springs, on the twelfth day of February, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, between commissioners on the part of the United States and the said Creek nation of Indians, and ratified by the United States on the seventh day ef March, one thousand eight hundred and twenty- five, is hereby declared to be null and void, to every intent and purpose whatsoever; and every right and claim arising from the same is hereby cancelled and surrendered. ART. 2.'The Creek nation of Indians cede to the United States all the lands belonging to the said nation in the State of Georgia, and lying on the east side of the middle of the Chattahoochie river; and, also, another tract of land lying within the said State, and bounded as follows: Beginning at a point on the western bank of the said river, fortyseven miles below the point where the boundary line between the Creeks and the Cherokees strikes the Chattahoochie river, near the Buzzard’s Roost, measuring the said distance in a direct line, and not following the meanders of the said river; and from the point of beginning, running in a direct line, to a point in the boundary line between the said Creeks and the Cherokees, thirty miles west of the said Buzzard’s Roost; thence to the Buzzard’s Roost; and thence, with the middle of the said river, to the place of beginning. ART. 3. Immediately after the ratification of this treaty, the United States agree to pay to the chiefs of the said ’ nation the sum of two hundred and seventeen thousand six hundred dollars, to be divided among the chiefs and warriors of the said nation. ART. 4. The United States agree to pay to the said nation an additional perpetual annuity of twenty thousand dollars. ART. 5. The difficulties which have arisen in the said nation, in consequence of the treaty of the Indian Springs, shall be amicably adjusted; and that portion of the Creek nation who signed that treaty shall be admitted to all their privileges as members of the Creek nation; it being the earnest wish of the United States, without undertaking to decide upon the complaints of the respective parties, that all causes of dissatisfaction should be removed. ART. 6. That portion of the Creek nation known as the friends and followers of the late General William Mclotosh, having intimated to the Government of the United States their wish to remove west of the Mississippi, it is hereby agreed, with their assent, that a deputation of five persons shall be sent by them, at (he expense of the United States, immediately after the ratification of this treaty, to examine the Indian country west of the Mississippi, not within either of the States or Territories, and not possessed by the Choctaws or Cherokees. ‘ And the United States agree to purchase for them, if the same can be conveniently done upon reasonable terms, wherever they may select, a country, whose extent shall, in the opinion of the President, be proportioned to their numbers; aod if such purchase cannot be thus made, it is then agreed that the selection shall be made where the President may think proper, just reference being had to the wishes of the emigrating party. ART. 7. The emigrating party shall remove within twenty-four months, and (he expense of their removal shall be defrayed" by the United States; and such subsistence shall also be furnished them, for a term not exceeding twelve months after their arrival at their new residence, as, in the opinion of the President, their numbers and circumstances may require. ART. 8. An agent or sub-agent and interpreter shall be appointed to accompany and reside with them; and a blacksmith and wheelwright shall be furnished by the United States. Such assistance shall also be rendered to them, in their agricultural operations, as the President may think proper. ART. 9. In consideration of the exertions used by the friends and followers of General McIntosh to procure a cession at the Indian Springs, and of their past difficulties and contemplated removal, the United States agree to present to the chiefs of the party, to be divided among the chiefs and warriors, the sum of one hundred thousand dollars, if such party shall amount to three thousand persons; and in that proportion for any smaller number. Fifteen thousand dollars of this sum to be paid immediately after the ratification of this treaty, and the residue upon their arrival in the country west of the Mississippi. ART. 10. It is agreed by the Creek nation that an agent shall be appointed by the President to ascertain die damages sustained by the friends and followers of the late General McIntosh, in consequence of the difficulties growing out of the treaty of the Indian Springs, as set forth in an agreement entered into with General Gaines at the Broken Arrow, and which have been done contrary to the laws of the Creek nation; and such damages shall be repaired by the, said nation, or the amount paid out of the annuity due to them. ART. 11. All the improvements which add real value to any part of the land herein ceded shall be appraised by commissioners to be appointed by the President; and the amount, thus ascertained, shall be paid to the parties owning such improvements. ART. 12. Possession of the country herein ceded shall be yielded by the Creeks on or before the first day of January next. ART. 13. The United States agree to guaranty to the Creeks all the country not herein ceded, to which they have a just claim, and to make good to them any losses they may incur, in consequence of the illegal conduct of any citizen of the United States within the Creek country.	. ART. 14. The President of the United States shall have authority to select, in some part of the Creek country, a tract of land, not exceeding two sections, where the necessary public buildings may be erected, and the persons attached to the agency may reside. ART. 15. Whenever any stream, over which it may be necessary to establish ferries, forms the boundary of the Creek country, the Creek Indians shall have the right of ferriage from their own land, and the citizens of the United States from the land to which the Indian title is extinguished. ART. 16. The Creek chiefs may appoint three commissioners from their own people, who shall be allowed to attend the running of the lines west of the Chattahoochie river, and whose expenses, while engaged in this duty, shall be defrayed by the United States.'ART. 17. This treaty, after the same has been ratified by the President and Senate, shall be obligatory on the United States and on the Creek nation.	. In testimony whereof, the said James Barbour, Secretary of War, authorized as aforesaid, and the chiefs of the said Creek nation of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at the city of Washington, the day and year aforesaid. JAMES BARBOUR. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headmen of the Creek nation of Indians.] 19th CONGRESS.]	
