NO. 196.	[2d SESSION. ABOLITION OF THE INDIAN TRADIN G-H O U S E S. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, MARCH 1, 1823. Mr. METCALFE made the following report: The Committee on Indian Affairs, to whom were referred the President’s communication, and accompanying documents, relative to the execution of an act of the last session abolishing the Indian trading establishment, have had the same under consideration, and respectfully submit the following report: ID executing the act referred to, it appears that George Graham, Esq. received the appointment of superintendent, in the place of Colonel Thomas L. McKenney; and an agent has also been appointed, and sent to each of the trading-houses, with instructions to receive from the former agents all the goods, and other property on hand, and to dispose of the same, as soon as it can he done, having a due regard to the public interest. The superintendent and agents so appointed, it is believed, are active, intelligent gentlemen, of unexceptionable character, and suitable qualifications. In turning over the merchandise and other property on hand, at the several trading-houses, into the hands of the new agents, the original invoice prices are charged to the Government. Much of the merchandise so charged consists of unsaleable, damaged, and worthless remnants, and articles now of little or no value. All the debts due to the factories, which have been created and not collected by the former agents, and also the factory buildings, are charged to the Government. A. B. Lindsley, the agent appointed to settle up the business of the trading-honse at Fort Chicago, has performed that duty with fidelity, and has returned an account thereof; which is herewith presented to the House. It will be seen that the whole amount of all the goods and other property at this establishment, at the rates at which the same has been charged to the Government, is $15,637 62. A great portion of those goods were old, unsaleable, and damaged; and, consequently, when sold, there was an average loss to the Government of about fifty- four cents to the dollar. The whole amount of loss upon the merchandise at that factory is $6,968 37|. An additional loss will be sustained upon debts due the establishment, which are not likely to be collected. This is the only trading-honse from which complete returns have been received. Persons who are desirous of purchasing the goods at the Red river factory offer to pay the original cost and carriage. It is, therefore, believed that no loss upon the goods received at that trading-house will be sustained by the Government. In winding up the business at the Choctaw trading-house, a very considerable loss will certainly fall upon the Government. (See Mr. Randall’s return, and remarks upon the inventory.) From the testimony of Mr. Hersey, the former agent at that place, it appears that not more than one-third of the debts due to that establishment are likely to be collected. The whole amount of debts exceeds $12,000; and, from the description given of the wretched condition of the merchandise on hand, a great loss upon the sales thereof may be readily anticipated. The committee do not bring into question the propriety of stating the original invoice prices of the goods, as per inventory, on the delivery thereof into the hands of the new agents; but they believe that, in a final settlement of the accounts between the Government and the former conductors of the trade, the amount actually realized from the sales of goods and property of every description will be the only fair and proper charge in favor of the latter against the former, except for property (if any) destroyed by Indians during the late war, and debts due from the Indians to the factories, and assumed by the Government. In 1806, the amount of capital stock actuallj' drawn from the treasury, including former appropriations, was $260,000. On the 3d of March, 1809, an act passed allowing an additional appropriation of $40,000; making, in all, $300,000: ten thousand of which, the late superintendent states, was never drawn from the treasury. The whole amount, therefore, of capital stock, thus vested in the Indian trade, must have been $290,000. The law positively requires that the “ prices of goods supplied to, and to be purchased by, the Indians, shall be regulated in such manner that the capital stock shall not be diminished."The superintendent and his clerks, the agents and sub-agents, received annually for their services, not out of the trading fund, but directly from the treasury, about $20,000. This sum, with the interest thereupon, and the interest upon the capital stock, which, it is believed, will be equal, in all, to between thirty and forty thousand dollars annually, is entirely lost to the Government. The ninth section of an act of 1811, to regulate the Indian trade, provides that the superintendent shall purchase such goods as may be required for Indian annuities, for treaties, and for presents, and transmit the same to the proper places. And it appears that gonds furnished by the factories to Indian agents, for the purposes aforesaid, were not limited at cost and carriage, but charged to the Government at the same rates as if they had been sold to the Indians; say at an advance (according to instructions given at the factory) of sixty-six and twu-thirds to one hundred per cent., and as high as fifty per cent, for goods of inferior quality; and the whole amount so charged actually drawn from the treasury. This appears to be a considerable advance paid by Government for merchandise purchased with its own capital.* It is said that the conductors of the Indian trade were generally men of integrity and honor, not deficient in talent or enterprise, or any of the requisite qualifications for discharging the duties of their respective stations. And how it does happen that, under circumstances so advantageous to the traders, the Government should not now be able to realize a sum equal to the original capital stock, appears to be inexplicable. It is not possible for the committee to trace the conductors of this trade through all their various operations; the manner of exchanging merchandise for furs and peltries, their purchases and sales, &c., for the purpose of ascertaining where the evil lies; an evil, the existence of which is presented to them in a tangible form, while the cause that produced it remains undiscovered. Private traders, without salaries, or any other support from the Government, have, for many years, carried on a successful and profitable trade with the Indians; and, like the factors, it is believed, they sold for such prices as could be had; generally regulating the prices according to the competition. Perhaps the fault may be found to exist in the system itself; and, therefore, it may be useful, not only as a matter of curious history, but for the lesson it teaches to succeeding legislators. From the accompanying documents, it appears that Mr. Graham has instructed the several agents to sell off and settle up the whole business by the — ♦ The advance upon goods here spoken of was charged upon factory goods, purchased with the trading fund, and not upon those supplied by the superintendent, under orders from the Secretary of War, for the same purposes, and paid for out of the fund appropriated for the Indian Department. 53 E day of May next; and it is believed that the public interest required such delay. Beyond that date, however, it is to be hoped that the Government will have to expend but little in settling up the accounts of the Indian trading establishment. ,	Examination of John Cox. , 1. Has Mr. McKenney participated, directly or indirectly, in any gains made by you on any merchandise applied for the Indian trade, annuities, or presents? Ans. No, he has not. 2. Have you at any time made presents to him, or to any member of his family; and, if so, when, and to what extent? Ans. Not to my recollection. 3. Have you lent, or advanced to, or paid for him, any moneys, or for any of his family; and, if so, when, and to what amount? Ans. No. 4. Do you know any other person who has furnished supplies for the Indian trade, &.C., with whom Mr. McKenney has participated in any manner in any gain therefrom; or who has lent or paid for him, or any of his family, moneys; or who has made presents to him, or any of his family? Ans. I do not. 5. Do you know of any store, or mercantile establishment, in which Mr. McKenney was concerned, at the time of, dr at any time subsequent to, his appointment as superintendent; if so, state what you know of the same. Ans. I believe, but am not positive, that be was in partnership with a Mr. Hall, who had been living with him in Washington city before he received the appointment of superintendent; but not to my knowledge afterwards. Testimony of John Cox continued. I have been an importing merchant during the time Colonel McKenney has been superintendent. My importations generally have been (since 1817) with a view to the Indian trade. I have supplied Colonel McKenney with goods to the amount of about $50,000 annually. I sold the goods in currency, without reference to sterling cost. Considered I sold them as low as they could be purchased at fair sale. I have not made Mr. McKenney any compensation, in any way, with a view to obtain the trade. I have endorsed some notes for Mr. McKenney, and Mr. McKenney has likewise endorsed for me. I am now on Mr. McKenney’s paper as endorser, but am secured by his property. Fifty per cent, on the sterling is equal to 150 per cent. Maryland currency; that is, suppose £100 sterling sells in this country for £150 sterling, that is equal to £250 Maryland currency. JOHN COX. Second examination of Colonel Cox by Colonel McKenney. Question 1. How long have you been a merchant in Georgetown? Answer. Since June, 1798. Ques. 2. When did you first turn your attention to the nature of the demand for Indian supplies, occasioned by the removal of the office from Philadelphia to Georgetown? Ans. I think it was in the year 1809. Ques. 3. Did you not sell, especially during the two or three years before I was appointed, large amounts to my predecessor? Ans. I did. Ques. 4. Did not your increasing ability to meet the demands of this office grow out of your increasing knowledge of the peculiar articles in which it dealt? Ans. It did. Ques. 5. Was there ever and even the least evidence of partiality shown you? Ans. Not that I know of. Ques. 6. On the contrary, did you not think the rigor of the inspection, and the closeness of the comparisons I made, were sometimes too pointed? Ans. I did. Ques. 7. Did there not, on at least one occasion, words pass between us, by reason of my strictness, in which you conceived I questioned too closely your statements? Ans. There was one occasion, within my perfect recollection, in which Mr. McKenney and myself differed as to the relative value of some goods, in which I thought that Mr. McKenney was too tenacious of his own opinion and judgment. Examination of J. W. Bronaugh. J. W. Bronaugh, chief clerk in the store of the superintendent at Georgetown, says: That, when Colonel McKenney took the store as superintendent, an inventory was taken of all the goods on hand, agreeably to the original invoices. That the goods purchased since Colonel McKenney has been superintendent have been generally bought at Georgetown, of Colonel Cox, and of Mr. Wright, who were importers. Besides these, goods to the amount of from two to three thousand dollars per year have been bought at each of the stores of Messrs. J. & J. Cockran, W. Corcoran <fc Co., R. H. Fitzhugh, G. Gaither, and some others occasionally. That, besides those, goods were purchased for the trade at New York and in Philadelphia. That, when Mr. McKenney was appointed superintendent, he was in partnership with a Mr. Hall, on Pennsylvania Avenue; that, on his appointment, Mr. McKenney dissolved partnership with Mr. Hall. Does not know that Mr. McKenney has, since his appointment, had any interest with Mr. Hall in trade, or with any other person. That, since the dissolution, Mr. McKenney purchased from Mr. Hall an invoice of from ten to twelve thousand dollars wnrth of goods, which were bought by Hall at Baltimore, on memorandum of Mr. McKenney. Knows of no other goods being bought of Hall by superintendent. The goods from Mr. Cox, importer, were bought without reference to sterling cost. Those from Wright were generally bought by the original invoice. Thinks the goods of Wright cheaper than those purchased from Cox, but not so good in quality. Thinks the goods purchased from the merchants in Georgetown, who were not importers, but who bought their goods in Philadelphia, Baltimore, and New York, as cheap as those bought of Cox and Wright. Understood that Mr. Cox was the endorser of Mr. McKenney on notes to be discounted at the banks. Has seen such notes, but does not know that this induced Mr. McKenney to purchase from him more than from others. JER. W. BRONAUGH. Second examination of J. W. Bronaugh, by Colonel McKenney. Question 1. Were not due pains taken, by correspondence and intercourse with merchants, to ascertain yearly the state of the markets, before I decided to buy the annual supplies? Answer. 1 think all necessary pains were taken. Ques. 2. Was there ever, according to your judgment, an article bought of any man, when, after taking the pains to ascertain it, that article could have been bought, combining its suitableness and cheapness, for a less price of another? Ans. I have no recollection that any article was purchased when it was known it could be had cheaper from another. Ques. 3. Do you not believe that the Georgetown market was the best, for several years past, (say since 1815 and 1816,) for Indian goods, of any other market in the United States, especially for the great and leading articles^ Ans. I believe it was the best for blankets and strouds. Ques. 4. Was it not the practice of the office to encourage competition, by giving samples to merchants, and every information touching the kind of goods in which we dealt? Ans. It was. Ques. 5. Was it not the business of the office to provide, as near as it was possible, and transport, the articles enumerated in the annual calls of the factors? Ans. It was. Ques. 6. Did you not, whilst packing in the spring of 1816, make out the list of articles enumerated in my letter to Mr. Edward Hall, of the 23d April, 1816, and report it to me as being then wanted? And were not the articles, including the blankets, which he offered, in all respects suitable and valuable goods, and wanted at the time? Ans. I think I made out the list, and I know the articles were very suitable, and as cheap as others. Ques. 7. When the articles arrived, did you not inspect them, and report on all of them that were bought that . they were within the limits, were good goods, and suitable? Ans. I did. Ques. 8. Have not invoices been sent, year after year, from some of the older factories, containing the same quantity of the same articles, which, from their having been bought so long, and being unsuited to the trade, remained on hand? Ans. I believe nearly so. Ques. 9. Was not the advance of from sixty-six and two-thirds to one hundred per cent., the tested advance which had been adopted by my predecessor, essential, in the general operations of the establishment, to sustain the capital from diminution? Ans. I think sixty-six and two-thirds per cent, was the maximum authorized by General Mason. Ques. 10. Did not Colonel Cox show a good deal of feeling, and often declare, upon his honor, that he was not dealt as fairly by as he should be, by reason of the scrutiny which was exercised in buying goods of him? Ans. He did. Ques. 11. Was there not one occasion in which he told you he and I had had some words because of my exceptions to his goods, and perhaps questioning too closely his statements? Ans. He did. Ques. 12. Did you not, by my instructions, weigh, and examine, and adjust the parcel of goods referred to in my letter to Colonel Cox of the 10th April, 1821, and graduate the prices to a former purchase, to which this purchase referred? Ans. I did. Ques. 13. Was not the Georgetown market for furs and peltries considered by General Mason, and did you not believe it to be the best in the United States? Ans. It has always been considered by me the best; and I have heard many dealers in the articles from New York, Philadelphia, and Baltimore, express the same opinion. I know General Mason believed it to be one of the best. Ques. 14. Did we not uniformly realize more in Georgetown, for the sales made there, than was given at the same periods in any market in the United States? Ans. 1 believe so. Ques. 15. Did not the purchasers attending, from Boston to Richmond, unite in this declaration? Ans. They did.	_ Ques. 16. Did not Mr. Kennedy, agent at St. Louis, in violation of my instructions, sell furs and other articles at St. Louis, in the year 1821, to wit: 625 rackoon skins, contained in packs Nos. 56, 57, 58, 64, and 65, from the Prairie du Chien factory; 2,500 muskrat skins, in packs Nos. 68, 69, 70, 72, and 73, also from Prairie du Chien; 80 wolf skins; 2,360 pounds feathers; 214 mats; 81 pounds beaver fur; 66 pounds deer skins; which, after deducting transportation from St. Louis to this place, would have sold for $3,597 11, according to the sale in Georgetown, to w^ich they were destined? Ans. Mr. Kennedy did sell the furs at St. Louis, in violation of his instructions, and at lower prices than were obtained for them in Georgetown. Ques. 17. And does not the said Kennedy now stand charged with said amount on the books of the Indian Office? Ans. He does. Ques. 18. Did I ever, to the best of your knowledge and belief, apply a single cent, more or less, of the public money in my charge, to my own private affairs? _ Ans. Not to my knowledge.	'	.	. Ques. 19. If I had so applied it, were not the checks and rules in the accounting system, which had been established, such as would have detected it? Ans. They would. Ques. 20. Did I not make it one of these rules never to fill up or number a check; but, when payment was to be made, was it not made the duty, and did not you, or the book-keeper, or copying clerk, fill up the check, number it, and hand it to me for my signature, and then yourselves retire with it and apply it? Ans. We did.	- Ques. 21. Was it not the rule of the office to write in the body of each check, and on the margin of the check book, what each check was for, and to whom paid? Ans. It was. Ques. 22. Were ever any payments made, except by checks thus prepared? Ans. Never, to my knowledge or belief. Ques. 23. Were any moneys ever kept, except in bank, more than from ten to twenty dollars? And did not the messenger receive this by a check? and was he not held accountable for its disbursement in paying of dray and cart hire, and other incidental expenses? Ans. There never was. A. B. Lindsley’s statement. A. B. Lindsley, agent to close the factory concern at Chicago, says: The samples exhibited were taken by him from the goods received from Mr. Varnum; and the prices affixed to them were those charged in the inventory. That the goods received from Governor Woodbridge, at Detroit, were equally high charged, and worse goods than received from Mr. Varnum, and worse damaged. Is of opinion that the goods received by him were generally charged from thirty to one hundred per cent, higher than they were worth in the Atlantic cities in 1822. This opinion is confirmed by comparison with goods bought by Indian traders in New York, in the spring of 1822, as well as by his previous knowledge of the market. A penknife, now shown to the committee, was charged at seven dollars per dozen, which was purchased in 1820, by the invoice, as recognised by Mr. Varnum, and which was not worth more than four dollars at private sale in Philadelphia in 1816. A. B. LINDSLEY. Second examination of Mr. Lindsley, by Colonel McKenney. Question 1. Were you ever engaged in Indian trade? Answer. Never, except in settling the United States’ factory business. Ques. 2. How much should a three point northwest blanket weigh, to be good? and how long and how wide should it be? Ans. I do not know. Ques. 3. Do you know how lung the goods you have reported so unfavorably of were in the factory, the business of which you went to close; and by whom they were sent—whether by me or by my predecessor? Ans. 1 do not. Ques. 4. Did you not assign as a reason why the goods were sacrificed at Detroit, that of a combination among the purchasers? Ans. It is probable; but I consider they generally brought their present value. But combinations existed, I believe, among the merchants, which I resisted all 1 could. Ques. 5. Do you know whether the samples you have exhibited to the committee, of calicoes and baftas, were, or were not, from the/ag ends of these goods? Ans. I do not know that they were. Ques. 6. Did you not sell some of the goods at cost? And how much more than cost? Of what articles? Ans. I do not now recollect the articles, but some of the goods sold at Chicago brought more than cost, and others brought the cost. Some of them were not high; the flag handkerchiefs, for instance. J. B. Varnum's statement. Jacob B. Varnum produced several invoices received from Mr. McKenney. The first for merchandise forwarded from Philadelphia, in May, 1816, amounting to £315 Is. 9hd. sterling, on which an advance of 33J per cent, was charged. Second, for merchandise forwarded from Pittsburg, in 1816, being heavy articles, amounting to $495 33. Third, for merchandise forwarded by J. W. Bronaugh, by order of the superintendent, to Mr. Wooley, at Pittsburg, to be forwarded to Chicago, amounting to $4,464 53; one per cent, advance charged as usual. Several other invoices were produced, none of which state from whence the goods were purchased. Several samples of cloth, calico, &c., taken from the goods at Chicago by A. B. Lindsley, were shown Mr. Varnum. He could not recognise the samples, but is of opinion that the green cloth, from which the sample is said to be taken, was purchased in 1815, by General Mason; the calicoes in 1818, and the blue cloth in 1820, by Mr. McKenney. He was instructed, generally, to sell goods from 66| to 100 per cent, advance, but much was left to his discretion. Finding he could not get that advance on the old stock of goods, he applied to Mr. McKenney for other instructions, who stated, in return, that his (Varnum’s) situation would best enable him to judge of the propriety of reducing the prices, and gave discretionary power to sell at such prices as the nature of the case required, or to that effect. Mr. Varnum was not bred a merchant; was factor at Sandusky a short time before the war, and since the war had been at Chicago; has had no other practical knowledge of mercantile transactions than was acquired in those capacities; was in the habit of supplying Indian agents with goods from the factory; same profit as to Indian purchasers. Furnished Mr. Jouett, in one quarter, he thinks, about $1,800 worth, but usually not more than from $75 to $150 in a quarter; sold to officers and soldiers such articles as were not in immediate demand for the Indians. The powder received from the superintendent at $15 70 was accompanied by a letter from him, dated October 29, 1817, now produced, which shows it was purchased during the war. JACOB B. VARNUM. Second examination of Mr. Varnum, by Col. McKenney. Question 1. Were not the goods sent you by me, in general, good and valuable goods? Answer. They were. Ques. 2. After you selected the old and damaged goods for General Cass, were not those which remained on hand good and valuable goods, and suited to Indian trade? Ans. They were. Ques. 3. Were they not, generally, those sent by me? Ans. They were, generally.	JACOB B. VARNUM. John Hersey's statement, I, John Hersey, resident at Georgetown, late factor at the Choctaw trading-house, in the State of Alabama, testify and say: That in October, 1819, I was appointed factor at said trading-house, and continued to act in that capacity to October, 1822; that, on entering on the business at said house, as near as I now recollect, the amount of goods delivered over to me by my predecessor was about $14,000; many of which goods were so much damaged, or so unsaleable, as to render it impossible to sell more than $2,000 or $3,000, probably, of them during the time I was factor.	. During the time I was factor, I received, as near as I now recollect, about $12,000 by the year, all which came to me through the medium of Mr. T. L. McKenney; about one-sixth of which came from New Orleans and Mobile, such as coffee, sugar, lead, and salt; the residue were from Columbia District and New York. When we received the goods at said house, we generally received accompanying invoic.cs. I then thought most of the articles were of a fair price, and certainly of a good quality; except, in a few instances, some were damaged on their passage. From Colonel McKenney I received instructions to add from 66j to 100 per cent, to the invoice prices; and the sales, on an average for the whole three years, were above 80 per cent, advance on the invoice prices. In payment of these things sold, I received deer skins, furs, beeswax, tallow, and cash. The nett gains to Government during the whole three years were between $8,000 and $9,000, after paying freight on such articles as were received from Mobile, apd besides a remuneration of myself and all others employed there. When I took charge of the house, I think, as near as I now can recollect, the amount of outstanding debts due the Government was upwards of $13,000, not more than $1,000 of which were probably collected while I was there; and I now am of opinion that one-third of the remaining $12,000 may be collected. I presume a majority of the debtors to Government, when I went there, afterwards traded with me, many of whom might deliver me peltry and other things to an amount as great as the debts then due from them severally; each one, however, took other goods to an equal, and sometimes greater amount; so that, in most instances, the old debts remained on the books, uncancelled and unliquidated. JOHN HERSEY, Late Factor C. T. H. Mr. Hersey's second examination, by Colonel McKenney. Question I. Was there not in the Choctaw factory, when you took charge of it, a large quantity of old and unsuitable goods'? Answer. There was. Ques. 2. Did I not, in my letters, direct that they should be disposed of at reduced prices, and on long credit, provided you could get unexceptionable security? Ans. I was requested by you to dispose of the old and damaged goods, I think, at reduced prices, and on long credits, provided such security could be obtained. Ques. 3. Were not the goods which you received of me in general suitable and fairly charged? and did you not do out of them your principal business? Ans. To the best of my knowledge, they were charged at fair prices; they were of good quality; and out of them I did the principal business while there. James Kennedy's statement. t I, James Kennerly, of St. Louis, do testify and say: That, about nine years ago, I was appointed transportation agent for the United States at St. Louis, and have transported all articles from said St. Louis to Fort Edwards, and to Prairie du Chien, on the Mississippi; Fort Osage, on the Missouri; and, within the last year or two, to Marie Decine. Among the articles transported were large quantities of powder and tobacco. In November, 1820, Colonel T. L. McKenney ordered into my hands forty packages of goods, supposed for the Indian trade, and the same are still in my possession unopened; and last spring I received the amount of $1,100, or thereabouts, in goods sent to me by Robert B. Belt, United States factor, from Fort Armstrong. Colonel McKenney never gave me any directions as to the disposal of these forty packages; but he told me they were purchased for the Indian annuities of the Chickasaw tribe; however, as they preferred specie, he agreed to take them again to the trade department. Four years ago, or thereabouts, I received several packages of goods sent to me by J. W. Johnston, United States factor at Prairie du Chien, which he considered as unsaleable in the Indian trade. I, by direction of Colonel McKenney, sold them at auction at St. Louis, and they went off at a great sacrifice, bringing, from the best of my recollection, not more than half invoice cost or price. Among the said articles sold were coarse strouding, a large quantity of printed cotton shawls and of Madras handkerchiefs, a few pairs of morocco shoes, and a large number of gun screws. All the furs and peltries which I sold at St. Louis were sold at a profit, without selection; but Colonel McKenney was dissatisfied at the sales made by me at St. Louis, and directed that the said furs and peltries might be sent by me to Georgetown. Accordingly, I sold only a small quantity at St. Louis, and forwarded the residue to Georgetown, which I could, without selection, have sold at a handsome profit at St. Louis. As to the goods at factories, Messrs. Johnston, Belt, and Sibley told me they sold at sixteen per cent, advance on the cost and carriage. Three or four years the fall supplies, intended for the Indian trade, did arrive so late in the season at St. Louis, that, in consequence of it, they could not be made to reach their place of destination till spring; by reason of which, the goods sustained damage, and the advantages of the trade with the Indians were not realized; though Colonel McKenney, on being informed of it, expressed his surprise, and said the goods were sent in season, and requested me to ascertain the reasons of the delay, in order that a prosecution might be commenced against the freighter. JAMES KENNERLY. Examination of Mr. Fitzhugh. Question I. How long have you been clerk and assistant packer in the Indian Office? Answer. Between fourteen and fifteen years. Ques. 2. Were not the heavy articles generally purchased at St. Louis and Pittsburg? or, when here, were they not always put in with light loads, which weighed less than the weight for which payment must have been made, whether they had been sent or not? Ans. Yes. Ques. 3. Were not the supplies always sent off from the office, by the way of St. Louis, in season? Ans. They were. Ques. 4. Have you not copied many severe letters from me to Mr. Kennerly, complaining of his inattention to their transportation, with assurances that I could not, with all my good opinion of his integrity, permit the Indian supplies to be so delayed?	, Ans. I have. Ques. 5. Did not Mr. Kennerly reply, on one occasion, that he had not been as attentive as he ought to have been, and that he had trusted to others, but would in future be more vigilant? Ans. I think he did. Ques. 6. Did you help to pack the calicoes and cotton, samples of which Mr. Lindsley has produced? Ans. I recollect having packed the knives and calicoes. Ques. 7. Are they fair samples? Ans. I do not know. Ques. 8. Would you consent either to buy or sell by such samples? Ans. I think the samples are rather too small to judge of the quality of the goods. Ques. 9. Have you examined the invoices in regard to these goods? Ans. I have. The calicoes sent to Chicago in 1818, at forty-five cents, were purchased in Philadelphia; and the knives in Georgetown, of Wharton & Grindage. Mr. W. stated that the knives he sold Mr. McKenney at seven dollars a dozen he had retailed at eighty-seven and a half cents each.	M. FITZHUGH. After the examination of the witnesses, Colonel McKenney addressed the chairman thus: Mr. CHAIRMAN: I have, by your permission, looked over the several depositions of the gentlemen examined by the committee the other day, under the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 14th instant, “ instructing the committee to inquire whether any, and, if any, what abuses have been committed by the late superintendent of Indian trade, (Colonel Thomas L. McKenney,) in the purchase or sale of goods under the several laws formerly regulating the Indian trade, with power to send for persons and papers;” and I have submitted to the same gentlemen, to-day, such interrogatories as appeared to me to have a bearing upon the subject of the present inquiry. I beg leave to trouble the committee with a few remarks, not because I have discovered any thing in any of the statements going to sanction, in the smallest degree, the imputations which led to this inquiry, but because the occasion having been furnished by others, (I do not mean the committee,) in the expectation of detecting something in my official transactions which would tarnish my reputation, I cannot consent to let it pass without exhibiting such proofs as shall not ouly establish my claims to the confidence of the Government under which, for six years, I was in the exercise of an important and responsible trust, (at least so far as the duties connected with that trust are concerned;) but, by disclosing the principles which governed me in the discharge of my duties as a public officer, place my integrity before the eyes of the committee, of the Congress, and the world, in the same light in which I have always had the happiness to contemplate it myself. It is certainly very unpleasant even to appear to be one’s own eulogist, but I trust to the nature of this inquiry to furnish the apology. It may be proper for me to premise a few things. 1st. I was bred a merchant, and had all the advantages of information arising out of a large business, and frequent intercourse with our principal cities, as well since as during my initiatory progress in the counting-house of my father. From this, the committee may infer my competency to conduct a business entirely mercantile, as was the Indian trade; and not to conduct it only, but to judge of the suitableness or unsuitableness of the supplies required in its prosecution, and of their comparative cheapness. 2d. The calls for the articles constituting those supplies were furnished, annually, by the factors stationed at the several trading posts in the Indian country, and who, it is but reasonable to suppose, enumerated such articles only as were required in the prosecution of the trade. These calls, as far as it was practicable, were always complied with. From this the committee may infer whether the articles forwarded were suitable or not. 3d. It was my good fortune to succeed to the superintendency of this trade a gentleman whose character for mercantile intelligence, and system, and integrity, needs no commendation of mine to give it weight. I found in the office the evidences of the most perfect system. I found in the several branches of it, among the agents, (so far as it was possible for me to judge of them,) intelligence and integrity, and, in the nature of their returns, the most perfect system of accountability. They were all, except the clerks in my office, strangers to me. I had never seen but one of them. I judged of them by their works. I supplanted none of them, neither those who were attached to the system, nor the purchasing agents in our cities, by others of my own selecting. When removals occurred, they were produced by death and resignations; when, with a view to the public interests, I recommended to the President such as I believed were “ capable and honest.” In doing this I consulted, as far as I was able, my own actual knowledge of the ability and integrity of the applicants. This was due to myself, for the responsibility was mine. From this the committee may infer whether my trust was made the instrument of “abuse” in conferring, so far as it relates to appointments to office, favors on my friends. I have thought proper thus to premise; but I intend tu show, before I have done, by something more than inference, what were the principles which governed me in the discharge of my duty as superintendent of Indian trade. My commission bears date the 2d day of April, 1816. I entered upon the duties of my office on the 12th of the same month. I had for some time, nearly two years before, disposed of my mercantile establishments, of which I was owner of two in Georgetown, and held an interest, till about the period of my appointment, in a store in Washington, under the firm of J. C. Hall & Co. The obligations of my oath of office, which forbade me to participate, directly or indirectly, in any trade or barter, except on the public account, made it necessary for me to give up my interest in that concern. I did so; and, in adjusting the preliminaries to that sale, I was kept from entering upon the duties of my office from the 2d to the 12th day of April, having solicited and obtained the superintendence of my predecessor, General Mason, till that concern was disposed of. I had not been long in office, before I heard the buzz of those insects whose business it is, according to Dr. Johnson, “ io sting one and fly away;” a kind of invisible agency of the prince of darkness sent to annoy, and, if possible, to wound and destroy. They multiply in the atmosphere of public agencies, especially if they be disbursing agencies; and we have illustrated their activity and venom from their attacks upon the hero who first broke the charm of British invincibility, and who had established such claims upon the confidence and gratitude of his country, as one might suppose would have guarded him from such annoyances as these, even down to your door-keeper in a public office, who has intrusted to him no more of the public money than will suffice to purchase a straw broom and a mat. It was not for me, in the discharge of the trust with which I was honored, involving as it did disbursements of such various applications, to expect to live free from this kind of annoyance. I did not expect it. It was my duty, and I made it my business, therefore, to begin by providing such guards as should, at least, preserve me from any fatal consequences. The first of these slanders was one which identified me, after my entrance upon the duties of my office, as a party in the concern of J. C. Hall <fc Co.; and again, if not a party, yet as deriving an indirect emolument in the purchases which it was circulated I was constantly making of that concern. And these slanders, after having remained in their elementary state for six years, have at last been embodied and made (and I thank the committee for bringing them within my reach) part of the subject-matter of this inquiry. So soon as I had ascertained that those insinuations were in circulation, I requested Mr. Edward Hall, through whom I had negotiated the sale, and who was interested, as he told me, in it, to embody the entire affair, down to the purchase of the only parcel of goods I ever made of him, (for although there was a small invoice in addition to the first, yet it is believed to have been part of the principal purchase,) in a certificate, giving to it the solemnity and sanction of an oath. This was accordingly done and signed in Georgetown, as the original, which I now sub- mit, and which is the paper marked A, shows, on the 12th of November, 1817, and witnessed by John W. Rich, then bookkeeper in my office. Mr. Hall being, as I learn, in Virginia, and Mr. Rich dead, I have procured the certificate of the brother of the latter, now in Washington, certifying to his brother’s handwriting; and the oath of Mr. Richard Thompson, of Georgetown, identifying the signature of Mr. Hall. I have procured these, that no cavil may arise. 1 also beg leave to read the following letter (B) from my letter-book D, page 13, which will explain the test to which the goods he proposed to procure would be subjected, viz: an inspection and approval after they should arrive at the warehouses in Georgetown. They were subjected to this test, like all other goods which were ever bought in Georgetown, as Mr. Bronaugh has deposed; and, having passed it, were bought: and, because I had been connected with the firm of J. C. Hall &, Co., it has been insinuated that I participated in the profits of that transaction. I refer to paper A, just submitted, and ask if there be any thing in it which would authorize such an insinuation? And I ask whether I must not have been constituted of more than degraded baseness to have placed myself before Mr. Hall, who knew the binding obligations of my oath of office, as a perjured man? But I .repel the insinuation; and, under the solemnities of the oath which kept the way to my passage to the office to which I was appointed, till I had “ washed my hands” of all connexion with that concern, do I now swear that I never participated one cent, either by profit or by present, more or less, in that purchase; nor, from the hour when the terms of sale were agreed upon, which separated me frum that concern, in any transaction connected, either directly or indirectly, with the agency of either J. C. Hall or Edward Hall, or with any other individual who ever had transactions with the office of Indian trade during the period of my superintendency: and I challenge the worst enemy I have upon earth to convict me in this matter. Let it be recollected that it was made my duty, by virtue of my commission, which constituted me sole judge of the purchases, to provide the best and the cheapest goods for the prosecution of this trade. For my attention to the state of the markets, I refer to my letter-books, and to the testimony of Mr. Bronaugh, in answer to questions touching this part of his examination. I never bought of any one without first satisfying myself that I was making the best purchases which the markets enabled me to make, taking the range uf the New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and other markets, and bringing the prices and kinds of goods into a just comparison with the prices and kinds which were offered in our home market, and purchasing accordingly. I beg leave to read to the committee a few letters, and the answers to them: say one to New York, to my agent in that city, J. L. Dias, (C,) with his answer, (D;) and another to Henry Simpson, agent at Philadelphia, (E,) with his answer, (F;) and to these I add a general reference to my letter-books now in possession of the committee. From the letters which I have read, and the replies to them, the committee may infer the state of those markets for Indian goods; I say Indian goods, because he who judges of the high or low cost of leading Indian articles, blankets and strouds, by a comparison, the blankets with any other kinds of blankets, no matter though the points be the same, or the strouding with any other kinds of cloth, and makes up his judgment from an external inspection, and not by weighing and measuring them, betrays at once his ignorance of the comparative value of these goods: and I appeal for the truth of this to the whole mercantile community. Yet those goods, although, as these letters show, not to be had in either the New York or Philadelphia market, were to be had in Georgetown. My object in writing was to ascertain their value. The reason why the Georgetown market was the best is plain: it was the place where the demand existed; and he must be a novice, indeed, in mercantile matters, who does not know the first principle of trade, “ that where a demand is, there will be also a corresponding ability to supply it." The progress towards this ability in the Georgetown market was gradual; and, by referring to the invoices, as did the committee of Congress, in 1817, of which the Hon. J. Pickens was chairman, it will be seen that, during the first years of the removal of the office to Georgetown, but few articles were purchased except in Philadelphia, where the office had been; but every succeeding year lessened the ability where the demand had ceased to exist, and increased it where it did exist. I have one evidence in point, which I will submit to the committee, as to the ability of the Georgetown market to supply (when the demand existed there, I mean,) the calls for Indian supplies. The arrearages of annuities occasioned by the war brought together, in 1816, the very first year of my agency, several of them; that is, for the years 1813, 1814, 1815, and 1816, all to be purchased and transported in one season, besides $20,000 worth of presents. Of these annuities and presents, forty odd thousand dollars worth were purchased and transported to Governor Cass at Detroit, for the purposes of his agency; but only about eight hundred dollars worth were purchased outside of the District of Columbia. And what did Governor Cass say of those supplies? I will read an extract from the letter-book D, page 251, (G,) which I find incorporated in a report to the Hon. J. Pickens. Here, then, is prima facie evidence that it was not an “ abuse” or corruption of office which led me to make purchases to so large an amount in Georgetown, but the capacity in that market to supply the demand. It may be well to remark, that a two-fold advantage was realized, which a purchase by agency, in other places, did not embrace: frst, the selections were made under my own eye; and, second, the commissions were saved. It may be asked, “ Why, if I had such means of forwarding goods of such good quality, and upon such good terms, are there so many bad and high-charged goods at the factories?” The answer is plain. The factories contain goods which have been on hand from seven to twenty years. But for these goods, it is to be presumed, I am not accountable. I am, however, far from pretending that there never went, among the vast amount of purchases which I made in the six years of my superintendency, any high-charged and unsuitable goods. It would be preposterous: for where, let me ask, is the merchant, who, with all his care in supplying his single store, never gets, with his good and valuable goods, some which are not so? But a short time before I received my appointment, the state of the markets throughout the United States was such as almost to forbid those who were of the mercantile community from purchasing at all. And as to the articles suited to Indian purposes, these were nearly out of the market. Powder, in those days, cost three times the price at which it has sold for since; and as to blankets, these were, of the proper kinds, entirely out of the question. Many of those which were sent among the Indian supplies were manufactured with a texture like that of a hat, rolled out like a pelt; and cloth had to be bought, in some instances, made, in part, of hair! Yet this was the best that could be done; and no person will think of censuring my predecessor for sending those goods, because none better could be procured. We all remember to what a height, at about the period I refer to, all articles of merchandise had attained—from one to three hundred per cent, above what they have ever been since. But no one will think of laying the weight of such portions of these goods as are to this hour on hand at the factories, in the shape of censure, at my door.	- It is asked, “YVhy I did not get rid of those old goods?” I appeal to my letter-book for the proofs that I made efforts to do so. But the difficulty in the way of accomplishing such an end is great—indeed, next to insurmountable. The merchants in our cities can, and do, disembogue their remnants and bad goods, through auctions, at any sacrifices. But there are no such facilities, let it be remembered, in the wilderness. Parts of the old stock at Prairie du Chien I did order to St. Louis, where they were sold at great sacrifices. (See my letter-book D, bottom of page 411.) The old goods at Chicago and Green Bay were sold to Governor Cass, for the Indian Department, at a sacrifice on the cost, (see letter-book G G, page 271;) and efforts were made at other points, as my letter-books will demonstrate. But implications are made, and suspicion has been busy, because the great body of the leading articles for Indian supplies were bought at Georgetown; and because two persons, Colonel Cox and Thomas C. Wright, and not two hundred, had greater means, were better provided, and of course sold more to the Indian Office, than others. It is known to at least the citizens of this District that these gentlemen have been at particular pains to provide themselves with the best supplies for Indian purposes; and Colonel Cox, in particular, for years (as the testimony before the committee establishes) before I had any thing to do with these purchases, was a dealer with the office, and to very large amounts. I have said, and I repeat it, and under the solemnities of the same oath under which I discharged my general duties as superintendent, that my purchases were made wherever and of whomsoever they could be best made. Nor did it become me to consider how little or how much was purchased of any man; but only whether what was bought of him was the best, the cheapest, and most suitable, which, at the time of buying, the markets could furnish. Fur the scrutiny that was exercised in my purchases of Colonel Cox, (and it was not peculiar to him,) I refer to the testimony of Mr. Bronaugh, and to a letter which I find in my letter-book G G, page 176, (H,) which I addressed to him on the subject of a supply of leading articles, which had been bought in the expectation, and with the understanding, that they were of the same quality and weight of the goods of the previous year. My terms in this letter were complied with. (See Mr. Bronaugh’s testimony.) I know no man, in my official relations, as a friend, to be favored at the public expense; and what my view of this subject is, and the principles which governed me, I have the evidence, and shall presently disclose it, to demonstrate. I will call the attention of the committee to another of the whispers which seldom fail to be made in relation to disbursing public officers: I mean those which embrace imputations of applying the public money to private uses. However this abuse may have sometimes occurred, yet, as the examination of Mr. Bronaugh has tested, it has no application to me. I never did (and I add the awful sanction of my own appeal to the Deity in truth of it to that of Mr. Bronaugh) apply, during the whole term of my superintendence of the Indian Trade Department, one cent of the public moneys, more or less, (save those only which were allowed me for my salary,) to my private uses. No; it was around this branch of my duty that I placed the most inflexible guards. And I defy the closest scrutiny into every transaction of the moneyed sort, (and hundreds of thousands passed through my hands,) to detect a single departure from the inflexible rule, to keep the public moneys separate from what I might have of my own, and apply them ONLY to the. purposes for which they had been intrusted to me. I will now, in conclusion, proceed to illustrate before the committee what the estimate was, which, as a public officer, I attached to my integrity; and how scrupulous I was in providing against the attacks of even the veriest veterans in the art of detraction and slander. I certainly feel how unpleasant it is to be compelled to speak of one’s self; but, as I have said already, the occasion must furnish the apology. I submit the oaths of two brothers; and I appeal for the testimony of their integrity and good name to General Reed, of the House of Representatives, who has known us all from our infancy, and who is himself known to be an honorable man; and also to the principal families of this District, among whom I will venture to take the liberty of naming Genera] Mason, and Doctor Worthington, and General Walter Smith and his family, and the Rev. Mr. Addison, and the Rev. Henry Foxall; and I make these references, because tbe testimony I am going to submit is the testimony of my brothers. For these brothers I have the warmest and most affectionate attachment; nor did I ever decline, in a single instance, when it was in my power, and when my sense of duty authorized it, to do them any favor they asked. I submit their statements on oath, (marked I, J,) and ask that judgment be pronounced, whether, if I could be inflexible to an appeal like this—be driven from a compliance with the proposition, so reasonable in itself, by an instinctive dread of slander, and the imputations which I knew well enough would attach to, and perhaps tarnish my integrity—I could be influenced by corrupt motives to deal with others who, although acquaintances and friends, are, in the comparison of a brotherly relation, strangers? and whether, with these feelings on my part, I could consent, by participating, as has been insinuated, in the purchase made of Mr. Hall, to stand before him, he knowing the nature of my oath of office, a perjured manl No, sir: my good name was, and 'yet is, my all. Money is not the god of my idolatry, as those who know me will attest. It had been better for me to-day, perhaps, had I worshipped a little more devotionally at this shrine. My good name I have labored hard to preserve. 1 received it as a legacy from parents who died and left me little else with which to combat the roughnesses of this bleak and cheerless world; and the business of my life has been, and I trust will ever be to its close, to preserve that legacy, and to hand it over untarnished to an only son, to whom, although I may have little more to give, it may constitute a source of the most agreeable reflections; and, by a reference to the example which this very inquiry furnishes, he may be induced the more vigilantly to guard it, and hand it over in perfect purity to his posterity. I am concerned for its preservation. I will not, I could not, disguise it; but I shall expect it to be protected, on this occasion, only on the grounds of my having demonstrated that it has been unrighteously assailed. A. I do hereby certify, that, at or about the time Thomas L. McKenney was appointed superintendent of Indian trade, he was engaged in a mercantile business in Washington city with my brother, J. C. Hall; and that, of the term of said partnership, which was five years, about one only had elapsed when the appointment above named was made; that Mr. McKenney aforesaid stated to my brother his necessity, under his oath of office, to relinquish all mercantile affairs on his own account, and proposed to sell out to my brother. His terms were, for his interest in the concern for the four years then to come, (the profits having been about $1,000 for the first year,) five annual payments of $1,000, to include the proportion of profits that had arisen on the first year’s sales; he (the said McKenney) to afford his endorsement on paper running in bank for Mr. Hall’s accommodation, to the amount of $5,000. My brother declined giving as much as the sum required; but, through me, proposed to give a less amount, in similar payments, and on the same privilege of endorsement as referred to. “ It was here I suggested to Mr. McKenney that my brother could be essentially served by any dealings he might have with him as a merchant for the public supplies, and that any promise of countenance to this effect would enable my brother to give more for the interest in the establishment about to be bought out; when Mr. McKenney replied, “ I can make no stipulations on such a subject. I can hold out no inducements of the sort: if your brother have goods, such as my official duty requires me to procure, and his terms be as good as others, his chance will be equal. I cannot say any thing to justify any expectations of the sort."Such was the manner and feeling of the said McKenney on the subject, that I feared he supposed me inclined to induce him, by an additional offer, to commit himself to deal with my brother upon terms which might include his own interests, apart from his official duty and obligations; whereupon I explained that my intention was not to insinuate that I thought he could be tempted to barter away his honor; far from it; but I only wished to get as much information as I could for my brother, as to the probable amount of purchases he might be able to make, as that would enable him to form a more correct estimate of the annual worth of the business lie was in; to which Mr. McKenney replied, “ It is a point on which I cannot converse."The bargain was at last concluded, by and through me, for my brother, and the sum agreed upon to be given was $2,000, in full of his proportion of the first year’s profits, and for his interest in it for the four following years of the term of the partnership, in annual notes of $400 each; he (Mr. McKenney) agreeing to continue bis endorsement on my brother’s paper for $5,000. Thus ended the purchase on the part of my brother, and the sale on the part of Mr. McKenney. . I do further certify and swear, that the notes above specified were all that were given, and that they were given solely as compensation for the said McKenney’s proportion of profits that were then made, and for his interest in the business for four years then to come. I do further swear, that Mr. McKenney urged me to come to some conclusion, (I having undertaken to be the organ for my brother to Mr. McKenney,) as he felt himself incapable to engage in the duties of his office until he had washed his hands of his own personal mercantile concerns; and further, that he (the said McKenney) always, during the negotiation, manifested the utmost repugnance to listen to the conversation which I had with him about selling to the Indian Department; nor did he ever justify the least expectations that any countenance, of any sort, would be shown to my brother or myself; and, finally, he “ begged that no more, might be said upon that subject.” Now, in justice to myself, it becomes me to say, that my whole motive in asking for information was to obtain, not any commitment from Mr. McKenney, but only to enable my brother to make his arrangements, by providing such goods as might be in demand, and to get some information of their kinds, and to place ourselves (my brother, Joseph C. Hall, and myself, I mean) before Mr. McKenney’s view as sellers of goods, and to express a hope for a suitable patronage.'Finally, Mr. McKenney, some time after the sale, and when I called to offer him some goods, declined even to look at them himself; and then stated that “ his having been in business with my brother would prevent him from ever making any purchases; that, whatever goods we might have to offer, we must present to Mr. Bronaugh,” which we did. I further swear, that I never in my life witnessed more circumspect caution, or apprehensions of suspicion, in any man, than I did in Mr. McKenney; nor did my brother ever sell but one parcel of goods to the Indian Department, and these were inspected and approved of by Mr. Bronaugh. EDWD. HALL. GEORGETOWN, November 12, 1817. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, County of Washington, to wit: On this 24th day of February, 1823, personally appears Richard Thompson, before me, the subscriber, and makes oath, according to law, that the signature to the foregoing instrument of writing he believes to be the true signature of Edward Hall, brother of Joseph C. Hall, formerly of the firm of Joseph C. Hall & Co. of Washington. JAMES ORD, J. P. JOHN W. RICH, Witness.	. I hereby certify, that the signature to this instrument, as witness, is the genuine signature of John W. Rich, as it purports to be. WM. RICH, Brother of John W. Rich. WASHINGTON, February 24, 1823. B. SIR:	INDIAN OFFICE, GEORGETOWN, April 23, 1816. You mentioned to me the other evening that your brother was then in Baltimore, and that he would be glad to attend to the purchase of any articles of merchandise I might want for this office. I respectfully avail myself of this tender of services, which you will be pleased to understand as being accepted only upon the condition that the articles I am about to name be, if purchased, entirely acceptable in price and quality, and in such other respects as shall render them entirely proper for the purpose for which they are intended. With this condition, you may write to your brother to procure and send on, with as little delay as possible, twenty pieces of dark purple and chocolate brown cloth, (that is to say, ten pieces of each,) to be three-quarters of a yard wide, good quality, to cost here not more than seventy-five cents per yard; one hundred pieces of strouds, (about twenty yards in a piece.) Strouds are a blue cloth, six quarters wide, with a narrow cord about one inch from the selvage. For these, I will allow (if good) one dollar and twenty-five cents per yard. Six pieces of green cloth, (nearly grass green,) six quarters wide, not to exceed in price one dollar and twenty-five cents per yard. If these goods can be procured, and can be furnished to this office in fifteen or twenty days, (sooner would be desirable,) and under the conditions named, I will buy them. I am, &.c. THOS. L. MCKENNEY, S. I. T. Mr. EDWARD HALL, Georgetown. NOTE.—Mr. Hall bought, also, a parcel of blankets, at his own risk, which, on arriving, were inspected; and, being then wanted, were bought for the supplies then making up. C. SIR:	OFFICE OF INDIAN TRADE, May 8, 1818. I will thank you if you will take the trouble to make inquiries in your city after the following articles, and of the following descriptions: Northwest Company blankets, (so called,) three points, to measure six feet six inches long, and five feet six inches wide; to weigh, per pair, eight pounds and a half. Two and a half points, to measure six feet three inches long, and five feet two inches wide; to weigh, per pair, seven pounds and a half. Strouds, from six to seven quarters wide, to weigh, per yard, from one and a half to one pound and three-quarters. If these goods can be had, please inform me at what prices. Respectfully, tec. THOS. L. MCKENNEY, S. I. T. To J. L. DIAS, New York. 54 E ,	D. Extract from so much of J. L. Dias's letter as relates to the call on him for information of prices, as per letter C. As to the inquiries contained in your favor of the 8th, I regret to inform you that I have not been able to find out any blankets of the description therein stated, nor do I believe it possible to meet with any. In 1813, 1 purchased, by order of General Mason, and forwarded to some of the factories, some two and a half and three point blankets, but I believe they were of the ordinary sizes and weights, for I remember that I had previously endeavored, in vain, to procure such ones as you describe. ' Noté by Colonel McKenney.—It will be recollected that both Mr. Dias and Mr. Simpson had the inducements of a commission for buying.	.	• E. The same letter as that to Mr. Dias to Mr. H. Simpson, of Philadelphia. F. Copy of H. Simpson's letter. SIR:	PHILADELPHIA, May 11, 1818. In reply to your favor of the 8th instant, I beg leave to state, that there are no blankets in this market of the precise quality and dimensions as those you ask for. For the particulars of the quality of mine, which are the best in the market, I refer you to my letter to you of the 14th March, &c. &c. H. SIMPSON. THOS. L. MCKENNEY, Esq., <S. 1. T. G. Extract of a letter from General Cass to the Superintendent of Indian Trade. I have been much gratified to find the goods sent here for the Indians are very well selected. Perfect justice has been done. I am informed, by persons in the Indian Department, that such a selection was never sent to this country. Io fact, 1 cannot conceive that they could be better suited to the objects for which they are sent. I refer to my letter-book D, page 348, to a letter of 24th June, 1817, in reply, in part, to one which I had received from J. W. Johnston, of Prairie du Chien. From the following paragraph, (although his letter to me is not at hand, but maybe found by referring to the records of the Indian Office,) an inference may be made of the tenor of his letter to me from the following reply: “ It affords me pleasure (I say to him in reply) to learn that those goods are so very acceptable. It is surely a high commendation you bestow; and it is the more welcome, because you certainly know how to estimate an entire suitableness of the articles to the tastes of the Indians in your quarter. I notice with pleasure that you are attracting, by means of those goods, the attention of the Indians.” T. L. MCKENNEY, S. I. T. H. Letter to Colonel Cox. SIR:	OFFICE OF INDIAN TRADE, April 10, 1821. Understanding that you are in Baltimore, I think proper to write to you on the subject of the merchandise conditionally purchased of you. The blankets, on being opened, turn out to be so inferior as to be almost unsuited to the trade. Besides the appearance and poorness of covering, which shows the twill on both sides, the wrong side almost uncovered, and having a black narrow stripe instead of an indigo-blue and wide one, the three points are charged to weigh eight pounds and a quarter, and weigh only seven pounds and a half. The smaller blankets are of a similar quality. The strouding, charged as being the same with the best of last year’s purchase, weighs four pounds less, and is narrower and thinner, of course. It will be difficult to use these goods at all, and impossible to do so at the prices charged in the memorandum left by you. Nothing can authorize the admission of any part of them into the stock except a reduction of prices, governing the depreciation by the falling short of the weights. I wish you to write me immediately, and say whether you are willing to let these articles be used at the rates embraced by the unlikeness of their quality to those that they have been called equal to in your invoice. If not, it is proper I should say, they cannot be used at all. I regret this the more, as there will be an interruption in the packing until 1 hear from you. Write definitively and conclusively; and this you can do, because I can have no interest in misrepresenting these goods, and I wish to receive them only on fair terms. " Respectfully, &c. To Col. JOHN COX.	THOMAS L. McKENNEY, <S. I. T. ■ . I. DEAR BROTHER:	GEORGETOWN, D. C., February 21, 1823. I received, late this evening, your letter of yesterday,’ in which you request me to “ embody the offer I had made me by a gentleman of New York, to engage with me in a mercantile establishment in Georgetown; stating the amount in cash which he proposed to furnish; the chief object of that proposition; and the conversation that passed between you and myself when I made it known to you.” In accordance with said request, I now make the following statement: Not long after you had received the appointment of superintendent of Indian trade, a gentleman (Mr. William Floyd) from New York, then trading under the firm of Floyd, Smith, & Co., proposed to me to engage with him in a large dry goods establishment in this town, which should have for one of its objects, or its principal object, a reference to sales to your office, and, of course, to keep the most abundant and suitable supplies of Indian goods. He proposed to furnish the means to carry it on extensively. I communicated to you information of this offer, and stated its principal object, expressing my belief that we should be able to sell to you upon as good terms as any other merchants, and that the offer was one of importance to me. You instantly, with some degree of excitement, rejected the plan; and, as well as I can recollect, replied, “ tell or write the gentleman that I can consider his proposition in no other light than an indirect attempt upon my honor and reputation.” You further said, that no disbursing officer could, with every possible precaution, keep himself free from the suspicions of the evil-disposed, the disappointed, and the malicious, deal with whomsoever lie might; and that for me, however fair and honorable were my views, and would or might be your purchases, were you to make any, yet, as I was your brother, the public would never be satisfied but that corruptions and frauds were practised; that you had set out to avoid, as far as might be in your power, any just grounds of suspicion against any act of yours in the discharge of the trust which had been committed to you; and you never would, no matter how advantageous it might be to me, sanction the offer that had been made me, so far as it looked to your office to purchase goods of us. I recollect perfectly well that I endeavored to remonstrate with you, and begged you to consider that we never should ask you or expect you to buy a single article that should not be at a fair price, as low as it could be had elsewhere, and suitable to your wants or the Indian trade; and that I could not see why it must follow, because I was your brother, and you made purchases of me, that therefore you must be corrupt. I assured you that it was not expected by Mr. Floyd, when he made me the offer, that you should or would, in any instance, depart from the strict line of your duty, for we would only expect you to purchase of us when our offers were good and as cheap as others. You replied to me, with some sharpness: “ Hush it. I never will sanction it. I am a better judge of this matter than you can be;” or words to that import. Seeing me considerably hurt at your manner, and refusal of what I considered a perfectly fair and honorable offer, which might be of great advantage to me, you stated that it was your duty to yourself and reputation that forbade you to sanction the contemplated business between Mr. Floyd and myself, and that I knew you had the best and most affectionate feelings towards me; but, nevertheless, you reiterated your refusal, and declared most solemnly that you would not countenance the offer, nor buy of us, directly or indirectly, no matter how superior and cheap our goods might be. Not seeing the justice of your resolution, after I had repeatedly told you we could only expect or desire you to purchase when our goods were suitable to your wants, and as cheap as they could be had elsewhere, I made known to my brother Samuel what had passed, and requested him, as he thought you were fastidious, to call and see you on the subject. He did so, but without being able to change your views or purpose; and I abandoned the contemplated establishment. Your affectionate brother, WM. MCKENNEY. WASHINGTON COUNTY, District of Columbia, ss: On the 22d day of February, 1823, came William McKenney before me, the subscriber, a justice of the peace in and for the said county, and made oath on the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God that the foregoing statement is true, to the best of his knowledge. DANIEL BUSSARD. J. DEAR BROTHER:	GEORGETOWN, February 22, 1823. I received your letter of the 20th instant, in which you request me “ to state, on oath, the conversation you had with me on the subject of the proposition which our brother William had made to him by a gentleman from New York.” I recollect that our brother William, I think in 1817 or 1818, (I forget which,) came tome, and represented that he thought you had taken a very unjustifiable stand in relation to an offer he had made to him by a gentleman of New York, of a considerable capital, to open a dry goods store in Georgetown, by refusing, if he did commence the business, to buy an article from him, at no matter what rates he might offer it. Thinking that you had not duly weighed the subject, and knowing that it was not necessary for a purchaser, because he dealt with his brother, to be a rogue, I went to your house,- and found you in the fields. I represented my views to you, and urged you to think differently; and that, if William sold as cheap as any one else, and dealt in the right kind of goods, I could not see any reason why you should not deal with him. Your answer was, in substance, that you were a public officer; suspicion would attach to you, deal with him as fairly as you might; and that your reputation was worth more to you than any, moneyed advantage, arising under his proposed establishment, would be to him. You rejected my entreaties, and with fervor declared you never would deal with him while you remained a public officer, thereby subjecting yourself to the slanders of the suspicious, which you might never have it in your power to put down. This I believe to be the substance of our conversation; and I am now constrained to acknowledge the propriety of your decision. I remain, your affectionate brother, SAML. MCKENNEY. Mr. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, County of Washington, to wit: On this 22d day of February, 1823, before me, the subscriber, one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, personally appears Samuel McKenney, and makes oath, on the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God, that the foregoing statement of the matters and things as therein mentioned is just and true, to the best of his knowledge and belief.	. s	JAMES ORD. GEORGETOWN, February 24, 1823. We, the. undersigned, having sold to Thomas L. McKenney, superintendent of Indian trade, on the 23d of March, 1820, two dozen single bladed penknives, at $7 per dozen, and two dozen double bladed penknives, at $5 50 per dozen, have no hesitation to say that they were charged at the fair market price, at that period; but have no recollection that the one knife furnished as a pattern is any part of the above sale. WHARTON & GRINDAGE. We certifv that we packed the above knives for Chicago factory, in the year 1820. ' r	•	JERE. W. BRONAUGH, .	M. FITZHUGH. CONGRESS.] 
