No. 54. [2d Session- N0 RTH W E ST E RN T RIB ES. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, DECEMBER A?, 1791. Department of AVar, December 17th, 1794. Sir: The President of the United States has instructed me to communicate, in confidence, to Congress, the despatches from Major General AVayne, herewith transmitted, dated the 17th of October, and 12th of November, 1794, which were received last evening. I have the honor to be, &.c,, H. KNOX, Secretary of (far. [Addressed to the Presiding Officers of both Houses of Congress] Copy of u letter from Major General Wayne to the Secretary of It'ur. Head Quarters, Miami Ullages, 17th October, 1794. Sir: I hav e the honor to enclose a duplicate of my letter of the 20th ultimo, together with the general return of the legion, and an invoice of stores and medicine wanted in the hospital department. The great number of sick belonging to the mounted volunteers, added to the sick and wounded of the legion, has exhausted all the stores forwarded for the year 1794, so that I shall be under the necessity of ordering the Surgeon General to purchase a temporary supply at fort AVashiiigton, at an advanced but current price, at that place. The Quartermaster General is directed to make out a return of the stores issued, on hand, and wanting, in his department. Major Burbeck has similar orders for the Ordnance Department, which will be transmitted by the first opportunity. The unfortunate death of Mr. Robert Elliot, the acting contractor, who was killed by the Indians on the 6th instant, near fort Hamilton, added to the deranged state of that department, has made it my duty to order the Quartermaster General to supply every defect on the part of the contractors, and at theirexpense. in behalf of the United States, to be settled at the treasury at a future day. The posts in contemplation at Chillicothe, or Picque town, on the Miami of the Ohio, at Lonnie's stores, on the north branch, and at the old Tawa town, on the An Glaize, are with a view to facilitate the transportation of supplies by water, and which, to a certainty, will reduce the land carriage of dead or heavy articles, at proper seasons, viz: late in the fall, and early in the spring, to thirty -five miles, and in times of freshets, to twenty in place of 175, by the most direct road to Grand Glaize, and 150 to the Miami villages, from fort Washington, on the present route, which mil eventually be abandoned, as the one now mentioned mil be found the most economical, and surest mode of transport, in time of war, and decidedly so in time of peace. The mounted volunteers of Kentucky marched from this place on the morning of the 14th instant, for fort Washington, where they are to be mustered and discharged, agreeably to the instructions mentioned in the enclosed duplicates ofletters to Major General Scott and Captain Edward Butler, upon the occasion. The conduct of both officers and men of this corps, in general, has been better than any militia I have heretofore >een in the field for so great a length of time. But it would not do to retain them any longer, although our present situation, as well as the term for which they were enrolled, would have justified their being continued in service until the 14th of November, in order to escort the supplies from fort Washington to the head of the line, whilst the regular troops were employed in the completion of the fortifications, and keeping the enemy in check, so as to prevent them from insulting the convoys; but they were home-sick. All this I am now obliged to perforin with the skeleton of the legion, as the body is daily wasting away from the expiration of the enlistments of the soldiery. Nor is it improbable that we shall yet have to light for the protection of our convoys and posts. It is therefore to be regretted that the bill in contemplation, for the completion of the legion, as reported by the committee ol the House ot Representatives, was not passed into a law in the early part of last session of Congress. The enclosed estimate will demonstrate the mistaken policy and bad economy of substituting mounted volunteers, in place of regular troops; and unless effectual measures are immediately adopted by both Houses, for raising troops to garrison the Western posts, we have fought, bled, and conquered, in vain: the fertile country that we are now in possession of, will again become a range to the hostile Indians ol the \\ est. who, meeting with no barrier, the frontier inhabitants will fall an easy prey to a fierce and savage enemy, whose tender mercies are cruelty: and who will improve the opportunity to desolate and lay waste all the settlements on the margin ol the Ohio, and which they will be able to effect with impunity, unless some speedy and proper measures are adopted to re-engage the remnant of the legion. The present pay, and scanty ration, will not induce the soldiery to continue in service after the period for which they are now enlisted, and which will expire, almost in toto. between this and the beginning of May. 1 had the honor to transmit you a copy of the deposition of a certain---- ------, a Canadian prisoner, taken in the action of the 20th of August; his brother arrived at this place on the 13th instant, with a flag and three American prisoners, which be redeemed from the Indians, with a view of liberating. Enclosed is his narrative, given upon oath, by which you will see, that Governor Simcoe, Colonel McKee, and the famous Captain Brandt, are at this moment tampering with the hostile chiefs, and will undoubtedly prevent them from concluding a treaty of peace with the United States, if possible. 1 shall, however, endeavor to counteract them through themeansof---------, who has a considerable influence w ith the principal hostile chiefs, and whose interests it w ill eventually be, to promote a permanent peace. But, in order to facilitate and effect this desirable object, we ought to produce a conviction to them, as well as to the British agents, that we are well prepared for war: hence I have been induced to bestow much labor upon the two forts, of which the enclosed are draughts, and I am free to pronounce them the most respectable now in the occupancy of the United States, even in their present situation, which is not quite perfect as yet. The British, however, are not to learn, that they may possibly be left without garrisons: they well know the term for which the veterans of the legion are engaged, as well from our laws and proceedings of Congress, as from our deserters, and that no provision B yet made to supply their places: circumstances that Mr. Simcoe will not fail to impress most forcibly upon the minds of the Indians, with whom he is now in treaty; and to hold up to them a flattering prospect of soon possessing those posts, and their lost country, w ith ease and certainty. I have thought it my duty to mention those facts to you at this crisis, to the end that Congress may be early anil properly impressed with the critical situation of the Western country, so as to adopt measures for retaining the posts, and for the protection of the frontier inhabitants, previously to the expiration of the term of service for which the troops have been enlisted. I have the honor to be. Kc. ANTHONY WAYNE. Major General Kxox, Secretary of JTar. Estimate of the expense attending the raising and arming 2,000 non commissioned officers undprivates, regular troops, for three years. Ten dollars bounty, and ten dollars per stand of arms, equal to twenty dollars each man - $40,000 Clothing for 2,000 uon-commissioned officers and privates, for one year, at 30 dollars per suit, 60,000 Subsistence for 2,000, four months, averaged 4 dollars per month, per man, - - 32,000 Fay for 192 non-commissioned officers, for four months: say 12 sergeant-majors, and quartermaster sergeants, at 7 dollars, each, per month, ..... 336 64 sergeants, at 6 do. - - - - - - 2,016 96 corporals, at 5 do. - - - - - - 1,920 ------ 4.272 1,608 privates, at 3 dollars per man. per month, for four months, - - - 21,696 $157,968 Balance in favor of Federal troops, ..... 107,028 $264,996 By a fair and candid comparative view of this plain and simple statement of facts, every unprejudiced mind, and exery real friend to the true interests of America, must be convinced of the false and idle policy of substituting a precarious auxiliary force, of two thousand volunteers, for four months only, in place of a permanent regular force, of equal numbers, raised, armed, and equipped, for three years, completely clothed for.one year, and paid and subsisted for four months, the time for which the volunteers are to serve; besides leaving a balance in the treasury of 107,028 dollars, which will now be expended on the mounted volunteers, for four months service, leaving the frontiers totally unprotected, in the course of a few months more, as nearly one third part of the troops’ term of service will expire by the last of December, and almost the whole, on or before the middle of May next. This is a true but melancholy statement of facts. It may be asked, how this business could have been remedied? The answer is plain and decisive, viz: by giving an additional bounty of ten dollars to each recruit, and one dollar per month additional pay, with a reasonable increase of the rations. This, in the course of three, years, would only have amounted to 92,000 dollars, which would have ensured two thousand regular troops for that term; besides leaving a balance then in the treasury of 15,028 67 * dollars, in favor of two thousand regular troops for three years, in place of that number of volunteers for four months only. '   _ - Perhaps 200 acres of land, in the vicinity of the posts, might he substituted in place of the ten dollars additional bounty, to each recruit, with better effect. Estimate of expense attending the raising and paging of two thousand mounted volunteers, of Kentucky, for four months, exclusive of forage and subsistence. MONTHS. DOLLS. PER MONTH.    DOLLS. l Major General 4 181 - - - 724 2 Brigadier Generals ii 119 - - - 952 6 Majors - - - u   - 65 - , - - 1,560 1 Adjutant General  75 - - - 300 1 Quartermaster General - fcl 75 - - - 300 1 Surgeon General  75 - - - 300 2 Surgeons u 60 - - * - 480 4 Mates tt 45 - - - 720 1 Paymaster General it 75 - - - 300 4 Aides-de-camp tt 34 -   - - 544 12 Battalion Adjutants and Qr. masters “ 10 - - - 480 - 24 Captains . .i 55 - - - 5,280 24 Lieutenants t; 41 - - - 3,936 24 Ensigns tt 35 _ - - 3,360 192 Non-commissioned officers tt 37! - - - 28,800 ,808 Privates t; 30 - - - 216,960 Dollars,  264,996 Miami Village, set. Personally appeared before me, a certain Indian trader, and native of Canada, as flag, to redeem his brother, in consequence of a letter from the said--------, from Grand Glaize, wrote by my permission, which he received by the hand of an Indian, about the 24th ultimo, who declares, and saith. that Governor Simcoe, Colonel McKee, and Captain Brandt, arrived at fort Miami, at the foot of the Rapids, on the 30th ultimo: that Brandt had with him one hundred Indians, Mohawks and Messasagoes. _ , That Governor Simcoe sent for the chiefs of the different hostile Indians, and invited them to meet him at the mouth of Detroit river, eighteen miles below Detroit, to hold a treaty; that Simcoe, Colonel McKee, and Captain Brandt, together with Blue Jacket, Backongelies, the Little Turtle, Captain Jonny, and other chiefs of the Delawares, Miamies, Shawanese, Tawas, aiid Pattawatainies, set out accordingly, for the place assigned for the treaty, about the first instant: that the Indians are well and regularly supplied, with provisions from the British magazines, at a place called Swan creek, near Lake Erie. That, previously to the arrival of Governor Simcoe, Blue Jacket, the Shawanese chief, two of the principal chiefs of the Tawas, and the principal chiefs of the Pattawatainies, had agreed to accompany him, the said-----, with a flag to this place. That Blue Jacket informed him, alter the arrival.of Simcoe, he would not now go with him, until afterthe intended treaty; but that his wishes, at present, were for peace; that he did not know what propositions Governor Simcoe had to make them, but that he and all the chiefs would go and hear; and, in the interim, desired him, the said-, to inquire of General Wayne in what manner the chiefs should come to him, and whether they would be safe, in case they should determine on the measure, after the treaty with Simcoe, and after the said ---should return to Detroit: that, had it not been for the arrival of Governor Simcoe, Colonel McKee, and Captain Brandt, with his Indians, he is confident the chiefs, already mentioned, would have accompanied him to this place, at this time, as before related. Copy of a letter from Major General Anthony Wayne to the Secretary of War. Head Quarters, Greenville, 12/A 'November, 1794. Sir:   'I have the honor to transmit you a duplicate of my letter of the 17th ultimo, from the Miami villages, and to acknowledge the receipt of a letter from Colonel Alexander Hamilton, of the 25th of September, enclosing an extract of a letter from Mr. Jay, Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States, at the court, of London, dated the 12th July, 1791; also a letter from Major Stagg, of the 4th ultimo. The enclosed copy of a correspondence between the contractor’s agents, the Quartermaster General, and myself, will inform you of additional measures taken to obtain supplies for the support of the respective posts, and the skeleton of the legion. I have the honor to enclose copies of certain overtures and speeches, from the IVyan-dots, settled at, and in the vicinity of, Sandusky, together with my answer; what the result may be is yet very problematical; they have, however, left two hostages with'me (one oi them a young chief) until the return of the Hag that went from this place on the 25th instant, and promised to be here again in the course ol twenty days, with an answer to my propositions. From the enclosed narrative of-------, a half-breed, and brother to-----, (whose interest I have made it to be true and faithful to the United States) it would appear that the savages are playing an artful game; they have most certainly met Governor Simcoe, Colonel McKee, and Captain Brandt, at the mouth of Detroit river, at the proposed treaty of hostile Indians; and, at the same time, sent a deputation to me, with the overtures already mentioned, as coming from only part of one nation; it is, however, understood, by all, that there shall be a temporary suspension of hostilities for one moon, say until the 22d instant: in fact, it has been a continued! suspension, upon their part, ever since the action of the 20th of August, except a few light trifling predatory parties; it’s true, we always moved superior to insult, which may account for this apparent inactivity. Permit me now to inform you that the skeleton of the legion arrived at this place, on the 2d instant, in high healtli and spirits, after an arduous and very fatiguing, but a glorious tour of ninety-seven days; during which period, we marched and countermarched upwards ot three hundred miles, through the heart of an enemy’s country, cutting a wagon road the whole way, besides making and establishing those two very respectable fortifications, the draughts of which were enclosed in my letter ol' the 17th ultimo. As soon as circumstances will admit, the posts contemplated at Picque town, Lonnie’s stores, and at the old Tawa towns, at the head of navigation, on Au Glaize river, will be established tor the reception, and as the deposites, for stores and supplies, by water carriage, which is now determined to be perfectly practicable, in proper seasons; 1 am, therefore, decidedly of opinion, that this route ought to be totally abandoned, and that adopted, as the most economical, sure, and certain mode of supplying those important posts, at Grand Glaize and the Miami villages, and to facilitate an effective operation towards the Detroit and Sandusky, should that measure eventually be found necessary; add to this, that it would afford a much better chain for the general protection of the frontiers, which, with a block bouse at the landing place, on the JVabash, eight miles southwest of the post at the Miami villages, would give us possession of all the portages between the heads of the navigable waters of the Gulfs of Mexico and St. Lawrence, and serve as a barrier between the different tribes of Indians, settled along the margins of the rivers emptying into the creek, as mentioned in the enclosed copy of instructions, of the 22d ultimo, to Ool. Hamtrainck. But, sir, all this labor, and expense of blood and treasure, will be rendered abortive, and of none effect, miles? speedy and efficient measures are adopted by the National Legislature, to raise troops to garrison (hose posts. As I have already been full and explicit upon this subject, in my letter of the 17th ultimo. I shall not intrude further upon your time and patience, than to assure you of the high esteem arid regard with which I have the honor to be. Ac. Copy of a tetter from----to Major General Jfuyne, dated Sandusky, llth September, 1791. Brothers: I send you the extract of a speech which the chiefs and warriors was to have sent you, if the evil advice had not been heard to: after all the plan I had proposed to them was finished, they, then, took it into consideration that it would be proper to let their confederates know,'at the Miami river. They received an answer from them to this purport: “ Elder Brothers, we have received your speech.; you say that you are just upon the point of sending speeches to the Americans. We are happy to think that you thought proper to let us know. I now requestof you to drop that; you must not believe the Americans, for they only wish to decoy us into a snare, with their fine speeches they have frequently sent us. We should listen to what our father says to us, as he is now arrived, and, also, that the Five Nations are coming to this Miami river.” This is all they said. I have now, from this infamous work against my good will, sent you three of my confidential friends, which you may not in the least doubt of their fidelity for the undertaking. You will send two of them back with your answer to my calls for your assistance, without delay, which you may depend on will be the utmost benefit to the United States, and, I hope, will be the means of drawing all the Indians back; however, you will be better convinced, when you see this bold attempt of mine put into execution. As for the third man, he is my brother, and will remain with you. You must report that these three came from t’ittsburg, belonging to the Six Nations, for I hear daily that your men are deserting from you, who might be the cause of a discovery; you know best who to trust with an affair of such importance. Farewell: I have nothing more to add. AN EXTRACT. Brothers of the thirteen United States of America: Listen to us chiefs and warriors of Sandusky: It is now arrived to this period since we had intercourse with each other.' When in council, at Muskingum, we settled all matters, and linked our chains of friendship strong; this is what you and I did when I returned home; the evil things were set in operation against our good works we had just finished, and, in a short time, all things were in such a confusion, that nothing but a rupture must take place between the thirteen United States of America, and us Indians, which affair still remains undecided. Brothers: You told us. when the path was made from the council fire to our towns at Sandusky, that this should be the way for you and I to communicate our affairs of importance to each other; and. moreover, you said that nothing should happen to any of us. if this path was followed: that we were to let each other know, if in case any thing bad threatened either of ns. Brothers: ,1 say this is the promise we made to each other: but we have never heard a word from you, nor you from us. I must acknowledge that we have sometimes heard from you. by divers channels, and then, in such a manner, we could not tell the right end of it. \Yc now speak, and send forward this speech to you, by one of our best and wisest men, whom we esteem to be the dearest of our blood, and, from him, you will receive this; or any thing else he may have to say will stand valid: our reasons for sending him was, that you might believe in us. Brothers: We request of you to bring forth, from the bottom of your hearts, your sentiments respecting to making a definitive treaty of peace, and upon what terms. We shall deliver our prayer daily to the Great Spirit above, our Maker, that you will open your hearts and sentiments to our beloved warrior. For the chiefs and warriors of Sandusky. TARKK. Sachem Chief. Sandusky, 2f>//i September, 1791. Speech of-----------. a JCyandot chief, delivered viva voce to General Jf’ayne, at Greenville, the 3d November, 1794. Brother: I thank the Great Spirit that I have now an opportunity to see you. I have come a great way to speak of peace; 1 live at Sandusky; we Wyandots now wish (or peace, and are determined to bury the hatchet and scalping knife deep in the ground. We pray you to have pity on us. and leave us a small piece of land to build a town upon. Brother: The Great Spirit has given land enough for us all in this world to live and hunt upon. We have looked all around us for a place to move to, but cannot find any. We want to know your mind. Our people will be all assembled at Sandusky by the time we get home. We have moved about half a mile from the river, where we intend to build a stockade and blockhouse, to defend ourselves until we hear from you. We don’t know whether we are right or wrong in doing it, but have pity on us. I have nothing further to say than what is contained in the papers sent you, but to request an answer in writing, to let our people know your real mind. --------------then read and spoke as follows: Brother: I have come to you in behalf of my Father, and his little town. We are for peace, and intend to move about ten miles from where we now live, to the head waters of Scioto, in order to be out of the way of the horse thieves, who, after doing mischief, always come home by our town, which may be the means of our suffering for their bad deeds. M e are determined for peace, if you will grant it. and to tell you where we live, so that we may not be hurt on account of the bad Indians, should they continue to be hostile. From--------------to A. JJayne, Major General, Commander-in-Chicf of the army of the United States of America. Sandusky, 27th September, 1794. Brothers: Toedlthc United States of America: I request you to allow me the honor of communicating you a few words upon the subject of the greatest importance to the thirteen United States, and us brown skin people. It is now better than five years since the commence- inent of this war. I think it is most time that we should take our rest, and enjoy, the remainder of our lives, the blessings of peace. ' It has been always my heart’s desire to live in this state of bliss. . The regret I feel for my countrymen is inexpressible. They are now in the utmost distress; and the appearance of a total extirpation from our native soil is a most alarming circumstance for a human being to condole upon. Who have we to blame for our presentmisfortunes? The world knows. I have exerted myself to shew my abilities to the chiefs and wariiors at this place, to inculcate in them the same ideas as I possessed. If they go wrong, the charge of t heir ignorance cannot be upon me. I am determined to let my brothers know, the United States of America, the abuse and imposition we have received from a people who call themselves Christians. I demand redress from the United States, by sending an army to this place without delay, for I wish to save my people of Sanduskv. I have always acted the part of a faithful and true subject to them. I hope to see the day wherein I shall have the pleasure of convincing my countrymen how far they are wrong. I am now determined, as I said before, to disclose my heart and sentiments. I will do every thing that lays in my power to save my people. I am an offspring of theirs, and therefore I have a right to support their cause, and conduct them the right way. Can there be any honor in any civilized nation to advise us to a thing that would ruin us? O! fie upon them that are guilty! they had much better show us the right than wrong. You see, brothers, how we are imposed upon. You may rely on what I say to be truth, for I speak from the true principles of man’s loyalty to his country. We want nothing but justice, and I know the United States will grant it. The cause of my doing this now is, I have been twice disappointed in attempting to have peace; the first was last March, 1704, and the latter, lately. Now, my blood has got warm, and I will nave satisfaction. I hope the United States will cast their eyes upon me, and see the distress I am in for my relations. 'flie Speech of Major General Wayne to the IVyandots, of the 4th November, 1794. To Tarke, and all the other chiefs and warriors of the Jf yandot nation living near Sandusky, and in its vicinity, and to all ana every other tribe and nation of Indians, whom it may concern: Brothers: I have listened with attention to the message sent; and am rejoiced that the Great Spirit has, at last, opened your hearts and ears to the voice of peace; but am sorry that the evil spirit has been busy in attempting to prevent you from accomplishing that desirable object. Yet, 1 hope and trust that your eyes are now opened, and you will no longer suffer yourselves to be imposed on by the bad advice of those interested men, who have so often deceived you? and betrayed you into error, by fair and plausible, but false promises, of assisting you to fight against the Fifteen Fires of the United States. ' _ I have already told you that those people had neither the power or inclination to protect you; the truth of which you have dearly experienced. , * Brothers: You request me to bring forth, from the bottom of my heart, my sentiments respecting a definitive treaty of peace, and upon what terms. The enclosed copies of my speeches, addressed to you and all the other hostile tribes of Indians, will best demonstrate the sincerity and wishes of my heart, and show the pains. I have taken to bring about a happy peace, and prevent the further effusion of human blood. , Brothers: I now call upon you to open your hearts and ears, and exert every power of attention to what I shall say. It is close upon six years since the sachems and warriors of the Wyandot, Delaware, Ottawa? Chippewa, Patta-watamy, and Sac nafions, concluded a treaty at the mouth of Muskingum, with Governor St. Clair, for removing all causes of controversy, and for settling boundaries between the aforesaid tribes of Indians and the United States of America. That treaty appeared to be lounded on principles of justice and equity, and to have been clearly and fairly understood, and satisfactory to all parties at that period, being the same which you have recognised and recapitulated in your speech to me, at this time. I, therefore, propose it aS a preliminary or foundation, upon which a permanent and lasting peace shall be established between the United States of America and your nation and nations of Indians. Should you have any well grounded objections to this proposition, come forward and speak your minds freely, in the manner mentioned in my speech of the 12th September last, and rest assured of a sincere welcome, and the most perfect security to yourselves and friends, both in coming to this place and in returning hoiiie, when most agreeable to you. ANTHONY WAYNE, Major General, Commander-in-Chief of the. legion of the United States of America. ■ Head Quarters, Greenville, Nov. 4, 1794. , Copy of a reply from General Wayne to-------------. Head-Quarters, Greenville, November 5, 1794. Sm: < Your several letters of 27th of September, and an extract ot a speech which the chiefs and warriors were to have sent from Sandusky, ‘‘if the evil advice had not been heard to,” was delivered at the Miami villages by- ----, some days since; he now remains at this place, to take care of----, who has been very unwell, but now on the recovery; every attention shall he paid to him, until he is perfectly restored to health. The part you have taken to bring about a peace, between the United States and the hostile tribes of Indians. i> highly pleasing to me. Continue to exert your influence to accomplish that good work, and you shall be liberally rewarded for your fidelity and trouble. You will observe, by 'my speech of the 4th instant, that I have proposed the treaty, made at Muskingum, on the 9th of January, 1789, as a preliminary, or foundation of a permanent and lasting peace. A duplicate of this treaty was delivered to the Wyandots, and is probably now in your possession; horn part of it being recognised, and quoted in the extract of the speech of the 26th of September, 1794, and as you attended that treaty, you must be well acquainted with the principles upon which it. was founded. , I have cause to believe, that my speech to the hostile tribes of Indians, of the 12th of September last, was in great part suppressed by some of the bad white people at the foot of the Rapids. I, therefore, send a copy of it, as well as my speech of the 13th of August, by this opportunity, which you will please fully and clearly to explain to your people; perhaps you may find it convenient to come to this place, immediately after the receipt of this, when matters can be better and more fully understood; and I hereby pledge my sacred honor for the safe return of yourself, and all such chiefs and warriors as may accompany you. Wishing that the great spirit may incline all your Hearts and minds to peace, and that we may soon have a happy interview', I am, your friend and brother, A. WAYNE. To-------. Confidential intelligence given at Greenville, the 10th day of November, 1791, to Major Gen. Wayne, by-----, \Vlu> came as a flag from the Wyandotts, settled at the foot of the rapids of Sandusky, as mentioned in certain communications signed-------, and saith, that his tribe are determined for peace; that the chiefs were prevented by the British agents, Governor Simcoe, Colonel McKee, and Captain Brandt, from coming forward at this time, a> they found it expedient to send one or two chiefs to the proposed treaty of the British, at the mouth of Detroit, where his brother also went. That Captain Brandt insisted they should try one more desperate effort, and that they, the Six Nations, were now determined to join them; that he had now come forward with a chosen body of his own warriors, and would wipe the tears from their eyes; to keep a good heart, and forget their late disaster, and to look forward to better fortune and success; that their father, the king, would assist them with his warriors; that the army was now advancing to join them; to come to the treaty at the Big Rock, and hear jvhat their father. Governor Simcoe, had to say to them. This message was sent by David Patterson, a Mohawk, and principal chief under Brandt; that three of the principal war chiefs of the Wyanuots, belonging to his town, and who were always for war, were killed in the action of the  20th August, and that the principal chiefs, now living, are very anxious for peace. That the first intelligence the Indians received of the advance of the army towards Grand Glaize, was from a certain Newman, who deserted from the St. Mary’s, as the troops were on their march, in order to give every intelligence in his power; that it was known by several'of the Indians, that he (Newman) had a brother, an officer, now at Detroit. That Newman, most certainly, was not captured by the Indians, but came in voluntarily, to give them notice of the advance of the army; so far from being taken prisoner, he never saw the sight of an Indian, until he arrived at the settlements, in the vicinity of Grand Glaize; that immediately upon his arrival, runners were sent in every direction, to collect the Indians, and he was sent to Detroit, from the foot of the Rapids, by Major Campbell. That the Indians would have been completely suprised at Grand Glaize, but for the arrival and information given them by this man. That the Shawanese appeared determined to remove to the west side of the Mississippi; that there are now out. upwards of a hundred Shawanese warriors, hunting on the head waters of the Miami of the Ohio and Scioto, who, when the hunting season is over, say about Christmas, intend to disperse, and steal horses to carry them anti their families to the Mississippi, where several of their nation, and many of the Delawares, are already settled; he, therefore, is of opinion, that those nations will severally remove, rather than make peace. That the Indians, by this time, have heard the proposals of the British and Six Nations, with regard to assistance and support, and will determine, for peace or war, according to the certainty or uncertainty of effectual support from the British, after receiving the proposals now sent them. * I 3d Congress.] 
