No. 81. [2d Session. STEPHEN CAN TRILL. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, APRIL 5. 1798. The Secretary of War, to whom was referred the petition of Stephen Cantrill, respectfully reports: That the services for which the petitioner prays compensation to himself, and a company which he commanded, were performed in the month of September, 1794, on an expedition conducted by Major James Ore, into the Lower Cherokee country, which issued in the destruction of two considerable Indian towns, the Running Water and Nickajack, the killing of a number of Indians, and the taking about twenty prisoners. That the report ot Major Ore to Governor Blount, dated at Knoxville, the 24th September, 1794, shews that this expedition marched on the seventh ot the same month, and was ordered by General Robertson, of Mero district. That the orders of General Robertson, for this purpose, were afterwards communicated by himself to Governor Blount, in a letter dated the eighth October, 1794, detailing his reasons for the order. That letters from Governor Blount to the Secretary of War, dated the twenty-second of September, and second of October, 1794, as well as a copy of an order, which he states to have been the last given by him to General Robertson, previous to this expedition, evince, that the Governor did not sanction the measure. That the Secretary of War, previous to Major Ore’s expedition, in a letter to Governor Blount, dated the 26th July, 1794, strongly discouraged the idea of destroying theLovver towns of the Cherokees, in the following words, viz: “With respect to destroying the lower towns, however rigorous such a measure might be, or whatever good consequences might result from it, 1 am instructed, specially, by the President, to say, that he does not conceive himself authorized to direct any such measure, more especially as the whole subject was before the last session of Congress, who did not think proper to authorize or direct offensive operations.” And that, as soon as the destruction of the Running Water and Nickajack was communicated to him, the Secretary sti'ongly disavowed any participation in the business, by his letter to Governor Blount, dated the 29th December, 1794, m these words, viz: “The destruction of the Lower Cherokee towns stands upon its own footing; that it was not authorized is certain.” That the President, at all times, as well before as after this expedition, endeavored to confine the protection of the frontiers of the southwestern territory to defensive operations, and to restrain from those which were offensive. That, on the whole, it appears, the sendees for which compensation is prayed by the petition of Stephen Cantrill, were performed on an expedition, offensive, unauthorized, and in direct violation of the orders from the President to Governor Blount, by whom, also, they were not sanctioned. The documents referred to, and others connected with the subject, are herewith presented, numbered from No. 1 to 9, inclusive. All which is respectfully submitted to the House ot Representatives. JAMES M’HENRY. War Office, rfprit, 1798. No. 1. Knoxville, September 24th, 1794. Sir: On the seventh instant, by order of General Robertson, of Mero district, I marched from Nashville, with five hundred and fifty mounted infantry under my command, and pursued the trace of the Indians who had committed the latest murders in the district of Mero, and of the party that captured Peter Turney’s negro woman, to the Tennessee. I crossed it on the night of the twelfth, about four miles below Nickajack, and, in the morning of the thirteenth, destroyed Nickajack and the Running Water, towns of the Cherokees. The first being entirely surrounded, and attacked by surprise, the slaughter was great, but cannot be accurately reported, as many were killed in the Tennessee. Nineteen women and children were made prisoners at this town. The Running Water town being only four miles above Nickajack, the attack upon the latter reached the former before the troops under my command, and resistance was made to save it at a place called the Narrows; but, after the exchange of a few rounds, the Indians posted at that place gave way, and the town was burnt without further opposition, with all the effects found therein, and the troops under my command recrossed the Tennessee the same day. From the best judgment that could be formed, the number of Indians killed at the two towns must have been upwards of fifty, and the loss sustained by the troops under my command, was one lieutenant and two privates wounded. The Running Water was counted the largest, and among the most hostile towns of the Cherokees. Nickajack was not less hostile, but inferior in point of numbers. At Nickajack was found two fresh scalps, which had lately been taken at Cumberland, and several that were old were hanging in the bouses of the warriors, as trophies of war; a quantity of ammunition, powder, and lead, lately arrived there from the Spanish Government, and a commission for the Breath, the head-man of the town, who was killed, and sundry horses, and other articles of property, were found, both at Nickajack and the Running Water, which were known by one or other of the militia to have belonged to different people, killed by Indians, in the course of the last twelve months. The prisoners taken, among whom was the wife and child of Richard Finnelson, my pilot, informed me, that, on the fourth instant, sixty Creeks and Lower Cherokees passed the Tennessee, for war against the frontiers. They also informed, that two nights before the destruction of Running Water, a scalp dance had been held in it, over the scalps lately taken from Cumberland, at which were present, John Watts, the Bloody Fellow, and the other chiefs of the Lower towns, and at which they determined to continue the war, in conjunction with the Creeks, with more activity than heretofore, against the frontiers of the United States, and to erect block houses at each of the Lower towns, for their defence, as advised by the Spanish Government. The prisoners also informed, that a scalp dance was to be held iu two nights, at Red-headed Will’s town, a new town, about thirty miles lower down the Tennessee. The troops under my command generally behaved well. I have the honor to be. your Excellency’s most obedient humble servant, JAMES ORE. Governor Blount. No. 2. Nashville, September 6th, 1791. Major Ore: The object of your command is to defend the district of Mero against the large party of Creeks and Cherokees of the Lower towns, which I have received information is about to invade it, as also to punish, in an exemplary manner, such Indians as have committed recent depredations in the said district. Fer these objects, you will march, with the men under your command, from Brown’s block house, on the eighth instant, and proceed along Taylor’s race, towards the Tennessee, on which, from the information I have received, you are momently to expect to meet a large party of Creeks and Cherokees, advancing to invade this district; and if you do not meet this party before you arrive at the Tennessee, you will pass it, and destroy the Lower Cherokee towns, which must serve as a check to the expected invaders; taking care to spare women and children, and to treat al( prisoners who may fall into your hands with humanity, and thereby teach those savages to spare the citizens of the United States, under similar circumstances. Should you in your inarch discover the trails of Indians returning from the commission of recent depredations on the frontiers, which can generally be distinguished by the horses stolen being shod, you arc to give pursuit to such parties, even to the towns from whence they come, and punish them for their aggressions in an exemplary manner, to the terror of others from the commission of similar offences, provided this can be consistent with the main object of your command, as above expressed, the defence of the district of Mero against the expected party of Creeks and Cherokees. I have the utmost confidence in your patriotism and bravery, and with my warmest wishes for your success. I am, sir, your obedient servant, JAMES ROBERTSON, B. G. No. 3. Nashville, October 8th, 1794. Sm: I have to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's letter of the second instant. Enclosed you have a copy of my order to Major Ore, of the sixth of September; my reasons for giving it, were, that I had received two expresses from the Chickasaws, one by Thomas Brown, a man of as much veracity as any in the nation, the other by a common runner, giving information, that a large body of Creeks, with the Cherokees of the Lower towns, were embodying, with a determination to invade the district of Mero; and not doubting my information, I conceived, if Major Ore did not meet this invading army of Creeks and Cherokees, as I expected, that it could not be considered otherwise than defensive to strike the first blow on the Lower towns, and thereby check them in their advance; nor could I suppose that the pursuing of parties of Indians, who had recently committed murders and thefts, to the towns from whence they came, and there striking them, could be considered as an offensive measure, unauthorized by the usage of nations in such cases. It cannot be necessary to add as a justification, the long repeated, and, 1 might say. almost daily sufferings of the people of the district of Mero, by the hands of the Creeks and Cherokees of the Lower towns. The destruction of the towns by Major Ore was on the thirteenth of September. On the twelfth, in Tennessee county, Miss Roberts was killed on Red river, forty miles below Nashville, and on the fourteenth, Thomas Reasons and wife were killed, and their house plundered, near the same place, by Indians. On the sixteenth, in Davidson county, twelve miles above Nashville, another party killed-Chambers, wounded John Bosley and Joseph Davis, burned John Donnelson's station, and carried oft sundry horses? ami in Sumner county, on the same day, a third party of Indians killed a woman on Red river, near Major Sharp's, about forty miles northeast of Nashville, and carried olf several horses. This proves that three separate and distinct parties of Indians were out for war against the district of Mero, before the inarch of Major Ore from Nashville. Enclosed is a copy of a letter from Doctor R. I. Waters, a citizen of the United States, resident at New Madrid, to John Easten, his factor, in Tennessee county, strongly supporting the information the Chickasaws had given of the intended invasion of the Creeks; and is not the Old Maw's information to yourself, in the latter part of August, to the same purport? And to him, and his friendly party, are the people ol this country indebted for their not invading us as they intended. If I have erred, 1 shall ever regret it; to be a good citizen, obedient to the law, is my greatest pride; anil to execute the duties of the commission with which the President has been pleased to honor me, in such manner as to meet his approbation, and that of my superiors in rank, lias ever been my most fervent wish. Previous to the march of Maj. Ore, from Nashville. Col. Whitley, with about one hundred men, arrived there, from Kentucky, saying they hail followed a party of Indians who had committed depredations on the southern frontier of that country; that, in the pursuit, they had bail a man killed by the Indians, and several horses taken,and that they were determined to pursue to the Lower towns. They were attached to Major Ore's command, which augmented the number to upwards of five hundred and fifty men. I should be happy, if my apprehensions of a Creek invasion were removed, but they are not: for Billy Colbert, and other Chickasaws, inform me, that they yet threaten Mero distinct, not in so large numbers, but in small detached parties, which are equally dangerous, as there is no possibility of guarding against a number of small parties invading the frontiers at different places, at the same time. Enclosed is a copy of a letter to John Watts; and, from my experience in Indian a Hairs, I have my hopes, that, from the scourging Major Ore has given the Lower Cherokees, we shall receive less injury from them than heretofore. I also enclose you Major Doyle’s letter, from Fort Massac, to me. in consequence of which. 1 ordered to his relief an ensign, sergeant, corporal, and eighteen privates, mounted infantry. I have engaged Mr. Shute fifty dollars, for going to you express. I have the honor to he. with great respect, your Excellency's most obedient servant, JAMES ROBERTSON. His Excellency Governor Blount. No. 4. Knoxville, September Hd, 1791. Sir; 1 am informed, by such authority as may be depended upon, but not officially, that a detachment of the militia of Mero district, by order of General Robertson, lately pursued die trail of a party of Indians to the Tennessee, near Nickajack, and crossed over and destroyed the towns of Nickajack and Running Water, killed upwards of fifty Indians, and carried twenty prisoners to Nashville. I expect an official account in a few days, which I shall embrace the earliest opportunity to forward to you. In the mean time, 1 assure you, that, if General Robertson has given an order for the destruction of these towns, he is not warranted in so doing by any order from me. I have the honor to he, with great respect, your obedient servant, WILLIAM BLOUNT. General Knox, Secretary of JJ'ar. No. 5. Knoxville, October 'id, 1791. Sir: Enclosed is the copy of a report of Major Ore, of the destruction of the Running Water and Nickajack, two of the most hostile of the Lower Cherokee towns; a copy of my letter to General Robertson, respecting his order for that purpose to Major Ore, and of my order to General Robertson of the fourteenth June. It will be observed, by my letter of yesterday’s date, to General Robertson, that he has not yet informed me, that lie did give the order for the destruction of these two towns, but I have no doubt but he did; and I am informed by other people, that his reasons for so doing was, that he had received information from the Chickasaws, that a large party of Creeks and Cherokees were, at the time he gave the order, daily expected to invade the district of Mero. My order of the fourteenth June, the last I had given him as to the protection of Mero district, is enclosed, to shew that no order of mine sanctioned the measure. While Major Ore was out against the Lower towns, the Indians continued their depredations against the district of Mero. On the night of the fourteenth September, the Indians pulled up a part of the stockading of Morgan’s station, and took out a valuable gelding tied to liis dwelling house. The sixteenth ol the same month, a woman on Red river, near Major Sharp's, was killed by tbe Indians. The same day a party ol Indians fired upon five men near Mr. Andrew Jackson’s, on the. south side ol Cumberland river, killed one man, and wounded two; among the latter is Mr. John Bosley. The same party burned the houses of John Donnelson and the widow Hayes. From the nearness of the time, and the distance of situation, within which the above injuries were committed, there must have been three parties of Indians. The Hanging Maw, and his party on the Tennessee, discover no displeasure at the destruction of the Lower towns, but, on the contrary, ihe Maw declares publicly, that the enemies of the United States are his enemies, and that he shall view the Lower towns as other enemies of the United States, if they are so, and it would appear as if the Lower towns did not consider him as their friend: for they have given him no information of the destruction of the Running Water and Nickajac.k. A few days past, arrived here, a Miss Alice Thompson, and Mrs. Caffray, of the vicinity of Nashville, from a captivity of upwards of two years, with the Creeks. The former, shortly after her arrival, was purchased from her captors by a white trader, of the name of Riley, for eight hundred weight of dressed deer leather, equal to two hundred and sixty-six dollars and sixty-six and two-thirds cents, and well treated. The latter remained in the hands of her captors as a slave, hoeing corn and beating meal, and was repeatedly scratched with gar-teeth, as a punishment for what they called offences, the marks of which remain upon her back and other parts of her body, and when she was released, was under the painful necessity of leaving her child, which was captured with her, in the hands of the Creeks. These women report to me, that, notwithstanding the repeated assurances Mr. Seagrove has given, of the peaceful disposition of the Creeks, and, notwithstanding his actual presence, for many months, in the nation, that he was able to obtain but a few of the prisoners. They particularly mention, besides Mrs. Caffray’s child, several other persons taken from this country, and not delivered up, but yet remain in a state of captivity and slavery, namely, Miss Wilson, taken from Zeigler’s station, in the summer of 1792, when near thirty persons were killed or taken by the Indians, as heretofore reported to you, and young Mayfield and young Brown, whose mothers live near Nashville, and were captured prior to the treaty of New York. These they mention as having seen and conversed with, and sundry others whom they did not see, taken from this country, and other parts of the frontiers. Miss Thompson also reports, that young Alexander Cavet. who was captured from within eight miles of this place, in September, 1793, at the time his father, and every other of the family were massacred, was killed by a Creek warrior, by the stroke of a tomahawk, three days after his arrival in the nation. Upon questioning this lady as to the number of scalps brought into the Creek nation during her captivity, she answ ered she could not give the numbers accurately, but that she well recollected that the warriors returning from Cumberland, once reported nine, and that war dances were held generally in consequence thereof, through the Upper Creeks, and that she frequently saw or heard of a less number, as from one to three, brought in at a time. Only two w agon loads of the Chickasaw goods are yet arrived, but the rest shortly expected. Doctor James White, of Mero district, the member of Congress from this territory, will deliver to you this letter. He has it in command from his constituents to state to you, and Congress, their many sufferings by the hands of the Creeks and Lower Cherokees. I have the honor to be, with great respect and esteem, your most obedient, humble servant, WILLIAM BLOUNT. General Knox, Secretury of I Far. Sin: No. 6. Knoxville, June 14th, 1794. Enclosed is a copy of a letter from the Secretary of War, of the fourteenth day of April last, by which you will be informed of the degree of protection the President has ordered me to extend to the district of Mero. My order of the 29th May, to the commanding officers of the counties composing the district of Mero, will inform you in what manner I have ordered the infantry to be raised and disposed of. If you judge any alteration necessary for the greater security of the inhabitants, you will make it, except that part which is given in express conformity to the orders of the Secretary of War to me. Lieutenant Mitchel, who marches with you from this place, subject to your order, commands the cavalry, as allowed by that order. Lieutenant Mitchel, after his arrival in Mero district, is to continue subject to your orders for the time on which he is ordered on duty. You will observe, as the order of the Secretary of War, of fourteenth day of April, limits the degree of protection that is to be extended to Mero district, that you are not to order on duty, of the militia, any greater number than is by that order permitted, except in case of an invasion by a superior force of hostile Indians, and, in that case, you will repel such invaders, with such part of your brigade as shall be necessary for such repulsion. On the 24th August^ a part of the Knox mounted infantry will rendezvous at this place, to march to Mero district, to supply the place of Lieutenant Mitchel, and to continue on duty for the protection of Mero district, until the first day of December. You will receive the six howitzers and the ammunition, and make such disposition thereof as shall, in your judgment, best ensure the protection of the district, that being the object of Government in ordering them to you. I am, your obedient servant, WILLIAM BLOUNT. General Robertson, Mero District. No. 7. War Department, July 26th, 1794. Sir: Your favor of the 30;h of June, and its enclosures, have been received, and submitted to the President of the United States. It is a most mortifying circumstance, that events are perpetually occurring, tending to mar the humane disposition of the Executive of the United States towards the Indian tribes, and to prevent that pacific system being established, which ought to be the object of both parties. Notwithstanding, however, the ideas which prevail on your frontiers to the contrary, I should hope that the recent visit of the Cherokee Indians to this city will have a good effect to tranquillize them, and inspire them with confidence in our future transactions, provided such sentiments should not be counteracted by some such violent outrage as w-as committed by Mr. Beard the last year. If the Indians are guilty, we have not been innocent at all times. I do not mean this as a justification of them in the least degree, but, as a reason why we should endeavor to take-new ground, and labor again to accomplish the objects of peace. With respect to destroying the Low er towns, however rigorous such a measure might be, or whatever good consequences might result from it, I am instructed, specially, by the President, to say, that he does not conceive himself authorized to direct any such measure, more especially, as the w hole subject was before the last session of Congress, who did not think proper to authorize or direct offensive operations. After all that passed at this place with the Cherokees, respecting Cumberland, it is not expected they will have the impudence to bring forward again, that claim. I would it were possible to strike, with the highest severity, any of the parties of the Creeks who should go to Cumberland to commit depredations. It would seem that an intelligent and active partizan might find some such opportunity. No. 8. War Department, Dec. 29th, 1794. Sir: Your several favors, of October 24th, and the 3d, 10th, 16th, 18th, 22d, and 28th November, have been received, and submitted to the President of the United States, and such of them as were deemed necessary, were before Congress. The Secretary of the Treasury, during my absence, acknowledged the receipt of your preceding letters. The destruction of the Lower Cherokee towns stands upon its own footing; that it was not authorized, is certain, and from information from the frontiers of South Carolina, it would appear, that the greatest portion of the victims were w'omen and children; your information is requested upon this point. The subject of the Sou(hwesfern frontiers is before Congress. Whatever they direct, will be executed by the Executive. The principle adopted by the President, not to authorize or direct offensive expeditions, lias been so frequently brought to your view, that nothing further can be said on that subject. But as the district of Mcro appears to be in a suffering condition, and as the proceedings of Congress upon that point may not be speedily determined, and as it is the desire of the President of the United States to afford protection, to the utmost of his power, you are hereby authorized to atlbrd the said district, and to the other parts ol your government, at the expense of the United States, .ill reasonable defensive protection, in such a manner as to your judgment shall appear best, to blend efficiency and economy together. Ideas have been held up by you of offensive operations against the Creeks. Information is requested upon the manner and details of such an expedition, its object, distance, and an estimate of the expense. It has been conceived, that all attempts to preserve peace, short of the following arrangement, will be abortive; and I have, accordingly, submitted my opinion thereon to the President of the United States, viz. First. That a line of military posts, at such distances as shall be directed, be established upon the frontiers, within the Indian boundary, and out of the ordinary jurisdiction of any State, provided consent can be obtained- for the purpose front the Indian tribes; that these posts be garrisoned with regular troops, under the direction of the President of the United States. Secondly. That if any murder or theft be committed upon any of the white inhabitants, by an Indian, known to belong to any Indian nation or tribe, such nation or tribe shall be bound to deliver him or them up to the nearest military post, in order to be tried and punished by a court-martial, or, in failure thereof, the United States to take satisfaction upon the nearest Indian town, belonging to such nation or tribe. Thirdly. ‘‘That all persons who shall be assembled or embodied in arms, on any lands belonging to Indians, out of the ordinary jurisdiction of any State, or of the territory south of the Ohio, for the purpose ot warring against the Indians, or of committing depredations upon any Indian town, or persons, or property, shall thereby become liable, and subject, to the rules and articles of war, which are, or shall be, established for the Government of the United States.This was a section of a bill which the Senate passed the last session, entitled “An act for the more effectual protection of the Southwestern frontiers;'5 but it was disagreed to by the House. That if, to this arrangement, the expense should be objected, it was to be remembered, that the President of the United States, in pursuance of law, has authorized both the Governor of Georgia and yourself, to establish a defensive protection, which amounted to a large sum annually. The posts, therefore, requiring garrisons amounting to one thousand five hundred, non-commissioned and privates, for the whole Southwestern frontier, from the St. Mary’s to the Ohio, would, probably, be adequate to this object. That, if the posts belonging to the United States, and now occupied by the British, north of the Ohio, are soon delivered up, they, with a post at the Miami villages, and posts of communication down the Wabash, on the south, and the Miami river and lake Erie on the north, together with a post at Presqu5 Isle, would be a pretty adequate protection to the frontiers north of the Ohio, and a curb to any Indian tribes discontented, without just cause, which, it was presumed, would never be afforded by the Government of the United States. Thar if, to those vigorous measures, should be combined the arrangement of trade recommended to Congress, and the establishment of agents to reside in the principal Indian towns, with adequate compensations, it would seem that the Government would then have made the fairest experiments of a system of justice and humanity, which, it was presumed, could not possibly fail of being blessed with its proper effects—an honorable tranquillity of the frontiers. The communications contained in your letters of the third and tenth of November, respecting the prospects of returning tranquillity, were, indeed, highly satisfactory. Your ideas of Mr. Dinsmoor’s residence appear to be just: and you will, in case circumstances admit of the measure, direct him accordingly. If an authorized establishment, defined by law, could be obtained, the agents you mention might be appointed; but at present, the measure must be suspended. The establishment of the posts mentioned in your letter of the tenth November, and the consequences arising therefrom, are concurred in, were the regular troops to be obtained at the present, but they are not. But, if you could obtain some militia for six or nine months, upon whom you could depend, the measure might, if you should judge it expedient, be adopted as part of the system of defence; but every thing adopted you will please to communicate, for the information of the President of the United States. It was conceived, from the absence of Mr. Allison from the territory, that he had relinquished, or intended to relinquish, the business of paymaster; and, therefore, Mr. Henley was authorized to appoint a regular officer. No. 9. War Department, April Hth, 1794. Sir: In pursuance of representations made upon the subject of the danger to which Mero district is exposed, the President of the United States authorizes you to make the arrangement herein directed, for the protection of the  »aid district, provided you judge the measure necessary, until the first day of December next, or longer, if the danger shall render the said defence indispensable. A post and garrison to be established at the ford at the crossing of Cumberland river, of one subaltern, two sergeants, two corporals, and twenty-six privates. For the protection of Tennessee county, and the inhabitants of Red river, running into Cumberland, one subaltern, two sergeants, two corporals, and twenty-one privates. Davidson county, one subaltern, two sergeants, two corporals, and twenty-six privates; the chief post to be in front of Nashville. Sumner county, one subaltern, one sergeant, two corporals, and seventeen privates. That, besides these, two subalterns, and thirty mounted militia, be allowed the district. Had there been any regular troops who could have been spared for this service, they would have been ordered to have performed it; but this not being the case, recourse must be had to the militia. You will, however, judge which part of the militia shall be of Mero, and which of Washington district. Independent of the aid of the militia, the following stores are ordered from this city, via Pittsburgh, to Nashville, addressed to General Robertson, viz: Six three and a half inch iron howitzers, with ammunition for one hundred rounds, complete, for each piece, including twenty-five grape, or case shot. Your letter of the tenth of March has been received, and submitted to the President of the United States. 5th Congress.] 
