NO. 145 EXCHANGE OF LANDS WITH THE INDIANS. [COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 9, 1817. Mr. MORROW, from the Committee on the Public Lands, who were instructed by a resolution of the 25th ult. “to inquire into the expediency of authorizing, by law, an exchange of territory with any of the Indian tribes,” reported: That, from a view of the proceedings of Government relative to the extinguishment of Indian title and the settlement of vacant lands, it appears to have been a policy early adopted that new settlements which be,came necessary from the increase of population should be formed on the adjoining vacant territory, and proceed by a regular advance, so as to preserve always a compact population on the frontier. Anterior to the Revolution, that policy seems to have been pursued. The proclamation of the King of Great Britain of the 7th of October, 1763, prohibited settlements being made on the Indian territory, and the purchase of their lands by unauthorized persons. It also restricted the grants for new lands to certain defined limits. The first ordinances of the Congress under the confederation for disposing of the public lands were formed on the same principles of policy. But circumstances not originating in the measures of our Government imposed the necessity of a departure from the system first adopted. Several settlements, distant from the mass of population, and detached from each other, were embraced by the boundaries of the United States as established by the treaty of 1783. These settlements had been early formed under the Government of France, and the inhabitants had from thence derived titles to lands which were recognised as valid, and as citizens they had a just claim to defence and protection. The most easy and certain measure for their security, and to afford them defence, was the increase of their population. The Indian title to the adjoining lands was extinguished; and these separate settlements extended, while extensive intervening territory lay vacant, still subject to the claim of Indian title. The acquisition of Louisiana by the treaty of 1803 has still' more increased the irregularity of the frontier boundary, and added to the number of distant and detached settlements, \	_ The evils anil inconvenience resulting from the irregular form of the frontier are manifest. While separate settlements, or such as project with a narrow front far into the Indian country, are formed, the causes of provocation to hostility with the Indian tribes are multiplied, and at the same time the means of protection and defence proportionally diminished. Where so many assailable points are presented to an eoeiny, the expense would be incalculable (and, indeed, no force within the means of Government can be adequate) to afford complete protection. The present irregular form of the frontier, deeply indented by tracts of Indian territory, presents an extended boundary on which intercourse is maintained between the citizen and the savage, the effect of which on the moral habits of both is not unworthy of regard. It is an intercourse by which the civilized man cannot be improved, and by which there is ground to believe the savage is depraved; not being sufficiently enlightened to receive a favorable impression from the virtues of civilization, while he is exposed to the contagion of its vices. The committee are of opinion that the proposition contained in the resolution on which they arc instructed to report is better calculated to remedy the inconvenience and remove the evils arising out of the present state, of the frontier settlements than any other within the power of the Government. The removal of the Indian tribes from their lands surrounded by and contiguous to our settlements will give place to a compact population, and give strength to the means of national defence. This, however, can only take place with the voluntary consent of those tribes, and must be effected by negotiation and treaty in the usual manner. Those tribes have been recognised so far, as independent communities, as to become parties to treaties with us, and to have a right to govern themselves without being subject to the laws of the United States; and their right to remain in possession of the lands they occupy, and to sell them when they please, has been always acknowledged. Whether any legislative aid (beyond that of appropriation of money) is necessary for forming treaties for exchange of territory with the Indian tribes, is questionable. The grant of power to make treaties is undefined by the constitution; it has been considered to extend to all subjects proper for treaty regulation with other independent States, except the cases in which the special grant of power to other branches of the Government may operate as a restriction to its exercise. The question as to the power of alienating any portion of the public domain, by treaty or otherwise, is not involved in the present case. The contemplated exchange is no other than a transfer of the Indian right of possession from one portion of the public domain to another. This transfer cannot he made without the agreement of a community independent of our laws; hence it only can be effected by a treaty with them. The incompetency of the treatymaking power to act in the proposed case, without a legislative authorization, is inferred from the power granted to Congress “ to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.” It is probable that, viewing this provision as fixing a limit to the power of making treaties for an exchange of territory with Indian tribes, a former Congress did by law authorize the President to stipulate with the Indian tribes residing east of the Mississippi for an exchange of lands the property of the United States on the west side of that river; that law remains yet in force, except the appropriation provided by it, which must have passed to the surplus fund. No other legislative provision appears necessary on the subject of the resolution, but an appropriation uf such sunt of money as will enable the President to carry into effect the provisions of the former law, and form treaties with the other tribes for that purpose. The committee have not the means for ascertaining the quantity of lands to which the Indian title is extinguished west of the Mississippi that may be appropriated for the residence of tribes who may consent to remove; but it is believed there will be a deficiency, should several tribes give their consent, after a proper reservation is made, for settlements in that quarter. In estimating the appropriation to be made, the expense of negotiations with the tribes west of the Mississippi for lands to be applied for the purpose in view, must be taken into consideration. From the foregoing, the committee respectfully submit the following resolution: Resolved, That an appropriation be made, by law, to enable the President of the United States to negotiate treaties with the Indian tribes, which treaties shall have for their object an exchange of territory owned by any' tribe residing east of the Mississippi for other land west of that river. 14th CONGRESS.]	
