No. 93.     [1st Session. TRADE. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, JANCARV 28. 1>02. Gentlemen of the Senate ■ . and of the House of Representatives: I lay before you .the accounts of our Indian' trading houses, as rendered tip to the 1st day of January, 1801, with a report of the Secretary of War thereon, explaining the effects and the situation of that commerce, and the reasons in favor, of its further extension; but it is believed, that the act authorising this trade expired so long ago as the 3d of March. 1799; its revival .therefore, as well' as its .extension, is submitted to the consideration of the Legislature. The act regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, will also expire on the 3d day of March next. While on the subject of its continuance, it will be worthy the consideration of the Legislature, whether the provisions of'the law inflicting on Indians, in certain cases, .the' punishment of death by hanging, might not permit its commutation'into death by military executionrthe form of punishment, in the former way. being peculiarly repugnant to”their ideas, and increasing the obstacles.to the surrender of the criminal. These people are becoming'very sensible of the baneful ellocts produced on their morals, their health, and existence. by the abuse of ardent spirits: and some of them earnestly desire a prohibition of that article from being carried among them.   The Legislature will consider whether the effectuating that desire would not be. in the spirit of benevolence and liberality, which they have hitherto practised towards these, our neighbors, and which has nad so happy an effect towards conciliating their friendship. It has been found, too. in experience, that the same abuse gives frequent rise to incidents tending much to commit our peace with the Indians. It is now become necessaiy to run and mark the boundaries between them and us in various parts. The law last mentioned has authorized this to be done; but no existing appropriation meets the expense. Certain papers explanatory of the grounds of this communication are herewith enclosed. ' . Til: JEFFERSON. January 27. 1802. Agent tor Indian Factories’Office. ^ _     United States' Arsenal, on Schuylkill. November 11th. 1801. 3 8ir:  '   ' '^herewith enclose you a statement of the Indian factories” accounts up to ihe 1st of January, 1801 agreeably ;o returns received from tiie factories to that period. In.June last, there was forwarded to the Georgia factory, an invoice of merchandise, amounting to five thousand live hundred and twelve dollars and seventy-six cents: at the same time, one to the Tellico factory, amounting to five thousand two hundred and ninety-seven dollars and thirty-three cents; also, the articles in the care of Colonel Meigs, which I have directed the factor to receive, agreeably 10 your orders, amounting to two thousand six hundred and fifty dollars and thirty-one cents. This is the season for iheir making the remittances of peltry. &c. . . Mr. Wright informs, that the trade at fort Wilkinson is in a flourishing state, and that he has a much greater quantity of peltry to remit this winter', than he has ever had before at any one time. Accounts from Mr. Hooken the factor at Tellico. are not so favorable; he observes, in his last letters, “ business has.been dull for some time past."Agreeably to the within statements, there is an increase of capital, (including one-third advance oiv the Original cost oi' the merchandise remaining at the factories) viz: of the Georgia factory’s, fifteen thousand seven hundred and forty dollars and eighty-three cents; of Tellico factory's, three hundred and nine dollars and fifty-three cents: which increase, on account,of both factories, would have been much greater, had the peltry been disposed of to advantage in Philadelphia.’ Instead of its having been sold as soon as received, while it was in good order, it has be.en deposited iti Mr. Tybout's cellar, (the person to whom the sales were entrusted to be made) where a considerable part of it has been suffered to remain, until ^orm-eaten and rotten, and then sold lor one half its original cost: and some, rendered entirely unfit for sale, has been thrown upon the common. 83 * The. great disproportion of gain between the two factories is owing to the mode of transportation to either place, as all the merchandise forwarded to Tellico, as well as the peltry received from there, are'transported the whole of the way by land, at a high carriage; whereas, the remittances, to and from the Georgia factory,are shipped to Savan-nah, and from thence, forwarded to the factory by wagons, which route reduces the freight and land carriage of articles, to and from the latter place, to less than one-third of the cost of transportation, on account of the'Tellico factory. .    . . WILLIAM IRVINE. Dr. Tellico Factory, in account, with United-States. Cr. 1801 * , , Jan. 1' By nett sales of furs and peltries', ' received from the factory; from its first establishment to date, inclu- . sive, peraccoiint of the same, fen-- ' dereu by"A. Tybout, - $'42,976 69 By amount of bills of exchange duty received and paid into the trea- sury, - ' - -. 15,240 09 $60,144 37  By peltry remaining in the care of Andrew Tybout, estimated at By merchandise remaining at the 4,981 73 19,860 59.  . factory, at prime Cost in Philadel- phia, pci- inventory,. 10;171 74 8,018 29  By peltry remaining at factory, .- 676 22 . 309 53  u cash . “ “ “ 1,977. 66 “ furniture “ “ “ ' . 181- 75 “ buildings, cost, aiid valued at 2,199 10 debts due the factory, Bv one-third advance on merchan- 6,515 22 dise remaining at the factory, inventoried at prime cost in Phila-  delphia, to'cover amount transportation, &c. - -' - . - 3,390 58 $88,322 78   .$88,320 78 1801 Jan. 1 To amount merchandise purchased in Philadelphia, and forwarded to the factory,' - . $55,066 13 To amount merchandise   purchased by David Henly, and amount drawn for, payable in Philadelphia, - 5,078 24'To amount contingent expenses of the factory, defrayed at Philadel-. delphia, To amount of debts due by the factory,' - -  -- Profit and loss, nett gain, - .United States' Arsenal, November. 11. 1801. flrrors excepted. WM. IRVINE. Dr. Georgia Factory in account with United States. Cr. 1801 Jail, l 1801 ' 1 To-amount of merchandise purchased in Philadelphia, and forwarded   Jan. 1 By amount nett sales of peltries   received from the factory, Irom its to the factory, - -   - $73,435 73  first establishment to date, inclu- To amount contingent expenses of the factory, paid in Philadelphia, To amoilnt debts due by factory, 15,219 90  sive, per account of the same ren-  derecl by A. Tybout, - .2,108 56  By bills ot exchange duly received Profit and loss, nett gain,. 15,740 83 , and paid into the treasury, - ; By peltry remaining iu -the care of A. Tybout, .- - ' -By merchandise from London,- * . $100,505 02   By ■ “ remaining, at the factory, per inventory, at prime ' cost’in Philadelphia, By peltry remaining at Savannah, By debts due the-factory,   ,-By one-third advance on merchandise at the factory, inventoried at prime cost,.,- ' - - $32,545 43 11,383 90 . 1,084 00 4,076 57 23,874 90 4,000 00 20,981 S4 7,958 3-J $106,505 02 United States’ Arsenal. November 11, 1801. Errors excepted. WM. IRVINE. Wa r I)iscartment , December 8, 1801.- * * * 'I'he Secretary of War has the honor of submitting, for the consideration of the President of the United State?, the following statement and observations on the subject of the establishment of trading-houses with the Indian?, from a caretul examination' of which, it appears— That Congress, in March, 1795, appropriated $50,000, and in-April, 1796, the additional sum*of $ 150,000, to be applied, under the direction ot tbePresident of the' United States, to the purpose of carrying on trade with the Indian nations; and that; in consequence,'one trading-house was opened on the frontiers of Georgia, and anotheron the boundary between the State of Tennessee and the Cherokee nation; that, for these objects, the sum of. $90,000 only, has yet been drawn from the treasury; and that the business of these two houses has been so managed!, as. from the best information to be obtained, not only to save the original stock from diminution, but even to increase it about three or four per cent. . As far as the system has been carried into operation, it appears to have had a i ery salutary effect on the mind? of the Indians, and there can be but little doubt remaining, but that a m'ucli more-extensive distribution ofthefund, among the several Indian nations, would-be attended with all the good effects that were originally contemplated by the Government, and might be made without any diminution of the fund. The several nations of Indians appear extremely desirous of participating in the advantages, which result from their being enabled to procure supplies, made under the immediate direction of the Government, from a confidence that they will be fairly and honestly dealt with, and that they will not so frequently be subjected to the inconveniences of travelling a great distance to an uncertain market, and of being imposed on in their dealings. The intercourse which grows out of such establishments, has-a powerful tendency towards strengthening and confirming the friendship of the Indians to the people and Government of the United States, and towards detaching them mote and more from the influence of neighboring Governments. All which is respectfully submitted. .   H. DEARBORN. Extract of a letter from ,/. Edgar Esqr. relative to the execution of a Delaware Indian, dated at .   Kaskaskias, November 20th, 1802. *' The information I allude to above, is, that about fifty Indians of the Delaware nation are assembled on the river Mississippi, and have declared that, if the prisoner should be hanged, they would kill every white man they met with. They.appear to be dissatisfied chiefly with the mode of execution; our own Indians are also dissatisfied, and have uttered some murmurs; under those circumstances, 1 am of opinion, that the most prudent step we can take is'to prepare ourselves for any thing that may happen.” Extract from a talk delivered-by the Little Turtle to the President of the United States, January Uh, 1802. " Father: Should this request be granted, nothing shall be. wanting, on the part of your children, the chiefs, to introduce husbandry among'their children, if the United States will furnish them with the proper utensils. But, father, nothing can be done to advantage unless, the great council of the Sixteen Fires, now assembled, will prohibit any person from selling any spirituous .liquors among their red brothers. “Father-: The introduction' of this poison nas been prohibited in our camps, but not in our towns, where many of our hunters, for this-poison, dispose of, not only their furs, &c. but frequently of their guns and blankets, and return to their families destitute. ... '.“ Father: Your children are not wanting in industry; but it is the introduction of thi> fatal poison which keeps them poor. Your children have not that command over themselves, w Inch you have, therefore, before any thing can be done to advantage, this evil must be remedied. “Father: When our white brothers oame to this land, our forefathers were numerous and happy? but, since their intercourse with the white people, and owing to the introduction of this fatal poison, we have become less numerous and happy.” 7th Congress.] 
