No. 20. [1st. Session. WABASH INDIANS. COMMUNICATED To CONGRESS, OCTOBER 27, 1791. Gentlemen of the Senate and of the Home of Representatives: I have directed the Secretary of War to lay before you, for your information, the reports of Brigadier General Scott and Lieutenant Colonel-commandant Wilkinson, the officers who commanded the two expeditions against the Wabash Indians, in the months of June and August last; together with the instructions, by virtue of which the said expeditions were undertaken. When the operations now depending shall be terminated, the reports relative thereto shall also be laid before Vou. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States. 27//i October. 1791. Instructions to Brigadier Generul Charles Scott, dated 9th March. 1791. Sir: The issue and consequent effect of the expedition against the Miami towns, and the situation of affairs between the United States and the Wabash, anil other hostile Indians, northwest of the Ohio,are well known to you, and the inhabitants of Kentucky, generally. The President of the United States, in order that provision should be made for the protection of the frontiers, adequate to the occasion, laid before the Legislature a full statement of the recent Indian depredations. The result of the deliberations of Congress will be communicated to you by the honorable Mr. Brown. It would afford high satisfaction to the President of the United States, could a firm peace be established, without further effusion of blood; and, although he conceives the sacred principles of humanity, and a regard to the welfare of the country, dictate that he should take every proper arrangement to bring the deluded Indians to a just sense, of their situation, yet he is apprehensive that all lenient endeavors will be fruitless. He is, therefore, constrained to calculate his ultimate measures, to impress the Indians with a strong conviction of the power of the United States, to inflict that degree of punishment which justice may require. That, for this purpose, lie avails the public of the offers which you and the delegates of Kentucky, and the other frontier counties of Virginia, made, by your memorial of the fourth of December last, to combat the Indians according to your own modes of warfare. It is the result of information, from men of reputation in Indian affairs, that a body of five hundred picked men, mounted on good horses, by rapid incursions, would be equal to the assault of any of the Indian towns lying on the Wabash river, and that the probability would be highly in favor of surprising and capturing at least a considerable number of women and children. In this view of the object, and also estimating the consequent impressions such a successful operation would make upon the Indians, by demonstrating to them that they vTere within our reach, and lying at our mercy; and also, considering from the before recited memorial and other information, that such an opportunity of acting by themselves in an Indian expedition,-would be highly gratifying to the hardy and brave yeomanry of Kentucky; the President of the United States hereby authorizes an expedition of the magnitude, and upon the conditions, hereinafter described. First. The troops for the said expedition to be choice men, voluntarily engaged for the purpose, whose bravery and skill could be entirely relied upon; to consist of such numbers, as you, and the persons hereinafter named, may think proper; provided the number should not exceed seven hundred and fifty, officers included. But if the whole number could not be voluntarily completed with said characters, for the time hereinafter mentioned, then you are to obtain the deficiency by draughts of the militia or otherwise, in the manner that you and the persons hereinafter named may direct. Secondly. The officers of the said expedition to be selected and appointed in the manner that, you, Harry limes, the honorable John Brown, Benjamin Logan, and Isaac Shelby, may judge proper. Thirdly. The said volunteers or militia are to be mounted on horses, and armed and equipped in all respects as you, in conjunction aforesaid, may direct; and they are, during the period of their engagements, to be subject to the niles and articles of war of the United States. Fourthly. That the sole conducting of the said expedition, excepting as hereinafter mentioned, shall be under your immediate orders, as brigadier general, provided you accept the same. But if’ yon should decline the command, then you and the before mentioned persons are to appoint the commander in the manner you, jointly, or the majority of you, may judge proper. Fifthly. 1’hat the pay to be al lowed to the said mounted volunteers or militia, for themselves,horses, provisions, arms, and’accoutrements, all risks included, (excepting for disability by wounds, in which case the commissioned officers. non-commissioned officers, and privates, will receive such   compensation, in their respective grades, as the law provides) will be. for the privates, sixty-six rents and two-thirds of a cent per day, and the pay of the commissioned officers added thereto, according to the schedule of the rates herewith enclosed. The principle of this schedule involves in the said sixty-six ana two-thirds cents, the pay of the privates at three dollars per month, which three dollars are deducted from the grades, as they proceed from the privates to the highest officer. Sixthly. The said mounted volunteers are to be engaged as soon as possible, after receiving these instructions, so that the expedition may commence from the Ohio by the tenth day of May next. Secrecy in forming, despatch in obtaining the men, and celerity in the movement, are indispensable; without which the Indians may be apprised of the design, and the consequences may be fatal. The particular point of departure from the Ohio, to be agreed upon with the commanding general or officer at Fort Washington; and the said mounted volunteers, of all descriptions, are to be mustered by an officer of the regular troops previously to their marching for the Ohio; provided, however, that if the commanding general of the troops on the Ohio should, previously to the said tenth day of May, think proper for public service to suspend the further operation of the said mounted volunteers, you and they are hereby directed to obey him accordingly. , Seventhly. Rut, in case no such order should be received from the said commanding officer by the tenth of May next, then the said mounted volunteers, or militia, are. to proceed to the Wea, or Ouiatanon towns of Indians, there to assault the said towns, and the Indians therein, either by surprise, or otherwise, as the nature of the circumstances may admit, sparing all who may cease to resist, and capturing as many as possible, particularly women and children. And on this point it is the positive orders of the President of the United States, that all such captives be treated with humanity; and that they be carried and delivered to the commanding officer of some post of the United States upon the Ohio. Whether the assault upon the said Wea, or Ouiatanon towns, should succeed or fail, the commanding officer will proceed to such other Indian towns or villages, upon the Wabash, or other*place, to the destruction of which, he shall judge his force adequate. Eighthly. After having effected by surprise, rapid marches, and attacks, all the injury to the Indian enemy to which the force shall be equal, the said mounted volunteers, or militia, will return either by the way of Post Vincennes, or some other post or place on the Ohio, ■which shall be agreed upon with the commanding officer of the troops of the United States. At this post, the troops of the said expedition will be again mustered, by an officer of the regular troops, in the same manner as when the troops of the said expedition commenced their march from the Ohio.. It is expressly stipulated, that any volunteer or militia man, who shall desert, shall be'precluded from all claims for pay or emoluments for any services upon the expedition, performed prior to his desertion. That four copies of each muster be made out, one to be retained by the mustering officer, another by the commanding officer of each company, the third to be delivered to the commanding officer of the party, and a fourth transmitted by the paymaster of the said mounted volunteers, to the War Office of the United States. Ninthly. The officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates, of said expedition, shall be allowed the pay of three days to repair to the Ohio, and three to return from thence, which six days shall be added to the number of days actually employed in the expedition, northw est of the Ohio; and the pay abstracts are to be made out accordingly. The commanding officer will, upon his return, make a full report to the commanding general, of all the occurrences of the expedition, and also state his opinion at large, and the reasons on which it is founded, of the proper mode of chastising the Indians on future occasions. . As surprise and sudden attacks will be the objects of the expedition, it is presumed that all proper precautions will be taken; that each man carry with him a due quantity of provisions. Tenthly. Without limiting or impeding the effectual operations which may be found praticable, it is presumed, from information and the nature of the supplies, that the mounted volunteers may be employed northwest of the Ohio, for a time not exceeding from twenty to thirty days. This intimation is clearly to be understood not to prevent the execution of any considerable object, should it require an extension of time. You must make an effectual arrangement with the commanding officer at Fort Washington, for an adequate supply of powder and lead, which is to be furnished at the expense of the United States. Eleventhly. That the said corps of mounted volunteers, being left entirely free from any restrictions in the manner of its executing the objects proposed, its reputation, and the reputation of all concerned, will be involved in its being perfectly conducted, and in its ultimate success. Twelfthly. In order that the preparations essential to the said expedition should not languish for a want of proper provisions, or other essential means, the sum of two thousand dollars has been delivered to the honorable John Brown, for the purposes of said expedition.   ' - This sum is to be placed by you, and the before mentioned persons, or any three of you, in the hands of some person of character and known integrity, as paymaster of the said expedition, he giving bonds; with sufficient securities, for the faithful appropriation thereof, and all other sums he may receive for.the purposes of the said mounted volunteers or militia. _ Thirteenthly. But it is tobe expressly understood, and it is hereby stipulated, that the said sum, or any part thereof, is not to be distributed, until-it shall be certain the said expedition is to proceed and be carried into .effect, according to the orders herein mentioned. In this case, the money is 1o be distributed in the manner you and the before mentioned persons may direct, under your signatures, or any three of you, Oil the sole.and express condition, that the amount thereof shall be deducted from the pay abstracts for the services of the troop's upon the said expedition. But if circumstances should prevent the expedition from proceeding as herein suggested, then the said honorable John Brown will cause the said sum of two thousand dollars, wi thout any let or hindrance, whatever, to be delivered to the orders of the commanding officer of the troops of the United States. And it is hereby understood, that the President of the United States authorizes a second operation of the same nature as the foregoing, provided the major general, or commanding officer of the troops' on the Ohio, should judge the public interests should require the measure, and should direct the same under his hand and seal, directed to you and the persons aforesaid. The said second operation to be directed against such objects on the Wabash, and at such time, as the commanding general may direct. It is to be understood, that the first of the said operations may take place about the tenth day of May next, and that the second may take place on, or before, the tenth day of June; provided, however, that the said second operation shall not exceed five hundred non-commissioned officers and privates. And if the said commanding general should direct a third expedition, either before or at the time proposed for the main expedition, the President of the United States will authorize the expenses thereof, under the restrictions contained in the rules for the first and second. ... . And in case of a second or third expedition, of the nature herein specified, you and the persons beforementioned, or the majority of you, are to appoint the commanding officer and the other officers thereof, in the manner before pointed out. _ . 'And if the said three expeditions should take effect, or any of them, and you should command all, or any'of them, you will be allowed the pay and emoluments of a brigadier general during your actual services. And any other officer who may be appointed to the command shall be allowed the pay and emoluments of a lieutenant colonel-commandant. The President of the United States is well aware of the high trust committed to you, in conjunction with the gentlemen aforesaid; but the confidence he reposes in your characters, persuades him you will use the said powers for the public benefit at large, without regard to local prejudices or local affections. r Given under my hand, and the seal of the AVar Office of the United States, this ninth day of March, one LL's’ J thousand seven hundred and ninety-one. H. KNOX, Secretary of War. Brigadier General Charles Scott. A Schedule of the expenses of a corps of 760 non-commissioned and privates, mounted volunteers, calculated on a scale of thirty days from the point of departure, and allowing three days for repairing to the rendezvous, and three days for returning home. 1 Brigadier General. 1 Lieutenant Colonel-commandant. 2 Majors, 10 Captains, ... 10 Lieutenants, 10 Ensigns, -40 Sergeants, -720 Privates, $4 00 2 56j 1 90 1 56§ 1 SO 1 16 = ? <?} per day, is, for 36 days, $ 144 00 92 40 136 80 564 00 468 00 220 00 1,056 00 - 17,260 00 $19,941 20 War Department. March 9th. 1791. Sir: Report of Brigadier General Scott. Lexington, 28th June. 1791. 1 have the honor to inform you that the detachment of mounted volunteers under my command, authorized to he raised by your letter of the *9th of March last, arrived at the mouth of Kentucky on the morning of the 19th of May, from w hich time to the 23d, 1 was employed in transporting the troops across the Ohio river, in having them mustered, and in issuing to them provisions anti ammunition. The delay at the river was greater than I wished, yet, I trust, justifiable, as it was, in part, occasioned by the request of General St. Clair, which you will find by referring to the extract of his letter, contained in No. 1. In prosecution of the enterprise, 1 marched four miles from the banks of the Ohio, on the 23d: and on the 24th, I resumed my march, and pushed forward with the utmost industry, directing my route to Ouiatanon, in the best manner my guides and information enabled me, though I found myself greatly deficient in both. By the 31st I had marched one hundred and thirty-live miles, over a country cut by four large branches of White river, and many smaller streams, with steep muddy banks: during this march, 1 traversed a country alternately interspersed with the most luxuriant soil and deep clayey bogs, from one to five miles in width, rendered almost impervious by brush and briars. Rain fell in torrents every day, with frequent blasts of wind and thunder storms. These obstacles impeded my progress, wore down my horses, and destroyed my provisions. On the morning of the 1st instant, as the army entered an extensive prairie, 1 perceived an Indian on horse-back, a few miles to the right; I immediately made a detachment to intercept him, but he escaped; finding myself disco vered, I determined to advance with all’tlm rapidity my circumstances would permit, rather with the hope than the expectation of reaching the object sought that day: for my guides were strangers to the country which I occupied. At one o’clock, having marched, by computation, one hundred and fifty-five miles to the Ohio, as I penetrated a grove which bordered on an extensive prairie. I discovered two small villages to my left, at two and four miles distance. My guides now recognised the ground, and informed me, that the main town was four or five miles in my front, behind a point of woods, which jutted into the prairie. 1 immediately detached Col. John Hardin, with sixty mounted infantry, and a troop of light horse under Capt. McCoy, to attack the villages to the left, and moved on briskly with my main body in order of battle, towards the town, the smoke from which was discernible. My guides were deceived with respect to the situation of the town: for, instead of standing at the edge of the plain, through which I marched. 1 found it in tiie low ground, bordering on the Wabash: on turning the point of woods, one house presented in mv front: Capt. Price was ordered to assaultthat, with 40 men. lie executed the command with great gallantry, and killed two warriors. When I gained the summit of the eminence which overlooks the villages on the banks of the Wabash, I discovered the enemy in great confusion, endeavoring to make their escape over the river iitcanoes: I instantly ordered Lieutenant Colonel-commandant Wilkinson to rush forward with the first battalion; the order was executed with promptitude, and this detachment gained the bank of the river just as the rear of the enemy had embarked, and, regardless of a brisk fire kept up from a Kickapoo town, on the opposite bank, they, in a few minutes, by a well directed fire from their rifles, destroyed all the savages with which five canoes were crowded. To my great mortification, the Wabash was many feet beyond fording at this place: I therefore detached Colonel Wilkinson to a ford two miles above, which my guides informed me was more practicable; in No. 2, you will find his report on that occasion. The enemy still kept possession of the Kickapoo town; I determined to dislodge them, and for that purpose ordered Contain King’s and Logsdon's companies to march down the river below the town, and cross, under the conduct of Major Barbee; several of the men swain the river, and others passed in a small canoe. This movement was unobserved, and my men had taken post on the bank, before they were discovered by the enemy, who immediately abandoned the village. About this time word was brought me, that Col. Hardin was incumbered with prisoners, and had discovered a stronger village, further to my left, than those I had observed, which he was proceeding to attack. 1 immediately detached Captain Brown, with his company, to support the Colonel; but the distance being six miles, before the Captain arrived, the business was done, and Colonel Hardin joined me a little before sunset, living killed six warriors, and taken fifty-two prisoners. Captain Bull, the warrior. who discovered me in the morning, had gained the main town, and given the alarm a short time before me; but the villages to my left were uninformed of my approach, and had no retreat. The next morning, 1 determined to detach liiy Lieutenant Colonel-commandant, with live hundred men, to destroy the important town of Kethtipecanunk, at the mouth of Eel river, eighteen miles from my camp, and on the west side of the "Wabash; but, on examination, I discovered my men and horses to be crippled, and worn down by a long laborious march, and the active exertions of the pr eceding day; that three hundred and sixty men only, could be found in a capacity to undertake the enterprise, and they prepared to march on foot. Colonel Wilkinson marched with this detachment at half after five in the evening, and returned to my camp the next day at one o'clock, having marched thirty-six miles in twelve hours, and destroyed the most important settlement of the enemy in that quarter of the federal territory. In No. 3, you will find the Colonel's report respecting the enterprise. Many of the inhabitants of this village were French, and lived in a state of civilization; by the books, letters, and other documents, found there, it is evident that place was in close connexion with, and dependent on, Detroit: a large quantity of corn, a variety of household goods, peltry, and other articles, were burned with this village, which consisted of about seventy houses, many of them well finished. Misunderstanding the object of a white ting, which appeared on an eminence opposite to me, in the afternoon of the first, I liberated an aged squaw, and sent with her a message to the savages, that, if they would come in and surrender, their towns ahould be spared, and they should receive good treatment. It was afterwards found, that this white flag was not intended as a signal of parley, but was placed there to mark the spot where a person of distinction among the Indians, who had died some time before, was interred. On the 4th, 1 determined to discharge sixteen of the weakest and most infirm of my prisoners, with a talk to the Wabash tribes, a copy of which you will find enclosed in No. 4. My motives to this measure were, to rid the army of a heavy incumbrance, to gratify the impulsions of humanity, to increase the panic my operations had produced, and, by distracting the councils of the enemy, to favor the views of Government; and I flatter myself these objects will justify my conduct, and secure the approbation of rnv country. On the same clay, after having burned the towns and adjacent villages, and destroyed the growing corn and pulse, I began my march for tile rapids of Ohio, where I arrived the 14th inst. without the loss of a single man by the enemy, and five only wounded, having killed thirty-two, chiefly warriors of size and figure, and taken fifty eight prisoners. _ _ , It is with much pride and pleasure I mention, that no act of inhumanity has marked the conduct of the volunteers of Kentucky on this occasion; even the inveterate habit of scalping the dead, ceased to influence. I have delivered forty-one prisoners to Captain Asheton, of the 1st United States’ regiment, at Fort Steuben, for which I have his receipt, as per the enclosed copy in No. 5. I sincerely lament that the weather, and the consequences it produced, rendered it impossible for me tocary terror and desolation to the head of the Wabash. The corps I had the honor to command was equal to the oDject, but the condition of my horses, and state of my provisions, were insuperable obstacles to my own intentions and the wishes of all. It would be invidious to make distinctions in a corps which appeared to be animated with one soul, and where a competition for danger and for glory inspired all ranks. \ .1, however, consider it my duty to mention Colonel John Hardin, who, in the character of a volunteer without commission, had command of my advanced party, and the direction of my guides from the Ohio river, for the discernment, courage, and activity, with which he fulfilled the trust I reposed in him. And I cannot close this letter, in justice to the merits of General Wilkinson, who went out my lieutenant colonel-commandant, without acknowledging my obligations for the faithful discharge of the several duties depending on him, and'the able support which he gave me in every exigency. I have the honor to be, with great respect, sir, your most obedient servant, CHARLES SCOTT, B. G, The Honorable Henry Knox, Secretary of (Far. r , t No. 1. Extract of a letter from Major General St. Clair to Brigadier General Scott, dated Fort Washington, May 18th, 1791. I mentioned to you, that I did not wish, at that moment, to press the commencement of your march, but rather that a few days should be whiled away, provided it could be. done without its being discovered that the delay was an affected one. I am sensible that it is a delicate point, and that, if it was discovered, the effect would be either to increase, in you r troops, an impatience for moving, or to discourage them. The same reasons, however, exist now, as at the time I had the pleasure to communicate them, and as you are sensible of the weight of those reasons, I am sure of your managing it so as to avoid both these consequences. Without detailing them to Colonel Mentges, I have requested him not to press the muster, until a distribution lias been made of your provisions and ammunition, and have mentioned that it was niy wish your march should hot be taken up before the 24th instant. No. 2. / " .< Ouiatanon, June 2d, 1791—4 o'clock P. M. Sir: ■ Agreeable to your order, I moved the first battalion up to the ford above this place,- but unfortunately found it impassable—the low grounds being overflowed three feet, a strong current running among the timber, and the bed of the river not in view. Under these circumstances, I considered the attempt unwarantable, because it would expose both the men and horses to be drowned, without the smallest probability of succeeding. I have, therefore, marched the detachment back to this place, and, have the honor to be, Sir, your most obedient servant, JAMES WILKINSON Brigadier General Scott. No. 3. Camp Oittanon, June 3d, 1791—1 o'clock P. M. Sir: ■ , The detachment under my command, destined to attack the village 'Kethtipecanunk, was put in motion at half after five o’clock last evening. Knowing that an enemy, whose chief dependence is in his dexterity as a marksman, and alertness in covering himself behind trees, stumps, and other impediments to fair fight, would not hazard an action in the light, I determined to push my march until I approached the vicinity of the villages, where I knew the country to be champaigned. I gained my point without a halt, 20 minutes before 11 o’clock; lay upon iny arms until 4 o’clock, and half an hour after, assaulted the town at all quarters. The enemy was .vigilant; gave way on my approach, and, in canoes, crossed Eel creek, which washed the northeast part of the town; that creek‘was not fordable; my corps dashed forward with the impetuosity becoming volunteers, and were saluted by the enemy with a brisk lire from the opposite side of the creek. Dauntless, they rushed oil to the water’s edge, uncovered to the inoccason, and finding it impassable, returned a volley, which so galled and disconcerted their antagonists, that they threw away their fire without effect. In five minutes, the savages were driven from the covering, and fled with precipitation. I have three men slighty wounded. At. half past five the town was in flames, and at six o’clock I commenced my retreat. I want language to do justice to the courage and good conduct of the gentlemen who composed my detachment.' In neither could they be exceeded by veteran troops. , * I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, JAMES WILKINSON. Brigadier General Scott. No. 4. To the various tribes of the Piankeshaws, and all the nations of Bed People, lying on the waters (f the (Vabash river. The sovereign council of the thirteen United States have long patiently borne your depredations against their settlenients on this side of the great mountains, in the hope that you would see your error, and correct it, by entering with them into the bonds of amity and lasting peace. -Moved by compassion, and pitying your misguided councilsj they have frequently addressed you on this subject, but without effect; at length, their patience is exhausted, anil they have stretched forth the arm of power against you; their mighty sons and chief warriors have at length taken up the hatchet; they have penetrated far into your country, to meet your warriors, and punish them for their transgressions. But you fled before them, and declined the battle, leaving your wives and children to their mercy; they IOO oo have d§stoyed your old town Ouiatanon and the neighboring villages, and have taken many prisoners. Resting here two days, to give you time to collect your strength, they nave proceeded to your town of Kethtipiconunck, but you again fled before them, and that great town has been destroyed. After giving you this evidence of their power, they liave stopped their hands, because they are merciful as strong, and they again indulge the hope, that you trill come to a sense of your true interest, and determine to make a lasting peace with them and all their children, forever. The United States have no desire to destroy the red people, although they have the power; but. should you decline this invitation, ami pursue your unprovoked hostilities, their strength will again be exerted against you:' your warriors will be slaughtered, your towns and villages ransacked and destroyed, your wives and children carried into captivity, and you may be assured that those who escape the fury of our mighty chiefs, shall find no resting place on this side the great lakes. The warriors of the United States wish not to distress or destroy women and children, or old men, and, although policy obliges them to retain some in captivity, yet compassion and humanity have induced them to bet others at liberty, who will deliver you this talk. Those who are carried oif will be left in the care of our great chiel and warrior, General St. Clair, near the mouth of Miami and opposite the Licking river, where they will be treated with humanity and tenderness. If you wish to recover them, repair to that place by the first day of July next, determined, with true hearts, to bury the hatchet, and smoke the pipe of peace? they will then be restored to you, and you may again set down in security at your old towns, and live in peace and happiness, unmolested by the children of the United States, who will become your friends and protectors, and will be ready to furnish you with all the necessaries you may require. Rut. should you foolishly persist in your warfare, the sons of war will be let loose against you, and the hatchet will never be buried until your country is desolated, and your people humbled to the dust. Given under my hand and seal, at the Ouiatanon town, this 4th day of June, 1791. CHARLES SCOTT, Brigadier General. No. 5. List of the Indian prisoners taken by the army under the command of Brigadier General Scott, on the I Vabash river, at the Ouiatanon toim and neighboring villages, June \st, 1791. Mass-wockcomwoh, Queen in English, Thunderstruck. Wonong-apate, her daughter, seventeen years old. Speckled Loon. Kenchestonoquah, 2d daughter. Swift Waves. Keshequamas-anongwah. prince, 7, Clear Sky. Cotohemongoquah, 3d daughter, Keshockcotoquah, 4th do. Mermaid. Cook Wife. Puckcontomwoh, cousin to the queen. Collobwoh, her son, Crack Nuts. Kechemataquah, warrior, about 32, Short Grove. Katankellocaset, his wife, Speckled over. Nepehhequah, his child, a girl, 4, Green Willows. Mekehquah, his daughter, Old Mother. Wanpingivet, squaw. White Face. Pegewoh, her daughter.  Cat. Mataquah, son to trie last, Grove. Nokingwahinenah, do. Soft Corn. Packocockcoset do. Proper and Tall. Equahcong,squaw. riiort Neck. Cateweah, What’s Here? Kenonesanc. Deep Moss. Waughpochke, Kanketoquah, squaw, White Stalk. Huntechelapelo, Look Yonder. Painenkishlopelo, High-look. Nepahkaquah, Green Willows. Cataholoquah, ■Striped Huzzy. Wecaupeminehe, Lvnn Tree. Kechewanpaume, Close Look. Kechemetaquah, Bush}- Grove. Mossoolocaset. Dear Nothing. Puckcontomwoh. Crack Nuts. Pakakenong, Trod Ground. Wahpequagh. White Huzzy. Gash Hand. Kehenackashwoh, Onsiongwet, squaw, Wecaw peminali, Yellow Face. Roasting Ears. Mecah-cats, Eat All. Pacomequah, Muddy Water. Taqualanah, Grove Man.- PacKosequah, Pretty Girl. Machonsackquah, Beaver Girl. Fort Steuben, June 15th, 179L Received of Brigadier General Charles Scott, the above named Indian prisoners, in number forty-one. JOS. ASIIETON, Captain 1st U. S. Reg't. Lieut. Colonel-commandant fJlIkmson s Report. Frankfort on Kentucky,'August 24, 1791. Sir; * Having carried into complete effect the enterprise which you were pleased to direct against a PAnguille, and having done the savages every other damage on the Wabash, to which I conceived my force adequate, 1 embrace the first moment’s recess from active duty, to detail to your Excellency the operations of the expedition entrusted to my conduct. I left the neighborhood of fort Washington, on the 1st instant, at one o’clock, and agreeably to my original plan, feinted boldly at the Miami villages, by the most direct course the nature of the ground, over which I had to march, would permit; I persevered in this plan, until the morning of the 4th inst. and thereby avoided the hunting ground of the enemy, and the paths which lead direct from White river to the Wabash, leaving the head waters of the first to my left; I then being about 70 miles advanced of Fort Washington, turned northwest? I made no discovery until the 5th, about nine o’clock A. M. when I crossed three much frequented paths, within two miles of 18 * each other, and all bearing east of north; my guides were urgent for me to follow these paths, which betrayed their ignorance of the country, and convinced me I had to depend on my own judgment only. In the afternoon of that day I was obliged to cross a deep bog, which injured several of my horses exceedingly, and a few miles beyond, I struck a path bearing north by west, marked by the recent footsteps of five or six savages. My guides renewed their application to me to follow this path, but I pursued my course, which had been north GO west, since 2 o’clock. I had not got clear of my encampment next morning, before my advance reported an impassable bog in my front, extending several miles on either hand, and the guides asserted that the whole country, to the Wabash, was cut by such bogs, and that it would be impossible for me to proceed, unless I followed the Indian paths, which avoided these bogs, or led through them at places where they were least difficult. Although I paid little regard to this information, as delay was dangerous, and every thing depended on the preservation of my horses, I determined to turn to the right, and fall into the path I had passed the evening before, which varied in its course from north by west to northeast. The country had now become pondy in every direction; I therefore resolved to pursue this path until noon, in the hope that it would conduct me to better ground, or to some devious trace, which might lead to the object sought. At seven o’clock I crossed an east branch of Calumet river, about 40 yards wide, and about noon my advanced guard fired on a small party of warriors, and took a prisoner; the rest ran off’ to the eastward. I halted about a mile beyond the spot where tnis affair happened, and on examining the prisoner, found him to bea Delaware, living near the site of the late Miami village, which lie informed me was about SO miles distant; I immediately retrograded four miles, and filed oft’by the right over some rising ground, which I had observed between the east branch of Calumet river, and a creek four or five miles advance of it, taking my course north 60 west. This measure fortunately extricated me from the bogs and ponds, and soon placed me on firm ground; late in the afternoon, I crossed one path running from north to south, and shortly after fell into another, varying'from northwest to north by west; I pursued this about two miles, when I encamped; but finding it still inclined northward, I determined to abandon it in the morning. I resumed my march on the 6th, at'4 o’clock, the Calumet being to the westward of me; I was fearful I should strike the Wabash too high up, and perhaps litll in with the small town which you mentioned to me, at the mouth of the former river; I therefore steered a due west course, and at 6 o’clock A. M. crossed a road much used, both by horse and foot, bearing due north. I now knew that I was near a Shawanese t illage, generally supposed to be on the waters of White river, but actually on those of the Calumet, and was sensible that every thing depended on the celerity and silence of my movements, as my real object had become manifest. I therefore pushed my march vigorously, leaving an officer and 20 men in ambush, to watch the road, in order to intercept or beat oft’ any party of the enemy which might be casually passing that way, and thereby prevent, as long as possible, the discovery of my real intentions. At eight o’clock I recrossed Calumet river, now eighty yards wide, and running down N. N. W. and pursuing my course, 1 crossed one path near the western bank of the river, taking the same course, and at six miles distance another, bearing to the northeast. I was now sensible, from my reckoning, compared with my own observations during the late expedition under General Scott, and the information received from your Excellency and others, that I could not be very distant from a l’Anguilles The.party left at the road soon fell in with four warriors encamped half a mile from the right of my line of march; killed, one, and drove the others to the northward. My situation had now become extremely critical, the whole country to the north being in alarm, which made me greatly anxious to continue my march during the night; but I had no path to direct me, and it was impossible to keep my course, or for horsemen to march through a thick-swampy country in utter darkness." I quitted my camp on the 7th, as soon as I could see my way, crossed one path at three miles distance, bearing northeast, and at seven miles I fell into another, very much used, bearing northwest by north, which I at once adopted, as the direct route to my object, and pushed forward with the utmost despatch; I halted at twelve o’clock to refresh the horses, and examine the men’s arms and ammunition, inarched again at half after one, and at fifteen'minutes before five I struck the Wabash, about one and a half leagues above the mouth of Eel river, being the very spot for which I had aimed from the commencement of my march. I crossed the river, and following the path a north by east course, at the distance of two and a half miles, my reconnoitering party announced Eel river in front, and the town on the opposite bank. I dismounted, ran forward, and examined the situation of the town as far as was practicable, without exposing myself; but the whole face of the country,'from the Wabash to the margin of Eel river, being a continued thicket of brambles, black jacks, weeds and shrubs of different kinds, it was iinposible for me to get a satisfactory view, without endangering a discovery. I immediately determined to post two companies on the bank of the river, opposite to the town, and above the ground I then occupied, to make a detour with Major Caldwell and the second battalion, until I fell into the Miami trace, and by that route to cross the river above, and gain the rear of the town, and to leave directions with major McDowell, who commanded the first battalion, to lie perdue until I commenced the attack, then to clash through the river with his corps and the advanced guard, and assault the houses in front, and upon the left. In the moment I was about to put this arrangement into execution, word was brought me that the enemy had taken the alarm, and were flying; I instantly ordered a general, charge, which was obeyed with alacrity; the men, forcing their way over every obstacle, plunged through the river with vast intrepidity. The enemy was unable to make the smallest resistance. Six warriors, (and in the. hurry and confusion of the charge) two squaws, and a child, were killed, thirty-four prisoners were taken, and an unfortunate captive released, with the loss of two men killed and one wounded. 1 found this town scattered along Eel river for full three miles, on an uneven, scrubby oak barren, intersected alternately by bogs almost impassable, and impervious thickets of plum, hazle, and black jacks; notwithstanding these difficulties, if I may credit the report of the prisoners, very few who were in town escaped. Expecting a second expedition, their goods were generally packed up and buried. Sixty warriors had crossed the Wabash, to watch the paths leading from the Ohio. The head chief, with all the prisoners and a number of families, was out digging a root which they substitute in the place of the potato; and about one hour before my arrival, all the warriors, except eight, had mounted their horses, and rode up the river, toa French store, to purchase ammunition; this ammunition had arrived from the Miami village that very day, and the squaws informed me was stored about two miles from the town. I detached Major Caldwell in quest of it, but lie failed to make any discovery, although he scoured the country for seven or eight miles up the river. 1 encamped in the town that night, and the next morning I cut up the corn, scarcely in the milk, burnt the cabins, mounted my young warriors, squaws, and children, in the best manner in my power, and leaving two infirm squaws and a child, with a short talk (a copy of which I have the honor to enclose you) I commenced my march for the Kickapoo town in the prairie. I felt my prisoners a vast incumbrance, but I was not in force to justify a detachment, having barely 523 rank and file, and being then in the bosom of the Ouiatanon country, one hundred and eighty miles removed from succor, and not more than one and a half day’s march from the Pattawatamies, Shawanese, and Delawares. Not being able to discover any path in the direct course to the Kickapoo town, I marched by the road leading to Tippecanoe, in the hope of finding some diverging trace which might favor my design. I encamped, that evening, about six miles from Kenapacomaqua, the Indian name of the town I had destroyed, and marched next morning at 4 o’clock; my course continued west, till nine o’clock, when I turned to the northwest, on a small hunting path, and, at a short distance, I launched into the boundless prairies of the West, with'the intention to pursue that course until I could strike a road, which leads from the Pattawatamies of lake Michigan, immediately to the town I sought; with this view I pushed forward, through bog after bog, to the saddle skirts, in mud and water; and after persevering, for eight hours, I found myself environed, on all sides, with morasses, which forbade my advancing, and, at the same time, rendered it difficult for me to extricate my little army. ' The way by which we had entered was so much beat and softened by the horses, that it was almost impossible to return by that route, and my guides pronounced the morass, in front, impassable. A chain of thin groves, extending in the direction of the Wabash, at this time presented itself to my left; it was necessary I should gain these groves, and. for this purpose, 1 dismounted, went forward, and leading my horse through a bog, to tire arm-pits in mud and water, with great difficulty and fatigue I accomplished my object; and, changing my course to south by west, I regained the Tippe canoe road at 5 o’clock, and encamped on it at 7 o’clock, after a march of 30 miles, which broke down several of my horses. 1 am the more minute, in detailing the occurrences of this day, because they produced the most unfavorable effects. I was in motion at 4 o’clock next morning, and at 8 o’clock my advanced guard made some discoveries, which induced me to believe we were near an Indian village. I immediately pushed that body forward in a trot, and followed with Major Caldwell and the 2d battalion, leaving Major McDowell to take the charge of the prisoners. I reached Tippecanoe at 12 o'clock, which had been occupied by the enemy, who watched my motions and abandoned the place that morning. After the destruction of this town, in June last, the enemy had returned, and cultivated their corn and pulse, which I found in high perfection,-and in much greater quantity than at 1’Anguille. To refresh my horses, and give time to cut down the corn, 1 determined to halt till the next morning, and then to resume my march to the Kiekapoo town, on the prairie, by the road which leads from Ouiatanon to that place. In the course of the day, I had discovered some murmurings and discontent amongst the men, which I found, on inquiry, to proceed from their reluctance to advance farther into the enemy’s country : this induced unto call for a state of the horses and provisions, when, to my great mortification, 270 horses were returned lame and tired, with barely five days" provisions for the men. Under these circumstances, I was compelled to abandon my designs upon the Kickapoos of the prairies, and, with a degree of anguish not to be comprehended but by those who have esper>ence(l similar disappointments, I marched forward to a town of the same nation, situate about three leagues west of Ouiatanon ; as I advanced to that town, the enemy made some show of fighting me, but vanished at nr approach. I destroyed this town, consisting of thirty houses, with a considerable quantity of corn in the milk, and the same day I moved on to Ouiatanon, where I forded the Wabash, and proceeded to ifie site of the villages, on the margin of the prairie, where I encamped, at 7/>‘clock. At this town, anil the villages destroyed by General Scott, in June, we found the corn had been replanted, and was now in high cultivation, several fields being well ploughed, all which was destroyed. On the 12th I resumed my march, and, falling into General Scott’s return trace, I arrived, without any material incident, at the rapids of the Ohio, on the 21st instant, after a march, by accurate computation, of 451 miles from fort Washington. The volunteers of Kentucky have on this occasion acquitted themselves with their usual good conduct: but, as no opportunity offered for individual distinction, it would be unjust to give to one the plaudits to which all have an equal title. I cannot, however, in propriety, forbear to express my warm approbation of the good conduct of my Majors, McDowell and Caldw ell : and of Colonel llussel, who, in the character of a volunteer, without commission, led my advance: and I feel myself under obligations to Major Adair and Captain Parker, who acted immediately about my person, .for the services they rendered me, bv the most prompt, active, and energetic exertions. The services which I have been able to render, tall short of my wishes, my intention, and my expectation; but, sir, wlien you reflect on the causes which checked my career and blasted my designs, I flatter myself you will believe every thing has been done which could be done in my circumstances. I have destroyed the chief town of the Ouiatanon nation, and made prisoners of the sons and sisters of the king. I have burnt a respectable Kiekapoo village, and cut down at least 430 acres of corn, chiefly in the milk. The.Ouiatanons, left without houses, home, or provision, must cease to war, and will find active employ to subsist their squaws and children during the impending winter. Should these services secure to the country which I immediately represented, and the corps which I had the honor to command, the favorable consideration of Government, I shall infer the approbation of my own conduct, which, added to a consciousness of having done my duty, will constitute the richest reward I can enjoy. ’Mr. Charles Vancouver will have, the honor to deliver this letter to your Excellency, who attended me as quartermaster’to the expedition, and rendered me important services, lie is able to give you a satisfactory idea of the situation of the country over which I passed, and can ascertain with precision the course and distance to any point of my route. I recommend him to you as a gentleman of worth. With the warmest and most perfect respect, I have the honor to be, your Excellency's obliged, obedient, and most faithful servant, .IAS. WILKINSON. Ilis Exc’y Maj. Gen. Sr. Claik, Fort Washington. To the Indian nations living on the river J Calash. and its natters: The arms of the United States are again exerted against you, ami again your towns are in flames, and your wives and children made captives; again you are cautioned to listen to the voice of reason, to sue for peace, and submit to the protection of the United States, who are willing to become your friends and fathers, but. at the same time, are determined to punish you for every injury you may offer to their children. Regard not those evil counsellors who, to secure to themselves the benefits of your trade, advise you to measures which involve you, your women and children, in trouble and distress. The United States wish to give you peace, because it is good in the eyes of the Great Spirit that all his children should unite and live like brothers; but, if vou foolishly prefer war, their warriors are ready to meet you in battle, and will not lie the first to lay down the hatenet. You may find your squaws at id your children under the protection of our great chief and warrior General St Clair, at fort AN ashing®). To him you will make all applications for an exchange of prisoners or for peace. Given under my hand and seal, at Kenapacomaqua, the 9th day of August, 1791. JAS. AVILKINSON, Lt. Col. Coni’dt 2nd Congress.]
