NO. 180.	[1st SESSION. 'EXPENDITURES FOR THE CIVILIZATION OF THE INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 22, 1822. To the House of Representatives:	WASHINGTON, January 20,1822. In compliance with a resolution of the House of Representatives, requesting the President of the United States “to cause to be laid before this House an account of the expenditures made nnder the act to provide for the civilization of the Indian tribes, specifying the times when, the persons to whom, and the particular purpose for which such expenditures have been made,” I herewith transmit a report from the Secretary of War. JAMES MONROE. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, January 19, 1822. The Secretary of War, to whom was referred the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 31st ultimo, “requesting the President of the United States to cause to be laid before this House an account of the expenditures made under the act to provide for the civilization of the Indian tribes, specifying the times when, the persons to whom, and the particular purpose for which, such expenditures have been made,” has the honor to transmit the enclosed statement, which contains the information required by the resolution. The Secretary of War would respectfully refer to the report made by this Department to the House of Representatives on the 15th of January, 1820, in compliance with a resolution of that House, of the progress that had been made in the civilization of the Indians, which, with the regulations, a copy of which accompanies this report, will indicate the principles upon which the several allowances for buildings and tuition, referred to in the statement, have been made. It may be proper to observe that, by a rigid construction of the rules adopted for the expenditure of the appropriation, the schools at Cornwall, in Connecticut, and Great Crossings, in Kentucky, would appear to be excluded from any benefit from it. It was believed, however, as there was not a sufficient number of schools in the Indian country, at the time the allowances were made, to absorb" the whole appropriation, that it would advance the object of Congress in passing the act to include them in the distribution. All which is respectfully submitted. JOHN C. CALHOUN. Statement of the expenditures made under the act to provide for the civilization of the Indian tribes, exhibiting the times when, the persons to whom, and the particular purpose for which, such expenditures have been made. When paid or remitted. To whom. Amount. For what purpose. 1820. Feb. 12, Rev. J. Morse,	- $500 00 On account of expenses of a visit of observation and inspection to the various Indian tribes in our immediate neighborhood, &c. (See copy of a letter from the Secretary of War tu Dr. Morse, herewith.) Feb. 23, Richard M. Johnson, 250 00 For tuition of Indian children at the school established by the Baptist Board for Foreign Missions, at Great Crossings, Kentucky, for the year 1820. (Paid to Col. Johnson, as agent of the Board. ) On account of buildings for the school at the Valley Towns, in the Cherokee nation, established by the Baptist Board for Foreign Missions. April 5, Col. R. J. Meigs, - 500 00 April 11, Col. R. J. Meigs, - 62 50 Quarterly allowance for tuition to the school at Spring Place, in the Cherokee nation, established by the Society of United Brethren fur the southern States, commonly called Moravians. May 8, Ephraim Chapman, - 700 00,. On account of buildings for a school among the Osages, on the Arkansas, established by the United Foreign Missionary Society of New York. (Paid to Mr. Chapman, as the agent of the society.) May 24, R. J. Meigs,	- 62 50 Quarterly allowance to the school at Spring Place, in the Cherokee nation, for tuition. June 14, J. Evarts,	- 400 00 For education and support of four Indian youths for one year at the school in Cornwall, Connecticut, established by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. June 14, John McKee,	- 250 00 Quarterly allowance to the school at Elliot, in the Choctaw nation, established by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, for tuition. June 14, R. J. Meigs,	- 250 00 Quarterly allowance for tuition to the school at Brainard, in the Cherokee nation, established by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. July 25, S. N. Rowan,	- 175 00 Quarterly allowance for tuition to the schools in the Tuscarora and Seneca nations, established by the Missionary Society of New York, of which Mr. Rowan is president. Aug. 25, R. J. Meigs,	- 652 00 Quarterly allowance for tuition to the schools at Spring Place and Brainard, in the Cherokee nation, including $250 for buildings for the school at the Valley Towns, in the said nation. Sept. 1, John McKee,	- 250 00 Quarterly allowance for tuition to the school at Elliot, in the Choctaw nation. Oct. 25, S. N. Rowan,	- 175 00 Quarterly allowance to. the schools in the Tuscarora and Seneca nations, for tuition. Oct. 28, R. J. Meigs.	- 312 50 Quarterly allowance for tuition to the schools at Brainard and Spring Place, in the Cherokee nation. Dec. 22, Rev. J- Morse,	- 278 00 On account of expenses of a visit of observation and inspection, &c. (See note opposite to this name above.) 1821. Jan. 15, S. N. Rowan,	- 175 00 Quarterly allowance for tuition to the schools in the Tuscarora and Seneca nations. March 3, R. M. Johnson, - 150 00 Allowance for tuition to the Baptist Mission school at Great Crossings, Kentucky, 1821. May 15, William Ward, - 250 00 Quarterly allowance for tuition to the school at Elliot, in the Choctaw nation. May 16, H. Posey,	- 250 00 Allowance for tuition for a half year to the school at the Valley Towns, in the Cherokee nation, of which Mr. Posey is the superintendent. May 29, John Hays,	- 417 00 On account of allowance for tuition for two years to the school at Fort Wayne, Indiana, established by the Baptist Board, under the care of the Rev. Mr. McKoy. For buildings and tuition at the schools at Spring Place, Brainard, and the Valley Towns, in the Cherokee nation. June 27, R. J. Meigs,	- 1,533 33 June 18, S. Worcester,	- 638 00 For education and support of Indian youths at the Mission school, in Cornwall. Connecticut. April 17, R. J. Meigs,	- 2,233 33 For buildings and tuition at the schools in the Cherokee nation. April 30, William Wilson, - 225 00 For buildings and tuition at the schools in the Tuscarora and Seneca nations. July 6, William Wilson, - 225 00 For buildings and tuition at the schools in the Tuscarora and Seneca nations. July 9, N. R. Dodge,	- 1,000 00 Ou account of buildings for a school among the Osages, in Missouri, established by the United Foreign Missionary Society of New York. (Paid to Mr. Dodge, as the agent of the society.) Aug. 22, William Ward, - 250 00 Quarterly allowance for tuition to the school at Elliot, in the Choctaw nation. Oct. 5, William Wilson, - 225 00 Quarterly allowance for tuition to the schools in the Tuscarora and Seneca nations. Oct. 5, R. Nichols,	- 500 00 On account of buildings for a school in the Chickasaw nation, established by the Synod of South Carolina and Georgia. Oct. 5, C. Kingsbury,	- 2,275 00 On account of buildings for the school at Elliot, in the Choctaw nation, which is under the superintendence of Mr. Kingsbury. Oct. 16, John Peck,	- 350 00 Allowance for tuition'for one year to the school in the Oneida nation, established by the Hamilton Baptist Missionary Society of New York, of which Mr. Peck is president. STATEMENT—Continued. When paid or remitted. To whom. Amount. For what purpose. 1821, Nov. 23, Dec. 10, Dec. 24, J. Evarts,	- R. J. Meigs,	- William Ward,	- $400 00 450 00 330 90 Foreducation and support of Indian youths at the Mission school in Cornwall, Connecticut. Quarterly allowance for tuition to the schools in the Cherokee nation. One-quarter’s allowance for tuition (including a part of another which had not been paid) to the school at Elliot, in the Choctaw nation. $16,605 80 Whole amount expended for buildings and tuition, &c., in 1820 and 1821. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 29, 1820. The following regulations, in addition to those prescribed in the circular of the 3d of September, 1819, have been adopted, with the approbation of the President of the United States, to govern the future distribution of the sum appropriated by Congress for the civilization of the Indians, among individuals or societies who have established, or contemplate establishing, schools for the education of Indian children, in conformity to the above-mentioned circular, and who desire the co-operation of the Government: The position selected for the establishment, a plan of the buildings contemplated, with an estimate of the cost, to be submitted to the Secretary of War, to be laid before the President. Government will, if it has the means and approves the arrangement, pay two-thirds of the expense of erecting the necessary buildings. No part of the money to be advanced until after the buildings are commenced, and one-fourth to be reserved until they are completed. The payment to be made on the certificate of the agent ’of Indian affairs for the tribe or nation in which the establishment is located, as to the facts of the commencement and completion of the buildings. The President of the United States will contribute out of the annual appropriation, to each institution which may be approved of by him, a sum proportionate to the number of pupils belonging to each, regard being had to the necessary expense of the establishment and the degree of success which has attended it. No advance to be made, except for the buildings, till the school is in actual operation; of which fact, and the number of pupils belonging to it, the certificate of the superintendent, or person having the principal control of the institution, will be sufficient evidence. A report will be annually made for each establishment on the 1st of October of the number and names of the teachers and other persons belonging to it; the number of students; the number which have completed their course and left the institution since the 1st day of October of the preceding year; the number entered; the amount of disbursements for the same period; and the value and description of property on hand; which report will be certified by the superintendent, or person having the principal control of the establishment. It is considered to be the duty of all persons who may be employed or attached to any institution, not only to set a good example of sobriety, industry, and honesty, but, as far as practicable, to impress on the minds of the Indians the friendly and benevolent views of the Government towards them, and the advantage to them in yielding to the policy of Government, and co-operating with it in such measures as it may deem necessary for their civilization and happiness. A contrary course of conduct cannot fail to incur the displeasure of Government, as it is impossible that the object which it has in view can be effected, and peace be habitually preserved, if the distrust of the Indians as to its benevolent views should be excited. ,	J. C. CALHOUN. Copy of a letter from the Secretary of War to the Rev. Jedediah Morse, dated SIR:	FEBRUARY 7,1820. I have laid before the President your proposition to make a visit of observation and inspection to the various Indian tribes in our immediate neighborhood, in order to acquire a more accurate knowledge of their actual condition, and to devise the most suitable plan to advance their civilization and happiness. The President approves of the proposed arrangement, and has directed me to allow you the sum of $500 towards the expense ofyoor contemplated journey; and he further authorizes me to state to you, that, should your actual expenses exceed that sum, the excess will be allowed you, provided the appropriation will, at the end of the year, justify the allowance. It is desirable that you should make your visit to the northern tribes the next spring and summer, and to the southern the next autumn and winter, as it is the wish of the Department to have your report as early as practicable, in order to avail itself of it in the future application of the funds for the civilization of the Indians. I enclose a general letter of introduction to the superintendents and agents for Indian affairs, with a list of their names and residence, who will afford you all the information and facilities in their power. Your attention will be-directed to ascertain the actual condition of the various tribes which you may visit, in a religious, moral, and political point of view; and your report to the Department, which you will make at such times as will be convenient, will comprehend all such facts, with your reflections on them, as will go io illustrate this interesting subject. You will particularly ascertain, as far as practicable, the numbers of the various tribes you may visit, and those adjacent; the extent of territory, with the nature of the soil and climate of the country occupied by them; their mode of life, customs, laws, and political institutions; and the character and disposition of their most influential men. You will also particularly report on the number of schools, their position, the number and character of the teachers, the number of scholars of each sex, the plan of education, with the degree of success which appears io attend the respective schools, and the disposition which exists in the tribes and with their chief men to promote among them education and civilization. You will also report your opinion as to improvements which may be made, and the new establishments, to promote the object of the Government in civilizing the Indians, which can be advantageously formed. The moral condition of the Indians must necessarily be very dependant on the character of the trade with them, and a subject so important will, of course, claim your attention. You will report such facts as may come within your knowledge as will go to show the state of the trade with them, and the character of the traders, as, in youropioion, 35 E will render it better calculated to secure peace between them and us, and will contribute more effectually to advance their moral condition. You are so fully apprized of the views of the President in your intended visit to the Indian tribes, that a further enumeration of the objects which are thought interesting is deemed unnecessary, satisfied as I am that your zeal and intelligence will permit nothing to escape your observation which may be useful to be known to the Government. After you have collected your materials, you will digest the whole into one body, and present it in such form, and accompany it with such reflections and suggestions, as you may deem necessary to accomplish the interesting objects which it is intended to promote by your tour. I have, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. 17th CONGRESS.]	
