NO. 153.	[1st SESSION. WAR WITH THE SEMINOLES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, ON THE 25TH OF MARCH, 1818. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, March 25, 1818. • I now lay before Congress all the information in the possession of the Executive respecting the war with the Seminoles, and the measures which it has been thought proper to adopt for the safety of our fellow-citizens on the frontier exposed to their ravages. The enclosed documents show that the hostilities of this tribe were unprovoked, the offspring of a spirit long cherished and often manifested towards the United States; and that, in the present instance, it was extending itself to other tribes, and daily assuming a more serious aspect. As soon as the nature and object of this combination were perceived, the major general commanding the southern division of the troops of the United States was ordered to the theatre of action, charged with the management of the war, and vested with the powers necessary to give it effect. The season of the year being unfavorable to active operations, and the recesses of the country affording shelter to these savages, in case of retreat, may prevent a prompt termination of the war; but it may be fairly presumed that it will not be long before this tribe and its associates receive the punishment which they have provoked and justly merited. As almost the whole of this tribe inhabit the country within the limits of Florida, Spain was bound by the treaty of 1795 to restrain them from committing hostilities against the United States. We have seen with regret that her Government has altogether failed to fulfil this obligation, nor are we aware that it has made any effort to that effect. When we consider her utter inability to check, even in the slightest degree, the movements of this tribe, by her very small and incompetent force in Florida, we are not disposed to ascribe the failure to any other cause. The inability, however, of Spain to maintain her authority over the territory and Indians within her limits, and, in consequence, to fulfil the treaty, ought not to expose the United States to other and greater injuries. Where the authority of Spain ceases to exist, there the United States have a right to pursue their enemy, on a principle of selfdefence. In this instance, the right is more complete and obvious, because we shall perform only what Spain was bound to have performed herself. To the high obligations and privileges of this great and sacred right of selfdefence will the movement of our troops be strictly confined. Orders have been given to the general in command not to enter Florida, unless it be in pursuit of the enemy; and, in that case, to respect the Spanish authority wherever it is maintained; and he will be instructed to withdraw his forces from the province as soon as he shall have reduced that tribe to order, and secured our fellow-citizens in that quarter, by satisfactory arrangements, against its unprovoked and savage hostilities in future. JAMES MONROE. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 24, 1818. The Secretary of War has the honor to transmit to the President of the United States all the documents in relation to the origin of the Seminole war, accompanied by a copy of an order to Major General Gaines of the 16th of December, 1817, and an extract of an order to Major General Jackson of the 26th of the same month. J. C. CALHOUN. The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. Extract of a letter from R. Sands, commanding Fort Gaines, to the Commanding Officer of Fort Hawkins, dated '•	FEBRUARY 2, 1817. When the colonel with the troops left Fort Scott, he gave the buildings in charge of one of the Perrymans, from whom I have just received a letter, handed me by his brother, who arrived here after I had commenced writing this.	. Perryman states in his letter that the Red Sticks, (or hostiles,) after we had left the fort, came in companies and carried off every thing we had left with him, and what he had purchased of Butler; burnt three bouses, and threatened, if he did not leave the place, to burn it over his head. He got what few articles he could, with his family, in a canoe, and came to his brother’s, who informs me that there are at present about three hundred Indians embodied at the forks, and others constantly joining them. He does not know their intentions, but understood a party was going out to steal horses, &c. (This morning [3d] one of the settlers waited on me to advise in what manner to act, as eight or ten Indians had been at his house and ordered him off; telling him that in six days they would come back, and, if he was not gone, they would drive him away. Extract of a letter from the Governor of Georgia to General Gaines, dated MILLEDGEVILLE, February 5, 1817. You, no doubt, have already been informed that the notorious Woodbine has recently made his appearance again at the mouth of the Appalachicola, and that he has an agent now among the Seminole Indians and negroes in that quarter, stirring them up to acts of hostility against this country; and that Woodbine, himself, has gone in an armed vessel to some part of the West Indies for supplies. Connected with this fact is another, which may serve as an intimation of the future conduct of these people, when once in possession of the supplies which it is said they expect on the return of Woodbine. About ten or twelve days ago, a small party of those Indians entered the frontier of Wayne county, and stole two horses and some cattle: they were pursued by some of the inhabitants, who peaceably demanded a restoration of the stolen property; and, instead of a compliance on the part of the Indians, they immediately fired upon the whites, who retired without returning a shot. One of the whites was mortally wounded.	, Copy of a letter from General Gaines to the Governor of Georgia, dated MILLEDGEVILLE, February 5, 1817. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your excellency’s letter of this date. The facts which you have been pleased to communicate, in relation to the late hostile conduct of the Seminole Indians, must and shall receive my immediate and particular attention. I am not authorized to change the destination of the 4th infantry; but, should I receive no authority to recall a part of that corps, I shall order one or two companies of artillery (to do duty as infantry) from Charleston to the southern frontier of this State, with instructions to check Indian hostilities, and at the same time to remove from Indian land such intruders as may remain after being duly notified to remove. I have the honor to be, <fcc. E. P. GAINES. Extract of a letter from George Perryman to Lieutenant Sands, dated FEBRUARY 24, 1817. The charge given me by Colonel Clinch and yourself, and other officers of the United States, induces me to believe there is a confidence placed in me which I ought not to deceive. I therefore think it my duty, as well as my inclination, to give you the following information: There was a friend of mine not long since in the Fowltown. on Flint, and he saw many horses, cattle, and hogs, that had come immediately from the State of Georgia; and they are bringing them away continually. They speak in the most contemptuous manner of the Americans, and threaten to have satisfaction for what has been done—meaning the destruction of the negro fort. There is another of my acquaintances returned immediately from the Seminole towns, and saw the negroes on parade there: he counted about six hundred that bore arms. They have chosen officers of every description, and endeavor to keep up a regular discipline, and are very strict in punishing violators of their military rules. There is said to be about the.same number of Indians belonging to their party; and there are both negroes and Indians daily going to their standard. They say they are in complete fix for fighting, and wish an engagement with the Americans, or McIntosh’s troops; they would let them know they had something more to do than they had at Appalachicola. They have chosen Bowlegs for their head, and nominated him king, and pay him all kind of monarchical respect, almost to idolatry, keeping a picket guard at the distance of five miles. They have, a number of the likeliest American horses; but there are one or two chiefs who are not of the choir. Kenhijah, the Mickasuky chief, is one that is an exception. Copy of a letter from Archibald Clarke, Intendant of St. Mary's, Georgia, to General Gaines, dated SIR:	FEBRUARY 26, 1817. In consequence of a recent and most obnoxious act perpetrated by a party of Indians (supposed to be of the Lower Creeks) in this county, in the murder of an unfortunate white woman and her two infant children, by which the defenceless inhabitants on our frontier have been thrown into a distressing state of alarm, I avail myself of the earliest opportunity in giving information that may be relied on, under the fullest assurance that immediate measures will be adopted to guard and prevent a repetition of such cruel and barbarous acts. On the 24th iostant, the house of a Mr. Garrett, residing in the upper part of this county, near the boundary of Wayne county, was attacked during his absence, near the middle of the day, by this party, consisting of about fifteen, who shot Mrs. Garrett in two places, and then despatched her by stabbing and scalping. Her two children, one about three years, the other two months old, were also murdered, and the eldest scalped; the house was then plundered nf every article of value, and set on fire. A young man in this neighborhood, hearing the report of guns, went immediately towards the house, where he discovered the murdered family. The flames having only commenced, they were extinguished, and he spread the alarm. The workmen from my mills, and a few others, assembled to pursue; but, having but few arms, and not otherwise equipped, their pursuit proved fruitless. The Indians were tracked as far as the men dared venture. Their course was parallel with the western branch of Spanish creek, which induces the belief of their being Indians of the lower tribes. On this open, extensive, and entirely unprotected frontier, the poor and innocent inhabitants have ever been exposed to these calamities. Representation after representation to the several Governors of this State, of.cruel and unprovoked murders in this quarter by the Indians, have been made. A momentary disposition was manifested to afford relief; but little time, however, would elapse before the alarm would subside, and the subject never more thought of until again revived by an occurrence such as I have just related. To you, sir, therefore, the inhabitants on the frontier, as well as others, through me, appeal for some protection. A small detachment of troops upon the head of the St. Mary’s would answer a most valuable purpose, by at once checking the inroads of the savages, and preventing our abandoned and unprotected citizens from adventuring into the Indian country, and driving in herds of cattle. Copy of a letter from R. Arbuthnot to the officer commanding at Fort Gaines, dated SIR:	OCHLOCKNEE SOUND, March 3, 1817. I am desired by Peter McQueen, an unfortunate Indian chief, who was some years since obliged to fly from the town of Tucky Batche, on the Tallapoohatch river, to claim of your friendship the delivery of a negro man, named Joe, (taken away from him since the peace,) whom he states to be in Fort Gaines. When McQueen left Tucky Batche, his property was considerable, both in negroes and cattle: of the former, ten grown negroes were taken by a half-breed man, named Barney, nine ef which, he learns, were sold; and one (a girl) is still in possession of said Barney. Twenty able negroes were taken by a chief named Colonel, or Auchi Hatche, who acts also as an interpreter; and as he never had possession of any of those persons’ property, nor ever did them an injury, to bis knowledge, he claims as a further proof of your friendship that you will use your influence in procuring those negroes for him; and should they be given up by the persons holding them, there is one faithful negro among them, named Charles, who will bring them to him at Ochlochnee river. The American headmen and officers that were accustomed to live near him can testify to his civility and good fellowship with them; and there are none of them, he is convinced, that would not serve him, if in their power. As he owes nothing, nor ever took any person’s property, none have a right to retain his; and he hopes that, through your influence, those persons now holding his negroes will be induced to give them up. While I am thus advocating theycaose of an unfortunate individual, allow me. to claim an extension of your philanthropy to all the Indians within your circle, by your representing to them the folly of their quarrels, and that they ought to live quietly and peaceably with each other. The Lower Creeks seem to wish to live peaceably and quietly, and in good friendship with the others; but there are some designing and evil-minded persons, self-interested, who are endeavoring to create quarrels between the Upper and Lower Creek Indians, contrary to their interest, their happiness, and welfare. Such people belong to no nation, and ought not to be countenanced by any Government. The head chiefs request I will inquire of you why American settlers are descending the Chatahoochee, driving the poor Indian from his habitation, and taking possession of his home and cultivated fields. Without authority, I can claim nothing of you; but a humane and philanthropic principle guiding me, I hope the|Same will influence you; and, if such is really the case, and that the line marked out by the treaty between Great Britain and the United States respecting the Indian nations has been infringed upon by the subjects of the latter, that you will represent to them their improper conduct, and prevent its continuance. I hold in my possession, a letter received from the Governor of New Providence, addressed to him by His Britannic Majesty’s chief secretary, informing him of the orders given to the British ambassador at Washington to watch over the interests of the Indian nations, and see that their rights are faithfully attended to and protected, agreeably to the treaty nf peace made between the British and Americans. I am in hopes that ere this there is arrived at New Providence a person from Great Britain with authority to act as agent for the Indian nations; and, if so, it will devolve on him to see that the boundary lines, as marked out by the treaty, are not infringed upon. I hope you will not think these observations, made by desire of the chiefs, any improper interference; and, requesting the favor of an answer, I am, respectfully,<fcc.	R. ARBUTHNOT. P. S. McQueen states that the offspring of the negroes, when he left Tucky Batche, were seven of those taken by Barney, and jione of those taken by Auchi Hatche; and he supposes they have increased. Copy of a letter from Lieutenant Richard M. Sands, 4th infantry, commanding at Fort Gaines, Georgia, to Colonel William King, or officer commanding the 4th regiment of infantry, dated SIR:	(	MARCH 15, 1817. I enclose for your information two letters which I received a few days since. Yesterday, William Perry man, accompanied by two of the lower chiefs, arrived here. He informs me that McQueen, the chief mentioned in one of the enclosed letters, is at present one of the heads of the hostiles; that they are anxious for war, and have lately murdered a woman and two children. He likewise says that he expects the news in George Perryman’s letter is true; for there are talks going through the towns that the English are to be at Ochlochnee river in three months. I have sent an Indian runner to Ochlochnee to ascertain what preparations the hostiles are making. I have the honor to be, &c. R. M. SANDS. Extract of a letter from David B. Mitchell, Indian Agent, to the Secretary of War, dated MILLEDGEVILLE, GEORGIA, March 30, 1817. By yesterday’s mail I received a letter from Mr. Timothy Barnard, who resides on Flint river, in the Indian country, a considerable distance below the agency, in which he observes: “ I have been informed two days past from below, where the Red Stick class reside, that a party have been down near St. Mary’s, and murdered a woman and two children, and brought off some horses. I have heard, for some time past, that the Red Stick party have commenced their Red Stick dancings again, which is a proof that they mean to commence hostilities. Our Forts Crawford and Gaines having been evacuated, I believe, has been the cause of this Red Stick class beginning again to commence hostilités. They think that our troops were afraid to continue there.” The murder of the woman and two children, spoken of by Mr. Barnard, had been previously communicated to me by the magistrates of Camden county; and I have no doubt but it was perpetrated in retaliation for the killing of an Indian, about three or four weeks previous, on the Florida side of St. Mary’s river, by some worthless white men who reside on the frontiers of East Florida, and who live by plunder. They have, for some time past, been a perfect nuisance to the frontier of Georgia in that quarter; and, although repeated complaints of their bad conduct have been made to the Governor of the province, yet, from the want of either ability or inclination, they have not been suppressed; but 1 believe their impunity is attributable to the first, viz: inability on his part to apprehend and punish them. The single fact of this murder being easily accounted fur on the Indian principle of retaliation, I should dread no further bad consequences from it; but the other facts stated by Mr. Barnard can only be attributed to a settled plan of hostility on the part of the Indians, and that such a disposition has been encouraged by the removal of the troops from Camp Crawford. And I have the more reliance upon the intelligence as coming from Mr. Barnard, who has resided nearly fifty years in the Indian country, and is perfectly well acquainted with their habits and customs, and whose family connexion gives hint the best and surest means of correct information. As an additional inducement to this measure, I will further stale that I have received information front other persons at and near Fort Gaines that a British agent is now among these hostile Indians, and that he has been sending insolent messages to the friendly Indians and white men settled above the Spanish line: he is also charged with stimulating the Indians to their present hostile aspect; but whether he is an acknowledged agent of any foreign Power, or a mere adventurer, Ido not pretend to determine, but am disposed to believe him the latter; but, be that as it may, and let the hostile disposition of the Indians proceed from what it may, a moderate regular force stationed at Camp Crawford, or any other suitable position in that quarter, will, I aiu confident, keep all quiet; and, without it, some serious mischief will result. Extract of a letter from General Gaines to the Secretary of War, dated CAMP MONTGOMERY, M. T., April 3, 1817. I received, by the last mail, a letter from Archibald Clarke, Esq., intendant of the town of St. Mary’s, by which it appears that another outrage of uncommon cruelty has recently been perpetrated by a party of Indians upon the southern frontier, near the boundary of Wayne county. They have massacred a woman (Mrs. Garrett) and two of her children; the mother and eldest child were scalped; the house plundered and burnt. SIR:	MONTGOMERY, April 3, 1817. The enclosed letter contains some additional information upon the subject of my communication of this date. Most respectfully, &c. EDM. P. GAINES. Hon. the SECRETARY OF WAR. FORT GAINES. I am requested by all the citizens to inform you of our situation, believing that no communication has been forwarded, giving a detail of the information received, our distress, and the prospect of approaching destruction. We are hourly told, by every source of information, by the friendly Indians, by letters from William Hambly and Edmund Doyle, who reside low down on the Appalachicola, that all the lower tribes of Indians are embodied, and are drying their meats to come on to the attack of this post. The British agent at Ochlochnee Sound is giving presents to the Indians. We have among us Indians who have been down and received powder, lead, tomahawks, knives, and a drum for each town, with the royal coat-of-arms painted on it. We have, at this time, at least five hundred Indians skulking in this neighborhood, within three or four miles of us, who will not act for themselves, and who are evidently waiting the signa) to strike an effectual blow. They have stolen almost every horse belonging to the citizens. They have scared them from the fields which they have cleared, and have taken possession of their houses. They are now stealing horses, cattle, and hogs from the Georgia lines, and have killed one or two families on the Satilla. The citizens have all assembled near the fort, not able to return to the States, nor any prospect of making crops. The Indians have all returned to their towns below the line, and this post is unable to remove them. The troops are scarce of provisions, and no prospect of the early arrival of more. Nothing but speedy relief by troops can quiet the people, or save this country from destruction. Respectfully, your most obedient, humble servant, A. CULLOH. General GAINES. SIR:	CAMP MONTGOMERY, M. T., July 28, 1817. Agreeably to your instructions of the 26th instant, I proceeded to the Burnt Corn Spring, near the place where the recent murder was committed by an Indian; and, from the best information received, I have the honor to make the following report: 1st. It does not appear that any misunderstanding existed between the Indians and the citizen killed, (Mr. Glass.) 2d. It appears that the Indians made the first assault, and that without any provocation on the part of the citizens. 3d. From the information received, it appears that Mr. Glass heard four or five guns fire some short distance from his house. He was under the impression that the Indians were doing some mischief, and went out for the purpose of ascertaining what the firing was at. He had proceeded but a short distance when he discovered an Indian woman. He went towards her, and asked her if she knew who it was that was shooting. She made him no answer. He asked her several times, and received no answer. She said something, and an Indian that was concealed in the bushes not more than fifteen steps from Mr. Glass, rose up, and shot him through the body. He snapped his gun at the Indian, who immediately ran off. He then fired at the woman as she was running after the man, but does not know whether he killed her or not. His wound being very painful, he dropped his gun and shot-bag, and attempted to return home. He had not proceeded more than three hundred yards when he fainted, and remained until found by a traveller. This was on a Saturday, and he died on Sunday morning, leaving a widow and eight children to lament his untimely death. He was a man who supported a good character in his neighborhood, though in limited circumstances. On the following day there was a cow found near the place where Mr. Glass was shot, with four balls shot through her. 4th. There was only one Indian man seen by Mr. Glass; but, the circumstances of his hearing four guns, and the cow being found near that place with four balls shot through her, induce a belief that he had several companions with him, although they were not seen by Mr. Glass. From the report of the friendly Indians, it is believed they are fifty or sixty in number, and that they have returned to the camp on Pine Barren creek, occupied by them at the time they murdered Johnson and Magasky, as a part of them were met by several persons near the Pine Barren spring a few days after the murder was committed. Colonel Dales’s party pursued them to their camp on the Sapelo Sound, but found it deserted, apparently several days. They have several small fields of corn growing at that place; from the sign left, it is believed they have a a number of horses, and some of the largest description. The Indian who acted as a guide states they have at this time a negro boy and a horse belonging to Johnson and Magasky. It appears to be the prevailing opinion among the inhabitants that they may be found on Pine Barren creek. I have the honor to be, &c. General GAINES.	G. LEFTWICH, Adjutant 7th infantry. Extract of a letter from General Gaines to the Secretary of War, dated CAMP MONTGOMERY, M. T., August 25, 1817. Having received several communications from persons settled upon the public land within the tract acquired by the treaty of Fort Jackson, containing general accusations against the Indians that they had killed cattle and hogs, and stolen corn, &,c. from the inhabitants, and requesting the interposition of military authority, I have uniformly referred them to the civil magistrate, because I have in no case during the present year heard of any thing like an assemblage of force among the Indians in this quarter of the Territory. Nor could I see any reason why persons who had obtruded themselves upon the public land, contrary to law, should be allowed military protection against the petty offences of which these people complained, especially as it did not appear that the civil authority had been opposed, nor even resorted to by the complainants. The enclosure (marked A) contains a copy of my reply to the inhabitants of Murder creek, and in this you will find the substance of my other replies, both written and verbal. Since the date of this reply, and as I have reason to believe some days after it reached the settlement of Murder creek, a Mr. Glass, near that place, was killed by an Indian, who was said to be accompanied by three others. On receiving this information, I immediately despatched a discreet officer, Lieutenant Leftwich, to ascertain the particulars of the outrage, with a view to send a party in pursuit of the offenders, in case they should not havo been arrested by the civil authority. A. GENTLEMEN:	HEAD-QUARTERS, CAMP MONTGOMERY, M. T., July 12, 1817. I have received your communication of the 21st of last month, stating that the Indians residing upon the Conecuh had killed cattle and hogs belonging to the inhabitants of Murder creek, and had broken into their houses, and taken from them some provisions, corn, &c. In reply, I have to observe that all Indians within the lately acquired territory are amenable to our laws, and may be prosecuted for the offences of which you complain, in the same manner as if they were white inhabitants. The lands cultivated by friendly Indians within the ceded territory have been reserved and guarantied to them by treaty; and, by a late act of Congress, the agent of Indian affairs has been authorized to settle the respective claims to such reservations. Until this is effected, there exists nowhere any sort of authority to drive oft’ such Indians settled upon the public land. Governor Mitchell, the agent, will in a short time enter upon the examination and adjustment of those claims. The disposition which you have manifested to abstain from “ rash measures”* towards those Indians affords ground to hope that, viewing them as a part of the human family, possessing the right of residing among us, you will make allowance for their ignorance and their wants, which are calculated rather to awaken our commiseration than to excite in us a spirit of hostility towards them. That you may have peace and prosperity throughout your settlement is the sincere wish of Your obedient servant, EDMUND P. GAINES. The INHABITANTS of Murder Creek, Alabama Territory. Extract of a letter from Major Twiggs to General Gaines, dated ,	FORT SCOTT, September 17, 1817. Your communication to the Indians on the east side of the Flint river was read and explained to the principal chief of the Mickasnkies the 6th of this month. He promised to give an answer in ten days, at farthest. I have detained the express until this time in expectation of sending it on by him, but have been disappointed. I have not heard from them since. The interpreter informed me the principal warriors were absent when he was there, but those who were present said they had never heard of Indians being given up to be punished by the whites; that they had heard of their being sometimes killed by themselves for offences committed, but seemed to think that giving them up was out of the question, but said they would have a meeting, and would answer the letter in a few days. As they have not done so, I think but one construction can he put on their conduct. The young man seemed to dislike the communication very much, and when Gregory was about leaving the town he offered his hand to an Indian, who held out his with a knife in it, and refused to shake hands with him; he staid so short a time among them that it was impossible for him to give much information respecting them. Captain Donoho lias returned; he has been sick in Hartford, which was the cause of his delay. On his return, the Indians were very rude to him, and frequently threatened his guide, and once caught hold of the captain’s bridle in a threatening manner. Extract of a letter from General Gaines to the Secretary of War, dated CAMP MONTGOMERY, M. T., October I, 1817. I have the honor to lay before you a copy of a letter which I have received from the chiefs of ten of the Seminole towns in reply to my demand for the delivery of the murderers of our citizens. By this communication it appears that, instead of a compliance with my demand, the chiefs have set up a claim against us for the lives of three Indians, for whom they allege they have not yet taken satisfaction. They charge us with •The inhabitants promised not to resort to “rash measures.” having killed ten of their warriors, and claim a balance of three to be due to them; they admit, by necessary implication, that they have killed seven of our citizens. They acknowledge the murder of a woman (Mrs. Garrett) and her two children; but the chiefs attempt to justify this act upon the ground that the warriors who committed the outrage had just before lost some friends, had entered our settlements to take satisfaction, found at the house of Garrett a kettle belonging to the Indian that had been killed, and, from that circumstance, supposed the murder had been committed by the husband of the woman; they, therefore, killed her and her two children. By a letter from Major Twiggs, the commandant of Fort Scott, I learn that he had been warned some weeks past by the principal chiefs of the Fowltown (fifteen miles above the fort, and twenty above the national boundary) not to cut another stick on the east side of Flint river; adding that the land was his, and he was directed by the Powers above to protect and defend it, and should do so; and it would be seen that talking could not frighten him. Major Twigg adds, he had not seen the chief nor any of his people since he made this threat. The major states in another letter that this town had been detected in stealing one hundred bead of cattle in one drove, all of which they had killed. From Major Twiggs to General Gaines, dated FORT SCOTT, September 18, 1817. Since I started the express this morning, the Indians have delivered the enclosed letter to me. I have the honor to be, Ac. DEAR SIR:	SEPTEMBER 11, 1817. Since the last war, after you sent word we must quit the war, we, the red people, have come over on this side. The white people have carried all the red people’s cattle off. After the war I sent to all my people to let the white people alone, and stay on this side of the river, and they did so; but the white people still continue to carry off their cattle. Barnard’s son was here, and I inquired of him what was to be done, and he said we must go to the headman of the white people and complain. I did so, and there was no white headman, and there was no law in this case. The whites first began, and there is nothing said about that, but great complaint made about what the Indians do. This is now three years since the white people killed three Indians; since that they have killed three other Indians, and taken their horses and what they had; and this summer they killed three more, and very lately they killed one more. We sent word to the white people that these murders were done, and the answer was that they were people that were outlaws, and we ought to go and kill them. The white people killed our people first, and the Indians then took satisfaction. There are yet three men that the red people have never taken satisfaction for. You have written that there were houses burnt, but we know of no such thing being done; the truth in such cases ought to be told, but this appears otherwise. On that side of the river the white people have killed five Indians, but there is nothing said about that; and all that the Indians have done is brought up. All the mischief the white people have done ought to be told to their headman. When there is any thing done, you write to us, but never write to your headman what the white people do. When the red people send talks, or write, they always send the truth. You have sent to us for your horses, and we send all that we could find; but there were some dead. It appears that all the mischief is laid on this town; but all the mischief that has been done by this town is two horses—one of them is dead, and the other was sent back. The cattle that we are accused of taking were cattle that the white people took from us. Our young men went and brought them back, with the same marks and brands. There were some of our young men out hunting, and they were killed. Others went to take satisfaction, and the kettle of one of the men that were killed was found in the house where the woman and two children were killed; and they supposed it had been her husband who had killed the Indians, and took their satisfaction there. We are accused of killing up Americans, and so on; but since the word was sent to us that peace was made, we stay steady at home and meddle with no person. You have sent to us respecting the black people on the Suwanee river. We have nothing to do with them; they were put there by the English, and to them you ought to apply for any thing about them. We do not wish our country desolated by an army passing through it for the concern of other people. The Indians have slaves there, also—a great many of them. When we have an opportunity, we shall apply to the English for them, but we cannot get them now. This is what we have to say at present. Sir, I conclude by subscribing myself your humble servant, &c. N. B. There are ten towns that have read this letter, and this is the answer. To the COMMANDING OFFICER at Fort Hawkins. Extract of a letter from George Graham, Acting Secretary of War, to Brevet Major General Edmund P. Gaines, Fort Hawkins, Georgia, dated OCTOBER 30, 1817. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 1st instant, covering a copy of the reply which was made by ten of the Seminole towns to the demand made by you on them for the surrender of the murderers of some of our citizens. These papers have been submitted to the President, and I am instructed by him to inform you that he approves of the movement of the troops from Fort Montgomery to Fort Scott. The appearance of this additional force, he flatters himself, will at least have the effect of restraining the Seminoles from committing further depredations, and, perhaps, of inducing them to make reparation for the murders which they have committed. Should they, however, persevere in their refusal to	make such reparation, it	is the wish of	the President that you should not on that account pass the line and	make an attack upon them within	the limits of Florida, until you shall have received instructions from this Department. You are authorized to	remove the Indians still	remaining on	the lands ceded by the treaty made by General Jackson with the	Creeks;	and, in doing so, it may	be proper to	retain some of them as hostages until reparation may have been made for the depredations which have been committed. On this subject, however, as well as to the manner'of removing them, you will exercise your discretion. McIntosh and the other chiefs of the Creek nation, who were here some time since, expressed then, decidedly, their unwillingness to permit any of the hostile Indians to return to their nation.	* P. S. The authority to remove the Indians will, of course, not extend to those Indians and their families who have claims to reservations of lands under the treaty. Extract of a letter from General Gaines to the Secretary of War, dated CHATAHOOCHEE, November 9,1817. From various report? from the Seminole Indians, I can only learn that they are determined to deliver up none of their offenders, nor will they restore stolen property, except one town, (the Mickasukies,) the chief of which professes to be friendly. By the enclosed letter from Major Twiggs, it appears they are determined to attack us as soon as we cross Flint river, and that they have 2,700 warriors. Although I fee) little faith in their threats, and believe their numbers to be overrated, yet I deem it proper to be provided with additional force. I have therefore requested of his excellency the Governor of Georgia a regiment of infantry and a squadron of cavalry, which he has informed me are held in readiness to march. Extract of a letter from General Edmund E. Gaines to Major General Andrew Jackson, dated HEAD-QUARTERS, FORT GAINES, GEORGIA, November 9, 1817. Previous to my leaving the Conecuh, I ascertained that the accounts I had received respecting the Seminole Indians being at Pensacola were incorrect, and that the number of Indians of different tribes there did not exceed what has been usual at this season of the year. This statement was soon after confirmed by Mr. Denson and the interpreter, (Cornels;) the latter, however, states that he had seen and conversed with the hostile party of Uchee warriors, part of whom killed Johnson and Magasky, and Mr. Glass. They now consist of about thirty warriors, or thirty-five. They were, a few days past, at the mouth of Yellow Water; had several stolen horses, which they offered for sale; and declared their determination to be always hostile towards our citizens. From Major Twiggs I learn that he has received information, upon which he places reliance, that the Indians have recently had a meeting at the Mickasuky town of near 2,700 warriors, when it was determined they would attack us as soon as we should cross the Flint river. Although I put little faith in these threats, and believe their numbers to be overrated, yet I deem it proper, keeping an eye to the safe side, to be provided with additional force; and have, therefore, desired the Governor of Georgia to send me the regiment of infantry and squadron of cavalry held in readiness for that purpose; for, in a war with savages, I think little should be hazarded, as every little advantage which we suffer them to acquire tends to add, in an extraordinary degree, to their strength and confidence. • Extract of a letter from General Gaines to Major General Andrew Jackson’, dated FORT SCOTT, GEORGIA, November 21, 1817. The first brigade arrived at this place on the 19th instant. I had previously sent an Indian runner to notify the first town chief, E-me-he-maut-by, of my arrival, and, with a view to ascertain whether his hostile temper had abated, requested him to visit me. He replied that he bad already said to the commanding officer here all he had to say, and he would not come. He had warned Major Twiggs not to cross or cut a stick of wood on the east side of Flint river, alleging that the land was his; that he was directed by the Puwers above and below to protect and defend it, and should do su. This being the talk referred to, and his town having continued to be hostile ever since the last war, (having participated, as the friendly Indians assert, in the predatory war carried on for some lime past against the Georgia frontier,) I yesterday detached two hundred and fifty men, (supposed to be about the strength of the town,) under the command of Major Twiggs, with orders to bring to me the chief and warriors, and, in the event of resistance, to treat them as enemies. The detachment arrived at the town early this morning, and was instantly fired upon, but without effect. The fire was briskly returned by the detachment, and the Indians put to flight, with the loss of four warriors slain, and, as there is reason to believe, many wounded. It is with deep regret I have to add that a woman was accidentally shot with some warriors in the act of forcing their way through our line, formed for the purpose of arresting their flight. The unfortunate woman had a blanket fastened round her, as many of the warriors had, which, amidst the smoke in which they were enveloped, rendered it impossible, as I am assured by the officers present, to distinguish her from the warriors. Among the articles found in the house of the chief was a British uniform coat, (scarlet,) with a pair of gold epaulettes, and a certificate signed by a British captain of marines, “ Robert White, in the absence of Colonel Nichols,” stating that the chief had always been a true and faithful friend to the British. Major Twiggs reports that the officers and men of the detachment, generally, performed their duty with zeal and propriety. The reports of friendly Indians concur in estimating the number of hostile warriors, including the Red Slicks and Seminoles, at more than two thousand, besides the blacks, amounting to near four hundred men, and increasing by runaways from Georgia. They have been promised, as several Indians inform me, assistance from the British at New Providence. This promise, though made by Woodbine, is relied on by most of the Seminole Indians. I have not a doubt but they will sue for peace as soon as they find their hopes of British aid to be without foundation. Extract of a letter from General Gaines to the Secretary of War, dated FORT SCOTT, GEORGIA, November 26, 1817. With a view to ascertain the strength of the hostile Indians in the vicinity of Fowltown, and to reconnoitre the adjacent country, I a few days past detached Lieutenant Colonel Arbuckle with three hundred officers and men. The colonel reports that the Indians had placed themselves in a swamp, out of which about sixty warriors made their appearance near the>town, and, with the war-whoop, commenced a brisk fire upon our troops, which they returned in a spirited manner. The fire continued but fifteen or twenty minutes, when the Indians were silenced, and retired into the swamp with a loss which the colonel'estimates at six or eight killed, and a greater number wounded. We had one man killed and two wounded. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 2, 1817. Your letter of the 9th ultimo, ndvising of the call on the Governor of Georgia to assemble the auxiliary force which had been previously required by you at Fort Hawkins on the 25th ultimo, has been received. It is hoped that the’letter addressed to you from this Department on the 30th of October will have been received, and that you will coniine your operations to the objects stated in that communication, and to such a disposition of the regular force under your command as will deter the Seminole Indians from making further depredations on the frontiers of Georgia. The state of our negotiations with Spain, and the temper manifested by the principal European Powers, make it impolitic, in the opinion of the President, to move a force at this time into the Spanish possessions for the mere purpose of chastising the Seminoles for depredations which have heretofore been committed by them. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM. Major General EDMUND P. GAINES. Extract of a letter from General Gaines to the Secretary of War, dated FORT SCOTT, GEORGIA, December 4, 1817. I would much more willingly devote my time and humble faculties in the delightful occupation of bringing over savage man to the walks of civil life, where this is practicable, without force, than to contribute to the destruction of any one of the human race. But every effort in the work of civilization, to be effectual, must accord with the immutable principles of justice. The savage must be taught and compelled to do that which is right, and to abstain from doing that which is wrong. The poisonous cup of barbarism cannot be taken from the lips of the savage by the mild voice of reason alone; the strong mandate of justice must be resorted to, and enforced. After all that the wisdom and philanthropy of our country and Government, aided by millions of money, have yet been able to effect, it is a melancholy truth that, in no Indian nation within my knowledge, (the Chickasaws excepted,) has the scalping-knife been laid aside for any considerable length of time, until their every hope of using it with impunity had been defeated. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 9, 1817. Your letter bearing date the 21st ultimo, advising of the arrival of the first brigade at Fort Scott on the 19th ultimo, and of the subsequent affair with the Indians at Fowltown, has been received. Although the necessity of this attack, and the consequent effusion of blood, is exceedingly to be regretted, yet it is hoped that the prompt measures which were taken by you on your arrival at Fort Scott, and the display of such an efficient force in that quarter, will induce the Indians to abstain from further depredations, and sue for peace. Referring to the letters addressed to you from this Department on the 30th of October and 2d of December, as manifesting the views of the President, I have to request that you conform to the instructions therein given. Should the Indians, however, assemble in force on the Spanish side of the line, and persevere in committing hostilities within the limits of the United States, you will, in that event, exercise a sound discretion as to the propriety of crossing the line for the purpose of attacking them and breaking up their town. I have the honor, &,c. GEORGE GRAHAM. Major General EDMUND P. GAINES. Extract of a letter from David B. Mitchell, Indian Agent, to George Graham, Acting Secretary of War, dated CREEK AGENCY, December 14, 1817. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your two letters of the 31st of October and 3d November last. Before the receipt of those letters, a meeting of the principal chiefs had been called by the Little Prince, at the town of Thla-cotch-cau, on the Chatahoochee river, near Fort Mitchell, at which I attended; the object of which was to take into consideration the state of the nation, and particularly the measures which it would be proper for them to take in relation to those Indians residing between Fort Gaines and the Spanish line; and, also, the conduct they should pursue with regard to the war with the Seminoles. They unanimously expressed much regret that hostilities should have commenced between the troops under General Gaines and the Fowltown Indians, who reside within our boundary, because those Indians, although they did not unite with the friendly ones during the late war, neither did they join the Red Sticks, and had recently expressed a great desire to become decidedly friendly. They were, however, perfectly willing that their warriors should join General Gaines against the Seminoles. I stated to them that it was not the desire of the President to go to war with the Seminoles, if he could honorably avoid it; and at the present moment be would not consent to their going against the Seminoles, within the Spanish territory, under authority of the United States; that they must wait, therefore, until I gave them the order to march: at the same time, I advised them to send a confidential and trusty chief down to the Indians living between Fort Gaines and the Spanish line, and desire them immediately to remove above the line of Jackson’s treaty, and that the same chief should then proceed directly to the Mickasuky town, the head-quarters of the Seminoles and Red Sticks of the late war, and propose to them certain terms of peace and a junction of their force to go against the negro camp. The objects which this chief was instructed to hold out to those Indians, as attainable by adopting this course, were various, and of sufficient importance, in the view of those making the proposition, to induce a belief that they would be favorably received; in which event, I should proceed to Fort Scott to adjust their differences. This course of proceeding was immediately adopted, and the headman of the Osoochees, Hopoie Haijo, set out on the same day, charged with the mission. To afford time to ascertain the result of this plan, and that I might be able to communicate with the War Department, another meeting was assigned for tho 11th of next month, at this place, when all the friendly warriors, with McIntosh at their head, will attend to receive their final orders. But, on my return to this place, I fortunately fell in with General Gaines on his way to Fort Hawkins, from whom I learned the fatal disaster which had befallen a detachment of his troops under Lieutenant Scott, on the 30th of last month; the particulars of which he informed me he had communicated, which renders a detail from me unnecessary. 21 E Extract of a letter from General Gaines to the Secretary of War, dated FORT HAWKINS, GEORGIA, December 15, 1817. I arrived at this place the day before yesterday morning. In the afternoon of the same day, I received the detachment of Georgia militia, under the command of Brigadier General Glasscock. They look well, and are ready to march; but, the inattention on the part of the contractor’s agent to the requisitions fora supply of rations will, I apprehend, according to custom, delay the movement of the militia until some part of the frontier settlements suffer by the Indians, who, I have no doubt, will detach considerable parties for this purpose as soon as they find themselves unable to succeed in any attempt against the regular troops at Fort Scott; and I think it cannot be long before they are convinced of this. But, although I consider the regular troops secure in the positions they occupy, yet I am satisfied their numbers will not warrant their being detached, or leaving their places of defence, except to a very small extent. I have just now received Mr. Graham’s letter of the 2d instant. The views of the President, so far as may depend on me, shall be scrupulously observed. I should instantly discharge the Georgia militia, were I not strongly impressed with a belief that such a step would hazard the safety of the frontier settlements. The Seminole Indians, however strange and absurd it may appear to those who understand little of their real character and extreme ignorance, entertain a notion that they cannot be beaten by our troops. They confidently assert that we never have beaten them, or any of their people, except when we have been assisted by red people. This will appear the less extraordinary when it is recollected that they have little or no means of knowing the strength and resources of our country; they have not travelled through it; they read neither books nor newspapers; nor have they opportunities of conversing with persons able to inform them. I feel warranted, from all I know of these savages, in saying they do not believe we cau beat them. This error of theirs has led them, from time to time, for many years past, to massacre onr frontier citizens—often the unoffending and helpless mother and babes. I felt myself fully authorized to adopt the only measures which long experience has proven to be adequate to put a stop to these outrages. I was pleased with the prospect of being instrumental in effecting an object of so much importance to our exposed frontier settlements, and which I fe.lt, and still feel, persuaded would, in the end, benefit the Indians. Extract of a letter from Major General Andrew Jackson to George Graham, Acting Secretary of War, dajed HEAD-QUARTERS, DIVISION OF THE SOUTH, NASHVILLE, December 16, 1817. I am in hopes that this check to the savages may incline them to peace. Should it not, and their hostility continue, the protection of our citizens will require that the wolf be struck in his den; for, rest assured, if ever the Indians find out that the territorial boundary of Spain is to be a sanctuary, their murders will be multiplied to a degree that our citizens on the southern frontier cannot bear. Spain is bound by treaties to keep the Indians within her territory at peace with us; having failed to do this, necessity will justify the measure, after giving her due notice, to foDow the marauders, and punish them in their retreat. The war hatchet having been raised, unless the Indians sue for peace, your frontier cannot be protected, without entering their country. From long experience, this result has been fully established. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 16, 1817. On the receipt of this letter, should the Seminole Indians still refuse to make reparation for their outrages and depredations on the citizens of the United States, it is the wish of the President that you consider yourself at liberty to march across the Florida line, and to attack them within its limits, should it be found necessary, unless they should shelter themselves under a Spanish post. In the last event, you will immediately notify this Department. I have ihe honor to be, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. Gen. EDMUND P. GAINES, Fort Scott, Georgia. Extract of a letter from the Secretary of War to Major General Andrew Jackson, at Nashville, Tennessee, dated DECEMBER 26, 1817. You will repair, with as little delay as practicable, to Fort Scott, and assume the immediate command of the forces in that quarter of the southern division. The increasing display of hostile intentions by the Seminole Indians may render it necessary to concentrate all the contiguous disposable force of your division upon that quarter. The regular force now there is about eight hundred strong, and one thousand militia of the State of Georgia are called into service. General Gaines estimates the strength of the Indians at two thousand seven hundred. Should you be of opinion that our numbers are too small to beat the enemy, you will call on the Executives of the adjacent States for such an additional militia force as you may deem requisite. 15th CONGRESS.]	
