NO. 171.	[2d SESSION. TREATIES WITH SEVERAL TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 14, 1820. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, December 14, 1820. I submit to the consideration of the Senate, for their advice and consent as to the ratification, the following treaties, concluded with the several Indian tribes therein mentioned, since the last session of Congress, with their documents, viz: with the Weas, Kickapoos, Chippewas, Ottawas, Choctaws, and Mahas; and, also, a treaty with the Kickapoos, amended, as proposed by a resolution of the Senate at their last session. JAMES MONROE. TREATY WITH THE WEAS. A treaty made and concluded by Benjamin Parke, a commissioner for that purpose on the part of the United States, of the one pari, and the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the Wea tribe of Indians, of the other part. ARTICLE 1. The chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the said tribe agree to cede, and they do hereby cede and relinquish, to the United States, all the lands reserved by the second article of the treaty between the United States and tho said tribe, concluded at St. Mary’s, on the secund day of October, eighteen hundred and eighteen. ART. 2. The sum of five thousand dollars, in money and goods, which is now paid and delivered by the United States, the receipt whereof the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the said tribe do hereby acknowledge, is considered by the parties a full compensation for the cession and relinquishment above mentioned. ART. 3. As it is contemplated by the said tribe to remove from the Wabash, it is agreed that the annuity secured to the Weas by the treaty of St. Mary’s, above mentioned, shall hereafter be paid to them at Kaskaskia, in the State of Illinois. ART. 4. This treaty, as soon as it is ratified by the President and Senate of the United States, to be binding on the contracting parties. In testimony whereof, the said Benjamin Parke, commissioner as aforesaid, and the said chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the said tribe, have hereunto set their hands, at Vincennes, this eleventh day of August, eighteen hundred and twenty. B. PARKE. [Signed, also, by the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the Wca tribe of Indians.] TREATY WITH THE KICKAPOOS OF THE VERMILION. Articles of a convention made and concluded between Benjamin Parke, a commissioner on the part of the United States for that purpose, of the one part, and the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the tribe of Kickapoos of the Vermilion, of the other part. ARTICLE 1. It is agreed that the annuity secured to the said tribe by the treaty of the thirtieth of August, eighteen hundred and nineteen, shall hereafter be paid to the said tribe at Kaskaskia, in the State of Illinois. ART. 2. As the said tribe are now about leaving their settlements on the Wabash, and have desired some assistance to enable them to remove, the said Benjamin Parke, on behalf of the United States, has paid and advanced to the said tribe two thousand dollars, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged; which said sum of two thousand dollars is to be considered as an equivalent, in full, for the annuity due the said tribe, by virtue of the aforesaid treaty, for the year eighteen hundred and twenty-one. In testimony whereof, the said Benjamin Parke, commissioner as aforesaid, and the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the said tribe, have hereunto set their hands, at Vincennes, the fifth day of September, eighteen hundred and twenty. B. PARKE. [Signed, also, by the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the Kickapoos of the Vermilion.] TREATY WITH THE CHtPPEWAS. Articles of a treaty wade and concluded at the Sault de St. Marie, in the Territory of Michigan, between the United States of America, by their commissioner, Lewis Cass, and the Chippewa tribe of Indians. ARTICLE 1. The Chippewa tribe of Indians cede to the United States the following tract of land: Beginning at the Big Rock in the river St. Mary’s, on the boundary line between the United States and the British Province of Upper Canada; and running thence, down the said river, with the middle thereof, to the Little Rapid; and from those points running back from the said river, so as to include sixteen square miles of land. ART. 2. The Chippewa tribe of Indians acknowledge to have received a quantity of goods, in full satisfaction of the preceding cession. ART. 3. The United States will secure to the Indians a perpetual right of fishing at the Falls of St. Mary’s, and also a place of encampment upon the tract hereby ceded, convenient to the fishing ground; which place shall not interfere with the defences of any military work which may be erected, nor with any private rights. ART. 4. This treaty, after the same shall he ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, shall be obligatory on the contracting parties. In witness whereof, the said Lewis Cass, commissioner as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors of the said Chippewa tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at the place aforesaid, this sixteenth day of June, in the vear of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twentv. !	‘	'	LEWIS CASS. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Chippewa tribe of Indians.] TREATY WITH THE OTTAWAS AND CHIPPEWAS. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at L’Arbre Croche and Michilimackinac, in the Territory of Michigan, between the United States of America, by their commissioner, Lewis Cass, and the Ottawa and Chippewa nations of Indians. ARTICLE 1. The Ottawa and Chippewa nations of Indians cede to the United States the St. Martin islands, in Lake Huron, containing plaster of Paris, and to be located under the direction of the United States. ART. 2. The Ottawa and Chippewa nations of Indians acknowledge to have this day received a quantity of goods, in full satisfaction of the above cession. ART. 3. This treaty shall be obligatory on the contracting parties after the same shall be ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof. In testimony whereof, the said Lewis Cass, commissioner as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors of the Ottawa and Chippewa nations of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at Michilimackinac and L’Arbre Croche, in the Territory of Michigan, this sixth day of Joly, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty. LEWIS CASS. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Ottawa and Chippewa nations of Indians.] /io TREATY WITH THE CHOCTAWS. fiuem. A treaty of friendship, limits, and accommodation, between the United States of America and man aioctaw nation of Indians, begun and concluded at the treaty ground in said nation, near Doak’s Stana^rspohe Natchez road. Whereas it is an important object with the President of the United States to promote the civilization of the Choctaw Indians^ by the establishment of schools amongst them, and to perpetuate them as a nation, by exchanging for a small part of their land here a country’ beyond the Mississippi river, where all who live by hunting and will not work may be collected and settled together: and whereas it is desirable to the State of Mississippi to obtain a small part of the land belonging to said nation: for the mutual accommodation of the parties, and for securing the happiness and protection of the whole Choctaw nation, as well as preserving that harmony and friendship which so happily subsists between them and the United States, James Monroe, President of the United States of America, by Andrew Jackson, of the State of Tennessee, major general in the army of the United States, and General Thomas Hinds, of the State of Mississippi, commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States, on the one part, and the mingoes, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation, in full council assembled, on the other part, have freehand voluntarily entered into the following articles, viz: ARTICLE 1. To enable the President of the United States to carry into effect the above grand and humane objects, the mingoes, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation, in full council assembled, in behalf of themselves and the said nation, do, by these presents, cede to the United States of America all the land lying and being within the following boundaries, to wit: Beginning on the Choctaw boundary east of Pearl river, at a point due south of the White Oak spring, on the old Indian path; thence, north, to said spring; thence., northwardly, to a black oak, standing on the Natchez road, about forty poles eastwardly from Doak’s fence, marked A. J., and blazed, with two large pines and a black oak standing near thereto, and marked as pointers; thence, a straight line, to the head of Black creek, or Bouge Loosa; thence, down Black creek, or Bouge Loosa, to a small lake; thence, a direct course, so as to strike the Mississippi one mile below the mouth of the Arkansas river; thence, down the Mississippi, to our boundary; thence, round and along the same, to the beginning. ART. 2. For and in consideration of the foregoing cession on the part of the Choctaw nation, and in part satisfaction for the same, the commissioners of the United States, in behalf of said States, do hereby cede to said nation a tract of country west of the Mississippi river, situate between the Arkansas and Red rivers, and bounded as follows: Beginning on the Arkansas river, where the lower boundary line of the Cherokees strikes the same; thence, up the Arkansas, to tile Canadian Fork, and up the same to its source; thence, due south, to the Red river; thence, down Red river, three miles below the mouth of Little river, which empties itself into Red river, on the north side; thence, a direct line, to the beginning. _ ART. 3. To prevent any dispute upon the subject of the boundaries mentioned in the first and second articles, it is hereby stipulated between the parties that the same shall be ascertained and distinctly marked by a commis- sioner or commissioners, to be appointed by the United States, accompanied by such person as the Choctaw nation may select; said nation having thirty days’ previous notice of the time, and place at which the operation will commence. The person so chosen by the Choctaws shall act as a pilot or guide, for which the United States will pay him two dollars per day whilst actually engaged in the performance of that duty. ART. 4. The boundaries hereby established between the Choctaw Indians and the United States, on this side of the Mississippi river, shall remain without alteration, until the period at which said nation shall become so civilized and enlightened as to be made citizens of the United States; and Congress shall lay off a limited parcel of land for the benefit of each family or individual in the nation. ART. 5. For the purpose of aiding and assisting the poor Indians who wish to remove to the country hereby ceded on the part of the United States, and to enable them to do well and support their families, the commissioners of the United States engage, in behalf of said States, to give to each warrior a blanket, kettle, rifle gun, bullet moulds and wipers, and ammunition sufficient for hunting and defence for one year; said warrior shall also be supplied with corn, to support him and his family for the same period, and whilst travelling to the country above ceded to the Choctaw nation. ART. 6. The commissioners of the United States further covenant and agree, on the part of said States, that an agent shall be appointed, in due time, for the benefit of the Choctaw Indians who may be permanently settled in the enuntry ceded to them beyond the Mississippi river; and, at a convenient period, a factor shall be sent there, with goods to supply their wants. A blacksmith shall also be settled amongst them, at a point most convenient to the population; and a faithful person appointed, whose duty it shall be to use every reasonable exertion to collect all the wandering Indians belonging to the Choctaw nation upon the land hereby provided for their permanent settlement. ART. 7. Out of the lands ceded by the Choctaw nation to the United States, the commissioners aforesaid, in behalf of said States, further covenant and agree that fifty-four sections of one mile square shall be laid out, in good land, by the President of the United States, and sold, for the purpose of raising a fund, to be applied to the support of the Choctaw schools on both sides of the Mississippi river: three-fourths of said fund shall be appropriated for the benefit of the schools here, and the remaining fourth for the establishment of one or more beyond the Mississippi; the whole to be placed in the hands of the President of the United States, and to be applied by him, expressly and exclusively, to this valuable object. ART. 8. To remove any discontent which may have arisen in the Choctaw nation, in consequence of six thousand dollars of their annuity having been appropriated annually, for sixteen years, by some of the chiefs, for the support of their schools, the commissioners of the United States oblige themselves, on the part of said States, to set apart an additional tract of good land, for raising a fund equal to that given by the said chiefs, so that the whole of the annuity may remain in the nation, and be divided amongst them. And, in order that exact justice may be done to the poor and distressed of said nation, it shall be the duty of the agent to see that the wants of every deaf, dumb, blind, and distressed Indian shall be first supplied out of said annuity, and the balance equally distributed amongst every individual of said nation. ART. 9. All those who have separate settlements, and fall within the limits of the land ceded by the Choctaw nation to the United States, and who desire to remain where they now reside, shall be secured in a tract or parcel of land one mile square, to include their improvements. Any one who prefers removing, if he does so within one year from the date of this treaty, shall be paid their full value, to be ascertained by two persons to be appointed by the President of the United States. ART. 10. As there are some who have valuable buildings, on the roads and elsewhere, upon the lands hereby ceded, should they remove, it is further agreed, by the aforesaid commissioners, in behalf of the United States, that the inconvenience of doing sn shall be considered, and such allowance made as will amount to an equivalent. For this purpose, there shall be paid to the mingo Puckshenubbee, five hundred dollars; to Harrison, two hundred dollars; to Captain Cobb, two hundred dollars; to William Hays, two hundred dollars; to Ogleno, two hundred dollars; and to all others who have comfortable houses, a compensation in the same proportion. ART. 11. It is also provided by the commissioners of the United States, and they agree, in behalf of said States, that those Choctaw chiefs and warriors who have not received compensation for their services during the campaign to Pensacola, in the late war, shall be paid whatever is due them over and above the value of the blanket, shirt, flap, and leggings which have been delivered to them. ART. 12. In order to promote industry and sobriety amongst all classes of the red people in this nation, but particularly the poor, it is further provided by the parties, that the agent appointed to reside there shall be, and he is hereby, vested with full power to seize and confiscate all the whiskey which may be introduced into said nation, except that used at public stands, or brought in by the permit of the agent or the principal chiefs of the three districts. ART. 13. To enable the mingoes, chiefs, and headmen of the Choctaw nation to raise and organize a corps of light horse, consisting of ten in each district, so that good order may be maintained, and that all men, both white and red, may be compelled to pay their just debts, it is stipulated and agreed that the sum of two hundred dollars shall be appropriated by the United States, for each district, annually, and placed in the hands of the agent, to pay the expenses incurred in raising and establishing said corps, which is to act as executive officers, in maintaining good order, and compelling bad men to remove from the nation, who are not authorized to live in it by a regular permit from the agent. ART. 14. Whereas the father of the beloved chief Musliulatubbee, of the Lower Towns, for and during his life, did receive from the United States the sum nf one hundred and fifty dollars, annually, it is hereby stipulated that his son and successor, Mushulatubbee, shall annually be paid the same amount during his natural life, to commence from the ratification of this treaty. ART. 15. The peace and harmony subsisting between the Choctaw nation of Indians and the United States is hereby renewed, continued, and declared to be perpetual. ART. 16. These articles shall take effect and become obligatory on the contracting parties so soon as the same shall be ratified by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. In testimony whereof, the commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States, and the mingoes, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals-at the place above written, this eighteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty, and of the independence of the United States the forty-fifth. ANDREW JACKSON, ) THOMAS HINDS, | Commas,oners. [Signed, also, by the mingoes, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation.] TREATY WITH THE MAHAS. Articles of a convention made on the twenty-third day of September, one thousand eight hundred and twenty, at Camp Council Bluff, on the Missouri river, between Henry Atkinson, brigadier general of United States army, and Benjamin O'Fallon, Indian agent for the tribes on the Missouri, being specially authorized thereto by the Secretary of War, and the undersigned chiefs and headmen of the Maha nation of Indians, duly authorized and empowered by said nation. ARTICLE 1. The undersigned chiefs and headmen of the Maha nation of Indians, for themselves, and in behalf of their nation, cede and relinquish to the United States all right, title, interest, and claim which they have, ur ever had, to a tract of fifteen miles square of the country around Council Bluff, to be bounded by due east, west, north, and south lines, and so located that the flag-staff in the area of the new cantonment on Council Bluff shall be the centre of the aforesaid tract of fifteen miles square. ART. 2. The said Henry Atkinson, brigadier general of United States army, and Benjamin O’Fallon, Indian agent for the tribes on the Missouri, on the part of the United States, hereby stipulate and agree that, in consideration of the relinquishment of title by the Maha nation, as stated in the preceding article, the United States will pay to the Maha nation thirty smooth-bored guns, one nest of brass kettles, sixty-three point Mackinaw blankets, two hundred and twenty-five yards of strouding, two hundred pounds of powder, four hundred pounds of lead, in balls, one thousand flints, forty-eight dozen belt knives, and two hundred and fifty pounds of tobacco, in or before the month of June next, at this place, provided this convention is duly ratified by the Government of the United States. ART. 3. The United States grant to the Maha nation the privilege of hunting on such parts of the aforesaid ceded tract as may not be used for military purposes, trading establishments, farming, and range for stock. Done at the place and on the day and year first above written. H. ATKINSON, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army. B. O’FALLON, U. S. Indian Agent. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headmen of the Maha Indians.] We certify that the foregoing agreement has been faithfully interpreted to the chiefs and headmen who have subscribed to the within articles. JOHN DOUGHERTY, U. S. Indian Agent and Interpreter. MICHAEL BARDA, Interpreter. TREATY WITH THE KICKAPOOS. A treaty made and concluded at Edwardsville, in the State of Illinois, between Auguste Chouteau and Benjamin Stephenson, commissioners on the part and behalf of the United States of America, of the one part, and the undersigned principal chiefs and warriors of the Kickapoo tribe of Indians, on the part ayd behalf of said tribe, of the other part. ARTICLE 1. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their said tribe, for and in consideration of the promises and stipulations hereinafter made, do hereby cede and relinquish to the United States, forever, all - their right, interest, and title, of, in, and to the following tracts of land, viz: All their land on the southeast side of the Wabash river, including the principal village in which their ancestors formerly resided, consisting of a large tract, to which they have had from time immemorial, and now have, a just right, that they have never heretofore ceded, or otherwise disposed of, in any manner whatever. Also, all the land within the following boundaries, viz: Beginning on the Wabash river, at the upper point of their cession made by the second article of their treaty at Vincennes, on the ninth December, one thousand eight hundred and nine; running thence, northwestwardly, to the dividing line between the States of Illinois and Indiana; thence, along said line, to the Kankakee river; thence, with said river, to the Illinois river; thence, down the latter, to its mouth; thence, with a direct line, to the northwest corner of the Vincennes tract, as recognised in the treaty with the Piankeshaw tribe of Indians, at Vincennes, on the thirtieth December, one thousand eight hundred and five; and thence, with the western and northern boundaries of the cessions heretofore made by the said Kickapoo tribe of Indians, to the beginning: of which last-described tract of land the said Kickapoo tribe claim a large portion by descent from their ancestors, and the balance by conquest from the Illinois nation, and uninterrupted possession for more than half a century. AHT. 2. The said tribe hereby confirm all their former treaties with the United States, and relinquish to them all claim to every portion of their lands which may have been ceded by any other trihe or tribes, and all and every demand which they might have had in consequence of the second article of the treaty made with the Pattawatamie nation of Indians, at St. Mary’s, on the second October, one thousand eight hundred and eighteen. ART. 3. The said tribe acknowledge themselves now to be, and promise to continue, under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign whatever. ART. 4. The said tribe release the United States from all obligations imposed by any treaties heretofore made with them. ART. 5. The United States, in lieu of all former stipulations, and in consideration of cessions of land heretofore made by the said tribe, promise to pay them, at their town on the waters of the Osage river, two thousand dollars, in silver, annually, for fifteen successive years. ART. 6. In consideration of the cession made, by the aforesaid tribe, in the first article of this treaty, the United States, in addition to three thousand dollars worth of merchandise this day paid to the said tribe, hereby cede to them and their heirs, forever, a certain tract of land lying in the Territory of Missouri, and included within the following boundaries, viz: Beginning at the confluence of the rivers Pomme de Terre and Osage: thence, up said river Pomme de Terre, to the dividing ridge which separates the waters of Osage and White rivers; thence, with said ridge, and westwardly, to the Osage line; thence, due north, with said line, to Nerve creek; thence, down the same, to a point due south of the mouth of White Clay or Richard creek; thence, north, to the Osage river; thence, down said river, to the beginning: Provided, nevertheless, That the said tribe shall never sell the said land without the consent of the President of the United States. ART. 7. The United States promise to guaranty tn the said tribe the peaceable possession of the tract of land hereby ceded to them, and to restrain and prevent all white persons from hunting, settling, or otherwise intruding upon it. But any citizen or citizens of the United States, being lawfully authorized for that purpose, shall be permitted to pass and repass through the said tract, and to navigate the waters thereof, without any hindrance, toll, ur exaction from the said tribe. ART. 8. For the purpose of facilitating the removal of the said tribe to the tract of land hereby ceded to them, the United States will furnish them with two boats, well manned, to transport their property from any point they may designate on the Illinois river; and some judicioos citizen shall be selected to accompany them in their passage through the white settlements to their intended residence. ART. 9. The United States will take the said Kickapoo tribe under their care and patronage, and will afford them protection against all persons whatever, provided they conform to the laws of the United States, and refrain from making war, or giving any insult or offence to any other Indian tribe, or to any foreign nation, without first obtaining the approbation and consent of the United States. ART. 10. The said tribe, in addition to their above-described cessions, do hereby cede and relinquish to the United States, generally, and without reservation, all other tracts of land to which they have any right or title on the left side of the Illinois and Mississippi rivers. In testimony whereof, the commissioners aforesaid, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors, as aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals. Done at Edwardsville, in the Slate of Illinois, this thirtieth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and nineteen, and of the independence of the United States the forty-fourth. AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU, BENJAMIN STEPHENSON. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Kickapoo nation of Indians.] TREATY WITH THE KICKAPOOS. A treaty made and concluded by and between Auguste Chouteau and Benjamin Stephenson, commissioners of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Kickapoo tribe of Indians, on the part and behalf of their said nation, of the other part; the same being supplementary to, and amendatory of, the treaty made and concluded at Edwardsville, on the thirtieth July, one thousand eight hundred and nineteen, between the United States and the said Kickapoo nation. ARTICLE 1. It is agreed between the United States and the Kickapoo tribe of Indians that the sixth article of the treaty to which this is supplementary shall be, and the same is hereby, altered and amended so as to read as follows, viz:	' t In consideration of, and exchange for, the cession made by the aforesaid tribe, in the first article of this treaty, the United States, in addition to three thousand dollars worth of merchandise, this day paid to the said tribe, hereby cede to the said tribe, to be by them possessed, in like manner as the lands ceded by the first article of this treaty by them to the United States were possessed, a certain tract of land in the Territory of Missouri, and included within the following boundaries, viz: Beginning at the confluence of the rivers Pomme de Terre and Osage; thence, up said river Pomme de Terre, to the dividing ridge which separates the waters of Osage and White rivers; thence, ■with said ridge, and westwardly, to the Osage line; thence, due north, with said line, to Nerve creek; thence, down the same, to a point doe south of the mouth of White Clay or Richard creek; thence, north, to the Osage river; thence, down said river, to the beginning. In testimony whereof, the commissioners aforesaid, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors, as aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals. Done at St. Louis, in the Territory of Missouri, the nineteenth of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty, and of the independence of the United States the forty-fifth. AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU, BENJAMIN STEPHENSON. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Kickapoo nation.] SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, September 8, 1819. Your letter of the I9th ultimo has been received. The plan you propose for extinguishing the title of the Weas to the reserve of the Raccoon creek, and removing them from their present residence, is approved; and you are at liberty to offer them a sum in gross, or payable in annual instalments, as may be most agreeable to them, in lieu of their present annuity. It is desirable that the Weas, as well as the Kickapoos, in case treaties are concluded with them, should be removed to the country west of the Mississippi, where a more extended scope is afforded for the indulgence of their barbarous propensities and habits. It is important, in an economical point of view, that the meetings which you are about to hold with these tribes of Indians should be terminated in as short a time as possible. The agent has been instructed as to the rations it may be necessary to issue at them. I have the honor, &c. BENJAMIN PARKE, Vincennes.	J. C. CALHOUN. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, April 5, 1820. I have received your letters of the 10th, 11th, and 17th ultimo. In relation to procuring cessions of land from the Indians, the Government has decided that it would be inexpedient to obtain any further extinguishment of Indian title except at the Sault de St. Marie, where it is the wish of the Department that an inconsiderable cession, not exceeding ten miles square, (unless strong reasons for a greater cession should present themselves from an actual inspection of the country,) should be acquired upon the most reasonable terms, so as to comprehend the proposed military position there.	. Herewith you will receive a plat of the country about the Sault de St. Marie, on which is indicated the military site intended to be occupied for defence. You will also procure the cession of the islands containing plaster, provided these islands are clearly within the boundary of the United States, and can be obtained without any considerable expense. A commission authorizing you to hold these treaties will be forwarded to you in a few days. The reason, in part, for the decision not to procure other cessions, is the dissatisfaction manifested in Congress at a too rapid extinguishment of Indian title. By extinguishing at remote points, this dissatisfaction will probably be increased, and may tend to prevent our obtaining other cessions at more important points. As it is desirable to know by what title the people at Green Bay and Prairie do Chien hold their lands, and whether or not the Indian titles to those lands were extinguished by the French, at any period subsequent to their possession of the country, (which is the impression of this Department,) you will communicate such information as von possess, or may obtain during your tour, on this subject. In addition to Mr. Schoolcraft, Captain Douglass of the engineer corps has been ordered to join you; and Mr. Whitney, in whose behalf application has been made for that purpose, may accompany you, if you can accommodate him. Should he accompany you, he will be allowed the same compensation made to Mr. Schoolcraft, who will be allowed one dollar and fifty cents a day for the time actually employed. Upon your report upon Judge Riley’s claim, it was decided that the Government was under no obligation to assume the payment of the Indian debt due to him; but, in consideration of his zeal and exertions, and of the influence of these upon your negotiations with the Indians, he has been allowed a compensation in full, which is satisfactory to him. The money due on last year’s estimate, and $20,000 on account of this year’s expenses of your superintendency, will be immediately remitted to you; in conformity with your suggestions, io future, funds for your superintendency will be remitted to you semi-annually. In order to ascertain the amount which ought to be remitted, and to keep the Department apprized of the nature of the disbursements in your superintendency, you will furnish semi-annual estimates, under the several heads, of disbursements of the several agencies under your control. I send, herewith, a copy of a letter, with its enclosures, from Colonel Smith of the 3d regiment, to which I call your particular attention. You will see in the transactions alluded to that certain individuals of jthe Winnebagoes, Chippewas, and Menomonies have evinced a hostile spirit, which must be repressed. On your arrival in the country of these tribes, you will represent to them the desire of the Government to cultivate friendly dispositions towards them, but which cannot be continued unless they effectually restrain the hostile conduct of their people. I have the honor to be, &c. Governor LEWIS CASS, Detroit.	J. C. CALHOUN. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 1, 1820. I enclose you a commission to treat with the Indians of the Michigan Territory. The sum of $20,000 has been appropriated to defray the expense of the proposed treaty. The time, place, and mode of conducting the treaty are left discretionary with you, taking care that the whole expenses of the treaty, including the expenses of your commission, presents, and rations, do not exceed the sum appropriated. Requisition will be made on the issuing commissary at Detroit for the provisions which may be required. It is the wish of the President that the whole of the Indian titles within the peninsula of Michigan should be extinguished, in order to strengthen our population and resources in that heretofore feeble portion of our country. Any suitable arrangement by which the tribes who now inhabit it can be induced to change their residence to the west of Lake Michigan, or even to the west of the Mississippi, will meet with his approbation. Your compensation will be at the rate of eight dollars per diem for the time you are actually engaged, and that of your secretary, whom you are authorized to appoint, at the rate of five dollars per diem for the time actually engaged. Your certificate of honor as to the time will be a sufficient voucher. Similar certificates as to the amount and kind of presents authorized by you, and to whom distributed, will be required. The issue of provisions will be made according to the enclosed circular. The expense which may be incurred will be paid by your draft on the receiver of public money, except the expense of furnishing the provisions, which will be adjusted here, by giving the appropriation for the commissary’s department a credit to the amount of the value of the provisions issued. I have the honor to be, &c. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 10, 1820. You will see by the enclosed copy of a resolution that the Senate have refused to ratify the treaty with the Kickapoo Indians, concluded with them the 30th of July, 1819, for the reasons therein stated. The President requests you to take measures to amend the treaty conformably to the resolution of the Senate. It is hoped nu objections will be made to this alteration by the Indians, as it is of but little importance to them whether they hold their lands according to the tenure of the present treaty, or conformably to the terms of the resolution of the Senate, especially as it is believed the present treaty may be susceptible of the interpretation required by the Senate in the proposed alterations. I have the honor to be, &.c. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, October 1, 1820. Your letter of the 25th August has been received. The annuity to be paid to the Kickapoos by the treaty which you had concluded with them cannot be paid until the treaty is finally ratified by the Senate, and an appropriation made to carry it into effect. I am glad to find you have succeeded in obtaining the alteration in the treaty, for which it was returned to you, by order of the Senate; and will take the earliest opportunity, after you have transmitted it to this Department, to lay it before that budy. When the treaty is ratified, and the necessary appropriations made, (which will, no doubt, be done early in the ensuing session of Congress,) its stipulations will be promptly and faithfully complied with. The Department is satisfied as to the economy with which the negotiation has been conducted. I have, &c. A. CHOUTEAU, Esq. and ) „	. . r o. T .. ,, B. STEPHENSON, Esq. f Commissioners, Sfc., St. Louis, Mo. Sin:	DEPARTMENT OF WAB, October 5, 1820. I enclose extracts of letters received from Mr. Graham, Indian agent for Illinois, relative to a claim on the part of the Pattawatamies to the country which has been ceded by the treaty concluded with the Kaskaskias and other tribes of Indians, by Messrs. Edwards and Chouteau, in September, 1818, and by the treaty concluded with the Kickapoos, in the course of the last year, by Messrs. Chouteau and Stephenson. As this Department does not possess sufficient information to decide upon the claim of the Pattawatamies, I have to request you will furnish me with all the information you possess, or can obtain, upon the subject, as early as practicable.	, I have, &c. •	JOHN C. CALHOUN. His Excellency WILLIAM CLARK, St. Louis. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, October 11, 1820. I have received your letter of the 11th ultimo. The treaty which was made last year with the Kickapoos not having been ratified by the Senate, no appropriation was made by Congress for the payment of the annuity. Until the treaty, as recently amended, be approved by the Senate, no remittance on account of annuities can be made. So soon as Congress meet, the President will submit the treaty to the Senate; and, if ratified, the annuities will be immediately sent to the Kickapoos, through the proper agent, who will be instructed to use all suitable means to preserve peace between them and the Osages. But, in the mean time, as I have no doubt but the tribe will be in great want of their annuity, I have instructed Governor Clark to draw on the Department for the amount payable on the passage of the appropriation. If the Governor can negotiate a bill on this condition, the Indians will receive the annuity of the last year immediately. I have, &c. A. CHOUTEAU, Esq., St. Louis, Mo.	J. C. CALHOUN. DEAR SIR:	CHOCTAW NATION, March 18, 1819. I take this pleasure to inform you I have got several families of the Choctaws who are willing to move west of the Mississippi; and, I believe, if there was a treaty held in the nation, there would be one-third or half of the nation would move in the fall. I find all the rich white people living in the nation; they give bad talks to the Indians; they tell them not to exchange lands, and some public men in the nation. Some of the Indians has threatened to knock me in the head on this account. I have never heard from you nor the President of the United States about my business. You wrote for me at your house. I hope you will write to me soon as you receive answer. Excuse my bad writing, as I told you I never went to school but six months. I am your friend, JAMES PITCHLYNN. SIR:	HERMITAGE, NEAR NASHVILLE, April 22, 1819. I have received a commission from the President to hold, in conjunction with yourself and Colonel Burnett, a treaty with the Choctaws. It appears, from the communication I have received, that you are instructed to obtain the sense of the nation whether or not they are disposed to treat, and that the treaty is not to be ordered unless there is a probability of success. Permit me to suggest the propriety of making the following statement to the chiefs of the nation, by way of preparing them for the cession, so important to themselves, to the people of the State of Mississippi, and desirable to their friend and father the President of the United States. It is a fact, and ought not to be withheld from them, as it will bring to their view their true situation, and open their eyes to their own benefit and happiness; it is this: that a bill was reported at the last session of Congress, the object of which was to enforce the return of that part of the nation which had settled west of the river Mississippi; which bill is suspended until the next meeting of Congress, fnr the purpose of obtaining the sense of the nation whether a part or the whole of the nation would agree to exchange the land wher.e they now live, and cross and settle with them. What is meant by the whole is, the great body of the nation who are not inclined to come under the immediate laws of the United States. Al) that are ripe for society, and wish it, would be indulged with a reservation, should it appear that the nation are opposed to the exchange of their present situation. The next Congress will pass a law, as I believe, to bring back those now settled west of the Mississippi river. This will place the nation in an unpleasant situation; for, as soon as it is made known that the Choctaw nation have declined removing to this country, procured for them by the United States, the whites will immediately settle on it, and the United States will be compelled to make sale of it. What, then, will be the situation of the nation? A vast portion of them will not labor, and they cannot support themselves east of the river by hunting. The Six Towns cannot exist where they now are; and the consequence will be, that necessity will compel them to separate, and some join one tribe and some another; by which they will become extinct and lost as a nation. Every friend to the welfare of that nation ought to advise them against a conduct which will lead to that event. Now is the time, and the only time, the Government will have it in its power to make them happy, by holding the land west of the Mississippi for them; and this can only be done by their consent to an exchange, in whole or in part. Now the Government has it in its power to act liberally with them; this is its wish. The instructions given me are ample; and, if I act at all, it will be with a view to the happiness of the nation, and the convenience of the State of Mississippi. Every friend of the nation must see the road to the perpetuation and happiness of the whole nation in the plan proposed, and the happiness of thnse who wish to remain, by being secured in a reservation of land where they now are, and protected by the laws, and becoming citizens of the United States. If they exchange, provision will he made for their comfort until they are settled in their new country; and if a treaty is held, you may say to the chiefs that we are instructed not only to be liberal to the nation, but to them individually. I would recommend, should this meet your approbation, that you send it round to the chiefs by Young Pitch- lynn, eldest son of the interpreter to the nation, that he may explain it to the chiefs and warriors; for which service, if a treaty is made, he will be amply rewarded. If the nation do not treat, you will have to stipulate, as agent, that he will be paid for his trouble and expenses. He has written to me that he would be willing to undertake the service. On the receipt of this, please write me. I am, respectfully, &c. Colonel JoHjf MCKEE, Choctaw Agent.	ANDREW JACKSON. MUSHULATUBBEE:	IN GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE CHOCTAW NATION, August 12, 1S19. We have heard the request of our father the President to exchange our country; but we are informed by some of our people who are acquainted with the situation intended for us that it is not so good as the nne we live in. We have made arrangements, in respect to civilization, tn do better in our country than we have heretofore done. We return thanks for the school established in our nation, which has been directed by our father; we have made up our minds not to leave the country of our fathers. We are sorry that we cannot comply with our father’s request; a man cannot make up his mind at once to suit every object; but we have made up ours to remain where we have always lived. POOSHAMATAHA: This day we have made up our minds deliberately to answer our great father’s talk. Children, even after they have grown to be men, ought to regard the advice of their father, as when they were small. I am sorry I cannot comply with the request of my father; I hope he will not be displeased. We wish to remain here, where we have grown up as the herbs of the woods; and do not wish to be transplanted into another soil. Those of our people who are over the Mississippi did not go there with the consent of the nation; they are considered as strangers; they have no houses or places of residence; they are like wolves; it is the wish of the council that the President would direct his agents to the west to order these stragglers home, and, if they will not come, to direct them where he pleases. I am well acquainted with the country contemplated for us. I have often had my feet sorely bruised there by the roughness of its surface. We have always considered the proposition to purchase some of our lands; we have decided that we have none to spare. If a mao should give one-half of his garment, the remainder would be of no use; and take two fingers from the hand, the remainder would be of little use. When we had land to spare, we gave it, with very little talk, to the commissioners you sent to us at Tombigbee, as children ought to do to a father. We hope our father will not be displeased; he has made us [happy] from our infancy; we hope the same protection will be found in the arms of our father as formerly. When a child wakes in the night, he feels for the arm of his father to shield him from danger.	\% The foregoing address to the President of the United States, through the honorable Secretary of War, was delivered by the two great medal chiefs whose names are prefixed to the parts, delivered, by each, and subscribed in presence and on behalf of the council. MUSHULATUBBEE, his X mark. Certified copy:	R. K. CALL.	POOSHAMATAHA, his X mark. SIR:	FRENCH CAMP, CHOCTAW NATION, August 13, 1819. I have the honor to enclose a copy of an address from the council of thé nation to the President, which speaks for itself. I had the fullest confidence, before the council convened, that the Six Towns, at least, would accede to the wishes of the Government. At a council in their own district, at which Messrs, ^itchlynn, E. Folsom, and Mackey were present, they expressed an unequivocal desire to cross the Mississippi; but a few half-breeds, with but little claim to distinction, have, by their exertions and misrepresentations of the country on Red river, alarmed many of the Indians who were disposed to migrate into an opinion that the country affords neither soil, water, nor game. These men are now exerting themselves to raise a party to go on to Washington. The chiefs asked pecuniary aid from me, which I refused, on the ground of a letter from the Department of War, directing me to inform the chiefs that such a visit was deemed useless and expensive, and, therefore, to be discouraged. They are now endeavoring to raise the means amongst themselves for the journey. The party, as far as I can learn, will consist of the'three great medal chiefs, (if Puckshenubbee can be prevailed on to go,) Jesse Brashears, Abe Hamilton, Benjamin James, Levi Perry, and David Folsom—and, perhaps, some others; of these, the two latter only have any weight in the nation. If they go, I will also be there, if possible. They speak of starting about the last of September, and I can scarcely expect to obtain permission by that time. It is due to J. Pitchlynn, sen., E. Folsom, and M. Mackey, to say that they have exerted themselves with zeal and industry to accomplish the objects of the Government, and arc sorely mortified at the failure.	I have, &c. JOHN McKEE. Maj. Gen. ANDREW JACKSON. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 23, 1820. During the late session of Congress, an appropriation of $20,000 was made to defray the expenses of holding a treaty for the extinguishment of Indian title to lands within the State of Mississippi; and the delegation in Congress from that State have proposed that you and General Thomas Hinds of Mississippi be appointed the commissioners to hold the treaty.	\ The President is very desirous to employ youjipon this duty,knd it will afford him great satisfaction if it should be agreeable to you to accept of the appointment. Ptake pleasure ih communicating his wishes upon the subject, and request the favor of an early answer.	. If it should suit you to accept the appointment, a commission will be immediately forwarded to you as the first named commissioner, vesting you, in conjunction with General Hinds, with full powers to exercise your own judgment and discretion as to the time, place, and manner of commencing and conducting the negotiation, (of which he will be duly notified;) and the Choctaw agent will he instructed to prepare the chiefs to give you a friendly reception. It is contemplated to place the whole appropriation at your disposal, which is intended to cover all the expenses of the negotiation, including the pay of the commissioners and of the secretary, (whom, should you agree to serve, you will be authorized to appoint,) except the sums that may be stipulated to be paid to the Indians in the treaty which shall be concluded with them. I have the honor to be, &c. General A. JACKSON, Nashville.	.	J. C. CALHOUN. HEAD-QUARTERS, DIVISION OF THE SOUTH, SIR:	■	NASHVILLE, June 19, 1820. On last evening I reached this place, where I received your letter of the”24th of May last, and one from the delegation of the State of Mississippi of the 16th of May, requesting that I should accept the appointment of commissioner to aid in holding a treaty with the Choctaw Indians. I had determined never to have any thing to do again in Indian treaties; but, finding “that the President of the United States is desirous that I should engage in this duty”—this, added to the solicitations of the delegation of that Slate, has determined me to depart from the resolution I had formed, and to accept of the appointment. I never can withhold my services when required by Mr. Monroe; and I owe a debt of gratitude to the people of Mississippi and their late Governor for their support in our late struggle with Great Britain; by hint and them I was well supported. I feel it a duty, therefore, to endeavor to serve them, when they, by their representations, believe I have it in my power. There is no man I would rather be associated with than General Hinds, nor none in whom I have more confidence. In making out the instructions, permit me to suggest the propriety of pointing out the bounds west of the Mississippi out of which the land to be given the Choctaws, in exchange for their land whereon they now live, is to be laid out. ^The wish of the real Indian chiefs is (as I am advised) to perpetuate the existence of their nation, by concentrating the whole in a country that will support them as a nation. At present, they are scattered and wandering over a great space of country, and, if not shortly united, will be lost to their nation in other tribes. The pride of a real Indian is in the strength of his nation; and this is a chord I mean to touch, to obtain the object in view. I therefore wish to have it in my power to point to the land, and describe its bounds where their father the President of the United States means to settle his red children, concentrate and perpetuate them as a nation, and thereby make his children happy. I am, sir, with great respect, your most obedient servant,	. ANDREW JACKSON. To the Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	OAKTIBBEHA, June 22, 1819. I have the honor to inform you that I have received instructions from Colonel John McKee, on 7th instant, to take the sense of the nation on the contemplated treaty. Agreeably to instructions, I proceeded on the. 10th to the Lower and Six Towns. I have conversed with all the chiefs and principal men of two districts, and find them entirely willing to meet your excellency, and hear the talk of their father the President of the United States. The chiefs with whom I have had talks are mingo Mushulatubbee, General Turner, Little Leader, Pooshamataha, and Red Fort, who are all highly gratified that their father the President has appointed General Jackson to treat with them. I must, injustice to Captain Edmund Folsom, mention him to your excellency as one of your warmest friends. He in his district has effected what but few could. He has been of infinite service to me in my mission, and will be yet more useful with the lower class of people. I beg you will consider him the friend of the Government. I have some things to communicate, which I cannot commit to the discretion of vagrant mail carriers. When we meet, I can then communicate freely. On the receipt of this, you will please to write me when and where the treaty will be held. I could, by that means, inform those with whom I have talked of the particulars. My father is now in Puckshenubbee’s district, exerting himself to the utmost in favor of the Government. What success he may have, I am not able positively to say; but, judging from circumstances, and the influence he has in the nation, I think he will effect the object of his mission. Accept the assurance of my zeal for the cause in which you are engaged, and thanks for favors conferred on Your most obedient servant,	. JAMES PITCHLYNN. P. S.—Address yours to the Chickasaw Agency, care of General Sherburne, to James Pitchlynn. Major Gen. A. JACKSON. DEAR SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, July 12, 1820. I have received your letter of the 19th ultimo, and am happy to find that you have consented to serve as a commissioner to hold a treaty with the Choctaw Indians; and I herewith enclose your commission and instructions. I cannot designate particularly the lands which it would be desirable to give to the Choctaws in exchange for theirs, not being sufficiently acquainted with the localities of the country west of the Mississippi belonging to the United States. In my general letter of instructions to the commissioners, you will observe I have said that they may be located any where on the Quapaw purchase, and I should suppose the farther to the south and west the better.	I have the honor to be, <fcc. J. C. CALHOUN. General ANDREW JACKSON, Nashville, Tennessee. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, July 12, 1820. I have the honor to enclose a commission for you to hold a treaty with the Choctaw nation of Indians. The whole sum appropriated by Congress will be remitted to you from the treasury. The time, place, and mode of commencing and conducting the negotiation, will be determined by yourselves, taking care so to make your arrangements that the whole amount to be spent at it, including the expenses of your commission, issues of provisions to the Indians under your orders, presents to them, and such preliminary expenses as the agent may be authorized to incur, shall not exceed $20,000, the amount of the appropriation. The principal article of expense will probably be the issue of provisions to the Indians, while treating with them, as it is usual for the greater part of the nation to assemble on such occasions. The probable amount of provision which will be required, and the price at which it can be obtained, may be ascertained by a correspondence with the agent, Colonel John McKee, who has been instructed to obey your orders on all points connected with the proposed treaty, and to take such steps as he may judge best calculated to prepare them for it. The enclosed circular will be complied with in contracting for the provisions and issuing them; to which, as there have in some instances been great irregularities, I particularly call your attention. The terms on which a cession or exchange bf territory will be made must be left entirely to your sound discretion. In negotiating for an exchange of lands, you can offer them a portion of the Quapaw cession in the Arkansas Territory, (the boundaries of which, copied from the treaty, are enclosed,) to be located any where you may judge proper, so as not to include the lands of the Cherokees, the Quapaw reservations, or lands actually settled. Your compensation will be at the rate of eight dollars per diem, and that of the secretary to the commission, whom you are authorized to appoint, at the rate of five dollars per diem, for the time aetoally engaged. The payment will be made on your certificate of honor, specifying the time that you have been actually engaged. You will also certify the time that the secretary may be actually engaged. Your certificate, in like manner, will be a necessary voucher for the presents distributed under your authority. I have the honor to be, &c.	J. C. CALHOUN. ANDREW JACKSON and ) Commissi THOMAS HINDS, J	’ SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAP., August 21, 1820. Your letters of the 2d and 5th instant have been received. Agreeably to your request, I have directed the $20,000 appropriated for holding the treaty with the Choctaw nation to be remitted to you, hy a draft on the bank at Natchez. In making the contract for supplies, as well as the other arrangements for the treaty, the commissioners are left entirely to their own discretion and judgment; and no doubt is entertained but that the limited sum placed at their disposal will be made to accomplish, as folly as possible, the object for which it was appropriated. In answer to that part of your letter of the 2d instant which relates to the reservations, which yoo think will have to be made to some of the half-breeds, and in which you request instroetions upon the subject, I have to state that it is very desirable that the treaty should be made without any provision for reservations, if it can be done. But if you shuold find such a provision necessary to the success of the negotiation, the right of the reservees ought to be restricted as you propose, or in the manner in which it has been restricted in similar cases in Indian treaties, to wit: “that the reservees and their descendants shall not convey or transfer the reservations granted to them by the treaty, but with the consent of the President of the United States.” Reservations in fee-simple will not be admitted by the Senate; but, if made in the manner proposed by yoo, or as above suggested, they would not probably be objected to; and you are at liberty to adopt that, which you judge best for the interest of the United States. The Secretary of War has left the seat of Government on a short excursion to the north.	I have, &c.	, C. VANDEVENTER, Chief Clerk. Major General ANDREW JACKSON, Nashville, Tennessee. SEPTEMBER 13, 1820. General Commissioners of the United Stales, who are appointed to treat with the Choctaw Indians: I take this opportunity to inform you that I have just held a talk with the SixTowns, concerning said treaty, and they generally appear to be in complete opposition towards selling or making any exchange of their land, (as they suppose that is the intention of said meeting,) although they appear to be willing to meet you at the place appointed for council. I will inform you of the contents of a letter that was written at the Pigeon Roost, by David Folsom, sent to Joel Nail, to be published to the Six Towns and Chiekasawha Town Indians; the advice in this letter to the above-mentioned towns was to pay no regard to any thing relative to an exchange of land; not to believe the land the United States has in view to exchange for theirs is of any consequence, neither is the hunting ground of any value. Also, he inserts in said letter that he wishes the Indians to be of one mind till they come together, and then they will have a general talk.	Your obedient servant, EDMUND FOLSOM, Interpreter. General ANDREW JACKSON. OCTOBER, the 6th day, 1820, in the woods. Gentlemen Commissioners, at the Treaty Ground: When we left you, we went on to the Six Towns, where we collected fifty-twn warriors, and a few in another place; they were all friendly, and said they would have all gone to the treaty, but their chiefs, by the influence of bad men, neglected their doty and told them they did not want any but the. leaders and captains to go; in consequence whereof, they had staid at home, and some had gone to the woods a hunting and gathering chestnuts, but they despatched runners in pursuit of them to collect, and said they would start as quick as possible. From there we sent your talks to Quanny’s, and we went on to the Chiekasawhas and Coonshas, where we found them all friendly, and would have gone to the treaty, but they were neglected in the same way and for the same reason that the Six Towns were; but they all promise to be on as quick as possible.—No more. EDMUND FOLSOM, M. MACKEY. N. B. We met with one opposer; said he was a Spanish subject; he was very insolent, and I had a notion to give him my horse-whip.	M. MACKEY. GENTLEMEN:	TREATY GROUND, CHOCTAW NATION, October 18, 1820. For carrying into effect the benevolent wishes of the President relative to the civilization and general improvement of the Choctaws, the following plan is respectfully submitted, with an estimate of the expenses for each year. That the advantages of education may he furnished as extensively and speedily as possible to the rising generation, it is proposed that there be established four large schools, and thirty-two small ones, viz: three large and twenty-four small schools on the east side of the Mississippi, and one large and eight small ones west of the Mississippi. It is further proposed that oue large school and five small ones be established in each year, until the number is complete. In the estimate $15,000 are allowed for buildings, clearing and fencing plantations, stock, teams, wagons, farming tools, mechanical tools, &c. for each of the large establishments, and $2,000 for the same purpose for each of tho small ones; $5,000 are allowed for the annual support of each of the large schools, and $1,000 for the annual support of each of the small ones. The large schools are calculated to contain from 80 to 100 scholars, most of whom are to be fed and clothed. The smaller ones to contain from 20 to 40 scholars, most of whom are supposed to board at home, and be clothed by their parents. Should a surplus remain after defraying the expenses of each school, it may be appropriated to the support of poor children in the family of the teacher. It is believed that a selected portion of the ceded country, equal to what was granted to the Cherokees for the same purposes on this side of the Mississippi, will be sufficient to carry the above plan into operation among the Choctaws, on both sides of the river; and, whether we consider the extent of country ceded, or the importance of the object to be accomplished, will it be thought too large, an appropriation? The fund will be placed in the hands of the President, to be appropriated under the eye of the agent, and will not, therefore, be liable to misapplication. A large number of the children must be fed and clothed; all must be initiated in habits of industry, and a portion taught the mechanic arts. The above is respectfully submitted by Your obedient and humble servant, CYRUS KINGSBURY, Superintending Missionary to the Choctaws. To Major General ANDREW JACKSON and General THOMAS HINDS, Commissioners on the part of the United States for treating with the Choctaw Nation. NASHVILLE, August 24, 1820. We, the undersigned commissioners, deputed to hold a treaty with the Choctaw nation of Indians, by virtue of authority from the hon. Secretary of War, bearing date the 12th day of July, 1820, empowering us to appoint a secretary to the commission, do, by these presents, appoint Samuel R. Overton, Esq. secretary to the same, with the compensation of five dollars per day, for the time he shall actually be engaged.	• In testimony whereof, we have hereunto set our hands, the 24th day of August, 1820. ANDREW JACKSON, THOMAS HINDS. NASHVILLE, August 31,1820. Memorandum of an agreement made and entered into this 31st of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty, between Andrew Jackson and Thomas Hinds, commissioners appointed to hold a treaty with the Choctaw nation of Indians, at Doak’s Staud, on the Natchez road, in said nation, on the one part, and William Eastin, with Major William B. Lewis, as his security, on the other part, witnesseth: That the said William Eastin, with his security, undertakes to furnish all the rations necessary to be issued to the said Choctaw Indians, at the place aforesaid, and during the pendency of the treaty, commencing on the 1st of October next. The aforesaid William Eastin, with his security, further agrees to furnish all supplies necessary for the accommodation of the commissioners and suite, and chiefs of the aforesaid Indian nation, agreeably to a memorandum to be made out by Samuel R. Overton, Esq., secretary to said commission; for which last mentioned supplies the said William Eastin shall be allowed a commission of twenty-five per cent, on his purchases. The ration issued to the Indians is to consist of one pound and a half of beef, one pint of com, and one quart of salt, for every hundred rations; for which the said Eastin is to receive from the commissioners, in cash, nine cents for each and every ration issued to the Indians, at the place and time aforesaid, agreeably to the returns to be furnished by the agent of said nation; or, on failure of his attendance at the treaty, agreeably to the returns to be made by such other person as may be appointed for that purpose by the commissioners. To the performance of this agreement, we, and each of us, bind and oblige ourselves in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars, ($10,000.)	. In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and affixed our seals, the day and date above written. •	WILLIAM EASTIN, [Seal.] WM. B. LEWIS, [Seal. ANDREW JACKSON, [Seal.’ THOMAS HINDS, [Seal/ By ANDREW JACKSON, Witness, SAMUEL R. OVERTON, Secretary.	Commissioners. 30 E NASHVILLE, September 2, 1820. A schedule of supplies to be furnished the commissioners and suite, appointed to hold a treaty with the Choctaw Indians, was made out by the secretary, and delivered to Mr. William Eastin, the contractor. For the purchase and transportation of these supplies, the commissioners furnished five hundred dollars, as per receipt. NASHVILLE, September 14, 1820. Major General Jackson and suite left this place on to-day for Doak’s Stand, on the Natchez road, for the purpose of holding a treaty with the Choctaw Indians. DOAK’S STAND, September 28,1820. Major General Jackson and suite arrived at this place on to-day. SEPTEMBER 30, 1820. This day General Thomas Hinds, one of the commissioners, and Colonel McKee, agent, arrived at Mr. Doak’s Stand; also Lieutenant Graham, with a command of about seventeen men. TREATY GROUND, October 2, 1820. The commissionershaving made some progress in their encampment, removed to the treaty ground, about half a mile below Mr. Doak’s. None of the headmen and warriors of the Choctaw nation had convened until late in the evening, when the Little Leader, about nine or ten of his men, and a boy, arrived, and drew their rations. A few of Puc.k-she-nub-bee’s men also arrived this evening, and refused to draw provisions, upon the ground that it was agreeable to an order given them by their chief. They were only about seven or eight in number. They, however, consented to receive their rations, after a short conversation with the commissioners, in which their interests and the views of the United States were explained to them. TREATY GROUND, October 3, 1820. Puck-she-nub-bee and Poos-ha-ma-ta-ha, two principal chiefs of the Choctaw nation, arrived at this place, with about 70 or 80 men. Those commanded by the latter only drew their rations. When the commissioners called upon Puck-she-nub-bee to know why he had given his headmen and warriors an order not to receive the provisions provided for them by the United States, he replied that it was not his intention to grant any thing which might be asked by his father the President, and did not wish to subject him to any expense. He was interrogated whether he knew what the United States wanted, and he acknowledged he did not. It was stated to; him by the commissioners that they had been sent here to deliver a talk to the nation relative to their common good; that his conduct was such as was disrespectful, and would be so considered by his father the President of the United States. They also informed him that they understood many wicked efforts had been made to prevent a full council of the nation, and thereby defeat the attempt to treat with them. They had, therefore, determined to remain upon the ground forty days and nights, until the fact could be ascertained, and for the purpose of notifying all the headmen and warriors who were, absent to attend at the treaty, and hear the friendly talk of their father the President of the United States.	, The commissioners received a communication from Mr. Edmund Folsom, informing them that David Folsom had written a letter to the Indians of the Six Towns, recommending to them to disregard the talks of the President their father, and stating to them that the country which he proposed to exchange with them was not desirable to the nation. This letter was considered by Mr. Edmund Folsom as intended to oppose the treaty, by preventing a general meeting of the headmen and warriors of the nation. A letter was also received, which had been some time since written to Mr. James Pitchlynn, by General A. Jackson, with an insulting endorsement upon it. It related to the treaty, and was broken open before it reached the person to whom it was addressed. It was delivered to David Folsom, who states he left it with the Reverend Cyrus Kingsbury, by whom it was conveyed to Mr. Pitchlynn. From these and other circumstances, added to the verbal communications, and the backwardness of the arrival of the headmen and warriors of the nation, the commissioners were induced to believe that a combination had been formed by some of the white men and half-breeds to prevent a general and full council, and, if possible, to render an effort at negotiation abortive. Under these impressions, they despatched, this evening, to the Six Towns, Edmund Folsom and Middleton Mackey, as the bearers of the following talk: CHOCTAW TREATY GROUND, October 3, 1820. Friends and Brothers of the Choctaw Nation: Your father the President of the United States has been informed that many of your nation have crossed the Mississippi, and that a number of others desire to remove. He has, therefore, appointed the undersigned commissioners to convene the headmen and warriors of his Choctaw children, and, when assembled in a general council, to deliver to them a friendly talk. He also desires to hear the wishes of your nation, and, in treaty, to do such things as will most promote the happiness and prosperity of all his Choctaw children. With these instructions, we made known to the nation, through your agent, Colonel John McKee, that a general meeting of the chiefs, headmen, and warriors was requested and expected at Doak’s Stand, in said nation, on the 1st day of October, 1820. On that day, the undersigned attended at this place, and expected that the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation were on the road to the treaty ground, to meet us in council, and listen to the talk of their father the President of the United States. This is the third day we have waited to see you; only about sixty chiefs and warriors have attended, and we are informed that not more than one hundred are expected. We are told that the chiefs and warriors have been advised by some bad men to stay away from the council, and not come forward to hear the talk of your father the President of the United States. We have also learned, with much pain, that many threats have been made, declaring that any one should be put to death who attends the treaty, and consents to sell or exchange any part of the Choctaw lands. Fear not those threats. The arm of your father the President is strong, and will protect the poor Indian from the threats of the white man and half-breed, who are growing rich by their labor. They make slaves of the poor Indians, and are indifferent to their happiness. They care not whether the poor perish, or are lost to the nation, if they can grow rich by their labor, and by living on the main roads through the country. Many of your poor Indian brothers have gone over the Mississippi. It is represented to your father the President that a number more wish to go to that country. He has, at much expense, purchased it for you. He invites you to come forward, and tell him your mind freely, and without fear. You shall not be injured. He will protect you. Those who choose to remove beyond the Mississippi will receive there a good country for a small part of their lands here. Those who wish to stay and cultivate the earth, your father the President wants to remain here. He, therefore, desires to see you all at this place, so that each may make a choice freely, and all be happy. You are all inter ested, and must be heard. As the friends and brothers of the white people, you cannot refuse to listen to the counsel and advice of your father the President of the United States. As soon as you all assemble at this place, we will deliver his friendly talk to his Choctaw children. If you will not come and hear it, he may never speak to you again. This talk is sent to you by your friends and our friends, Edmund Folsom and Middleton Mackey, by whom you will send us an answer, informing us whether you will, or will not, attend at the treaty, and hear the talk of your father the President of the United States. We are your friends and brothers,	ANDREW JACKSON, THO. HINDS. TREATY GROUND, October 4, 1820. About eighty headmen and warriors of the nation arrived at this place on to-day, and received their rations. OCTOBER 5, 1820. The Red Foot, a chief and warrior of the Six Towns, came in to-day, bringing with him about eighty of his men, all of whom drew their provisions. The Rev. Cyrus Kingsbury visited the commissioners, and, in a conversation with one of them relative to the letter written by General Jackson to James Pitchlynn, and which was left in his possession, stated that he had never seen it, and was altogether ignorant of the insulting endorsement made upon it. Upon an explanation of the views of the United States relative to the Choctaw nation, he gave them his approbation. In consequence of the headmen and warriors of Puck-she-nub-bee not having received any provision, about sixty in number left the treaty ground, to return home. The commissioners explained to him the disrespect and insult which was thereby offered to his father the President of the United States. They told him that his father the President was disposed to treat with them as friends and brothers, and that, if they refused to hear his friendly talk, he might determine never to speak to them again. He had Choctaw children beyond the Mississippi, who are our friends and brothers, and he might treat with them in future, if his talk was refused to be heard, or insultingly neglected. After this explanation, and others, relative to the views of the United States, he stated that they had departed with his permission; that they would return, with the whole of his warriors; and he hoped all would be well yet. TREATY GROUND, October 6, 1820. This day Mushulatubbee, a principal chief, arrived with only two of the headmen and warriors of the district under his command. He stated that a number were on the road, and would be here in a short time; that some were already here, and that he would make a report of them on to-morrow. OCTOBER 7,1820. Puck-she-nub-bee and the other chiefs appeared to be in a better humor, and gave us a ball-play. In the evening Puck-she-nub-bee made known to the commissioners that he was desirous to hear the talk of the President, intended to be delivered to the Choctaw nation. The commissioners informed him that it should be delivered to them as soon as his headmen and warriors arrived upon the treaty ground. He observed that there was to be a great ball-play on Monday, at which all those belonging to his district would be present. In that event, the commissioners stated to him that the talk would be delivered to them on Tuesday succeeding. OCTOBER 8, 1820. On this day, our confidential agent reported that the prospect of a treaty was becoming more flattering. Some of the headmen and warriors belonging to the district of Puck-she-nub-bee arrived at the treaty ground, and received their rations. ‘ OCTOBER 9, 1820. Agreeably to promise, the principal chiefs of the nation gave us a ball-play on to-day, which was closed with a dance in the evening. All the Indians seemed to be in a good humor, and, as far as we could judge from appearances, in a favorable temper for negotiation. OCTOBER 10, 1820. In conformity with an appointment made by the commissioners, they met the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation in council this day. They informed them that although their runners bad not returned, yet they had determined to deliver a talk to those now present. They also observed that the same talk would be given to those who were absent, as soon as they arrived. It was as follows: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	CHOCTAW TREATY GROUND, October 10, 1820. Your father the President of the United States has been informed that a number of his Choctaw children are gone and settled on the west side of the Mississippi river. He has also been told that many more of the chiefs and warriors of your nation are anxious to remove. They wish to obtain a new country there, in exchange for a small part of their lands here. It is stated to your father the President that a large proportion of his Choctaw children are tn a distressed condition, and require his friendly assistance. They live upon poor land, and are not willing to cultivate it. The game is destroyed, and many of them are often reduced almost to starvation. A few are to be found in Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi. A number are scattered over the country from Tennessee to New Orleans. Many have become beggars and drunkards, and are dying in wretchedness and want. Humanity requires that something should be done for them. Your father the President entreats you to assist him in providing for your friends and brothers. You cannot refuse it. Some of your nation work and live well; but a great number would be much benefited by removing to a new country, where the means of supporting their squaws and children are more easy and abundant. Your father the President of the United States is anxious to make all his Choctaw children happy. He has sent General Hinds and myself, as his confidential friends, to shake yon by the hand, and assure you of his friendship and regard. The Choctaws have always been the friends of his white children, and your father the President wishes them to continue to be su. As your father and friend, he wants you to listen to the talks delivered to you as coming from himself. He has directed us to point out to you a country beyond the Mississippi, where his Choctaw children who have removed may settle, and where those who wish to go ever may live and be happy. Those who choose to stay here, may do so, and be happy likewise. Then all the Choctaw children of your father the President will be satisfied. The greater part of your country here is very poor. Those who will not be industrious, and plough the ground, cannot live on it long. For farming, you have more land than is necessary. As a hunting ground, it has not sufficient game. Without a change in your situation, the Choctaw nation must dwindle to nothing. This is what every good and wise chief will endeavor to preveot. Your father the President foresees it, and has chosen you a larger and better country, where all those who will not cultivate the ground may live by hunting. The land is rich, and water good. The fish, fowl, and game are plenty. He has, at much expense, procured this new country for his Choctaw children, where he will protect and defend them. Unless you make an exchange, and a part of your nation will go and settle upon it, and have a line marked, your father the President cannot keep it for them. His white children are anxious to live upon it. He looks forward to the time when the great body of your nation will be compelled by necessity to remove. This friendly offer of a new country is now made to you, where you can either plough the ground or hunt the deer, the bear, and the buffalo. If this timely proposal is refused, it may never be offered again. The wide and rapid settlements of his white children may put it out of the power of your father the President hereafter to make the exchange. When that time arrives, your land will be more poor, and the necessity of your moving greatly increased. Your nation will then be in a situation truly distressing. The poor chiefs and warriors will be compelled to cultivate the soil like their white brothers, or straggle about as a lost and miserable people. Your father the President of the United States does not wish to drive you from your land by force; nor does he ask you to sell it, or give it away. He has not sent us	here	to cheat or to threaten you. All	these things	have been told you by mischievous persons, who are enemies of	both	his Choctaw and white children.	They	have	been busy in circulating falsehoods amongst you, and you should	hate	them. We have come to show you that	what	your father the President wishes you to do, is as much for your good	as for that of his white children. As your game is destroyed, if you all remain here, you must cultivate the earth like your white brothers. You must also, in time, become citizens of the United States, and subject to their laws. Your father the President gives you your choice. If you agree to make an exchange of a small part of your land, it will be for the benefit of the poor and helpless Indians, who will not plough the ground, and whom you cannot support. He wishes it made upon terms that are just and honorable, and such as will best promote the interest and happiness of all his Choctaw children. Your father the President has no desire to deprive you of a home, but to provide for one part of your nation a better country, where they can enjoy more comfort and contentment. Many of your headmen and warriors have already settled upon it. For this new country you can exchange a small part of your land here. The State of Mississippi has not land enough to support and protect themselves. They want a small part of your country to cultivate and build their Government-house upon. It must be fixed upon Choctaw land in a short time, and you can now exchange it to advantage. The people of Mississippi are five times as many as your people; you have three times as much land as they have. They have not land enough to live upon. You have more land than you can cultivate; it is useless to yourselves and to the white people; you cau let your white brothers have a small part, and there will be still enough for you. We do not wish to obtain land from you that you want, but only what you can spare. With so large a country without settlements, the people of Mississippi are much exposed to the invasion of foreign enemies. The Choctaw nation is equally exposed. A cession of part of your country is necessary for your defence. As many of your headmen and warriors are gone and settled over the Mississippi, your father the President must strengthen the hands of his white children and supply their place. He will then be able to protect his white children, and the whole of his Choctaw brothers on this and the other side of the Mississippi river. Your father the President expects no difficulty with his Choctaw children, if they will attend to those who tell them the truth, and frown upon those who tell them lies. Those who fall within the bounds of the ceded lands, and wish to remain on this side of the Mississippi, let them do so. They shall have suitable reservations, to include their improvements, and be protected by our laws. If they prefer removing, they shall be paid for their improvements. Those who are poor and unwilling to become farmers like their white brothers, let them go; they also demand the care and protection of their affectionate father the President of the United States. They are his children, and he will not neglect them; He has directed us to make provision for them, by ceding them a new country; there they can live in abundance, and acquire riches and independence, like some of those now residing in this nation. As all parties are accommodated, and the interest and happiness of all consulted, there cannot be any honest opposition made to the friendly proposals of yonr father the President of the United States. Upon the subject of your schools, no difficulty can arise; your father the President will do every thing in his power to accomplish the object of your nation. He has every wish to educate and civilize his Choctaw children. He will secure to the school now established here the funds and property belonging to it. Additional fonds shall be raised out of the ceded land, to establish one beyond the Mississippi. The fund to be applied to this purpose, shall be so divided as to extend its support to both schools. Then all the Choctaw children of your father the President will enjoy its benefits. No loss or injury shall be suffered by the change; but additional aid given to them. They shall also be so regulated, that their funds cannot be misapplied. The advantages of these schools will thus be secured to the poor, as well as the rich, on both sides of the Mississippi. Many of your nation are already beyond the Mississippi, and- others are every year removing. At least one- third of your headmen and warriors are gone over. Your father the President is disposed to cede you the country where they are settling. He is desirous of collecting all those who are straggling about in every direction into one settlement; and, by keeping his Choctaw children together, to perpetuate them as a nation. Those beyond the Mississippi wish it, so that they may not be lost to their white and red brothers. Now is the time to accept of this friendly proposal. You will then preserve that strength and respectability which have always been the boast and pride of the Choctaw nation. If you refuse it, you will be divided amongst yourselves, and must be easily conquered by your enemies. Numbers of you will be scattered over a country not your own. They will be without a home, or the protection of their white friends and brothers. The greater part of the nation will be destroyed. It will be mixed with different tribes, as are many others of the red children of your father the President of the United States. Should this kind offer of your father the President be rejected, it must proceed from the false statements of some of the white men and half-breeds living amongst you. There are a few who have poisoned your minds, and endeavored to make you unfriendly to the treaty. They are anxious to keep you in a state of poverty and servitude. You ought not to take their counsel and advice in opposition to your father the President of the United States. They ought to be contented with their reservations. They should be more just to you, and not wish to make the poor Indians any longer slaves to them and their children. This your father the President will prevent, if you desire it. Tell him your mind freely, and you shall be relieved from your oppressors. Their object must be riches and power, which you are bound to resist. Your father the President feels every friendship for all his Choctaw children, and is willing to do every thing in his power to prevent this imposition. One part of the nation is as dear to him as the other. He is determined to see justice done to the whole of his Choctaw children, and not let one part make fortunes unjustly out of the other. It is his desire that all should be treated honestly and fairly, and provided with a country where they can live in peace and plenty. This is an important subject to the Choctaw nation; it is your duty to consider well before you decide. Your existence as a nation may depeud upon it. The peace, power, and happiness of the Choctaws may be destroyed by a hasty and rash decision. Your father the President entreats you to be cool and cautious, and to study your true and lasting interests. He has always been your friend, and is desirous to promote these valuable objects: if you neglect them, you alone must feel the consequences. Your welfare is very near the heart of your father the President of the United States. It is his duty to give his children counsel and advice; it is theirs to determine whether they will accept them. Your father the President has directed us to speak freely to the whole of his Choctaw children upon these subjects; he. desires every one of them to express his wishes and feelings also, without fear or restraint. When he talk^ to you, he tells you the truth, and expects you to be equally candid. He has heard with much pain that threats have been used to prevent the poor chiefs and warriors from expressing their opinion upon the subject of a treaty. We are therefore directed by him to say to you, in full council, that no threats shall be used; if any one attempt it, he shall be severely punished, as he deserves. The voice of the poor Indian shall be heard, as well as that of the half-breed and white man. They shall not be imposed on by the few who have gotten rich by the industry of the poor, who occupy some of the valuable stands on the main roads, and wish to keep the poor Indians here, to enrich themselves by their labor. The whole of the nation are deeply concerned, and all must be heard. Your father the President will protect the poor as well as the rich, and expects that every one will speak out with boldness. His arm is strong, and he will not allovJ you to be injured; your rights shall be respected. Express your wishes with freedom and candor, and make such a choice as will most promote your safety and happiness. As children of the same family, we entreat you to do justice to one another. Let every one act and judge for himself. Those who want to stay here, let them do so. If any wish to remove beyond the Mississippi, let them go. Here, they have a country that is old and poor; there, they will settle one that is new and rich. Here, they have no game; there, they will have a plenty. Here, they are separated from their friends and relations beyond the Mississippi; there, they will be collected together as one people. Here, they cannot support their squaws and children; there, they will live in peace and abundance. Will the real Indian chief and warrior consent that these people shall be cut off and lost to thé nation! They are our friends and brothers. They have fought by our sides, and assisted to make us chiefs and great men. Will you desert them, and suffer them to be destroyed; or compel them to mix with other tribes, who may be our and your enemies? We may be then under the necessity of raising the hatebet against our own friends and children. Your father the President of the United States wishes to avoid this unnatural state of things. He wants to send an agent and establish a school amongst those who have gone over the Mississippi, and take you all by the hand as friends and brothers. Will you do less for your Choctaw friends and relations than your father the President of the United States? Will you not unite with him, and assist to make them happy? By removing beyond the Mississippi, they receive no annuity. They have also left their land and schools behind them. For the country here, they ought to have land where they live. It is your duty to provide for them, and preserve them as a part of your nation; you can do so, by exchanging a small part of your country. This land belongs to your brothers beyond the Mississippi as well as to you. It is out of your power to deprive them of it. You should not permit a few designing white men and half-breeds to make the attempt. It would be robbing your brothers beyond the Mississippi. It would be ungrateful to those who have shed their blood in our battles, and helped to make us chiefs and headmen of our nations. It would be injustice to yourselves and your children. Ynur father the President will nut desert this part of your nation, which has assisted to fight his battles. You should not desert them. By preserving them, they will give you strength, ahd hereafter assist in your defence. If you withdraw your brotherly protection from them, your nation can never prosper by such conduct. Every wise and good chief will condemn it; and the Great Spirit above will look down upon it with displeasure. This is the second time the confidential friends of your father the President have met you in council. If you refuse to listen to his talk, it may be the last he will ever send to the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of this nation. He has Choctaw children beyond the Mississippi, who desire his protection, and who will attend to what he has to say. The next attempt to treat may be made with them, instead of those on this side of the Mississippi. If you will refuse to be governed by his counsel and advice, he will give you up to the influence of those who are unfriendly to both his white and Choctaw children. He can no longer look upon you as friends and brothers, and as deserving his fatherly protection. Think seriously upon these matters. Pause and reflect before you decide. If you sutler any injury, none but yourselves will be to blame. If you will be advised by. your enemies instead of your friends, you must feel the effects of your folly. ANDREW JACKSON, To the CHIEFS AND WARRIORS of the Choctaw Nation.	THOMAS HINDS. At the close of the above talk, Puck-shc-nub-bee, a principal chief, observed that the white people had the advantage of the’Indians, in being enabled to commit their talks to writing. He said that the commissioners were better informed than the Indian chiefs, and knew already as well as he did the strength of the Choctaw nation. It was his wish that all he had to say, as well as the talks of all his chiefs and headmen, should be taken down in writing. He also requested that his half-breeds, who could read and write, might be permitted to perform this duty, to see that there were no mistakes, and that every thing was well done. The commissioners, in reply, informed this chief that they wished all the proceedings conducted in writing, and that they would willingly comply with his request. They stated to him that his father the President of the United States had not sent them here to impose upon his people, but to promote their interests, by doing every thing in their power to preserve and protect the whole of his Choctaw children; that they had committed the talk to writing which had been delivered to them; so that they might read it over frequently, and understand its contents. It could not then be misrepresented by designing and mischievous persons who were hostile to the best interests of the white people, as well as those of the Choctaw nation. One of the commissioners remarked that he had once known the strength of the Choctaw nation, at a former period, when they followed him to battle. He said he felt like a friend and father to their chiefs, headmen, and warriors, and entreated them to deliberate well upon the talk just delivered to them, before they decided upon the course to be adopted. They promised to do so, and gave each other the hand of friendship before their separation. OCTOBER 11, 1820. The chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation were convened at their council-house on to-day; but the commissioners received no communication from them as to the result. They were, however, informed by their confidential agent that the prospect of a treaty still continued to promise a successful issue. OCTOBER 12, 1820. The chiefs, headmen, and warriors were again convened at their council-house this day; but nothing definitive as to their determination was communicated to the commissioners. Appearances continued to be favorable. Middleton Mackey and Edmund Folsom, who had been despatched as runners with a talk to the Indians who were absent, and who, it was believed, were either not notified, or prevented by threats from attending the treaty, returned this evening. They reported that eighty or ninety warriors would be here in a short time. All they saw promised to come in, and stated to the runners that they had not been notified by their chiefs of the pending negotiation. OCTOBER 13, 1820. Puck-she-nub-bee, a principal chief of the nation, informed the commissioners that some of his headmen and warriors were disposed to go into council, and it was the wish of others to have a ball-play. He stated that he did not wish to mix his business, but to do one thing at a time. The commissioners replied to him that his view of the duty set was a correct one; that if his headmen and warriors were disposed to indulge themselves in amusement, it might be proper to gratify them, as they had no disposition to hurry them in their determinations. This chief then remarked that they would proceed on to-day with the ball-play, and on to-morrow go into council. In the mean time, he expressed a wish that the commissioners would furnish their definitive propositions; which were accordingly submitted to them, in manuscript, late this evening. The following is a copy: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	,	CHOCTAW TREATY GROUND, October 13, 1820. In order to carry into effect the grand and friendly object which your father the President of the United States has in view for securing the happiness and protection of all his Choctaw children, he proposes to give yon a large country west of the Mississippi river. It will be laid off adjoining your Cherokee brothers, so that each can protect and befriend the other. The limits will extend from the Arkansas river, where the Cherokee line begins, south to the Red river, and west to the head source of the Arkansas river. There your father the President wishes to collect all his Choctaw children who have already gone over the Mississippi, as well as those who are straggling about in every direction. It is also intended as a home for all those who will not cultivate the ground here, and wish to go over and settle upon it. For the purpose of enabling those who desire to remove to that country to do well and support their families, your father the President, who is the true friend of the poor Indian, will give each warrior a blanket, kettle, rifle gnn, bullet moulds and wipers, and ammunition, sufficient for hunting and defence. He will also furnish him with corn to support him' and his family for the first year, and whilst travelling to that new country. It is his further intention to appoint an agent for them, and send his factor there with goods to supply their wants. A blacksmith shall be settled amongst them, as has been done here; and your father the President will provide for your schools both on this and the other side of the Mississippi. The fund for their support shall be raised ont of part of the land he asks yon to cede here, and which he wants to get where it will not injure your nation. Its proposed boundaries are as follows: Beginning on the Choctaw boundary, east of Pearl river, at a point due south of the White Oak spring, on the old Indian path; thence, north, to said spring; thence, northwardly, to a point on the main road from Nashville to Natchez, so as to include Doak’s Stand; thence, westwardly, to Black creek; thence, down Black creek, to the lake into which it flows; thence, a direct line, to strike the Mississippi one mile below the mouth of the Arkansas river; thence, down the Mississippi river, to our boundary, and round and along the same to the beginning. Out of this cession your father the President of the United States will set apart one township, that is, thirty- six sections of one mile square, (and, if necessary, more,) to be sold for the purpose of raising a fund to be applied to the support of your schools. We are told that there is some discontent in the nation about part of their annuity having been applied for the benefit of those now established here. Your father the President was much pleased to learn that this appropriation was made, and it is such a one as all wise men must approve. The education of your children is an important object with the Choctaw nation, and they cannot apply their funds to a more valuable purpose. To remove any discontent, if it exists, we will set apart more land in this cession, for raising an equal fund with that given by your chiefs to these schools, should it be desirable to the headmen and warriors of your nation. Then your chiefs will be exonerated from all censure, if any exists, and the whole of the annuity shall remain in your nation and be divided amongst them. Your father the President loves you as his children; he wishes to have your children educated, and will provide the means out of the ceded land. We are sent here by him to make provision for all, and to endeavor to make the whole of the Choctaw nation happy. Any individual who falls within the bounds ceded will be paid a full value for his improvements, if he does not wish to live on them; should he prefer remaining on them, he shall be secured in a mile square, to include his improvements. There are some who have valuable improvements on the different roads through the country; if they remove, the inconvenience of doing so will be considered, and, in addition to the real value of their improvements, something shall be allowed that may be equal to the inconvenience. Your father the President has sent us here to make you happy; the land he wants for his Mississippi children, and which they cannot do without, he has selected in a place where it does not interfere with your schools, or the great body of your nation. He must also provide a home for his wandering Choctaw children, and for those in your nation who will not work, and wish to remove. There can be no great and good chief, warrior, or leader, who cgn refuse to comply with the friendly and humane propositions of your father the President of the United States. Listen to them, and adopt them, and you are a happy people forever. Attend to his counsel and advice, and he will place your nation and its happiness upon a lasting foundation. ANDREW JACKSON, THOMAS HINDS. To the CHIEFS AND WARRIORS of the Choctaw Nation. OCTOBER 14, 1820. The preceding talk was interpreted to the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation this morning. The commissioners represented to them the importance of the subject to which it related, and wished them all to hear it. It was a matter of deep concern, and they recommended them to listen and deliberate with great attention. They observed that it was put in writing, in order that it might be read in council, and that they might understand it well. The commissioners explained the views of the President to be, to obtain such a part of the Choctaw country as was absolutely necessary to the State of Mississippi, and as would permanently fix the boundary lines between the red and white people; they would be made to run in such a direction as not to interfere with their schools, or infringe upon the great body of their population. A poor country would be the limit on the east, which would answer all the purposes of grazing to the Indians, and which the white people could never wish to obtain; neither would it interrupt their settlements on the north; and, by exchanging it, they would discharge an imperative duty, by providing for all their Choctaw friends and brothers, and acquire a new country much larger than the part ceded here. Their white brethren could not then ask them for any more land; nor could those of the nation who had gone over and settled beyond the Mississippi. The consequence would be, that the whole of the Choctaws would be happy, and live in plenty, peace, and harmony. The commissioners remarked to the chiefs, headmen, and warriors, thatrit was the last time they ever expected to meet them in council, and that they now wished to fix the boundary between the Choctaws and white people, so as to carry into effect the grand object of the President in relation to their welfare and happiness. If they wished any explanation of the talk delivered to them, they were informed that it could be obtained by application to the commissioners. They were advised to deliberate maturely upon the subject, and to take their own time in forming a decision. The commissioners stated that they were not in a hurry, and that, whenever the council were ready to give them an answer to their talks, they would be ready to receive it; they then gave each other the hand of friendship, and separated. Immediately after hearing the above talk, the chiefs, headmen, and warriors went into council, and were for some time engaged in discussing the propositions submitted to them as the basis of a treaty. The commissioners received no report from them as to the result. The chiefs, headmen, and warriors asked to be indulged with further time to deliberate, as it was a subject of uncommon magnitude to the nation. The commissioners replied, that the course which they proposed was a prudent one, and that they would wait on them with patience; it was not their wish that they should be precipitate, but that their determination should be the result of mature reflection; then all the Choctaw nation would be satisfied, and their true and lasting interests successfully promoted. OCTOBER 15, 1820. The commissioners had an interview with Puckshenuhbee, one of the principal chiefs of the Choctaw nation, this morning; he stated that he would consent to an exchange of a small part of his country, but not as much as his father the President of the United States had proposed in the last talk, which he had delivered on the day preceding. He said he did not know how the President could accomplish all he had promised to his Choctaw children; and, until he understood more about it, and could visit his friends and brothers beyond the Mississippi, he could not agree to so large a cession as the one proposed. The commissioners, in reply, told this chief that his father the President had requested an exchange with the Choctaw nation of a part of their land that was useless to them, and no more than was absolutely necessary for the cultivation and defence of the State of Mississippi; they had made such a selection as would not interfere with their schools, or the great body of the nation. They further observed that the cession proposed was equally necessary for the security of the Choctaws here, and to provide for those beyond the Mississippi. The commissioners represented the President of the United States as having in view two grand objects in the present treaty. One was, the education and civilization of his Choctaw children; and the other, to perpetuate them as a nation, by collecting all those who had emigrated abroad, as well as those who wished to do so, and settle them together upon land of their own, beyund the Mississippi river. Provision would be made for all; and then they would be enabled to live in peace and harmony. By separating the idle and vicious from those who are disposed to be moral and industrious, they would derive every advantage promised by the establishment of their schools; their children would make gradual progress in letters and improvement, and contract the habits and character of the white people. If those who would not work remained here, when their children returned from school they would be poisoned by their vicious examples, and relapse into all their former savage habits; the advantages of education would then be forfeited, and, ultimately, the schools would be altogether abandoned. The commissioners further remarked to this chief, that if the headmen and warriors of the nation would not co-operate with the President in this friendly and humane project for their civilization and defence, he would be compelled to treat with those who had gone and settled over the Mississippi, and whom he was resolved to protect and preserve. They remarked, that if this chief chose to treat on the other side of the Mississippi, they would set out with him for this purpose, in the course of a day or two. They preferred treating here, for the purpose of giving this part of the nation the power of making a cession that would not interrupt their views and interests. They could run the line, so as to include the land they could best spare, and by which they would sustain the least injury. If a treaty were held with those beyond the Mississippi, they might be found to be a majority of the nation, and would make an exchange that might not suit those living here. They would probably give acre for acre, and might agree upon a cession which would cut up this country, so as to infringe upon its population and destroy its schools. This -chief, and, through hint, all the other chiefs, headmen, and warriors, were recommended to listen with attention to the talks delivered to them, and they would be enabled to see their true and lasting interests. All the other chiefs, headmen, and warriors concurred in the opinion that the treaty should be held and concluded at this place, and that it was not the interest of the Choctaw nation to negotiate on the other side of the Mississippi river. They then separated and went into council, where they were some time engaged, but came to no conclusion as to the propositions which had been submitted to their consideration. They determined, however, to appoint the principal chiefs, commanding the three districts in the nation, together with six white men and half-breeds from each district, to act as a committee for the more speedy and effectual transaction of the business relative to the treaty. OCTOBER 16, 1820. ' The chiefs, headmen, and warriors again went into council to-day, and, after some discussion, appointed a committee, composed of three principal chiefs of the nation, and six white men and half-breeds from each of the three districts, for the purpose of taking into consideration the proposed terms of a treaty, and to make a report upon the same. There appeared to be a considerable want of harmony in council, in relation to the business before them, which some of the chiefs likened to a twisted grape-vine. About forty or fifty Indians came in from the Six Towns. They were a part of those who had been notified by our runners to attend at the treaty, and who stated that their chiefs had neglected to give them that information. The project of a treaty was submitted to the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation, to be read in council, and an answer requested to be returned, at a convenient time, tu the commissioners. OCTOBER*17, 1820. The commissioners again met the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation, in council, and delivered to them the following talk: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	CHOCTAW TREATY GROUND, October 17, 1820. Your father the President of the United States has already delivered two talks to your nation; he has endeavored to explain to you your interests, and induce you to promote them. Your welfare and happiness are his grand objects. To advance your civilization, and to preserve and perpetuate you as a nation, are considerations dear to his heart. The first he is desirous to accomplish, by establishing and fostering your schools. The second, by ceding you a country beyond the Mississippi, where all who have gone over and wish to remove may be collected together, upon land of their ow$. Here, also, he wishes to settle all those who will not work, but are straggling about in every direction, so as to preserve them as a part of your nation. These are the friendly and humane views of your father the President of the United States, and he is determined to effect them. If the nation here are so lost to humanity as to abandon those who have gone and settled over the Mississippi, it is a circumstance of great regret. Your father the President will not permit them to be lost. He could not have anticipated that any great and good chief and warrior would consent to consign his friends and brothers to misery and destruction, when they might preserve them, by exchanging a small part of their land, which they can conveniently spare. The friend of such a measure is the enemy of your happiness, and unworthy of the Indian character. He must be destitute of all magnanimity and virtue, and should not preside over the councils of your nation. It is the duty of every good and wise chief and warrior to make individual sacrifices for the benefit of all his people. He should not be governed by his own private convenience, or that of a small part of his nation. No other course can promote the welfare and happiness of any people. If the Choctaw children of your father the President will adopt the measures here recommended, they will be happy; if they should not, they may be lost forever. We have been sent here by your father the President to explain these things to the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of this nation. These are the valuable objects which Mr. Jefferson promised you, and was desirous to accomplish. You have been requested to listen well, and avoid the counsel of bad men. All we wish is, that you should secure your own happiness. If you will not hear, and be advised by your father the President of the Uniled States, you must suffer the consequences. He is resolved to preserve and protect his Choctaw children beyond the Mississippi. If you reject his friendly proposals, he will treat with them for the accomplishment of this humane object. They are ready to negotiate with us, and will receive us with open arms. If you will permit the obstinacy and folly of a few amongst you to work your own destruction, you cannot hereafter complain. Such conduct on your part will force your father the President to adopt the course above mentioned; or Congress, at their approaching session, will take the business into their own hands. By the treaty of Hopewell, they have a right to manage the affairs of this nation; and they will do so, if compelled by the obstinacy of your chiefs and the wickedness of your advisers. It will be the last time a talk will ever be delivered by your father the President to his Choctaw children on this side of this Mississippi. You are advised to beware. This is the second time we have met you in council, and the patience of your father the President may be exhausted. He has heretofore treated you as friends and brothers. He has protected you, and more than once saved your nation. During the late war he took you by the hand as beloved children, and defended you from your and his enemies. Had he failed at New Orleans, your nation would have been destroyed. Be careful you do not forfeit his friendship and regard. He does not ask you for favors, but only for what is just and reasonable, and for your good. If you refuse it, you must submit to the consequences. Your evil advisers may rely upon it that they will suffer for their folly. They are now offered reservations and other advantages; but, hereafter, their interest will not be consulted, only as they are connected with that of the great body of the nation. This is the last attempt, we repeat it, that will be made to treat on this side of the Mississippi. When so many advantages are offered you, and they are rejected, it will be hereafter useless. If evil counsel is permitted to prevail amongst you, your nation must be discarded from the friendship and protection of their white brothers. It is painful to your father the President to do so; but necessity will compel him, and that, too, at a time when your people are weakened by emigration, and more than ever require his fatherly advice and assistance. Your father the President offers you every advantage, and again wishes to preserve and perpetuate you as a nation. The chain which unites his white and Choctaw children will then be brightened. He wishes to treat with you upon terms that will accommodate those living here. He obliges himself to endow your schools, and to provide for the happiness of all. If he is compelled to treat with those beyond the Mississippi in an exchange of land, he will insist upon, acre for acre; and the country here may be cut up so as to interfere with your schools as well as the great body of the nation. All the advantages now proposed may be lost forever. We may no longer be friends and brothers, and the Choctaw name here be irrecoverably lost. Let us entreat you to avoid bad counsellors. Remember that your nation was in great danger of being governed by the advice of wicked men on two former occasions. When two of your Choctaw brothers were taken prisoners by the British, during the late war, they were sent amongst you with a talk, which you heard. They also brought with them, as presents, twelve bundles of goods and war hatchets, which were distributed in this nation. Your father the President then interposed. He destroyed the enemy, and saved your people. When General Jackson was at Mobile, he sent you a talk as his friends and brothers. Afterwards a Spanish agent paid you a visit, and, as he was informed, spoiled his talk. As soon as he received this intelligence, General Jackson immediately despatched the bearer back again, and directed him to say to the Red Foot, a chief of the Six Towns, that, unless he and his warriors joined him within a given time, he should find him and his army in his town in a few days. This chief was told that he must take sides either for or against us. He heard General Jackson’s talk; and joined him within the time mentioned. He held his father the President fast by the hand, and, by our united efforts, the enemy was conquered, and your nation saved a second time. General Jackson has come a third time to preserve you, and be will do so, if you will listen to the talk of your father the President of the United States. Are you unmindful of all these things, and of what your father the President has done for you? Pause before you decide. Frown upon evil counsellors, and consult your best interests, and all will be well; otherwise, no foresight can calculate your distresses. Your father the President will not be trifled with and put at defiance. A heavy cloud may burst upon you, and you may be without friénds to counsel or protect you. The chain which has hitherto united us may be broken. Listen well, and then determine. Your existence as a nation is in your own hands. The project of a treaty delivered to you on yesterday contains the basis of every thing necessary for the permanent happiness of your nation. It is such a treaty as al) real friends’to your nation will say it is your interest to make, and by which your welfare and prosperity will be secured forever. Have the pegs driven down, and the lines distinctly marked as proposed, so that they never can be altered until you request it yourselves, or until you are advanced to that state of civilization when the land will be apportioned out to each family or individual in the nation. Hear(and listen well. Decide for the happiness of all your people, and let not a few obstinate and wicked men destroy your welfare and security. We have labored hard to convince you of your real interests. We hope you will see them as we do, and adopt the treaty proposed, (an outline of which has been submitted to you,) in order that it may be frequently read to you, and that you may understand its objects. Should you reject it, it will be a source of great regret, as it may be a measure fatal to your nation. ANDREW JACKSON, THOMAS HINDS. The chiefs, headmen, and warriors then went into council, but, for the want of harmony, separated without doing any thing. The committee appointed for the transaction of business was dissolved before they made a report by Puck- shenubbee, a principal chief of the nation. After insulting many of the* headmen and warriors, he abruptly left the council, declaring that he would not consent to an exchange of land as proposed in the project of a treaty submitted to them, and that he would have no further agency in the transaction. In consequence of the insulting conduct of this chief, the commissioners called all the chiefs, headmen, and warriors together, and informed them that they were sent here to treat with the whole nation, and not with an individual chief. They said they felt themselves bound to consult their welfare and happiness, and they were determined that the obstinacy of one or more individuals should not defeat so important an object. The commissioners desired to know the wish of a majority; and if they were in favor of a treaty, it should be signed, independent of the voice of anyone chief, or of his corrupt advisers. They had a right to adopt this course, and it was their imperative duty to do so. They were told that they should not suffer one or more men to sacrifice their dearest interests; if they did so, they were lost forever. The commissioners also informed them that if a majority of the nation believed this chief to be unfit to preside over them, they had the power to elect another; and, should they select an individual as his successor, he would be presented with a medal, and recognised as a principal chief. They further stated to the chiefs, headmen, and warriors, that on to-morrow the treaty would be presented for signature; and, if it met the wishes of a majority of the nation, the business should be concluded. About forty or fifty headmen and warriors came in to-day, who had been notified to attend by the runners sent out on the 3d instant. OCTOBER 18, 1820. Agreeably to appointment, the commissioners met the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation, iu full council, this day; and, after having read and explained to them the different articles of the treaty, submitted it to them for signature. CHOCTAW TREATY GROUND, October 19, 1820. This day the following request, with the names subscribed, was presented to the commissioners of the United States, which they promised to enclose to the President, to be laid before the Congress of the United States: We, the undersigned chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation, respectfully request the commissioners plenipotentiary, appninted by the President of the United States to hold and conclude a treaty with said nation, to annex to the treaty already signed an additional article, giving Alexander Hamilton, one-fourth Indian, the privilege of selecting one section of land within the country ceded to the United States, which he is to hold as a reservation in fee-simple. The undersigned chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation also respectfully request the commissioners aforesaid to annex to said treaty another article, securing to Noble Osborne, who keeps a public house on the road leading from Nashville to Natchez, the privilege of entering, at Congress price, one section of land where he now lives, making the gate posts in front of his house the centre of the tract. Pooshamataha, his X mark. Mushulatubbee, his X mark. All the Indians on to-day, and since the signing of the treaty, appeared to be well pleased, anti disposed to indulge in amusement. Notwithstanding the opposition heretofore made to the treaty, they, at this time, seem to be almost universally satisfied. OCTOBER 20,1820. The petition, of which the following is a copy, was this day laid before the commissioners. They ordered it to be entered upon the journal, and promised to transmit it with the treaty, to be laid before the Congress of the United States: We, the undersigned chiefs of the Choctaw nation, request that our father the President of the United States will order to be sold two tracts of land: one lying on Chickasawhay river, including the Hiyoowannee village; and the other on Tombigbee river, including a village called the Little Turkey; being two tracts reserved by the treaty of Mount Dexter; and that the money arising from the sales be appropriated to the use of the nation; and that, out of the sales aforesaid, there may be paid to Mrs. Mitchell, the wife of Edward Mitchell, for her services in instructing the Indians to weave and spin, for two years and three months, at the rate of thirty dollars per month. Given under our hands, at the treaty ground in the Choctaw nation, this 20th day of October, 1820. Puckshenubbee, his X mark.	T "Captain Nackastona, his X mark. Captain Oakchummee, his X mark. Captain Cobb, his X mark. Choctawestonockee, his X mark. Daniel McCurtain, his X mark. Captain Oglemier, his X mark. John Cairn, his X mark. Hopochemitta, his X mark. Jesse Brashears. George Turnbull. Greenwood Leflore. OCTOBER 21,1820. The commissioners, having concluded the treaty with the Choctaw nation this day, made the following communication to the Secretary of War: CHOCTAW TREATY GROUND, SIR:	Commenced October 19, and continued to October 21, 1820. We have the pleasure to inform you that on yesterday we concluded and signed a treaty with the Choctaw nation of Indians, by which the United States have obtained a cession of about six millions of acres of land, in exchange for the country between the Arkansas and Red rivers: beginning on the Arkansas, where the lower line of the Cherokee boundary strikes the same; thence, up the Arkansas river, to the Canadian fork; thence, up the same, 31 E to its source; thence, due south, to Red river; thence, down Red river, to a point three miles below the mouth of Little river, which empties itself into Red river on the north side; thenee, a direct line, to the beginning. From an examination of the map, you will find that Little river is about sixty miles above the Great Raft on Red river, and that we have located the Choctaws as high np the same as practicable. Upon our first arrival in the nation, we found the Indians generally very much opposed either to ceding or exchanging any land. Those who had been in favor of a treaty were compelled to be silent, and every chief threatened with death if he consented to sell or exchange an acre. Upon inquiry, we discovered that their minds had been poisoned by white men and half-breeds living amongst them, and who had been uncommonly busy in the circulation of falsehoods, and misrepresenting the views of the American Government. From these and other causes, Puckshenubbee, a principal chief of the nation, was so averse to a treaty of any kind, that he gave an order to the headmen and warriors of the district under his command to bring with them only four days’ provisions, and not to draw a single pound of public beef. When he arrived at the treaty ground, he was interrogated by the commissioners as to the reason of his order; to which he replied, that it was not his intention to grant any thing proposed by the United States, and did not, therefore, wish to subject them to any expense. At this time there were not more than one hundred and fifty headmen and warriors convened to meet in council; and, from every thing that could be learned, the commissioners entertained no doubt but that an organized opposition had been formed to prevent the attendance of those who were in favor of the treaty, and thereby render the effort abortive. Their arrangement seemed to be, to have a partial meeting of the nation, composed principally of those opposed to negotiation, to remain upnn the ground a few days, and then return home. As suon as we distinctly ascertained the views of these malecontents, we informed the chiefs and warriors present that we bad been sent here to treat with the whole nation, and not with a small part of it; that all were interested, and a majority must be heard; and that we should remain upon the ground forty days and nights, in order to collect them together, and deliver to them the talk of the President of the United States. We immediately despatched two interpreters, Mr. Mackey and Edmund Folsom, with a talk addressed to those who had not been notified, or prevented by threats from attending at the treaty. This measure had the desired effect, as a considerable number arrived at this place in a few days afterwards, and in time to give their signatures to the treaty. For further information upon these subjects, we respectfully refer you to the letter of the Red Foot, (herewith transmitted,) which he acknowledged in council to be his, but not his language. For the same purpose, we submit to your examination the report of the interpreters, marked A, and that of Edmund Folsom, marked D. When a majority of the nation had collected, we met them in council, and delivered them the talk of the President of the United States. The views and wishes of the Government were folly explained to them, and the benefits which would result to the Choctaws, if they would hear and adopt the counsel and advice which had been sent them. Ÿou will find this talk recorded on the journal, to which you are referred for further particulars. After the return of our runners, and the great body of the nation were assembled, we gave them a second talk, which appeared to meet the wishes of all the chiefs and headmen, except Puckshenubbee and one of his captains, who still continued obstinately arrayed in the opposition. On the 17th October we addressed them a third time, and on the 18th laid before them the treaty for signature, which had been previously read and explained to them in council. It met the approbation of the whole nation, and all the mingoes, headmen, and warriors present subscribed their names. For a full history of our proceedings, we refer you to our journal accompanying the treaty, both of which will be forwarded from Nashville by Samuel R. Overton, Esq., secretary to the commission, or some other trusty and special messenger. When the treaty reaches you, we believe it will be found as advantageous in its provisions as, under existing circumstances, we had a right to expect. We have amply provided for their schools on both sides of the Mississippi. This was an object truly desirable to the nation, and duly appreciated by the commissioners. Without providing for them, we were satisfied that we could nut obtain the signature of the treaty, securing an exchange as therein proposed. We enclose with the treaty a plan of the missionary, Mr. Cyrus Kingsbury, for establishing schools in the Choctaw nation, on both sides of the Mississippi river; to which we beg leave to call your attention, and hope it will be adopted, as far as the funds will permit, when raised. We must here remark that we found some dissatisfaction in the nation in consequence of their principal chiefs having made a donation of part of the annuity for the support of their schools. For the purpose of producing harmony amongst them, by which alone our success could be secured, we proposed the article raising an equal fund, and $1,000 more, as an annuity for sixteen years. This produced all the good effects which were anticipated. For the effectuation of a similar purpose, and to bring over the old chief Puckshenubbee, the deserter mentioned in General Jackson’s last letter was liberated, upon his producing an able-bodied substitute to serve for five years. It is believed to have had some influence. The treaty provides that the lines to be run and marked as the boundary between the Choctaw nation and the United States on this side of the Mississippi river shall continue without alteration until the period when said nation shall become so civilized as to be made citizens of our Government, or remove across the Mississippi river. It also contains an article securing to those who have separate settlements within the ceded limits the value of their improvements, should they remove in one year from the date of the treaty. To run the boundary lines on both sides of the Mississippi, we would respectfully recommend for appointment Hinsey D. Downs and Eden Brashears, both of the State of Mississippi, as well qualified for the performance of that duty. For the appraisement of the improvements of those who remove from the lands ceded to the United States, we also suggest the propriety of selecting Mr. Garrard E. Nelson, a white man who resides in the nation, and Major Benjamin Smith, of Kentucky. They are qualified to do justice to all parties, and will give entire satisfaction to those concerned. Agreeably to an article in the treaty, it is suggested that Congress should make an appropriation, as soon as convenient, to provide for the warriors who served in the campaign to Pensacola. They have been importunate upon the subject, and should be paid the amount due them as early as possible. A number of papers with which we have been furnished relative to this subject will be communicated with the treaty. You will receive, accompanying the treaty, a request from the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Choctaw nation in favor of Noble Osborne and Alexander Hamilton, which it is our desire should be laid before Congress, and the object of the petition granted. Should a [aw be passed in favor of Hamilton, it is suggested that he ought to be restricted so as to be prevented from locating his section on a town site, or on any portion of land set apart for the support of schools in the Choctaw nation. Hamilton is three-fourths white man, and a native of the country. He has been a soldier, and at one time appointed an officer in the army of the United States. He is poor, and we have promised to use our endeavors to secure to him this grant of land, and that he be made a citizen, and subject to our laws. Mr. Osborne has for many years kept a United States stand on the public road running through the nation. His treatment to both Indians and white men has given general satisfaction, and all have interceded in his behalf. We are also requested by the chiefs, headmen, and warriors to lay before you the petition in favor of Mr. Traion. We consented to comply with their wish; but have to observe that he is a white man, who has married a second time in the nation, and who we cannot say is more entitled to exclusive privileges or advantages than many other white men who live among the Choctaw Indians. The application of Greenwood Leflore to become a citizen of the United States, and have his section of land, to include his improvement, secured to him in fee, is believed to be just and reasonable, and ought to be granted. It will, it is presumed, have a good effect, and in a short time induce all those who remain on this side of the Mississippi to petition for the same privilege. The applications of George Turnbull and Alexander McKee are reasonable, and should also be granted by Congress. Upon the subject of the petition of the chiefs, headmen, and warriors, for the sale of certain reservations, the proceeds of which are to be applied to the benefit of the nation, after deducting the expense of surveying, the commissioners have approved of the same, and pledged themselves to use their influence to have it effected. The paper with the signatures obtained by Mr. Silas Dinsmore we disapprove as unjust, undeserving, and as a bad precedent. It proposes an appropriation of part of Turkeytown for his benefit. It is not the wish of the nation, and, in our opinion, ought not to be granted. For the purpose of carrying into effect the fourth article of the treaty, it is important that a confidential person should be appointed, who speaks the Choctaw language, whose duty it shall be to collect all those who wish to remove beyond the Mississippi, and conduct them thither. The blankets, kettles, guns, bullet-moulds, &c., ammunition, and pruvisions given in said article, in order to facilitate their removal, should be forwarded to the agent at as early a period as possible after the ratification of the treaty. The confidential person appointed to collect and conduct them beyond the Mississippi should, from time to time, report the number to the agent by whom they are to be supplied with the articles above mentioned. It is also important that the agency should be removed to a point which may now be considered the centre of the nation. We have no doubt, from the. information which has reached us since the treaty was signed, that at least two-thirds of the nation here will remove to the country ceded to them, if the intended facilities are afforded them. The remainder of this nation will then be prepared to have the laws of the United States extended over them; and it is hoped we shall no longer witness the farce and absurdity of holding treaties with the Indians residing within our territorial limits. We have the gratification to state to you that the funds placed in our hands to meet the expenses incurred by the treaty have not been exceeded. The manner in which they have been expended is spread upon our journal, with the receipts accompanying it, as far as they could be procured. In justice to the public spirit of the late Governor Holmes, and other gentlemen of the State of Mississippi, we must inform you that $10,000 were placed in our hands as an auxiliary fund in obtaining this treaty, so desirable to that State. It has not been found necessary to use it, and has consequently been returned. By this treaty, the State of Mississippi has obtained a tract of country sufficient for ten additional counties. It will open a country within her limits capable of embracing a population double her present numbers. With regard to the Indians, the country ceded to them beyond the Mississippi will have the happy effect of gradually draining the nation of all those whose habits and dispositions are inimical to industry and improvement, and whose absence will greatly facilitate the views of the Government in the civilization of those who remain. Enclosed with the treaty you will receive a letter signed “John Everett,” relative to some goods said to have been stolen from Joel H. Nail, a half-breed of the nation. Upon this statement of Everett has Nail predicated the petition accompanying the letter. We cannot certainly determine upon the justice of the claim, but were informed by John Pitchlynn, United States interpreter, that the provision for his benefit which Nail has solicited ought not to be made. From these impressions of Mr. Pitchlynn, he refused to sign the petition. We, however, felt it our duty, in compliance with the wishes of those by whom it is subscribed, to communicate it, so that justice may be done. The petition of the half-breeds, herewith enclosed, praying that a law may pass conferring upon them the privileges of citizens of the United States, is reasonable, and properly demands the attention of Congress. There are a number of other decorous and intelligent men of the same description in the nation, who we have understood are desirous of obtaining the same privileges. This we have encouraged, and hope the applications to that effect may be granted by the Government. It may have the happy effect of inspiring a similar disposition amongst that class throughout the nation. They will be enabled to make more rapid progress in education, by which alone they can be prepared to become citizens of the United States. Those whose habits are opposed to civilization will also be induced to remove; and if this idea he properly encouraged, in the course of ten years all on this side of the Mississippi will be made citizens of the Government. Even the old mingo Puckshenubbee has éxpressed to us his intention of remaining on his plantatiun, within the ceded limits, and be protected by the laws of the United States. As soon as the objects of the Government in relation to the Choctaw nation on the other side of the Mississippi are in a state of progression, we would suggest the necessity of appointing an interpreter to reside amongst them. We would respectfully recommend for this purpose Mr. Edmund Folsom, now interpreter of the Six Towns in this nation. He has consented to go over. He speaks both languages well, and may be relied on as a faithful friend of the United States. You will also receive, herewith, a petition, with a number of names subscribed, the object of which is to displace the old chief Puckshenubbee, and elect a successor. Owing to his obstinate opposition to the treaty until {the last-moment, he excited the displeasure of almost all his headmen and warriors present. They proposed electing a successor before the treaty was signed, but afterwards determined to pursue the course adopted. When the petition was presented to us, and whilst it was in circulation, we informed its friends that the commissioners would have no agency in the transaction; that it was a concern which belonged to the nation; and that they must dispose of it as they thought proper. From their importunities, however, we consented to communicate the paper enclosed as an expression of their wishes upon the subject. For the satisfaction of the President of the United States, we transmit an aggregate of the expenses incurred during the treaty, save those necessary for the return of General Jackson and suite, which cannot at this time be estimated with certainty. All the vouchers will be forwarded with the treaty. We are, with the highest consideration and respect, your most obedient servants, ANDREW JACKSON, > THOMAS HINDS, J Commissioners. A list of donations made to the following chiefs and headmen of the Choctaw nation, under the directions of the commissioners. I certify that the above presents were made, pending the treaty, to the headmen and warriors, under our inspection, and counted by me, this 21st October, 1820.	WILLIAM EASTIN. CHOCTAW TREATV-GROUND, NEAR DOAK’S. The above donations were made agreeably to our order.	ANDREW JACKSON, THOMAS HINDS. Attest:	SAMUEL R. OVERTON, Secretary. General Andrew Jackson and T. Hinds, United States' commissioners for holding a treaty with the Choctaw DR.	nation of Indians, in account current with the United States.	CR. By cash in the hands of General Jackson, $20,000 00 We certify that the above account exhibits a correct view of our expenditures during the present treaty. ANDREW JACKSON, THOS. HINDS. Attest:	SAMUEL R. OVERTON, Secretary. We have carefully read and examined the preceding journal, and do hereby approve of the same as a correct statement of the events as they occurred pending the treaty with the Choctaw nation of Indians. ANDREW JACKSON, THOMAS HINDS. DOAK’S STAND, October 22, 1820. This day Major General Andrew Jackson and suite set out from this place on their return to Nashville. NASHVILLE, November 10, 1820. On this day Major General Andrew Jackson and suite reached this place. The United States, to Major General Andrew Jackson, commissioner for holding a treaty with the Choctaio Indians.	DR. To expenses incurred from the 21st October to the 10th November, inclusive, by General Jackson and suite, on their return from the treaty-ground to Nashville, including those of the two Cherokee chiefs, $351 50 To pay as commissioner from 21st October to 10th November, inclusive, twenty days, at $8 per day, 160 00 To Samuel R. Overton’s pay as secretary to the commissioners, from 21st October to 15th November, inclusive, twenty-five days, at $5 per day, -	-	-	-	.	125 00 To money advanced to Samuel R. Overton, secretary, as travelling expenses from Nashville to Wash ington city, .......	150 00 $786 50 .	CR. By balance in the hands of General A. Jackson, 21st October, 1820, -	- $6,798 57| By General Jackson’s account, marked No. 11.	-	-	-	786 50 Balance in General Jackson’s hands, ....	$6,012 07 J To mistake in estimate of expenses,	-	-	-	-	-	15 00 $6,027 07j I do hereby certify that the above statement exhibits a correct account of expenditures incurred by General Jackson and suite, &c. from the 21st October to the 10th November, 1820, inclusive. . ANDREW JACKSON. 16th CONGRESS.]	
