NO. 156.	[2d SESSION. EMIGRATION OF THE CHOCTAWS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, DECEMBER 1, 1818. Mr. POINDEXTER made the following report: The Committee on the Public Lands, to whom was referred a resolution instructing said committee “ to inquire into the expediency of prohibiting the emigration and settlement of the Choctaw tribe of Indians on the lands of the United States west of the river Mississippi, until they shall have acquired that right by treaty with the United States, founded on a cession of lands inhabited by said tribe of Indians east of the river Mississippi,” have had that subject under consideration, and submit the following report: That, by the third article of the treaty concluded between the United States and the Choctaw tribe of Indians, bearing date the 3d day of January, 1786, commonly called the treaty of Hopewell, it was stipulated between the contracting parties that the lands allotted to said Indians to live and hunt on, within the limits of the United States, should be limited by the following boundaries, to wit: “ Beginning at a point on the thirty-first degree of north latitude, where the eastern boundary of the Natchez district shall touch the same; thence, east, along the said thirty-first degree of north latitude, being the southern boundary of the United States of America, until it shall strike the eastern boundary of the lands on which the Indians of the said nation did live and hunt on the 29th day of November, 1782, while they were under the protection of the King of Great Britain; thence, northwardly, along the said eastern boundary, until it shall meet the northern boundary of the said lands; thence, westwardly, along the said northern boundary, until it shall meet the western boundary thereof; thence, southwardly, along the same, to the beginning.” That, of the above-described tract of country, a very small portion has, since the date of said treaty, been ceded to the United States for a valuable consideration, and the residue thereof remains in the possession of said Indians, for the purposes set forth in the above-recited article. It further appears to your committee that, since the cession of Louisiana to the United States by France, Congress, by an act passed on the 26th of March, 1804, did authorize the President of the United States “to stipulate with any Indian tribes owning lands on the east side of the Mississippi, and residing thereon, for an exchange of lands the property of the United States on the west side of the Mississippi, in case the said tribes shall remove and settle thereon; but in such stipulation the said tribes shall acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States, and shall agree that they will not hold any treaty with any foreign Power, individual State, or with the individuals of any State or Power; and that they will not sell or dispose of the said lands, or any part thereof, to any sovereign Power, except the United States, nor to the subjects or citizens of any other sovereign Power, nor to the citizens of the United States.” The obvious intention of this act was to enable the Government, as soon as practicable, to transfer to the extensive uninhabited territories of the United States west of the Mississippi the several Indian tribes, who, by their local situation east of that river, retard the progress of population in that section of country, and prevent the facilities which ought to be afforded to the commercial intercourse between the western States and Territories and the city of New Orleans. The accomplishment of this object would be productive of incalcuable advantages to a large and respectable portion of the Union, who depend solely on the Mississippi as an outlet to the rich productions which annually float down that river in search of a suitable and profitable market. But your committee are informed, from sources entitled to their entire confidence, that for several years past the Choctaw tribe of Indians, to whom has been allotted a vast and fertile territory east of the Mississippi to live and hunt on, finding their favorite pursuit theie unprofitable, and, in consequence of the scarcity of game, not capable of yielding them an ordinary support, have gradually emigrated to the west, and formed considerable settlements for hunting, and even for agricultural purposes, on the lands of the United States within the territories acquired by the purchase of Louisiana, in direct violation of the treaty of Hopewell, and of the spirit and meaning of the act of Congress to which your committee have referred. In consequence of a representation of these facts, and of the probable disposition of this tribe of Indians to exchange lands which had become of no value to them for an equal quantity west of the Mississippi, to which their young men and hunters are accustomed annually to resort, the President of the United States, during the last session of Congress, appointed, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, three commissioners, who were instructed to propose to these Indians an exchange of lands, which seemed to be called for as well by their own wants and necessities as by a due regard to justice .and the rights and interests of the United States. The proposition was accordingly made by our commissioners, on fair and equitable principles, which resulted in a total refusal on the part of the chiefs of the aforesaid tribe to relinquish their right of possession to the lands designated for them to live and hunt on, although they at this time occupy those lands on the west of the Mississippi which have been offered as an equivalent for such relinquishment. Your committee are of opinion that these unwarrantable proceedings ought no longer to be tolerated. The. power vested in the President of the United States by the act of the 26th of March, 1804, will become obsolete if the tribes of Indians east of the Mississippi are permitted to emigrate and form settlements west of that river, without the previous sanction of the Government. The Cherokee tribe, whose hunters had removed to the Arkansas, were compelled to indemnify the United States by a cession of their lands on the Chatahoochee and Tennessee rivers; the same rule ought to be adopted in relation to every other tribe. The Choctaws possess the east bank of the Mississippi for a distance ef near three hundred miles, which will remain an uninhabited wilderness for centuries to come, unless their claim is extinguished, and the country populated by the United States. A variety of important considerations urge the expediency of effecting this object at an early period. The defence of the southern frontier of the United States from foreign invasion imperiously requires a strong physical force on the Mississippi, from the mouth of the Ohio to New Orleans. The navigation of that river, also, by means of steamboats, so essential to the welfare of the western country, cannot be prosecuted with safety and convenience without the aid of a population adequate to the supply of fuel, and other necessary articles, in a long and dangerous voyage against the rapid current of the river. Your committee are satisfied that, so long as the Choctaw tribe of Indians are permitted to live and bunt on the lands of the United States west of the Mississippi, they will never cede to the United States any part of the valuable country which they occupy by treaty east of said river. Justice and policy, therefore, combine in recommending the necessity of confining them to the boundaries heretofore appropriated for their use, until they shall acquire the right to other lands by treaty with the United States. Your committee report a bill for that purpose. 15th CONGRESS.]	
