No. 61. [2d Session. THE NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, ON T11E 30th OF JANUARY, 1795. Department of War, January 30, 1795. Sir: The President of the United States has instructed me to communicate, in confidence, to the Senate, the despatches from Major General Wayne, herewith transmitted, dated the 23d of December last, and which were received on the. 28th instant. I have the honor to be, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant, TIMOTHY PICKERING, Secretary of IFar. The Vice President of the United States. Extract of a letter from Major General Wayne to the Secretary of JVar, (letted H ead Quarters, Greenville. 23(/ December, 1794. Si: I have the honor to inform you, that the flag from the Wyandots of Sandusky, after an absence of forty-two days, returned to this place on the evening of the 14th instant. The enclosed copies of letters and speeches, will best demonstrate the insidious part recently taken by the British agents, Messrs. Simcoe, M’Kee, and Brandt, to stimulate the savages to continue the war, who being but too well acquainted with the near approach of tiiat period, in which the legion will bc dissolved, have artfully suggested a suspension of hostilities until spring, in order to lull us into a state of security, to prevent the raising of troops, and to afford the Indians an opportunity to make their fall and winter hunt unmolested. In the interim, the British are vigilantly employed in strengthening and making additions to their fortification at the foot of the rapids of the Miamies of the lake, evidently with a view of convincing the Indians of their determination to assist and protect them; hence, there is strong ground to conclude, that Governor Simcoe has not received any orders to the contrary, otherwise he would not presume to persevere in those nefarious acts of hostility. The Wyandots and other Indians, at and in the vicinity of the rapids of Sandusky, are completely within our power, and their hunting grounds all within striking distance; hence their present solicitude lor a suspension of hostilities. It is, however, probable that------------may now be seriously inclined for peace, being the only surviving prin- cipal chief out of lour, belonging to the Wyandots of Sandusky; the other three were killed in the action oi’ the  30th August, and he himself shot through the right elbow, which has deprived him of the use of that arm; add to this his present candid information and opinion, which is corroborated by------------. now with me, who has a little village of his own, consisting of a few Indian families, settled at ------. and well known to be friendly to the United States. All those people either are, or affect to be, in dread of the hostile Indians in the vicinity of Detroit, (who are under the immediate influence of the British agents) on account of the part they have recently taken. ----------says, that the present flag is sent without the privity or consent of those tribes, and expresses some doubts of its safe return, should any of the hostile Indians meet it on its way home, and discover the object of its mission. I shall endeavor to benefit by this real or affected dread, and propose to take them under the immediate protection of the United States, and to build a fortification at the foot of the rapids of Sandusky, as soon as the season and circumstances will permit; this will serve as a criterion by which their sincerity may be tried, and perfectly consistent with the treaty of the 9th January, 1789. But unless Congress have already, or w ill immediately adopt effectual measures to raise troops, to garrison this as well as the other posts already established, it would only be a work of supererogation, as the whole must be abandoned by the middle of May. I have, however, succeeded in dividing and distracting the counsels of the hostile Indians, and hope, through that means, eventually to bring about a general peace, onto compel the refractory to pass the Mississippi, and to the northwest side of the lakes. The British agents have greatly tire advantage in this business at present, by having it in their power to furnish the Indians with everv necessary supply of arms, ammunition, and clothing, in exchange for their skins and furs, which will always malee the savages dependent upon them, until the.United States establish trading houses in their country, from which they can be supplied with equal facility, and at as reasonable rates. The country we acquired in the course of the late campaign, and the posts we now occupy, are happily situate for this purpose, and which, with the addition of a post at Sandusky, and one at the mouth of the Miamies of the lake, would render the Indians as dependent upon the United States then, as they are now upon the British. If my recollection serves me, the President has, more than once, recommended this measure to the serious attention of Congress; and without it is adopted, we can never expect ii permanent peace with, or fidelity from the Indians. Could I, with truth and propriety, pledge myself to the hostile tribes, that this measure would be adopted, and that they would, with certainty, be supplied in this way, in the course of the ensuing spring, as well as in future, I am confident we should draw them over to our interest, notwithstanding every effort of the British to prevent it; because the inclemency of the winter season, the sterility of soil, and the scarcity of game, within the British territory, are all opposed to their removing to the north side of the lakes; and certain I am, that, had not Governor Simcoe held up to the Indians, at the late council, the fond, but, I trust, idle hope, of compelling the Americans to abandon and relinquish to them, all the posts and lands on the west side of the Qhio, the principal part of the hostile tribes would either have accepted of the invitation to treat, or have passed to the Spanish side of the Mississippi, in the course of the fall and winter. Possibly thev may yet do the one or the other, as I am informed that their present dependent situation is far from pleasant; nor have we much cause to envy the British the pleasure and expense of supporting and clothing this numerous horde of savages, thrown upon them by their own insidious conduct, and the fortuitous events ot war. A short sketch of the proceedings of the Council ot the Big Rock. A sketch of a speech from the Wyandot chiefs, in the behalf of all their confederates, some time ago; about the 10th October, 1794. Father: We request of you to give your sentiments candidly; we have been for this many years in wars and troubles; yon have, from time to time, promised us your assistance. When is your promise to be fulfilled? Their father's answer. Children: Your question is very difficult to be answered. I will relate an ancient history, perhaps before any of you here were born. When I first came into this country, I found it in the possession of your fathers the French; we soon became enemies with each other; in time, the Great Spirit above gave the conquest in my favor. In those days the United States were my subjects; we lived in this state for many years after; at last the Americans began to act impudently, which caused a rupture between us; however, the contest lasted for awhile; atlast we made peace; from that period, they have been encroaching upon your lands. I looked on as a spectator; never would say aword; they have even named the rivers that empty themselves into the Ohio. Children: I am still of opinion, that tiie Ohio is your right and title. I have given orders to the commandant of fort Miami to fire on the Americans, whenever they make their appearance again. I will go down to Quebec, and lay your grievances before the great man; from thence, it will be forwarded to the King, your father. Next spring you will know the result of every thing, what you and I will do. —--------, of the Wyandots of Sandusky, sent the following verbal information, by---------:—, a confidential warrior, and which he did not think prudent to commit to writing, for fear of accident; and desires it may be considered as supplementary and explanatory, to the sketch of the proceedings of the council at the Big Rock, on or about the 10th of October, 1794, viz: Governor Simcoe insisted, that the Indians should not listen to any terms of peace from the Americans, but to propose a truce, or suspension of hostilities, until the spring, when a grand council and assemblage of all the warriors and tribes of Indians should take place, for the purpostTof compelling the Americans to cross to the east side of the Ohio; and in the interim, advised every nation to sign a deed or convevance of all their lands, on the west side of the Ohio, to the King, in trust for the Indians, so as to give the British a pretext or color for assisting them, in case the Americans refused to abandon all their posts and possessions on the west side of that river; and which die Indians should warn them to do, immediately after they, the Indians, were assembled in force in the spring, and to call upon the British to guaranty the lands thus ceded in trust, and to make a general attack upon the frontiers at the same time: That the British would be prepared to attack the Americans, also, in every quarter, and would compel them to cross the Ohio, and to give up the lands to the Indians. Captain Brandt also told them, to keep a good heart, and be strong; to do as their father advised; that he would return home, for the present, with his warriors, and come again early in the spring, with an additional number, so as to have the whole summer before them, to fight, kill, and pursue the Americans, who could not possibly stand against the force and numbers that would be opposed to them; that he had been always successful, anti would ensure them victor}-. But that he would not attack tne Americans at this time, as it would only put them upon their guard, and bring them upon the Indians in this quarter, during the winter; therefore he advised them to amuse the Americans with a prospect of peace, until they should collect in force to fall upon them early in the spring, and when least expected. That, agreeably to this plan or advice, the real hostile tribes will be sending,flags frequently during the winter, with propositions of peace, but this is all fraud and art, to put the Americans oft'their guard. Tne British made large presents to the Indians at the late council, and continue to furnish them with provision from Colonel McKee’s new stores, near the mouth of the Miamies of lake Erie, where all the Indians are nutted or in tents, whose towns and property were destroyed last summer, and who will sign away their lands, and do exactly what the British requesst them; this was the general prevailing opinion at the breaking up of the council; since which period, the message and propositions of the 5th November, addressed to the diftercnt tribes of Indians proposing the treaty of the 9th January, 1789, held at the mouth of Muskingum, as a preliminary upon which a permanent peace should be established, has been communicated to them: upon which, a considerable number of the chiefs of several of the tribes assembled again, and were determined to come forward to treat, say about the first of this moon. But Colonel McKee was informed of it. and advised them against the measure, and to be faithful to their/«//jer, as they had promised. He then made them additional presents, far beyond any thing that they had ever heretofore received, which inclined a majority to adhere to Governor Simcoe's propositions, and they returned home accordingly. That, notwithstanding this, the chiefs and nations are much divided, some for peace, and some for war; the Wyandots of Sandusky are for peace; those near Detroit for war; the Delawares are equally divided, so are the Miamies, but are dependent upon the British for provisions; the Shawaneseand Tawas are for war; the Pattawatamies and Chippewas are gone home, sore from the late action. That such of the chiefs and warriors as are inclined for peace, will call a council, and endeavor to bring it about, upon the terms proposed, as they wish to hold their lands'under the Americans, and not under the British, whose title they do not like. That Colonel M’Kee has spies upon all his (the informer’s) movements, and that the Indians of Sandusky are in a very disagreeable situation, and are apprehensive that they will be compelled to remove, under the protection of the Americans, or to take a part with the bad Indians, unless they can obtain a majority for peace during the winter, which they do not despair of; in that case, the signal will be a------; when that comes, rest assured it is peace; but don’t believe the other flags. Copy of a letter from General Wayne to-----------, dated Head Quarters, Greenville, 5th November, 1794. Your several letters of the 27th of September, and an extract of a speech which the chiefs and warriors were to have sent from Sandusky, if the evil advice had not been adhered to, were delivered to me at the Miami village, by ----------, some days since; he. now- remains at this place to take care of---, who has been very unwell, but now on the recovery; every attention shall be paid to him until he is perfectly restored to health. The part you have taken to bring about a peace between the United States and the hostile tribes of Indians is highly pleasing to me. Continue to exert your influence to accomplish that good work, and you shall be liberally rewarded for your fidelity and trouble. You will observe, by the speech of the 4th instant, that I have proposed the treaty made at Muskingum, on the 9th of January, 1789, as a preliminary or foundation of a permanent and lasting peace. A duplicate of this treaty was delivered to the Wyandots, and is probably now in your possession; from part of it being recognised and quoted in the extract of the speech of the 06th September, 1791, and as you attended that treaty in person, you must be well acquainted with the principles upon which it was founded. I have cause to believe that my speech to the hostile tribes of Indians, of the 12th September last, was in great part suppressed by some of your bad white people at the foot of the Rapids. I, therefore, send a copy of it, as well as my speech of the 13th of August, by this opportunity, which you will please fully and clearly to explain to your people; perhaps you may find it convenient to come to this place immediately after the receipt of this, when matters can be better and more fully understood, and I hereby pledge my sacred honor for the safe return of yourself and all such chiefs and warriors as may accompany you. Wishing that the Great Spirit may incline all your hearts and minds to peace, and that we may soon have a happy interview. I am your friend and brother, ANTHONY WAYNE. Copy of a letter from------,---to Major General Wayne, dated , Sandusky, 4//i December, 1794. Brothers: > When I received your speeches I made no delay in despatching the messenger back to you, that you might be informed how matters go on; but unluckily there fell a great quantity of rain, which caused the rivers to overflow. I now make a second trial, which I hope will not fail. I have now the honor to communicate to your Excellency that---, the chief of,this place, is returned; he did not go as far as the Big R,ock. I have delivered him the speech, and explained the others to him at the same time; he was much pleased to hear your good will towards us. He now sends for answer to yours, as follows: Brothers: I am highly pleased to hear your voice, which you have communicated to me. I hope that the Great .Spirit above will incline our hearts to that way of thinking. The chiefs would have been there long before now, to speak with you, but the evil spirit deprived ns of it; but still you must not be out of hopes. Next spring you may depend upon us; we shall settle all matters to the satisfaction of all parties. Our father will, or has, promised to settle this for us. You must not think that this will be managed as it was with the last council at the Miami river; that time, vvhen you sent your commissioners, it was our father that disappointed us both; that time we are not to be blamed for it. Brothers: I must inform you that I will tell all my warriors to lay down their hatchets, and not strike any more upon you, and I hope you will do the same with yours; there may be some foolish young men, such as those that have no home, do mischief to you; for those I cannot answer. My greatest thanks to you for your good will towards us, which I hope the Great Spirit above will incline our hearts to keep this law. 1 am, brothers, your friend. Sandusky, 18th November, 1794. Brothers—the United States: I received yours of the 4th and 5th ultimo, and have the honor to inform your Excellency that all came safe to hand. Never was I more transported with joy at the receipt of them, and that mine had got safe to you. You have explained yourself so liberal, just, and with equity, to them, on the 13th August and 12th September, 1794. it cannot bear the least doubt of your sincerity and good will towards us brown skin people. You have cer-70 tainly taken the greatest pains to bring us to a right understanding with the Fifteen Fires. But, alas! as the evil minded people would have it, all would not confide. Whereas, the truth was obscured, and no attention paid at all to it. This has been the case always, particularly since the treaty at Muskingum. To this period have I waited with patience to see if they would find out their error, I saw no probability of its'ever being discovered, (perhaps not till it was too late.) I then put upon foot, and insisted strongly, that we should make a trial for that desirable object of peace with the United States, which they complied with frankness. You will see, by the extract of a speech I delivered on the 25th September. 1794, to the chiefs and warriors of this place. Your speech I have despatched from this on the 13th instant, to the Wyandot chiefs at the Big Rock, near Detroit, as------was not here. He left this a few days past for the aforesaid place. Very fortunately, the day before, one of the chiefs of this place returned from hunting, who is my right hand man, and one that was here before; the only two joined me. ... ‘ _ I was very sorry that you did not send ai few strings of white, wampum. However, as my confidence is now on you, it was not long without one. I gave four strings, one hundred grains and two feet each string, with a light blue (Indian) ribbon tied to one end, that you might know it again. You may rest assured, that I did not spare wisdom and integrity, so as nothing should be deficient. You will see also by a letter I wrote to-----, who is a good advocate for war and mischief. I have instructed the chief I send in with all the contents of it, and desired him to explain it to the chiefs, if in case the other did not.' . . Your Excellency has honored me with an invitation, if I would find it convenient. You will be pleased to admit my apology; circumstances will not allow me at present. Perhaps I or some other will be sent with their deputations, whenever the council is finished.’ My reasons for sending you an answer so soon, that you might be informed of the delays incident to this affair; as, also, his time was expiring fast, and to prevent your uneasiness of mind. I have sent you a sketch of what was done at the Big Rock lately. It does not seem to be any ways satisfactory to us. Be you assured, brothers, that every word I have advanced you is with honor and truth. I will, to the utmost of my power, use my influence to accomplish the good work we are upon. If it should eventually prove ineffectual, that shall not prevent me from holding fast the chain of friendship with the United States; and allow me the honor to return you my grateful gratifications for the good reception my people has had from you. ' Tam, brother, your friend. ' ‘ .--------------------------------------------- ) . 'Extract of a speech to the chiefs and warriors of Sandusky, the 25th. September, 1794. * ’ ** > Listen, chiefs and warriors of Sandusky! I told you, when I returned from Detroit, and found you all in such distress, that I had something to say to you all of importance. I am now come forward to speak. Listen chiefs and warriors. I will now make known to you all my sentiments from ray heart, respecting our present situation. I do acknowledge that to be our case; the most alarming circumstance that has ever happened to uS and our country. It appears to me as if we were going to be extirpated from our native soil. You all seem to be entirely lost, and that you are not able to speak for yourselves any more; (hat,.you are notable to plan our affairs for our future advantage. For this reason I now come forward to speak a few words, how we ought to act for our safety, in order that we may enjoy a while longer our lands. You know my right and duty, and the trust you have reposed in me by the first chiels of the Wyandots. r \ We are now arrived at a period which demands justice, and tells us to look around and see the most distressing appearance. What an object it is for us to contemplate on. How unhappy I am to see you all in this state; to think that we are so hear abandoning our lands. What will become of us? Surely, we will be in the greatest distress imaginable. The only plan I can see for our future happiness, is to demand a hearing from the United States once more. I think they would certainly hear our voice, for they are a humane people. I am now, from this day forward, resolved to send, in a few days, some of our warriors to demand proposals from the United States, concerning our lands. Be expeditious, and let me know your sentiments upon this head, that I may communicate it to them. All that I have to request of you in particular, is, you must not advise your father any more, for he has deceived us too often.   Is it not a great shame that you will not believe your own flesh and blood? You ought certainly to know that your ill conduct would be equally hurtful to me, as it would be to yourselves. I have now reminded you of the trust and confidence you have placed in me; that I was to see justice done you, and prohibit wrong. I am now determined, as I said before, to execute my office by some means or other. Here is four thousand of white wampum, which I deliver you, chiefs and warriors, as a token of my resolution to bring yon all to your senses, that you may be enabled to see what right is, when I bring it forward to you. Extract of a letter from Captain Thonuts Pasteur to Major General Wayne, dated .   i ’ FSlt Knox, November 2d, 1794.- I am informed from Kaskaskias, that the hostile Indians are crossing the .Mississippi every day; they say there is no withstanding the Americans", and they will go away. Several of the chiefs of the Wabash have been to see me; they say the Indians above are. crying, and they believe what I had told them before was very true, for the British would soon cry as well as the bad Indians; but they hoped their father would have a little pity for their bad brothers. , _ > On the above passage. General Wayne remarks, that it corroborates information heretofore received, of the intention of those Indians to cross the Mississippi; “ add to this, (says he) that there are no late appearances of an enemy in the vicinity of any of- our advanced posts, except from a number of printed hand bills, such as the enclosed, that are occasionally dropped near fort Defiance, evidently calculated to promote desertion, which has had some effect.” The hand bill reterred to, is as follows: * To all Loyal and Gallant Subjects—Recruits! Wantedj for his Majesty’s 1st American regiment, or Queen’s rangers, of which his Excellency Lieutenant Governor Snncoe is colonel commandant, fifty active young men. Gentlemen volunteers shall receive ten guineas bounty money each, on their approval, at the head quarters of the regiment, enter into free quarters, be clothed, accoutred, victualled, and paid agreeably to his Majesty’s regulations. None need apply to-------, but such as are perfectly fit for the most active service, at'least five feet four and a-half inches high, healthy and stout.   ■ '3d Congress.] 
