No. 49. [1st Session. THE SIX NATIONS AND OTHERS. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, MAY 21, 1794. Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House of Representatives: I lav before you. in confidence, sundry papers, by which you will perceive the state of affairs between us and the Six Nations, and the probable cause to which it is owing. And. also, certain information, whereby it would appear that some encroachment was about to be made on our territory, by an officer and party of British troops. Proceeding upon a supposition of the authenticity of this information, although of a private nature, I have caused the representation to be made to the British minister, a copy of which accompanies this message.* It cannot be necessary to comment upon the very serious nature of such an encroachment, nor to urge, that this new state of things suggests the propriety of placing the United States in a posture of effectual preparation, for an event which, notwithstanding the endeavors making to avert it. may, by circumstances beyond our control, be forced upon us. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States. 21s/ May, 1794. At a meeting between the Indians of the Six Nations, and their confederates, at the Onondaga village, on Buffalo creek, and John Butler. Esquire, Superintendent of Indian Affairs, at Niagara, in the Province of Upper Canada, and Israel Chapin, Esquire, Superintendent of Indian Attains, in the United States’ Northern Department, on Tuesday, the 8th day of October, 1793: After the council had met, the Onondaga chief. Clear Sky, spoke as follows: Brothers: We thank the Great Spirit for our happy meeting, that he has preserved us through all difficulties, dangers, and sickness, and given us an opportunity of meeting together at this place. He then went through the regular ceremony of condolence, and, severally, addressed Colonel Butler, General Chapin, and Indians of the several nations assembled.; which ceremony was returned by Colonel Butler and General Chapin, in their separate characters, agreeable to the custom of Indians. The Farmer's Brother then delivered the speech of the Shawanese, Delawares, and Twithuays, and spoke as follows: Brothers: Colonel Butler, and General Chapin, we wish you to attend the Shawanese, and other nations of Indians; thanked the Six Nations for their attention, and were glad to see them at the great council fire, which had been kindled some time at the rapids of the Miami: and then proceeded: Brothers: You are acquainted with the friendship which once subsisted between you and our fathers; and the reason that the present fire is kindled, is to renew that friendship. Brothers: \Ye mentioned this to you last, fall, at a council at the Glaize. and we now repeat it, to put you in mind of that friendship which once subsisted between you and our wise forefathers. [A belt of white wampum, made in a circular form, representing their place of meeting, as in the centre, and crossed by four stripes of black wampum, representing all tneir confederates. East, West, North, and South.] The seven nations of Canada then asked how long the confederacy had subsisted between the Shawanese, &c. and the Six Nations, and their confederates; the answer was, three lives. The Shawanese, &c. then proceeded: Brothers: The ancient confederacy which subsisted between us and the Five Nations, was, that, if any of the Five Nations w ere in distress, we would take them to us; we now see that you are in distress; that you are surrounded by water, and have not dry land to stand upon; that a large white beast stands with open mouth on the other side, ready to destroy you. We ha\e dry land for you to stand on; and wre now take you by the hand, and invite you to come, and bring your beds, and sit down with us.—[A belt of seven rows of black and white wampum.] The warriors now joined with the chiefs, and repeat the ancient agreement, and recommend a union of all the different nations, and ask them to follow what is requested of them by the chiefs.—[Sixteen strings of wampum.] ’Fhe Six Nations then advised the hostile Indians to send for the commissioners of the United States, who had arrived at the mouth of Detroit river, and take them by the hand, and lead them to the council fire which was then kindled. PucK-oN-cHE-i.rn, head warrior of the Delawares, then spoke: Brothers: I call you my uncles, and all the other Indians my grand-children; them I have already united and bound together, and I now bind you all together with this string.—[A large bunch of black wampum.] The sachems of the Delawares then spoke: Brothers: You have heard the speech of the chief warriors; we join with them, are glad to hear they have bound all their grand-children together, and that they have spoke with great respect to their uncles, and recommended to all to be of one mind.—[F'our belts of wampum.] The Six Nations returned thanks for the advice they had received from the Delawares. The Wyandots then spoke: Brothers: You came to us one hundred and fifty years ago. when we lived above Detroit, with a speech from the]Six Nations, assembled at their council fire at Onondaga hill, and recommended to us to be friends, and advised us not to listen to any bad repoil. or any thing that would disturb our minds. Brothers: Listen to a few words more we have to say to you: we hear the Virginians are near us; we shall not go to meet them; but if they should come among us, we do not know what will be the consequence. The Chippewas, and twenty-six other nations, their confederates, then spoke: Brothers: "VVe are sorry that the business, for which the council fire was kindled at the rapids of the Miami, has not been completed as we could wish. We were desired, by the different nations which we represent, to attend the council,and use our endeavors to bring about a general peace, and unite all the nations. The Wyandots again spoke, with a very large belt of wampum, with three pictures upon it, one in the middle, and one at each end, representing the Americans at one end, the Six Nations in the middle, and themselves at the other end, and expressed their sorrow that the Americans were gone before they had an opportunity to speak to them. The Chippewas. Ottawa-, and Pattawatamies, deputies from twenty-seven nations, inhabiting along the Lakes, and above Michiliinackinack, then spoke: * The copy here alluded to mar be found with the Message of the 23d May, 179-t, Vol. t. Cl * Brothers: M’e are sorry that \vc have attended all summer at the council fire, and have not done any business, as we expected. Brothers: We are now united with you. the Six Nations, and ask you to return to your seats, and let the United States know our .determination, and return with an answer to us by the middle of winter, and not stop, as some nations may confuse, you, and make your minds bad. The Six Nations, in answer to the Chippewas, &c. Brothers: We thank you, and, as soon as we get to our seats, we will kindle our council fire, and call Cana-dasago, our agent, appointed by the United States to meet with us, and, through him, will have our determination communicated to Congress. 1 The chiefs of the Six Nations to Colonel Butler and General Chapin: Brothers: We have now made known to you our proceedings, at the late proposed treaty at the rapids of the Miami, and have informed you of the proposed line between the Indians and the United States, which, it accepted, we shall assist the white people to make a peace. , Proceeding* of a Council held at Buffalo Creek, October 10th, 1793. Present: John Butler, Esquire. Superintendent of Indian affairs; Israel Chapin, Esquire, Superintendent of Indian affairs, Northern Department United States, with the chiefs of the Six Nations. The Farmer's Brother, in addition to what passed in council the 8th October, instant, addressed them as follows: Brothers: I am sorry we were the other day obliged to close the council, as we expected the Mohawks would have been present, and could have assisted in giving a fuller explanation of the business we had called you togeiher upon, than was, at that time, in our power; they are now arrived, and Captain Brandt will further inform you what we have to say. Captain Brandt then spoke as follows: Brothers: You, the King, our father, and yon, our brother, the United States, attend to what we have to say. We will now explain to you the material point, upon which we have requested your attendance at this council, and which has not been fully explained. We wish to act openly, that the world may judge of our proceedings. Brothers: It is unnecessary to repeat what passed at the great council, at the Miami rapids, as we know, that you are already acquainted therewith. We shall therefore point out the cause of our parting from the meeting, in the manner we did. ' ... Brothers: When the first deputation from the confederate Indians met the commissioners of the United States, at Niagara, every thin" seemed to promise a friendly termination of the treaty; but, before their return to the council fire, at the rapids of the Miami, messengers from the Creek nations arrived there, and'brought authentic information of the white people having encroached upon that part of the confederacy. This intelligence at once gavea change to the face of our proceedings, and, probably, was the sole cause of the abrupt, termination of the negotiations for peace. Thus, you see, that claims upon our lands always have been,.and still continue to be, the cause of the war. Brothers: About five years ago, we agreed upon a line of demarcation with the United States, which you know to be the Muskingum; and, notwithstanding the various accidents that have since occurred, we will still adhere to that boundary. , * Brothers: We think the United States will agree to this line, which will shew the sincerity and justice they always profess for the Indians: should they agree to this, we sincerely hope that peace will stiil take place, and we think, that the weight of our branch of the confederacy will be able to accomplish peace upon the reasonable line we have just mentioned, and we shall be exceeding sorry to find that this proposal should not be generally accepted by the confederacy. If it isrejected, we must be involved in difficulties in our own country. Brothers: We will now proceed to explain the, line upon which we hope peace will be made. We know that the lauds along the Ohio are claimed by the Indians, but we propose to give up such part of those lands as are actually settled and improved; which settlements arc to be circumscribed by a line drawn round them, and no further claims are to be. admitted beyond such line. The remainder of the boundary to be explained by General Chapin, for which purpose it is the general wish of the Six Nations that General Chapin will, himself, proceed with this speech to Congress. [A belt of black and white wampum.] Message from the Secretary of War to the Sachems. Chiefs, and Warriors, of the Six Nations. Brothers: A copy of your proceedings at Buffalo creek, on the 8th day of October last, has been received by General Chapin. These proceedings contain the sentiments of several chiefs of the various tribes who were assembled at the great council fire, which was kindled at the rapids of the Miami the last summer. And, in addition to this information, you add. in your meeting of the 10th of the same month, your desires of a boundary, which you say will be further explained by General Chapin. All these communications have been submitted to your Father, General Washington, the President of the United States, who desires the Six Nations to receive his sincere and hearty thanks for their assurances and acts of friendship to the United States. While your Father, the President, has observed with great pleasure the pains you have taken to effect a peace betweed the United States and the hostile Indians, he is. at the same time, very sorry that any circumstances should have prevented the accomplishment of a measure affecting the happiness of both parties. Peace, is best for the whites as well as for the red people, and it is always the cause of sorrow among good men, when misunderstandings arise which create wars. The. United States consider that they have taken all the requisite means to obtain a peace, which their duty or' their humanity required. They appointed respectable and wise characters as commissioners,'who were accompanied by a deputation of friends, the known advocates for peace. Those commissioners, under discouraging circumstances, persevered, for a long time, to obtain an interview with the great council of the Indians. Tins being ineffectual, they made, in good faith, such liberal oilers in writing, to ensure the future comfort and prosperity of the Indians, as were never betore given to the Indians of North America. These circumstances being known, forever acquit the character of the United States from all imputations of desiring a continuance of the war. . The same principles^’.moderation and humanity which before dictated the offers to the Indians, and a sincere friendship for the Six Nations, have induced your Father, the President, to consider attentively your proposition for a new boundary. Although the.lines you mention are considered as liable to considerable objections, yet, it is hoped, when all difficulties shall be discussed at a treaty or conference, by moderate men, with upright views, that some agreement may be made which would lead to a general peace. On this ground, the President consents that a conference should be held at Venango, on the 15th, or middle of May next. It is expected that the chiefs of the Six Nations and Chippewas will attend, and the chiefs of all such of the \\ estern tribes as the said Six Nations ami Chippewas may invite. And, if the hostile tribes should think proper to attend, they will be well received and treated, as people ought to be who are holding friendly treaties. But, it cannot be unknown to you, that, by the late abortive efforts to negotiate, the American army was restrained from offensive operations against those tribes, who appear deaf to the voice of reason and peace. Such a conduct will not be observed by the United States again. This must be clearly understood; let it be remembered, therefore, that there is no deception on our parts. Our army must be left entirely at liberty to act as circumstances may require. The scene of operations, however, will be far distant from Venango, the proposed place of meeting. It is to be observed, that in case any of the Western Indians attend at Venango, it would be proper they should proceed by water, at least as far east as Pre»qu' Isle, and thence to French creek by land. It would be dangerous for them to proceed from the westward by land, for the same reason they gave last year, namely, that the said paths are bloody paths. _ Brothers: If you agree to the time and place of meeting, it will be proper that you should immediately signify the same to General Chapin, that due preparations may be made at the said place. Given at the city of Philadelphia, by order of the President of the United States, the 24th day of December, 1793. II. KNOX, Secretary of liar. To the Sachems, Chiefs, and JUarriors, of the Six Nations. Brothers: Your Father. General Washington, lias directed, as an evidence of his affection, and a reward for your services the last summer, that you and your families should be well supplied with good warm clothing. Your friend, General Chapin, has this clothing in possession, for the purpose of being delivered to you. Receive, therefore, these presents, with the same affection and sincere friendship that they are delivered to you by the United States. Given at the city of Philadelphia, by order of the President of the United States, the twenty-fourth day of December, 1793. II. KNOX. Secretary of Ji'ar. Letter from Israel Chapin to the Secretary of IJ’ar. Canandaigua. February 25th, 1794. < Sir: Flnclosed are the proceedings of a council, holden at Buffalo creek, the 7th of this instant. There were presentat the council, the principal sachems, chiefs, &c. of the Six Nations, together with one Shawanee Indian that attended the council. There were a number of the British, from Upper Canada, also, who attended the council, agreeable to the Indians’ request, viz. Major Uittlehales, and others, of the Indian department. I proceeded on business, agreeable to your direction. The speech from the President was interpreted to them, and, although a little different from what they expected, (yet was gratified in the same.) 1 also informed them respecting the supply of clothing, Xc. forwarded them by the President's directions, which they received with much gratitude, and as a new token of his fatherly disposition towards them; but I believe had not the same effect with those who. they at present, call their brothers, the other side of the water. They did not give me a direct answer to the President's speech, as they wanted some time, for several reasons; some of their chiefs were absent, and some of them in the Shawanese country, in order to find out the dispositions of them towards the United States. Xc. Captain Brandt was present at the council; and, from every information I can obtain, the Six Nations, together with the Chippewas, will, undoubtedly, agree to hold a treaty next summer, agreeable to the President’s request. As soon as I receive their answer, will forward it without loss of time, which will probably be in one month from the date. I am, sir, with respect and esteem, your most obedient servant, ISRAEL CHAPIN. Proceedings of a council holden at Buffalo Creek, February 7th, 1794. Present: The principal sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the Mohawk, Cayuga. Oneida, Delaware, and Tusca-rora nations of Indians. From the United Suites—General Chapin, the superintendent, Mr. Colt, and Mr. Parrish, the interpreter. From Upper Canada—Major Uittlehales, Captain Bunbury, and the officers of the Indian department. After going through the usual ceremonies of congratulation. Red Jacket, a Seneca chief, spoke as follows: Brothers: (addressed to General Chapin.) We are happy that the Great Spirit has protected you to and from the President of the United States, with our proceedings relative to a boundary line, and with his, the President’s, answer thereto. Brothers: (addressed to the British.) We are glad see you, the King’s people, here, as we sent for you to listen to the answer of the President of the United States. Now, brothers of the United States, proceed. General Chapin returned the compliment to the Indians, adding, that he was glad that they had sent for the King’s people, to hear the speech about to be delivered, observing, also, that the sickness in Philadelphia, and Congress not being met together, had occasioned his delay. General Chapin then read the President’s speech. After the speech had been interpreted by Mr. Parrish, General Chapin said: Brothers: Having been absent from my family a greater part of the time, for the last year, I hope to have an answer to the President's speech, as soon as you can conveniently give one. ' Brothers: When I was in Philadelphia. I requested your father, the President of the United States, to give each of your people, who attended the treaty last summer, a suit of clothes, as a reward for their services; I likewise desired him to furnish your poor and distressed people with some ammunition, and a few articles of clothing; and it is with pleasure I can inform you, that those requests were readily granted. I have procured the articles for you, and expect they will shortly be brought to my house. Red Jacket replied: Brothers: (of the United States.) We have heard the speech which has been delivered to us, with great attention, and shall now remove the council fire to our castle, to take it into private consideration. Red Jacket then took the speech and belt, and gave it to Major Uittlehales. desiring him to peruse it attentively. Major Uittlehales then addressed himself to the Indians, as follows, returning the strings of black and white wampum, which had been given him. to attend the council. Brothers: Agreeably to your invitation, communicated to me in the absence of the Governor from Niagara, and bis information soliciting my attendance with some of the King's, your father’s, officers, together with the officers of your own department, we immediately proceeded here, and thank the Great Spirit for bringing us safe to your council fire. February 9th. 1794. Present, as before, viz: 'ITie principal Sachems, Chiefs, and Warriors, of the Six Nations; Fed Jacket, speaker; Mr. Parrish, interpreter. Brothers: We have taken your speech into consideration, and our eldest brother, Captain Brandt, is to'relate the result of our meeting in private council yesterday, t Captain Brandt then spoke as follows, with nine strings of white and black wampum: Brothers: I now address myself to you, General Chapin, of the United States, and to you, Major Littlehales, in behalf of the King, and thank the Great Spirit for bringingus again together in council, as what we areagoing to relate we wish the world to know. 'Brothers: You have bod) heard the message we delivered to our brothers of the United States last fall, relative to a boundary line? and we expected a positive answer from you, brothers of the United States, whether you would accept of it or not. Brothers: When we delivered the message to you last fall, for the United States, we had first taken it into serious consideration; we spoke the language of our hearts,and the Great Spirit knew ourminds;all the SixNations were of the same opinion, and we are well assured, that, had the United States accepted our proposed boundary line, peace would have certainly taken place. Brothers: The speed) you have brought us, has given us great uneasiness; we. are greatly at loss how to act; we expected a direct answer to our proposals of a boundary line; now we are much distressed that you have brought us but half an answer; the kindling a council tire at a distant place, is what we are not prepared to give a reply to. Brothers: Provided the United States had accepted our proposed boundary line, we should have sent immediately to our Western brethren, who know our sentiments, and we should have attended your council and confirmed it. Brothers: Make your minds easy; but in consequence of the importance of your speech, we must have time to deliberate very seriously upon it; we cannot give you an immediate answer; we must have a general council of all the chiefs; only a few are now present, and we should all be together. The reason of so much counselling at different times, has proceeded from so small a number of our sachems and chiefs being assembled, and this has been the principal cause of the present trouble. Brothers: You, General Chapin, live near us; we have two months and a half to consider of your speech, and by that time we will give you a final answer. We pray the Great Spirit that these difficulties may terminate to the happiness of both parties. Brothers: You requested an answer as soon as was convenient, but in such very weighty business, it is impossible to give one immediately. With regard to provision, there is plenty in your country, and, if we should agree to meet you, you need not be particular about what we shall consume, for we shall not expect any thing but provision. Brothers: We now conclude, and we pray the Great Spirit to protect you safe home, and we desire you will bear it continually on your minds, that you will soon receive an answer. [The nine strings of wampum delivered to General Chapin.] The address of General Chapin to the Six Nations. Brothers: I thank the Great Spirit for preserving us, and am happy that we are again inet together on this important business. The answer that you have made to the President’s speech, has been taken dow n in writing. Brothers: The business which has been laid before you, is of great importance, and it gives me great pleasure that you consider it so, and that you are going to call together all your sachems and chiefs to consider upon it seriously. Brothers: You may rest assured, that your father, General Washington, w ishes for peace, and the reason he wishes for the proposed treaty is, that all the Indian nations may come and talk together in a most serious manner. It is his desire, that those that are at war, as well as the other Indian nations, may come and discuss the matter fairly, to find where the difficulty lies, that peace maybe made. lie is sensible that the Six Nations have been very active in endeavoring to bring about a peace, and he hopes that their good works may be attended with success. Brothers: I shall now return to my seat, and wait patiently for your final answer, and I earnestly hope, that all the Indian nations may be agreed, and that matters may be settled in such a manner, as will give satisfaction to the United States and the Indian nations. Extract of a letter from Detroit, dated April 17, 1794. “ We have lately had a visit from Governor Simcoe; he came from Niagara, through the woods; he has gone to the foot of the Rapids, and three companies of Colonel England’s regiment have followed him, to assist in building a fort there.” Canandaigua, 29th April, 1794. Sir: I had the honor of informing you in my last, that I had received a runner from Buffalo Creek, requesting my attendance at a council summoned to meet there. The enclosed are the proceedings of that council. I have every reason to suppose, that the Six Nations had fully made up their minds, previous to the meeting of the council, to hold a treaty, agreeable to the wishes of the United States, in order to bring about a general peace. But the inflammatory speech of Lord Dorchester, which was interpreted to them by Colonel Butler, together with the presents heaped on them by the British, on this occasion, induced them to give up that friendly intention.. Colonel Butler and Captain Bunbuiy attended the council, in behalf of the British Government. They took pains, on all occasions, to represent a war between their government and ours, as inevitable; and, although in my presence, they did not intimate that their assistance would be wanted by the King, yet, I am persuaded, that, on other occasions, every effort is made to secure it. The presents that I brought from Philadelphia, for, and delivered to the Indians, proved very satisfactory to them; and am persuaded, that, at the present time, a continuation of the generosity of the United States will be highly serviceable. This part of the country being the frontier of the State of New York, feels very much alarmed at the present appearance of war. Destitute of arms and ammunition, the scattered inhabitants of this remote wilderness would fall an easy prey to their savage neighbors, should they think proper to attack them. When I was at Buffalo Creek, Governor Simcoe had gone to Detroit. He started for that place immediately after receiving Lord Dorchester’s speech to the Indians. The expenses of the Indians increase very fast. Their demands increase with the importance they suppose their friendship is to us. However, sir, you may rest assured, that I endeavor to make use of all the economy that I can. 1 have the honor to be, with respect, sir, your obedient servant, .... . ISRAEL CHAPIN. P. S. My son will inform you many particulars that I thought proper to omit mentioning in this letter. <794.] iTHE SIX NATIONS AND OTHERS. 481 Reply of the Six Nations, assembled at Buffalo Creek, on the 21 si of,April, 1794, to a speech from General Knox, Secretary of JVar to the United Slates, delivered by General Chapin, on the 10th February, as interpreted by Jasper Parrish, one of the interpreters for the United States. Clear Sky (an Onondaga chief) spoke as follows: General Chapin: We are happy to see that you are arrived safe at our council lire, and that you have been preserved, by the Great Spirit, in good health. Colonel Betler: We are also very happy to see you at our council fire, as representing the King. Captain Brandt then spoke as follows: Brothers: You. of the United States, listen to what we are going to say to you; you. likewise, the. King._ Brothers: We are very happy to see you. Colonel Butler and General Chapin, sitting side by side, with the Intent of hearing what we have to say. We wish to do no business but what is done open and above-board. Brother: You, of (he United States, make your mind easy, on account of the long time your President’s speech has been under our consideration: when we received it, we told you it was a business of importance, and required some time to be considered of. Brother: The answer you have brought us is not according to what we expected, which was the reason of our longdelay; the business would have been done with'expedition, had the United States agreed to our proposals. We would then have collected our associates, anti repaired to Yenango, the place you proposed for meeting us. Brother: It is not now in our power to accept your invitation; provided we were to go, you would conduct the business as you might think proper; this has been the case at all the treaties held, from time to time, by your com missioners. Brother: At the first treaty, after the conclusion of the war between you and Great Britain, at fort Stanwix, your commissioners conducted the business as it to them seemed best: they pointed out a line of division, and then confirmed it; alter this, they held out that our country was ceded to them by the King; this confused the chiefs who attended there, and prevented them from making any repl) to the contrary: still holding out, if we did not consent to it, their warriors were at. their back, and that we would get no further protection from Great Britain. This has ever been held out to us. by the commissioners from Congress; at all the treaties held with us since the peace, at fort. McIntosh, at Rocky river, and every other meeting held, the idea was still the same. Brother: This has been the case from time to time. Peace has not taken place, because you have held up these ideas, owing to which much mischief has been done to the Southward. Brother: We, the Six Nations, have been exerting ourselves to keep peace since the conclusion of the war; we think it would be best for boih parties; we advised the confederate nations to request a meeting, about half way between us and the United States, in order that such steps might be taken as would bring about a peace; this request was made, and Congress appointed commissioners to meet us at Muskingum, which we agreed to, a boundary line was then proposed by us, and refused by Governor St. Clair, one of your commissioners. The Wyandots, a few Delawares, and some others, met the commissioners, though not authorized, and confirmed the lines of what was not their property, but a common to all nations. Brother: This idea we all held out at our council, at Lower Sandusky, held for the purpose of forming our confederacy, and to adopt measures that would be for the general wellare of our Indian nations, or people ot our color; owing to those steps taken by us, the United States held nut. that when we went to the Westward to transact our private business, t fiat we went with an intention of taking an active part in the troubles subsisting between^them and our Western brethren; this never has been the case. We have ever wished for the friendship of the United States. Brother: We think you must be fully convinced, from our perseverance last summer, as your commissioners >aw, that we were anxious for a peace between us. The exertions that we, the Six Nations, have made towards the accomplishing this desirable end, is the cause of the. Western nations being somewhat dubious as to our sincerity, kfter we knew their doubts, we still persevered; and. last fall, we pointed out methods to be taken, and sent them, by you, to Congress; this we certainly expected would have proved satisfactory to the United States; in that case we should have more than ever exerted ourselves, in order that the offers we made should be confirmed by our confederacy, and by them strictly to be adhered to. Brother: Our proposals have not met with the success from Congress that we expected; this still leaves us in a similar situation to what, we were when we first entered on the business. Brother: You must recollect the number of chiefs who have, at divers times, waited on Congress: they have pointed out the means to bo taken, and held out the same language, uniformly, at one time as at another; that was, if you would withdraw your claim to the boundary line, and lands within the line, as offered by us; had this been done, peace would have taken place; and, unless this still be done, we see no other method of accomplishing it. Brother; We have borne everything patiently for this long time past; we have done every tiling we could consistently do with (he welfare of our nations in general—notwithstanding the many .advantages (hat have been taken of us, by individuals making purchases from us. the Six Nations, whose fraudulent conduct towards us Congress never has taken notice of, nor in any wise seen us rectified, nor made our minds easy. This is the case to the present day: our patience is now entirely worn out; you see the difficulties we labor under, so that we cannot, at present, rise from onr seats and attend your council at Venango, agreeable to your invitation. The boundary line we pointed out, we think is a just one, although the United States claim lands west ot that line: the trifle that has been paid by the United States can be no object in comparison to what a peace would be. Brother: We are of the same opinion with the people of the United States; you consider yourselves as independent people; we. as the original inhabitants of this country, and sovereigns of the soil, look upon ourselves as equally independent, and free as any other nation or nations. Thisjcoimtry was given to us by the Great Spirit above; we wish to enjoy it. and have our passage along the lake, within the line we have pointed out. Brother: The great exertions we have made, for this number of years, to accomplish a peace, and have not been able to obtain it; our patience, as we have already observed, is exhausted, and we are discouraged from persevering any longer. We. therefore, throw ourselves under the protection of the Great Spirit above, who, we hope, wilt order all things for the best. We have told you our patience is^ worn out: but not so far, but that we wish for peace, and. whenever we hear that pleasing sound. we shall pay attention to it. . [The belt and speech, sent by General Knox, were then returned to General Chapin.] Speech of General Chapin to the Six Nations. Brothers: 1 am happy in this opportunity of meeting you in so general a council, but a in sorry to find that your exertion? fur bringing about a peace to the "Westward, have been checked by the rumor ol a British war. Lord Dorchester’s speech, which has been explained to you. has been the cause of your uneasiness; and pains have been taken to increase that uneasiness, by filling your heads with an idea that a war between Great Britain anil America is inevitable. For my own part. 1 do not believe that a war will take place. I am sure that our President and our Congress are averse to it; and that, if peace can, with honor, be maintained by the United States, that war is not their wish. Brothers: I still hope and believe, that the black clouds that are gathering around us. will shortly be dispersed, the sun will again shine bright, and you will be able to keep your seats with comfort to yourselves. Brothers: Even if the storm should thicken, why need your minds he troubled? Why need you be called from your seats, in order to forward the pretensions of Great Britain? Brothers: You have not yet heard the voice of the President; he lias not yet told you that we are going to take up the tomahawk. Until you hear this voice, I hope you will keep your seats, and not suffer your minds to be troubled by any fear of war. When the President does speak, I am sure that his voice will be pleasing to you. I have no more to say to you at present; I shall now return home to my seat. General Chapin was then requested, by the chiefs, to forward their proceedings to the Secretary of War, either personally or by his,son. [Note.—For the correspondence with the British minister, see Foreign Relations, Vol. I. President’s message of May 23, 1794.] 5d Congress.] 
