NO. 224.	[1st SESSION. TREATIES WITH THE OSAGE, KANZAS, AND SHAWANEE TRIBES. . COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 14, 1825. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, December 14, 1825. I transmit to the Senate for their consideration and advice, with regard to their ratification, the following treaties: 1. A treaty between the United States and the Great and Little Osage tribes of Indians, concluded at St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, on the 2d day of June last, by William Clark, superintendent of Indian affairs, commissioner on the part of the United States, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the same tribes, duly authorized and empowered by their respective tribes or nations. 2. A treaty between the United States and the Kanzas nation of Indians, concluded at St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, on the 3d day of June last, by William Clark,'superintendent of Indian affairs, commissioner on the part of the United States, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the said nation, duly authorized and empowered by the same. 3. A convention between the United Statesand the Shawanee nation of Indians, residing within the State of Missouri, signed at St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, on the 7th day of November last, by William Clark, superintendent of Indian affairs, and the chiefs and headmen of the said nation, duly authorized and empowered by the same. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. TREATY WITH THE GREAT AND LITTLE OSAGES. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, between William Clark, Superintendent of Indian Affairs, commissioner on the part of the United States, and the undersigned chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Great and Little Osage tribes of Indians, duly authorized and empowered by their respective tribes or nations. In order more effectually to extend to said tribes that protection of the Government so much desired by them, it is agreed as follows: ARTICLE 1. The Great and Little Osage tribes or nations do hereby cede and relinquish to the United States all all their right, title, interest, and claim to lands lying within the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas, and to all lands lying west of the said State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas, north and west of the Red river, south of the Kanzas river, and east of a line to be drawn from the head sources of the Kanzas, southwardly, through the Rock saline, with such reservations, for such considerations, and upon such terms, as are hereinafter specified, expressed, and provided for. ART. 2. Within the limits of the country above ceded and relinquished, there shall be reserved to and for the Great and Little Osage tribes or nations aforesaid, so long as they may choose to occupy the same, the following described tract of land: Beginning at a point due east of White Hair’s village, and twenty-five miles west of the western boundary line of the State of Missouri, fronting on a north and south line, so as to leave ten miles north, and forty miles south, of the point of said beginning, and extending west with the width of fifty miles, to the western boundary of the lands hereby ceded and relinquished by said tribes or nations; which said reservation shall be surveyed and marked at the expense of the United States, and upon which the agent for said tribes or nations, and all persons attached to said agency, as also such teachers and instructors as the President may think proper to authorize and permit, shall reside, and shall occupy and cultivate, without interruption or molestation, such lands as may be necessary for them. And the United States do hereby reserve to themselves, forever, the right of navigating freely all watercourses and navigable streams within, or running through, the tract of country above reserved to said tribes or nations. ART. 3. In consideration of the cession and relinquishment aforesaid, the United States do hereby agree to pay to the said tribes or nations, yearly, and every year, for twenty years, from the date of these presents, the'suin of seven thousand dollars, at their village, or at St. Louis, as the said tribes or nations may desire, either in money, merchandise, provisions, or domestic animals, at their option. And whenever the said annuity, or any part thereof, shall be paid in merchandise, the same is to be delivered to them at the first cost of the goods at St. Louis, free of transportation. ART. 4. The United States shall, immediately upon the ratification of this convention, or as soon thereafter as may be, cause to be furnished to the tribes or nations aforesaid six hundred head of cattle, six hondred bogs, one thousand domestic fowls, ten yoke of oxen, and six carts, with soch farming utensils as the superintendent of Indian affairs may think necessary; and shall employ such persons to aid them in their agricultural pursuits as to the President of the United States may seem expedient; and shall also provide, furnish, and support for them, one blacksmith, that their farming utensils, tools, and arms may be seasonably repaired; and shall build, for each of the four principal chiefs, at their respective villages, a comfortable and commodious dwelling-house. ART. 5. From the above lands ceded and relinquished, the following reservations, for the use of the half-breeds hereafter named, shall be made, to wit: One section, of six hundred and forty acres, for Augustus Clermont, to be located and laid off so as to include Joseph Rivar’s residence, on the east side of the Neosho, a short distance above the Grand Saline, and not nearer than within one mile thereof; one section for each of the following half-breeds: James, Paul, Henry, Rosalie, Anthony, and Amelia, the daughter of She-me-hunga, and Amelia, the daughter of Mi-hun-ga, to be located two miles below the Grand Saline, and extending down the Neosho, on the east side thereof; and one section for Noel Mongrain, the son of Wa-taw-nagres, and for each of his ten children, Baptiste, Noel, Francis, Joseph, Mongrain, Louis, Victoria, Sophia, Julia, and Juliet; and the like quantity for each of the following named grandchildren of the said Noel Mongrain, to wit: Charles, Francis, Louisson, and Wash; to commence on the Marais des Cygnes, where the western boundary line of the State of Missouri crosses it, at the fork of Mine river, and to extend up Mine river, for quantity; one section for Mary Williams, and one for Sarah Williams, to be located on the north side of the Marais des Cygnes, at the Double creek, above Harmony; one section for F rancis T. Chardon; one section for Francis C. Tayon; one section for James G. Chouteau; one section for Alexander Chouteau; one section for Pelagie Antaya; one section for Celeste Antaya; one section for Joseph Antaya; one section for Baptiste St. Mitchelle, jr.; one section for Louis St. Mitchelle; one section for Victoria St. Mitchelle; one section for Julia St. Mitchelle; one section for Francis St. Mitchelle; one section for Joseph Perra; one section for Susan Larine; one section for Marguerite Reneau; one section for Thomas L. Balio; and one section for Terese, the daughter of Paul Louise: which said several tracts are to be located on the north side of the Mara'is des Cygnes, extending up the river, above the reservations in favor of Mary and Sarah Williams, in the order in which they are hereinabove named. ART. 6. And also fifty-four other tracts, of a mile square each, to be laid off under the direction of the Prcsi- • dent of the United States, and sold, for the purpose of raising a fund, to be applied to the support of schools for the education of the Osage children, in such manner as the President may deem most advisable to the attainment of that end. AnT. 7. Forasmuch as there is a debt due from sundry individuals of the Osage tribes or nations to the United States’ trading-houses of the Missouri and Osage rivers, amounting in the whole to about the sum of four thousand one hundred and five dullars and eighty cents, which the United States do hereby agree to release; in consideration thereof, the said tribes or nations do hereby release and relinquish their claim upon the United States for regular troops to be stationed for their protection in garrison at Fort Clark, and also for furnishing of a blacksmith at that place, and the delivery of merchandise at Fire Prairie, as is provided for in the first, third, and fifth articles of the treaty concluded on the tenth day of November, one thousand eight hundred and eight. ART. 8. It appearing that the Delaware nation have various claims against the Osages, which the latter have not had it in their power to adjust; and the United States being desirous to settle, finally and satisfactorily, all demands and differences between thè Delawares and Osages, do hereby agree to pay to the Delawares, in full satisfaction, of ■all their claims and demands against the Osages, the sum of one thousand dollars. ART. 9. With a view to quiet the animosities which at present exist between a portion of the citizens of Missouri and Arkansas and the Osage tribes, in consequence of the lawless depredations of the latter, the United States du furthermore agree to pay to their own citizens the full value of such property as they can legally prove to have been stolen or destroyed by the Osages since the year eighteen hundred and eight, and for which payment has not been made under former treaties: Provided, The sum to be paid by the United States does not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars. ART. 10. It is furthermore agreed on, by and between the parties to these presents, that there shall be reserved two sections of land, to include the Harmony missionary establishment, and their mill on the Marais des Cygnes; and one section, to include the missionary establishment above the lick, on the west side of the Grand river, to be disposed of as the President of the United States shall direct, for the benefit of said missions, and to establish them at the principal villages of the Great and Little Osage nations, within the limits of the country reserved to them by this treaty, and to be kept up at said villages, so long as said missions shall be usefully employed in teaching, civilizing, and improving the said Indians. ART. 11. To preserve and perpetuate the friendship now happily subsisting between the United States and the said tribes or nations, it is hereby agreed that the provisions contained in the ninth article of the treaty concluded and signed at Fort Clark, on the tenth day of November, one thousand eight hundred and eight, between the United States and the said tribes or nations, shall, in every respect, be considered as in full force, and applicable to the provisions of this treaty; and that the United States shall take and receive into their friendship and protection the aforesaid tribes or nations, and shall guaranty to them, forever, the right to navigate freely all watercourses or navigable streams within the tract of country hereby ceded, upon such terms as the same are, or may be, navigated by the citizens of the United States. ART. 12. It is further agreed, that there shall be delivered, as soon as may be after the execution of this treaty, at the Osage villages, merchandise, to the amount of four thousand dollars, first cost in St. Louis, and two thousand dollars in merchandise before their departure from this place, and horses and equipage to the value of twenty-six hundred dollars; which, together with the sum of one hundred dollars to be paid to Paul Louise, and the like sum to Baptiste Mongrain, in money, shall be in addition to the provisions and" stipulations hereby above contained, in full satisfaction of the cession hereinbefore agreed on. . ART. 13. Whereas the Great’and Little Osage tribes or nations are indebted to Augustus P. Chouteau, Paul Balio, and William S. Williams to a large amount, for credits given to them, which they are unable, to pay, and have particularly requested to have paid or provided for in the present negotiation, it is therefore agreed on, by and between the parties to these presents, that the United States shall pay to Augustus P. Chouteau one thousand dollars, to Paul Balio two hundred and fifty dollars, and to William S. Williams two hundred and fifty dollars, towards the liquidation of their respective debts due from the said tribes or nations. ART. 14. These articles shall take effect and become obligatory on the contracting parties so soon as the same shall be ratified by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. In testimony whereof, the said William Clark, commissioner as aforesaid, and the deputation, chiefs, headmen1, and warriors of the Great and Little Osage nations of Indians, as aforesaid, have hereunto set their hands and seals, this second day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States the forty-ninth. WILLIAM CLARK. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headmen of the Great and Little Osage nations.] TREATY WITH THE KANZAS. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at the city of Saint Louis, in the State of Missouri, between William Clark, Superintendent of Indian Affairs, commissioner on the part of the United States of America, and the undersigned chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Kanzas nation of Indians, duly authorized and empowered by said nation. ARTICLE 1. The Kanzas do hereby cede to the United States all the lands lying within the State of Missouri to which the said nation have tide or claim; and do further cede and relinquish to the said United States all other lands which they now occupy, or to which they have title or claim, lying west of the said State of Missouri, and within the following boundaries: Beginning at the entrance of the Kanzas river into the Missouri river; from'thence, north, to the northwest corner of the State of Missouri; from thence, westwardly, to the Nodewa river, thirty miles from its entrance into the Missouri; from thence to die entrance of the Big Nemahaw river into the Missouri, and, with that river, to its source; from thence to the source of the Kanzas river, leaving the old village of the Pania Republic to the west; from thence, on the ridge dividing the waters of the Kanzas river from those of the Arkansas, to the western boundary of the State line of Missouri; and, with that line, thirty-miles, to the place of beginning. ART. 2. From the cession aforesaid, the following reservation for die use of the Kanzas nation of Indians shall be made of a tract of land: to begin twenty leagues up the Kanzas river, and to include their village on that river; extending, west, thirty miles in width, through the lands ceded in the first article; to be surveyed and marked under the direction of the President, and to such extent as he may deem necessary, and at the expense of the United States. The agents for the Kanzas, and the persons attached to the agency, and such teachers and instructors as the President shall authorize to reside near the Kanzas, shall occupy, during his pleasure, such lands as may be necessary for them within this reservation. ART. 3. In consideration of the cession of land and relinquishment of claims made in the first articles, the United States agree to pay to the Kanzas nation of Indians three thousand five hundred dollars per annum, for twenty successive years, at their villages, or at the entrance of the Kanzas river, either in money, merchandise, provisions, or domestic animals, at the option of the aforesaid nation; and when the said annuities, or any part thereof, is paid in merchandise, it shall be delivered to them at the first cost of the goods in Saint Louis, free of transportation. ART. 4. The United States, immediately upon the ratification of this convention, or as soon thereafter as may be, shall cause to be furnished to the Kanzas nation three hundred head of cattle, three hundred hogs, five hundred domestic fowls, three yoke of oxen, and two carts, with such implements of agriculture as the superintendent of Indian affairs may think necessary; and shall employ such persons to aid and instruct them in their agriculture as the President of the United States may deem expedient; and shall provide and support a blacksmith for them. ART. 5. Out of the lands herein ceded by the Kanzas nation to the United States, the commissioner aforesaid, in behalf of the said United States, doth further covenant and agree, that thirty-six sections of good land, on the Big Blue river, shall be laid out under the direction of the President of the United States, and sold for the purpose of raising a fund, to be applied, under the direction of the President, to the support of schools for the education of the Kanzas children within their nation.	. ART. 6. From the lands above ceded to the United States there shall be made the following reservations, of one mile square, for each of the half-breeds of the Kanzas nation, viz: for Adel and Clement, the two children of Clement; for Josette, Julie, Pelagie, and Victoire, the four children of Louis Gonvil; for Marie and Lafleche, the two children of Baptiste Gonvil; for Laventure, the son of Francis Laventure; for Elizabeth and Pierre Carbonau, tïïe children of Pierre Brisa; for Louis Joncas; for Basil Joncas; for James Joncas; for Elizabeth Datcherute, daughter of Baptiste Datcherute; for Joseph Butler; for William Rodgers; for Joseph Coté; for the four children of Cicili Comparé, each, one mile square; and one for Joseph James: to be located on the north side of the Kanzas river, in the order above named, commencing at the line of the Kanzas reservation, and extending down the Kanzas river for quantity. ART. 7. With the view of quieting all animosities which may at present exist between a part of the white citizens of Missouri and the Kanzas nation, in consequence of the lawless depredations of the latter, the United States do further agree to pay to their own citizens the full value of such property as they can legally prove to have been stolen or destroyed since the year one thousand eight hundred and fifteen: Provided, The sum so to be paid by the United States shall not exceed the sum of three thousand dollars. ART. 8. And whereas the Kanzas are indebted to François G. Choteau for credits given them in trade, which they are unable to pay, and which they have particularly requested to have included and settled in the present treaty: it is therefore agreed on, by and between the parties to these presents, that the sum of five hundred dollars, towards the liquidation of said debt, shall be paid by the United States to the said François G. Choteau. ART. 9. There shall be selected at this place such merchandise as may be desired, amounting to two thou- x sand dollars, to be delivered at the Kanzas river with as little delay as possible; and there shall be paid to the deputation now here two thousand dollars, ir. merchandise and horses, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged; which, together with the amount agreed on in the third and fourth articles, and the provisions made in the other articles of this treaty, shall be considered as a full compensation for the cession herein made. ART. 10. Lest the friendship which is nuw established between the United States and the said Indian nation should be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaints shall be made by the party injured to the other; by the said nation, to the superintendent or other person appointed by the President; [and by the superintendent, or other person appointed by the President,] to the chiefs of said nation; and it shall be the duty of the said chiefs, upon complaint being made as aforesaid, to deliver up the person or persons against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he or they may be punished, agreeably to the laws of the State or Territory where the offence may have been committed: and, in like manner, if any robbery, violence, or murder shall be committed on any Indian or Indians belonging to said nation, the person or persons so offending shall be tried, and, if found guilty, shall be punished in like manner as if the injury had been done to a white man. And it is agreed, that the chiefs of the Kanzas shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses or other property which may be stolen from any citizen or citizens of the United States by any individual or individuals of the nation; and the property so recovered shall be forthwith delivered to the superintendent or other person authorized to receive it, that it may be restored to its proper owner; and, in cases where the exertions of the chiefs shall be ineffectual in recovering the property stolen as aforesaid, if sufficient proof can be adduced that such property was actually stolen by any Indian or Indians belonging to the said nation, the superintendent or other officer may deduct from the annuity of the said nation a sum equal to the value of the property which has been stolen. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians a full indemnification for any horses or other property which may be stolen from them by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property so stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. And the said nation of Kanzas engage, on the requisition or demand of the President of the United States, or of the superintendent, to deliver up any white man resident among them. ART. 11. It is further agreed on, by and between the parties to these presents, that the United States shall forever enjoy the right to navigate freely all watercourses or navigable streams within the limits of the tract of country herein reserved to the Kanzas nation; and that the said Kanzas nation shall never sell, relinquish, or in any manner dispose of the lands herein reserved, to any other nation, person, or persons whatever, without the permission of the United States for that purpose first had and obtained; 'and shall ever remain under the protection of the United States, and in friendship with them. ART. 12. This treaty shall take effect, and be obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as the same shall be ratified.by the President, by and with the consent and advice of the Senate of the United States. In testimony whereof, the said William Clark, commissioner as aforesaid, and the deputation, chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Kanzas nation of Indians, as aforesaid, have hereunto set their hands and seals, this third day of June, in the year of our Lord eighteen.hundred and twenty-five, and of the independence of the United States of America the forty-ninth year. WILLIAM CLARK. [Signed, also, by the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Kanzas nation uf Indians.] TREATY WITH THE SHAWANEES. Articles of a convention made between William Clark, Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and the undersigned chiefs and headmen of the Shawanee nation of Indians, residing within the State of Missouri, duly authorized and empowered by said nation, at the city of St. Louis, on the seventh day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five. Whereas the Shawanee Indians were in possession of a tract of land near Cape Girardeau, in the State of Missouri, settled under a permission from the Spanish Government, given to the said Shawanees and Delawares by the Baron de Carondelet, on the fourth day of January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three, and recorded in the office of recorder of land titles at St. Louis, containing about (25) twenty-five miles square, which said tract of land was abandoned by the Delawares in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifteen, and from which the said Shawanees, under an assurance of receiving other lands in exchange, did remove, after having made valuable and lasting .improvements on the same, which were taken possession of by the citizens of the United States: and it being the desire of the United States fully to indemnify said tribe for all losses and injuries sustained by them by reason of such removal, the following articles have been agreed upon, between William Clark, superintendent of Indian affairs, specially authorized, on the one part, and the undersigned delegates of the Shawanee tribe, residing within the State of Missouri, on the other part: ARTICLE 1. The Shawanee tribe do hereby cede and relinquish to the United States all their claim, interest, and title to the lands on which they settled, near Cape Girardeau, under an authority of the Spanish Government as aforesaid, situate, lying, and being between the river St. Come and Cape Girardeau, and bounded on the east by the Mississippi, and westwardly by White Water. ART. 2. It is further agreed by the contracting parties, that, in consideration of the cession aforesaid, the United States do hereby agree to give to the Shawanee tribe of Indians within the State of Missouri, for themselves and for those of the same nation, now residing in Ohio, who may hereafter emigrate to the west of the Mississippi, a tract of land equal to (50) fifty miles square, situated west of the State of Missouri, and within the purchase lately made from the Osages, by treaty bearing date the second day of June, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, and within the following boundaries: commencing at a point (2) two miles northwest of the southwest corner of the State of Missouri; from thence, north, (25) twenty-five miles; thence, west, (100) one hundred miles; thence, south, (25) twenty-five miles; thence, east, (100) one hundred miles, to the place of beginning. But whereas the said Shawanee tribe had valuable and lasting improvements within the tract of land hereby ceded, and moreover will have to incur expenses in their removal, it is further stipulated, that, for the purpose of rendering a fair equivalent for the losses and inconveniences which said tribe will sustain by removal, and to enable them to obtain supplies in their new settlements, the United States agree to pay to the tribe emigrating from the lands herein ceded the sum of fourteen thousand dollars, which amount shall be paid to said party of the second part as soon as practicable after the ratification of this treaty; five thousand dollars of which amount shall be furnished in domestic animals, implements of husbandry, and provisions, as soon as the said tribe remove upon the lands assigned them. ART. 3. It is further stipulated, that a deputation of the said parties of the second part may be sent to explore the lands assigned to them in the preceding article; and, if the same be not acceptable to them, upon an examination of the same, which shall be had, and made known to the superintendent of Indian affairs at Saint Louis, on or before April next; who [he] shall, in lieu thereof, assign to them^an equal quantity of land, to be selected on the Kanzas river, and laid off either south or north of that river, and west of the boundary of Missouri, not reserved or ceded to any other tribe. ART. 4. It appearing that the Shawanee Indians have various claims against the citizens of the United States, to a large amount, for spoliations of various kinds, but which they have not been able to support by the testimony of white men; the United States, in order to a final settlement of all such claims, do hereby agree to pay to the Shawanee nation the sum of (§11,000) eleven thousand dollars, to be distributed by them in such way as may be deemed equitable; and to support and keep a blacksmith, for their use, on the lands hereby assigned, for the term of five years, or as long as the President may deem advisable. And it is further stipulated, that the United States shall furnish, for the use of the Shawanees, the tools necessary for the blacksmith’s shop, and (300) three hundred pounds of iron annually, to be furnished at the expense of the United States. ART. 5.. The friendship heretofore existing between the United States and the Shawanee nation is hereby renewed and perpetuated. ART. 6. These articles shall take effect and become obligatory on the contracting parties so soon as the same shall be ratified by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. In testimony whereof, the said William Clark, and the said delegates of the Shawanee nation, have hereunto set their hands, at the city of St. Louis, the seventh day of November, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five.	WILLIAM CLARK. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headmen of the Shawanee nation.] SIR:	ST. LOUIS, June 11, 1825. I have the honor to forward you an original triplicate of a treaty, signed at this place on the 2d instant, with the chiefs and warriors of the Great and Little Osage Indians; and another, signed on the 3d, with the chiefs and warriors of the Kanzas nation. At the negotiation of these treaties the two nations were fully represented; the chief with a party of warriors from every village being present, and fully authorized, before they left home, to act according to their discretion. Of the country ceded to the United States, a small portion, consisting of a breadth of twenty-four miles, running south from the Missouri river, along the western boundary of the State, some distance into the Territory of Arkansas, and amounting to three or four millions of acres, lies within the limits of this State and that Territory. The acquisition of this portion of our territory has been an object ardently desired by the citizens of Missouri, and the Legislature have several times addressed memorials to Congress praying for the extinction of the Indian title; it comprises some of the richest and most beautiful land in this State, and will meet with a ready sale when it is brought into market. But the great body of the cession lies west of Missouri and Arkansas, and is so extensive, that, after leaving the Kanzas and Osages a district sufficient for their permanent residence, and after furnishing homes for the tribes whose accommodation was the immediate object of your instructions, it will still leave the Government enough to enable them to comply with the stipulations of the treaty made with the Creek Indians last winter, and also to furnish permanent residences to other tribes in different States, who may be willing to remove to the west, in pursuance. of the system for the gradual removal and collocation of the Indians. I find, from information derived from persons to be relied upon, that the country embraced in these cessions is wonderfully adapted to an Indian population in the first stages of civilization. Grass is universally abundant; and the winters, in a great’portion of the cession, mild enough to winter cattle, horses, and other domestic animals, to subsist themselves without care from their owners. On all creeks and rivers there are bottoms of rich land, easily prepared for cultivation. The country is divided into woodland and prairies, (but mostly prairie,) and is well watered by springs and running streams, and is convenient to the salt plains and springs of strong salt water, from which an inexhaustible supply of salt can be obtained; and also to the great buffalo range, from which supplies can be obtained until they can be supplied from their own flocks. • In agreeing upon the amount and mode of payment, I have preferred a limited to a permanent annuity; I conceive the former to be more valuable to the Indians and to the Federal Government. An annuity forever must of course be small; and the dividend to each individual becomes so inconsiderable, that the Government confers no favor by bestowing it, and the Indians enjoy no benefit by receiving it; it is, in fact, received with contempt instead of gratitude, and the Government is burdened with a perpetual debt, the annual payment of which is doing more harm than good. And if the tribes become extinct, as has already happened in some cases of permanent annuities, then an evil of the opposite extreme is experienced; for a few individuals receive the whole, and become pensioners on Government, without rendering any service in return. In the treaties concluded with the Kanzas and Osages, the annuities are limited to twenty years; in the course of which time, the humane experiment now making by Government, to teach them to subsist themselves by the arts of civilized life, will have had a fair trial, and, if it succeeds, they will need no further aid from the Federal Government. The two annuities amount to $10,500 per annum; the payment of which, and of every other expense attendant upon the negotiation and the execution of these treaties, can be made from the sales of one-fifth of the lands ceded by them within the limits of this State, leaving nearly one hundred millions of acres west of Missouri and Arkansas to be exchanged with tribes in the different States which may be willing to remove to the west. You will perceive that a part of the consideration for these cessions is payable in domestic animals, of which the Kanzas and Osages are entirely destitute. They now possess no other animals than those necessary in a hunting state, to wit, horses and dogs. By adding a stock of cattle, hogs, and fowls, their advance to the farming, or at least to the pastoral state, will be greatly facilitated. Each of the treaties contains several reservations of a mile square in favor of half-breed Indians and their children. Reserves of this kind have been heretofore made in behalf of such persons, and, in my opinion, have a good effect in promoting civilization, as their attachment is created for a fixed residence, and an idea of separate property is imparted, without which it is vain to think of improving the minds or morals of the Indians, or making any progress in the work of civilization. As a treaty with Indians should always be a complete settlement, and leave no cause of future complaint or negotiation, nor any difference unadjusted, I have, as a part of the consideration for the Osage cession, agreed to relinquish a debt of about $4,000, due from them to the United States for goods bought at the public trading-house before the abolition of the factory system, which would never have been paid; also, I have agreed that the United States should make indemnification, to a certain amount, for horses and property taken or stolen by those Indians from the frontier white people; (a measure necessary to prevent self-redress on the part of the sufferers;) and I have also agreed to pay a few small debts to the traders to whom these Indians were indebted. On the other hand, the Osages have released the United States from the stipulation of a former treaty, for keeping up a military post, blacksmith, and delivery of goods at Fire Prairie- these stipulations being now burdensome to the United States, without producing any good to the Indians; yet, by treaty, our Government was bound to keep them up. The missionary establishments in this State and in the Arkansas Territory, for the benefit of the Osage Indians, are to be sold out and established at the principal villages occupied by these Indians. It belongs to the President, under the treaty, to give the necessary orders and to direct the inode of sale. Those missionaries may have objections to this removal; but their establishments were built upon individual and public contribution, for the special benefit of the Indians; and, to answer the purpose of their institution! they must be located amongst Indians. The mills which they have built would be serviceable at the Indian villages, in saving the squaws from the laborious process of pounding the grain into meal, and the example of the missionaries might be serviceable in teaching a knowledge of farming and of the useful arts; and, with this view, the treaty stipulates for the removal of their establishments to the principal villages of the Indians. Experience having convinced me of the necessity of preventing a white and Indian population from remaining in immediate contact with each other, and the Indians themselves being fully sensible of the inconveniences of such neighborhood, it has been stipulated in the treaties now made that the Osage reservation shall commence twenty- five miles west of the Missouri line, and the Kanzas about double that distance. This distance will be sufficient to prevent the stock of the two parties from intermixing, render the access to ardent spirits more difficult, and prevent collisions of property and persons. It may not be amiss to observe, that more than half of the reservations for individuals are out of the State and Territorial limits.	I have, <fcc. WILLIAM CLARK. To the Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War. CONGRESS.] 
