No. 52. [2d Session. GENERAL VIEW. common i gated to congress, November 20, 1794, .hid referred to in the speech of the. President of the United States. of the 19111 of the same month, of which the following is an extract: “The intelligence from the army, under the command of General Wayne, is a happy presage to our military operations against the hostile Indians, north of the Ohio. From the advices which have been forwarded, the advance w hich he has made must have damped the ardor of the savages, and weakened their obstinacy in waging war against die United States. And yet, even at this late hour, when our power to punish them cannot be questioned, we shall not be unwilling to cement a lasting peace, upon terms of candor, equity, and good neighborhood. “Towards none of the Indian tribes have overtures of friendship been spared. The Creeks, in particular, are covered from encroachment by the interposition of the General Government and that of Georgia. From a desire, also, to remove the discontents of the Six Nations, a settlement, meditated at Presqu' Isle, on Lake Erie, has been suspended; and an agent is now endeavoring to rectify any misconception into which they may have fallen. But, I cannot refrain from again pressing upon your deliberations the plan which I recommended at the last session, for the improvement of harmony with all the Indians within our limits, by the fixing and conducting of trading houses, upon the principles then expressed."Copy of a letter from Major General JVayne to the Secretary of I Car, dated Mead Quarters, Greenville. 7th July. 1794. Sir: At seven o'clock in the morning of the 30th ultimo, one of our escorts, consisting of ninety riflemen and fifty dragoons, commanded by Major McMahon, was attacked, by a very numerous body of Indians, under the w-alls of fort Recovery, followed by a general assault upon that post and garrison, in every direction. The enemy were soon repulsed, with great slaughter, hut immediately rallied and reiterated the attack, keeping up a very heavy and constant fire, at a more respectable distance, for the remainder of the day. which was answered with spirit and effect, by the garrison, and that part of Major’McMahon’s command that, had regained the post. The savages were employed, during the night, (which was dark and foggy) in carrying off their dead by torch light, w hich occasionally drew a lire from the garrison. They, nevertheless, succeeded so well, that there were but eight or ten bodies left upon the field, and those close under the influence of the fire from the fort. The enemy again renewed the attack, on the morning of the 1st instant ; but were ultimately compelled to retreat, with loss and disgrace, from that very field where they had. upon a former occasion, been proudly victorious. Enclosed is a particular general return of the killed, wounded, and missing. Among the killed, we have to lament the loss ol four good and gallant officers, viz: Major McMahon,Captain Hartshorne, and Lieutenant Craig, of the rifle corps, and Cornet Tony, of the cavalry, who all fell in the first charge. Among the wounded are the intrepid Captain Taylor, of the dragoons, and Lieutenant Drake, of the infantry. It would appear that the real object of the enemy was to have carried that post by a coup de main: for they could not possibly have received intelligence of the escort under Major McMahon, which only marched from this place on the morning of the 29th ultimo, and deposited the supplies, the same evening, at fort Recovery, from whence the escort was to have returned at reveille the next morning; therefore, their being found at that post was an accidental, perhaps a'fortunate, event. By every information, as well as from the extent of their encampments, (which were perfectly square and regular) and their line of march in seventeen columns, forming a wide and extended front, their numbers could not have been less than from fifteen hundred to two thousand warriors. It would also appear that they were rather in want of provisions, as they killed and ate a number of pack horses, in their encampment, the evening after the assault; also, at their next encampment, on their retreat, which was but seven miles from fort Recovery, where they remained two nights, probably from being much incumbered with their dead and wounded. A considerable number of the pack horses were actually loaded with the dead. Permit me now, sir, to express my highest approbation of the bravery and conduct of every officer and soldier of the garrison and escort, upon this trying occasion; and, as it would he difficult to discriminate between officers equally meritorious and emulous for glory, I have directed the adjutant general to annex the names of every officer of ihe garrison and escort, who were fortunate enough to remain uninjured, being equally exposed to danger with those who were less fortunate. But I should be wanting in gratitude were I to omit mentioning, in particular, Captain Alexander Gibson, of the 4th sub-legion, the gallant defender of fort Recovery. Here, it may be proper to relate certain facts and circumstances, which almost amount to positive proof, that there were a considerable number of the British and the militia of Detroit mixed with the savages, in the assault upon fort Recovery, on the 30th ultimo and 1st instant. 1 had detached three small parties of Chickasaw and Choctaw Indians, a few days previous to that affair, towards Grand Glaize, in order to take or obtain provisions, for the purpose of gaining intelligence. One of these parties fell in with a large body of Indians, at the place marked Girty’s town, (in Harmar’s route) on the evening of the 27th ultimo, apparently bending their course towards Chillicothe, on the Great Miami. This party returned to Greenville, on the 28th, with this further information, “that there were a great number of white men with the Indians.” The other two parties got much scattered, in following the trails of the hostile Indians, at some distance in their rear; and were also in with them when the assault commenced on fort Recovery. These Indians all insist that there were a considerable number of armed white men in the rear, who they frequently heard talking in our language, and encouraging the savages to persevere in the assault; that their faces were generally blacked, except three British officers, who were dressed in scarlet, and appeared to he men of great distinction, from being surrounded by a large body of white men and Indians, who were very attentive to them. These kept a distance in the rear of those that were engaged. Another strong corroborating fact that there were British, or British militia, in the assault, is, that a number of ounce balls and buck shot were lodged in the block houses and stockades of the fort. Some were delivered at so great a distance as not to penetrate, and were picked up at the foot of the stockades. It would also appear that the British and savages expected to find the artillery that were lost on the 4th of November, 1791, and hid by the Indians in the beds of old fallen timber, or Jogs, which they turned over and laid the cannon in, and then turned the logs back into their former birth. It was in this artful manner that we generally found them deposited. The hostile Indians turned over a great number of logs, during the assault, in search of those cannon, and other plunder, which they had probably hid in this manner, after the action of the 4th November, 1791. 1 therefore have reason to believe that the British and Indians depended much upon this artillery to assist in the reduction of that post; fortunately, they served in its defence. 'The enclosed copies of the examination of the Pattawatamy and Shawanee prisoners, will demonstrate this fact, that the British have used every possible exertion to collect the savages from the most distant nations, with the most solemn promises of advancing and co-operating with them against the legion, nor have the .Spaniards been idle upon this occasion. 'It is therefore more than probable, that the day is not far distant, when we shall meet this hydra in the vicinity of Grand Glaize and Riehe/de Bout, without being able to discriminate between the white and red savages. In the interim, I am in hourly expectation of receiving more full and certain intelligence of the number and intention of the enemy. 1 have no further or other information respecting the mounted volunteers of Kentucky, than what you will observe in the enclosed copies of the correspondence between Major General Scott and myself. I hope they may be completed to their full number, because it would appear that we shall have business enough for the whole of them. You will herewith receive the general and field* return of the legion, the quarterly return of ordnance and ordnance stores, at this place, the Quartermaster General’s return, and the return of the hospital department. The horses that were killed, wounded, and missing, in the assault against fort Recovery, will not, in the least, retard the advance of the legion, after the arrival of the mounted volunteers, because I had made provision for those kind of losses and contingencies, which, from the nature of the service, must be expected, and will unavoidably happen. 1 have the honor to be, &c. ANT’Y WAYNE. Return of the hilled, wounded, and missing, of a detachment under the orders of Major McMahon, in the action near fort Recovery, the 30th of June, 1794. Cavalry, Riflemen, Garrison of fort Recovery, Total regular troops, - KILLED. 'J. o 1+5 II, 1 1 1 1 15 "3 L.i Cj £2 s-C £ C- O u *3; JL c .22 s cs E 5 r- £ C (/} M u t- o   rrc o ^ tip! 9 10 1 WOUNDED. . C cc CO Sd 3 1 © ■ « r3 o> I © bJD 7, 1) 0|h-5 ce l| - j 2 1 3 20 1 G ^ E - S c P- tf) L o 22 g 2 £ r CJ © Cl) £ U ~ o ____ cn ~Z rj cn QJ ci.Jl c« JZ qE 3h ° ">1ISS7G. 2 18 12 6 11 29 HORSES. 1343, 17 13 13 17 Contractor’s Department, Aggregate, 1 »i l i| l 17 22 i 1 1 G H 2,19 30 46 9, 204 3 59 22| 221 Officers uninjured. Names of the officers killed and wounded. Captain Gibson, Lieuts. Covington, Dunn, Michael, Sbanklin, Ensigns Dangerfield. Dold. Major William McMahon, 1th s. legion, killed, Captain Asa Hartshorn, 1st do. do. Lieutenant Robert Craig, 3d do. do. Cornet Daniel Torrey, Dragoons, do. Captain James Taylor, Dragoons, wounded. Lieutenant Samuel Drake. Id s. legion, do. Examination of two I’attawatamies, captured by Captain Alexander Gibson, on the north side of the Miami of the Lake, on the 5th of June, 179-4. Quay 1. How long have you been from your nation? Answer. Four days before our capture. Query 2. When did your nation receive the invitation from the British to join them, and go to war with the Americans? _ Answer. On the first of die last moon; the message was sent by three chiefs, a Delaware, a Sbawanee, and a Miami. Query 3. What was the message brought by those Indian chiefs and what number of British troops were at Roche de Bout, on the 1st of May? Answer. That the British sent them to invite the Pattawatamies to go to war against the United States; that they, the British, were then at Roche de Bout, on their way to war against the Americans: that the number of British troops ihen there, were about four hundred, with two pieces of artillery, exclusive of the Detroit militia, and had made a fortification round Colonel McKee’s house and stores at that place, in which thev had deposited all their stores of ammunition, arms, clothing, and provision, with which they promised to supply all the hostile Indians in abundance, provided they would join, and go with them to war. Query 4. What tribes of Indians, and what were their numbers, at Roche de Bout, on the 1st of May? Answer. The Chippewas, Wyandots, Shawanese, Tawas, Delawares, and Miamies. There were then collected about one thousand warriors, and were daily coming in and collecting from all those nations: Query 5. Writ number of warriors do you suppose are actually collected at that place at this time, and what number of British troops and militia have promised to join the Indians to fight this army? Answer. By the latest and best information, and from our ow n knowledge of the number of warriors belonging to those nations, there cannot be less than two thousand warriors now' assembled; and were the Pattawatamies to join, agreeably to invitation, the whole would amount to upwards of three thousand hostile Indians. But we do not think that more t han 50 of the Pattawatamies will go to war. The British troops and militia that will join the Indians to go to war against the Americans, will amount to fifteen hundred, agreeably to the promise of Governor Simcoe. Query 6. At what time and at what place do die British and Indians mean to advance against this army? Answer. About the last of this moon, or the beginning of the next, they intend to attack the legion of this place. Governor Simcoe, the great man who lives at or near Niagara, sent for the Pattawatamies, and promised them arms, ammunition, provision, and clothing, and every thing they wanted, on condition that they would join him,and go to tear against the Americans; and that he would command the whole. He sent os the same message last winter; and again, on the first of the last moon, from Roue he de Bout; lie also said, lie wras much obliged to us for our past services; and that he would now help us to fight, and render us all the services in his power, against the Americans. All the speeches that we have received from him, were as red as blood; all the wampum and feathers were painted red; the war pipes and hatchets were red, and even the tobacco was painted red. We received lour different invitations from Governor Simcoe, inviting the Pattawatamies to join in the war; the last was on the first of last moon, when he promised to join us with 1500 of his warriors, as before mentioned. But w e wish for peace; except a few of our foolish young men. Examined, and carefully reduced to writing, at Greenville, this 7th of June, 1794. Ex.uminutian of two Shawanese warriors, taken prisoners on the Miami of the lake, twenty miles above Grand Glaize, on the Lid instant, June. They say that they left Grand Glaize five moons since, i. e. about the time that the Indians sent in a flag, with propositions of peace. . That they belonged to a party of twenty, who have been hunting all this spring on tiie waters of the Wabash, nearly opposite the mouth of Kentucky river, and were on their return when taken; that about half the party had gone on before them; and that the remainder were coining on slowly, and hunting as they came. That they had stolen about fifty horses from the inhabitants of Kentucky, on the Salt river, during this spring and summer; that they only killed one man, and took no prisoners; that the man was killed by a white interpreter belonging to the party, whose name is Riddle; (those two Indians had five horses, loaded with deer and bear skins, and jerked venison.) That, on their way in. they met with a party, consisting of four Indians, i. e. three Delawares and one Pattawa-tamy, who were then on their way to the Big-bone-lick, to steal horses; that this party informed them that all the Indians on White river were sent for to come immediately to Grand Glaize, where the warriors of several nations were now assembled; that the chiefs were yet in council, and would not let their warriors go out; that they could not depend upon the British for effectual support: that they were always setting the Indians on like dogs after game, pressing them to go to war, and kill the Americans, but did not help them; that unless the British would turn out and help them, they were determined to make peace; that they would not be any longer amused by promises only. That the Shawemese have 380 warriors at, and in the vicinity of Grand Glaize; and generally can, and do, bring into action about 300. Their great men, or sachems, are the Bluck Golf and Kakia-pi-la-tliy, or Tame Ilawk; their principal warriors are Blue Jacket, and Captain Jonny; that the Delawares have in aud about Grand Glaize 480 warriors; that they actually bad four hundred in I lie action against General St. Clair; that the Miamies are at present hut about one hundred warriors, who live near Grand Glaize, several of them having removed towards Post Vincennes, and the Mississippi; that the Wyandots never send into action more than about one hundred and fifty warriors; they live along the lake, towards Sandusky; they don’t know the number of the Pattawatamies, nor the number of the other Indians or nations that would actually join in a war, should they determine to continue it; that the Chippewas would be the most numerous, and were generally on the way to the council; but that war or peace depended on the conduct of the British; if they would help them, it would probably be war, but if they would not, it would be peace; that the Indians would no longer be set on like dogs, by themselves, unless the British would help them to light; that the British were at the foot of the rapids, and had fortified at Roche de Bout; that there were a great number of British soldiers at that place; that they told the Indians they were now come to help them to fight; and if the Indians would generally turn out and join them, they would advance and fight the American army; that Bluejacket had been sent by the British to the Chippewas, and Northern Indians, a considerable time since, to invite them, and bring them to Roche de Bout, there to join the British and other hostile Indians, in order to go to war. I do certify, that the foregoing is an exact and true narrative, delivered by the two Shawanese warriors, prisoners, upon examination before me, at Greenville, through my interpreter, Christopher Miller, this 26th day of June, 1794. Copy of a letter from Major General IVuyne to the Secretary of War, dated Head Quarters, Grand Glaize, \4th August, 1794. Sir: I have the honor to inform you, that the army under my command took possession of this very important post on the morning of the 8th instant—the enemy, on the preceding evening, having abandoned all their settlements, towns, and villages, with such apparent marks of surprise and precipitation, as to amount to a positive proof, that our approach was not discovered by them, until the arrival of a Mr. Newman, of the Quartermaster General’s department, who deserted from the army near the St. Mary’s, and gave them every information in his power, as to our force, the object of our destination, state of provision, number and size of the artillery, &c. &c. circumstances and facts that he had but too good an opportunity of knowing, from acting as a field quartermaster on the march, and at the moment of his desertion. Hence, I have good grounds to conclude, that the defection of this villain prevented the enemy from receiving a fatal blow at this place, when least expected. * I had made such demonstrations, for a length of time previously to taking up our line of march, as to induce the savages to expect our advance by the route ot the Miami villages, to the left, or towards Roche de Bout, by the right; which feints appear to have produced the desired efiect, by drawing the attention of the enemy to those points, and gave an opening tor the army to approach undiscovered by a devious route, i. e. in a central direction, and which would be impracticable for an army, except in a dry season, such as then presented. Thus, sir, we have gained possession of the grand emporium of the hostile Indians of the West, without loss of blood. The very extensive and highly cultivated fields and gardens, show the work of many hands. The margins of those beautiful rivers, the Miannes of the lake, and Au Glaize, appear like one continued village for a number of miles, both above and below this place: nor have I ever before beheld such immense fields of corn, in any part of America, from Canada to Florida. We are now employed in completing a strong stockade fort, with four good block houses, by way of bastions, at the confluence of Au Glaize and the Miamies, which I have called Defiance. Another fort was also erected on the bank of the St. Mary’s, twenty-four miles advanced of Recovery, which was named Adams, and endowed with provision and a proper garrison. Every thing is now prepared for a forward move to-morrow morning, towards Roche de Bout, or foot of the rapids, where the British have a regular fortification, well supplied with artillery, and strongly garrisoned, in the vicinity of which the fate of the campaign will probably be decided; as, from the best and most recent intelligence, the enemy are there collected in force, and joined by the militia of Detroit, &c. &c. possessed of ground very unfavorable for cavalry to act in. Yet, notwithstanding this unfavorable intelligence, and unpleasant circumstances of ground, I do not despair of success, from the spirit and ardor of the troops, from the generals down to the privates, both of the legion and mounted volunteers. Yet I have thought proper to offer the enemy a last overture of peace; and as they have every thing that is dear and interesting now at stake, I have reason to expect that they will listen to the proposition mentioned in the enclosed copy of an address, despatched yesterday by a special flag, who I sent under circumstances that will ensure his safe return, and which may eventually spare the effusion of much human blood. But, should war be their choice, that blood be upon their own heads. America shall no longer be insulted with impunity. To an all-powerful and just God I therefore commit myself and gallant army, and have the honor to be, with every consideration of respect and esteem, Your most obedient and very humble servant, ANTHONY WAYNE. The Hon. Major General Knox, Secretary of Jl'ar. To the Delawares, Shawanese, Miamies, and Wyandots, and to each and every of them, and to all other nations of Indians, northwest of the Ohio, whom it may concern: I, Anthony Wayne, Major General and Commander-in-chief of the Federal army now at Grand Glaize. and commissioner plenipotentiary of the United States of America, for settling the terms upon which a permanent and lasting peace shall be made with each and every of the hostile tribes, or nations of Indians northwest of the Ohio, and of the said United States, actuated by the purest principles of humanity, and urged by pity for the errors into which bad and designing men have led you, from the head of my army, nowin possession of your abandoned villages and settlements, do hereby once more extend the friendly hand of peace towards you, and invite each and every of the hostile tribe of Indians to appoint deputies to meet me and my army, without delay, between this place and Roche de Bout, in order to settle the preliminaries of a lasting peace, which may eventually and soon restore to you the Delawares, Miamies, Shawanese, and all other tribes and nations lately settled at this place, and on the margins of the Miami and au Glaize rivers, your late grounds and possessions, and to preserve you and your distressed and hapless women and children from danger and famine, during the present fall and ensuing winter. The arm of the United States is strong and powerful, but they love mercy and kindness more than war and desolation. And, to remove any doubts or apprehensions of danger to the persons of the deputies whom you may appoint to meet this army, I hereby pledge my sacred honor for their safety and return, and send Christopher Miller, an adopted Shawanee, and a Shawanee warrior, whom I took prisoner two days ago, as a flag, who will advance in their front to meet me. Mr. Miller was taken prisoner by a party of my warriors, six moons since, and can testify to you the kindness which I have shown to your people, my prisoners, that is, five warriors and two women, who arc now all safe and well at Greenville. But, should this invitation be disregarded, and my flag, Mr. Miller, be detained, or injured, I will immediately order all those prisoners to be put to death, without distinction, and some of them are known to belong to the first families of your nations. Brothers: Be no longer deceived or led astray by the false promises and language of the bad white men at the foot of the rapids; they have neither the power nor inclination to protect you. No longer shut your eyes to your true interest and happiness, nor your cars to this last overture of peace. But, in pity to your innocent women and children, come and prevent the further effusion of vour blood; let them experience the kindness and friendship of the United States of America, and the invaluable blessings of peace and tranquillity. ANTHONY WAYNE. Grand Glaize, 15th August, 1794. This man having' called at the War Office, on his way from Niagara to Kentucky, (as he said) a few days previous to the receipt of this letter, immediately on the arrival thereof, information respecting him was transmitted to Pittsburg, with directions to apprehend and secure him. He has been accordingly taken, is now secured at that place, and ordered to be sent down the Ohio, to Head Quarters. Copy of a letter from Major General JVayne to the Secretary of War, dated Head Quarters. Grand Glaize, 28th Avgust. 1794. Sir: ^It is with infinite pleasure that I now announce to you the brilliant success of the Federal army under my command, in a general action with the combined force of the hostile Indians, and a considerable number of the volunteers and militia of Detroit, on the 20th instant, on the banks of the Miami, in the vicinity of the British post and garrison, at the foot of the rapids. The army advanced from this place, on the 15th, and arrived at Roche de Bout on the 18th; the 19th we were employed in making a temporary post for the reception of our stores and baggage, and in reconnoitring the position of the enemy, who were encamped behind a thick brushy wood and the British fort. At 8 o'clock on the morning of the 20th, the army again advanced in columns, agreeably to the standing order of March, the legion on the right, its light flank covered by the Miamies, one brigade of mounted volunteers on the left, under Brigadier General Todd, and the other in the rear, under Brigadier General Barbie. A select battalion of mounted volunteers moved in front of the legion, commanded by Major Price, who was directed to keep sufficient!) advanced, so as to give timely notice lor the troops to form in case of action, it being yet undetermined whether the Indians would decide for peace or war. After advancing about five miles. Major Price's corps received so severe a fire from the enemy, who were secreted in the woods and high grass, as to compel them to retreat. The legion was immediately formed in two lines, principally in a close thick wood, which extended for miles on our left, and for a very considerable distance in front, the ground being covered with old fallen timber, probably occasioned by a tornado, which rendered it impracticable for the cavalry to act with effect, and afforded the enemy the most favorable covert for their mode of warfare. The savages were formed in diree lines, within supporting distance of each other, and extending for near two miles, at right angles with the river. I soon discovered, from the weight of the fire and extent of then- lines, that the enemy were in full force in front, in possession of their favorite ground, ami endeavoring to turn our left flank. 1 therefore gave orders for the second line to advance and support the first, and directed Major General Scott to gain and turn the right flank of the savages, with the whole of the mounted volunteers, by a circuitous route; at the same time I ordered the front line to advance and charge with trailed arms, and rouse the Indians from their coverts at the point of the bayonet, and w hen up, to deliver a close and well directed fire on their backs, followed by a brisk charge, so as not to give them time to load again. 1 also ordered Captain Mis Campbell, who commanded the legionary cavalry, to turn the left Hank of the enemy next the river, and which afforded a favorable field for that corps to act in. All these orders were obeyed with spirit and promptitude; but such was the impetuosity of the charge by the first line of infantry, that the Indians, and Canadian militia, and volunteers, were drove from all their coverts in so short a time, that, although every possible exertion was used by the officers of the second line of the legion, and by Generals Scott, Todd, and Barbie, of the mounted volunteers, to gain their proper positions, but part of each could get up in season to participate in theaction, the enemy being drove, in the course of one hour, more than two miles, through the thick woods already mentioned, by I ess than one half their numbers. From every account, the enemy amounted to two thousand combatants. The troops actually engaged against them were short of nine hundred. This horde of savages, with their allies, abandoned themselves to flight, and dispersed w ith terror and dismay, leaving our victorious army in full and quiet possession of the field of battle, which terminated under the influence of the guns of the British garrison, as you will observe by the enclosed correspondence between Major Campbell, the commandant, and myself, upon the occasion. The bravery and conduct of every officer belonging to the army, front the Generals down to the Ensigns, merit my highest approbation. There were, however, some, whose rank and situation placed their conduct in a very conspicuous point of view, and which I observed with pleasure, and the most lively gratitude. Among whom, 1 must beg leave to mention Brigadier General Wilkinson, ami Colonel Hamtramck. the commandants of the right and left w'ings of the legion, whose brave example inspired the troops. To those I must add the names of my faithful and gallant Aids-de-camp, Captains De Butt and T. Lewis, and Lieutenant Harrison, who. with the Adjutant General. Major Mills, rendered the most essential service by communicating my orders in every direction, and by their conduct and bravery exciting the troops to press for victory. Lieutenant Covington, upon whom the command of the cavalry now devolved, cut down two savages with his own hand, and Lieutenant Webb one. in turning the enemy's left flank. The wounds received by Captains Slough and Prior, and Lieutenant Campbell Smith, an extra aid-de-camp to General Wilkinson, of the. legionary infantry, and Captain Van Rensselaer, of the dragoons. Captain Rawlins, Lieutenant McKenny, and Ensign Duncan, of the mounted volunteers, bear honorable testimony of their bravery and conduct. Captains H. Lends and Brock, with their companies of light infantry, had to sustain an unequal fire for some time, which they supported with fortitude. In fact, every officer and soldier, who had an opportunity to come into action, displayed that true bravery which will always ensure success. And here permit me to declare, that I never discovered more true spirit and anxiety for action, than appeared to pervade the whole of the mounted volunteers, and I am well persuaded, that, had the enemy maintained their favorite ground for one half hour longer, they would have most severely felt the prowess of that corps. But, whilst I pay this just tribute to the living, 1 must not neglect the gallant dead, among whom we have to lament the early death of those w orthy and brave officers, Captain Mis Campbell, of the dragoons, and Lieutenant Towles, of the light infantry, of the legion, who fell in the first charge. Enclosed is a particular return of the killed and-wounded. The loss of the enemy was more than double to that of the Federal army. The w oods were strewed for a considerable distance with the dead bodies of Indians, and their white auxiliaries, the latter armed with British muskets and bayonets. We remained three days and nights on the batiks of the Miami, in front of the field of battle, during which time all the house.-, and cornfields were consumed and destroyed for a considerable distance, both above and below fort Miami, as well as within pistol shot of that garrison, who were compelled to remain tacit spectators to this general devastation and conflagration, among which were the houses, stores, and property, of Colonel McKee, the British Indian agent, and principal stimulator of the war now existing between the United States and the savages. The army returned to this place on the 27th. by easy marches, laying waste the villages and cornfields for about fifty miles on each side of the Miami. There remains yet a great number of villages, and a great quantity of corn, to be consumed or destroyed, upon Au Glaize and the Miami, above this place, which wilhbe effected m the course of a few days. In the interim, wre shall improve fort Defiance, and, as soon as the escort returns with the necessary supplies from Greenville, and fort Recovery, the army will proceed to the Miami villages, in order to accomplish the object of the campaign. It is, hovever, not improbable that the enemy may make one desperate effort against the army, as it is said that a reinforcement was hourly expected at fort Miami from Niagara, as well as numerous tribes of Indians living on the margin and islands of the lakes. This is a business rather to be wished for than dreaded, whilst the army remains in force. Their numbers will only tend to confuse the savages, and the victory will be the more complete and decisive, and which may eventually ensure a permanent and happy peace. Under these impressions, 1 have the honor to be vour most obedient and very humble servant, ANTHONY WAYNE. The honorable Major General II. Knox, Secretary of War. N. B. I forgot to mention that I met my flag on the 16th, who was returning with an evasive answer, in order to gain time for the arrival of the reinforcement mentioned by the Shawanee Indian, and which actually did arrive two days before the action. A RETURN of the killed, ivounded and mis sin", of the Federal Army, commanded by Major General JVayne, in the action of the 20 th August, 1794, fought on the banks of the Miami, at the post of the Rapids, in the vicinity of the British post. O 13 KILLED.     Total killed. j WOUNDED.       Total wounded. DIED OF THElK WOUNDS SINCE THE ACTION.       Total. 1 Total dead & won’d. Captains. Lieutenants. tfl a bf) C r.-* Sergeants. Corporals. 1 Music. j Privates.  Captains. Lieutenants. Ensigns. Sergeants. Corporals. Music. Privates.  Captains. Lieutenants. Ensigns. Sergeants. Corporals. Music. Privates. Squadron of dragoons 1 _ - 1 - - 1 3 1 - - - - - 8 9 - - - - - - O 2 12 artillery  - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 1 -  - - - - - - 1 1st sub-legion - - -   - - - - 1 1 1 - - 1 - - 9 11 -  - -  - 2 2 12 2d sub-legion - - -    - - - - o o - - - - - - 6 6 - - - - - - - - 8 3d sub-legion - - - _ . - 1 - - (5 <r 4 - - - 1 2 2 27 32 - - - - 1 - 2 3 39 4th sub-legion - - - - 1 - 1  - 11 13 1 1 " 2 i - 23 28  "   - - 2 2 41 Total of the legion 1 1 - 3 - - 21 26 3 1 - 4 3 2 74 87 - - -  1 - 8 9 113 Kentucky volunteers - - i 1 - - | ‘ - 4 7 1 1 1 - i - 10 13 - - -  - - 2 O 20 Aggregate - - - - 1 i - 3 - - 28 53 4 o 1 4 5 2 84 100  “ “ - 1 - 10 11 133 Names of the officers killed. Names of officers wounded. Names of officers of volunteers ivounded. Captain Robert Mis Campbell, of Dragoons, Captain Solomon Van Rensselaer, Dragoons, Captain Rawlins, Lieutenant Henry B. Towles, 4th sub-legion. Captain Abner Prior. 1st sub-legion, Lieutenant McKenney, Captain Jacob Slough, 4th sub-legion. Ensign Duncan. Lieutenant Campbell Smith, 4th sub-legion, acting as an aid-de-camp to Brigadier Gen. Wilkinson. JOHN MILLS, Major of infantry and Adjidant General. INDIAN AFFAIRS. U794. No. 1. Major William Campbell to Major General Wayne. Miami River, August 01, 1791. Sir: An army of the United States of America, said to be under your command, having taken post on the banks of the Miami for upw ards of the last twenty-four hours, almost within the reach of the guns of this fort, being a post belonging to his Majesty the King of Great Britain, occupied by his Majesty's troops, and w hich I have the honor to command, it becomes mv duty to inform myself, as speedily as possible, in what light I am to view' your making such near approaches to this garrison. 1 have no hesitation, on my part, to say. that I know of no war existing between Great Britain and America. I have the honor to be. sir, with great respect, your most obedient and very humble servant. WILLIAM CAMPBELL, Major ‘24th regiment, commanding a British post on the bunks oj the Miami. To Major Gen. Wayne, &c. No. 2. Major General Jfayne to Major William Campbell. Camp, ox the Bank of the Miami, August 21. 1794. Sir; 1 have received your letter of this date, requiring from me the motives which have moved the army under my command to the position they at present occupy, far within the acknowledged jurisdiction of the United States of America. 'Without questioning the authority or the propriety, sir. of your interrogatory, 1 think I may. without breach ofdecorum. observe to you, that, were you entitled to an answer, the most full and satisfactory one was announced to you from the muzzles of my small arms, yesterday morning, in the action'against the horde of savages in the vicinity of your post, which terminated gloriously to the American arms: but, had it continued until the Indians, &c. were driven under the influence of the post and guns you mention, they would not have much impeded the progress of the victorious army under my command, as no such post was established at the commencement of the present war between the Indians and the United States. 1 have the honor to be. sir. with great respect, vour most obedient and very humble servant. ANTHONY WAYNE, Major General, and Commander in Chief of the Federal Army. To Major William Campbell, &c. No. 3. Major William Campbell to Major General Wayne. Fort Miami, August 22d. 1794. Sir: Although your letter of yesterday's date fully authorizes me to any act ol hostility against the army of the United States of America in tfiis neighborhood, under your command, yet, still anxious to prevent that dreadful decision, which, perhaps, i.-, not intended to be appealed to by either of our countries, I have forborne, for those two days past, to resent those insults you have offered to the British flag Hying at this fort, by approaching it within pistol shot of my works, not only singly, but in numbers, with arms in their hands. Neither is it my wish to wage war with individuals: but. should you, after this, continue to approach my post in die threatening manner you are at this moment doing, my indispensable duty to my King and country.jam! the honor of my profession, will oblige me to have recourse to those measures, w hich thousands of either nation may hereafter have cause to regret, and which. I solemnly appeal to God, I have used my utmost endeavors to arrest. 1 have the honor to be. sir, with much respect, your most obedient and very humble servant. WILLIAM CAMPBELL, Major 24th regiment, commanding at fort Miami. Major General Wayne, &c. &c. [No other notice was taken of this letter than what is expressed in the following letter. The fort and works were, however, reconnoitred in every direction, at some points possibly within pistol shot. It was found to he a regular strong work, the front covered by a wide river, w ith four gun» mounted in that face. The rear, which was most susceptible of approach, had two regular bastion.-, furnished w ith eight pieces of artillery, the w hole surrounded by a w ide deep ditch, with horizontal pickets projecting from I he burn of the parapet over the ditch. From the bottom of the ditch to the top of the parapet, was about twenty feet perpendicular. The works were also surrounded by an abbatis, and furnished with a strong garrison. ] No. 4. Major General Jfayne to Major Gilliam Campbell. Camp, Banks of the Miami, 22d August, 1794. Sir: In your letter of the 21st instant, you declare, “ I have no hesitation, on my part, to say. that I know of no war existing between Great Britain and America.’’ I, on my part, declare the same, and that the only cause I have to entertain a contrary idea at present, is the hostile act you are now in commission of, i. e. by recently taking post far within the well known and acknowledged limits of the United States, and erecting a fortification in the heart ol the settlements of the Indian tribes now at war with the United States. This, sir, appears to be an act of the highest aggression, and destructive to the peace and interest of the Union. Hence, it becomes my duty to desire, and I do hereby desire and demand, in the name ot the. President of the United States, that you immediately desist from any further act of hostility or aggression, by forbearing to fortify, and by withdrawing the troops, artillery, and stores, under your orders and direction, forthwith, and removing to the nearest post occupied by his Britannic Majesty's troops at the peace of 1783, and which you will be perniited to do unmolested by the troops under my command. I am, with very great respect, sir, vour most obedient and very humble servant, ANTHONY WAYNE. Major "William Campbell, &c. No. 5. Major Gilliam Campbell to 3Iajor General G’uynt. Sir: Fort Miami, 22(/ August, 1794. I have this moment the honor to acknowledge the receipt ol your letter of this date; in answer to which I have nly to Sav. tlmt. hpino* nlnrwl Iipup in frw* pnmmQml /Yf a RiMtich ntwl Gpfing in n milifnrv rnnnrii v milv. [ rnrmnt enter into any discussion, either on the right or impropriety of my occupying my present position. Those are matters that I conceive will be best left to the ambassadors of our different nations. Having said this much, permit me to inform you, that I certainly will not abandon this post at the summons of any power whatevei, until I receive orders to that purpose from those I have the honor to serve under, or the fortune of war should oblige me. I must still adhere, sir, to the purport of my letter this morning, to desire that your army, or individuals belonging to it, will not approach within reach, of my cannon, without expecting the consequences attending it. Although I have said, in the former part of my letter, that my situation here is totally military, yet, let me add, sir, that I am much deceived, if his Majesty, the King of Great Britain, had not a poston this river, at and prior to the period you mention. I have the honor to be, sir. with the greatest respect, your most obedient and very humble servant, WILLIAM CAMPBELL, Major 24th regiment, commanding at fort Miami. To Major General Wayne, &c. [The only notice taken of this letter, was, by immediately setting fire to, and destroying, every thing within view of the lort, and even under the muzzles of the guns. Had Mr. Campbell carried his threats into execution, it is more than probable he would have experienced a storm.] Examination of a Sheuvanee prisoner, taken by Captain Wells, on the evening of the 11 lli of August, 1794, near the foot (f the Rapids. Question. When did the Indians receive information of the advance of the army? Answer. The first information was from a white man, who came in of his own accord, about ten days since. Question. Where are the Indians at this time? Answer. At Colonel McKee’s. Question. Where are the British, and what are their numbers? Answer. In a fort about one mile below Colonel McKee’s, on the north side of the river, situate on a hill, or bank, close by the margin, where there are about 200 men. They are now at work at the fort. Question. What number of great guns have they in the fort? Answer. Four or five. Question. What number of warriors are at McKee’s, and what nations do they belong to? Answer. There are six hundred, who abandoned this place on the approach of the army. Shawanese, about -------- 200, but not more. Delawares, --------- 300 Miamies, - - - - - - - - - 100 Warriors of other tribes, - ------ 100 Total, 700 Question. What number are expected to assemble, in addition to those now at the foot of the Rapids? Answer. In all, about 400 men, viz. Wyandots, --------- 300 Tawas, --------- 040 540 Question. What number of white men are to join, and when? Answer. Mr. or Captain Elliot set out for Detroit six days since, and was to be back yesterday, with all the militia, and an additional number of regular troops, which, with those already there, would amount to 1000 men. This is the general conversation among the Indians, and Captain Elliot promised to bring that number. Colonel McKee’s son went with Elliot, as also the man who deserted from the army on its march. Question. When, and where, do the Indians mean to fight this army? Answer. At the. foot of the Rapids. The white man who came in, told the Indians and Colonel McKee, that the army was destined for that place. Examination of Antoine Lassc/I, a native of Canada, and a volunteer in Captain Caldwell’s company of refugees, friends and allies of the hostile Indians^ captured in the action of the 20th instant. He says that he has resided for twenty-nine years in Upper Canada, twenty-one of which he has passed at Detroit, and on this river, and that he has constantly traded with tne Indians all that time; that he resided at the Miami villages for nineteen years before Harmars expedition, when he kept a store at that place, and used to supply other traders with goods; that he has since lived cliiefly at Bean creek, or Little Glaize, at the Little Turtle’s town. That, having lived so long among the hostile Indians, he is perfectly acquainted with the tribes and numbers. That the Delawares have about 500 men, including those who live on both rivers, the White river, and Bean creek. That the Miamies are about 200 warriors, part of them live on the St. Joseph's, eight leagues from this place; that the men were all in the action, but the women are yet at that place, or Piquet’s village; that a road leads from this place directly to it; that the number of warriors belonging to that place, when all together, amounts to about 40. That the Shawanese have about 300 warriors; that the Tawas, on this river, are 250; that the Wyandots are about 300. That those Indians were generally in the action of the 20th instant, except some hunting parties. That a reinforcement of regular troops, and 200 militia, arrived at fort Miami a few days before the army appeared; that the regular troops in the fort amounted to 250, exclusive of the militia. That about seventy of the militia, including Captain Caldwell’s corps, were in the action. That Colonel McKee, Captain Elliot, and Simon Girty, were in the field, but at a respectful distance, and near the river. That Colonel McKee’s existence now depends upon the exertions he can make to retrieve the loss and disgrace of the Indians; that he will use every influence and means in his power, to raise the distant nations to come forward immediately, and assist in the war. That, should they not be able to collect in force sufficient to fight this army, their intention is to move on the Spanish side of the Mississippi, where part of their nations now live; that Blue Jacket told him (Lassell) that he intended to move immediately to Chicago, on the Illinois. That the Indians have wished for peace for some time, but that Colonel McKee always dissuaded them from it, and stimulated them to continue the war. Camp Grand Glaize, 28th August, 1791. Examination of John Bevin, a drummer in the 24/A British regiment, commanded by Colonel England: Who says, that there are now four companies of the 24th at fort Miami, averaging about 50 men, non-commissioned officers and privates included; that there was part of Governor Simcoe’s corps in the garrison, together with about, sixty Canadians: that the whole number of men actually in the garrison, including officers, &c. exceeded 400: that the number of Indians, Canadians, &c. in the action, were at least 2,000, according to the report made by Colonel McKee and Captain Elliot, to Major Campbell, after the action, who declared, in his presence, that there was actually that number engaged. That there were four nine six-pounders, two large howitzers, and six six-pounders, mounted in the fort, and two swivels, and well supplied with ammunition. That the Indians were regularly supplied with provision drawn from the British magazine, in the garrison, by Colonel McKee. That a certain Mr. Newman, a deserter from the American army, arrived at the fort about eight days before the army made its appearance, who gave information to Major Campbell, that the object of the Americans was to take that post and garrison; that General Wayne told the troops not to be uneasy about provision, that there was plenty in the British garrison. That Governor Simcoe was expected at that place every hour, in consequence of an express sent to Niagara, after the arrival of Newman, the deserter, but had not arrived when he come away; (hat the distance from fort Miami to Detroit, is sixty miles, which is generally performed in two days. That the militia of Detroit, and its vicinity, amounts to near two thousand; that a Colonel Baubee commands them; that McKee is also a Colonel of militia; that a Lieutenant Silvc, of the 5th British regiment, is in the Indian department, and acts as secretary to Colonel McKee; that a Captain Bunbury of the same regiment is also in the Indian department. That he has seen a great number of wounded Indians pass the fort, but did not learn what number were killed; that the retiring Indians appeared much dejected, and much altered to what they were in the morning before the action; that he knew of one company of volunteers, commanded by Captain Caldwell, all white men, and armed with British muskets and bayonets, who were in the action. James Neill1’s information to the Secretary of Jl'ar. taken 21s/ October. 1794. James Neill, a pack-horseman in the service of Elliott and Williams, aged about 17 years, and belonging to Beardstown. in Kentucky, was in the action of the 30th June, at fort Recovery, and taken prisoner by the Indians, together with Peter Keil, and another by the name of Cherry, all three pack-horsemen. After he was taken prisoner lie was carried to the British fort, at the Miami, where, however, he was not permitted to be seen by the British, as the Indians wanted to carry him to their own town: thence he was taken to Detroit, and thence to Michilimackinac. where a British officer bought him, who sent sent him to Detroit, to Colonel England, who treated them well, and sent them to Niagara, at which place Peter Keil. being an Irishman, enlisted in the Queen’s rangers. Neill understood that there were of Indians and whites, 1,500 in the attack of fort Recovery? he himself did not see the whole, but he saw upwards of seven hundred. He understood they lost a great many in killed and wounded: lie himself saw about twenty dead carried oft’, ami many wounded, while lie was tied to the stump of a tree, about half a mile distant from the firing. The Indians, on their return to the Miami fort, asserted, that no enemy ever fought better than the people at fort Recovery; and Neill was told, by Captain Doyle, at Michilimackinac, that the Indians lost two to one that they did at St. Clair’s defeat. Neill was taken by the Shawanese, and made a present to the Ottawas, who live near the fort at Michilimackinac. Neill was at Detroit when the news arrived of General Wayne's action with the Indians, the 20th August. He received the information from one John Johnson, who had been a deserter from General Wayne’s army, and then was a militia mail of Detroit, and in the action against General Wayne, lie spoke of the ailairasa complete defeat; that the Indians lost a great many, but he could not tell how many. He says the Indians, upon being defeated, wanted to take refuge in the British fort: that they were denied, which greatly exasperated them. The militia of Detroit were again ordered out, and several Captains put in the guard-house for refusing. He understood the militia men were forced on board of vessels and sent to Roche de Bout. Upon his arrival at Niagara, he understood that mo.-t of the troops were ordered to reinforce the garrison at the Mi ami river, but Governor Simcoe did not go. Neill says, that it was generally said, there were only seven hundred Indians at General St. Clair’s defeat. Copy of a letter from the Governor of Georgia to the Secretary of War. State House, Ai ousta, 19th .August, 1794. Sir.: I had the pleasure to receive your communication of the 28th ultimo, this day, and it is with real regret I inform you, that the information therein contained, is in a great part too true. Sometime in May I learnt that settlements were making on the southwest side of the Oconee; the supposition then was, that the adventurers were part of those who had embarked in the French interest, and that, in a short time, they would of themselves disperse; but finding that not to be the case, and fearing lest they might contemplate a serious settlement, 1, on the 20th of May, ordered General Invin to direct the settlers immediately to remove; soon after, I was informed the removal had taken place. On the 14th July I received a letter from Lieutenant Colonel Gaither, stating that Elijah Clarke, late a Major General in the militia of (his State, with a party of men, had encamped on the southwest side of the Oconee, opposite to fort Fidius. On the 24fh, General Invin sent a couple of officers to Clarke, with orders for him to move oil1 immediately, which he positively refused; and, on the 28th, I issued a proclamation, forbidding such unlawful proceedings. 1 also wrote to one of our judges to issue his warrant, and have Clarke apprehended. At the supreme court in Wilkes county, I am informed, he surrendered himself to the judge, who, on consulting with the attorney general, referred him to some of the justices of the county; a copy of their decision is herewith enclosed, and from which there is reason to conclude, there are too many who think favorably of the settlements; but I still flatter myself a large majority of the citizens are opposed to such lawless nets. Enclosed is a copy of my instructions to Captain Fauche, who commands the troop I informed you, in my letter of the 5 th instant, I had called into service. It will be necessary, I conceive, for the captain to be reinforced with another troop, which I shall immediately order, and with which I am hopeful the objects of his command will be effected; should it prove otherwise, I shall lose no time in having recourse to a sufficient military force: for, however unpleasant the task may be. of shedding the blood of acquaintances, and those whom we wish to view as fellow-citizens. yet the President may rest assured that no exertions on my part shall be wanting. Herewith I transmit a copy of a talk I sent lately to the Creek Indians, and a copy of a deposition of William Jones, taken by Judge Walton. I sincerely wish it had been in my power to have given a more pleasant account of the situation of things in this quarter. GEORGE MATHEWS. Discharge of General Clarke l»j the Justices of JVilkes County. State of Georgia, JVilkes County: "Whereas a proclamation was issued, on the 28th day of July last, by his Excellency George Mathews, Esquire, Governor of this State, stating, that “Elijah Clarke, Esquire, late Major General of the militia of this State, has gone over the Oconee river, with an intent to establish a separate and independent government, on the lands allotted tor the Indians for their hunting grounds, and commanded, in the said proclamation, all judges, justices, sheriffs, and other officers, and all the other citizens of this State, to be diligent in aiding and assisting in apprehending the said Elijah Clarke, and his adherents, in order that they might, severally, be brought to justice: And whereas the said Elijah Clarke, who is the object of the said proclamation,hath this day personally appeared before us, the undersigned, justices of the peace for the county of Wilkes, and surrendered himself into custody, and it being our duty to do speedy justice to the said State, as well as the party charged, we proceeded to the most mature consideration of the cause, and, after an examination of the laws of the State, and the treaties made, and laws passed, by the United States, do give it as our decided and unanimous opinion, that the said Elijah Clarke be, and is hereby. discharged. Attest, R. WOOSHAM, J. P. R. CHRISTMAS, J. P. G. WOOLDRIDGE, J. P. WILLIAM DELL, J. P. J. MERIWETHER, Secretary E. D. Instructions for Captain Eauche. State House, Augusta, SOth July, 1794. Sir: You will recruit a troop of horse, to consist of (besides commissioned officers) six sergeants, six corporals, one farrier, one trumpeter, and eighty-six privates, and station a sub-sergeant, corporal, and twenty dragoons, at each of the following places, viz. Watford’s, the high shoals of the Apalachy. fort Twiggs, and the White bluff; a sergeant, and six dragoons, you will send to Phillips’ mile shoal. The detachment at Watford’s will perform as constant a scout to Ward’s station, on Tugelo, and the hurricane shoals of the Oconee, as the horses are capable of; that at the high shoals of Apalachy will, in like manner, scout to the Hurricane shoals, and to the mouth of the Apalachy; that at fort Twiggs, to the mouth of the Apalachy, and to fort Fidius; and that at the White bluff, to fort Fidius, and Carr’s bluff. You will take care to render the citizens every protection in your power, and endeavor to prevent parties of men from crossing the temporary line, except in cases where they are in pursuit of Indians that have committed murder, or stolen property; in those cases, you will use your best exertions to recover the property, and chastise the offenders. You will be particularly vigilant in preventing provisions, or parties of men, from being thrown into the posts which have been established, without authority, by Elijah Clarke. Esquire, on the southwest side of the Oconee; and, in case either should fall into your hands, you will take them to the nearest magistrate, in order that the men may be bound over to their good behavior, and the provisions subjected to a legal adjudication. You will conduct yourself with the greatest circumspection, and, in no instance, commit an act of hostility, unless in self-preservation. You are to inform Lieutenant Colonel Gaither you will receive his orders in any emergency that may occur. Should any Indians come on the frontiers in a friendly manner, for the purpose of restoring prisoners or property, you will treat them with friendship and attention. Your knowledge as an officer, renders it unnecessary for me to urge the necesssity of a strict discipline being observed in your troop. J. MERIWETHER, Secretary E. D. To the Head-men and JVurriors of the Creek Nation. Friends and Brothers: State House, Augusta, 11 th August, 1794. I I have received three talks from your land, by Mr. Mordecai, part of which I take well, others I am at a loss what they mean. When your head-men were at New York, and made peace with General Washington, the great warrior of America, I was there. Agreeably to that treaty, the river Apalachy, or Tulapaka, was agreed to be the temporary line between your nation and the people of Georgia. Some goods were promised to you, which you received: and you were to make a plain line between our people and yours. This you failed to do. Some time after, General Washington, your father, heard you were poor, and wanted bread for your squaws and children; to relieve you from want, he sent you corn to St,. Mary’s, for which he asked nothing. Agreeably to his promise, a store was opened ( there for you to trade to; your father hoping, by this kind treatment, that the good men of your nation would return the property you promised at the treaty at New York, run the line, and be at perfect peace and friendship with all white people of the United States. After all this kindness, what have your nation doner You have not returned our prisoners, nor restored our property, or acted as friends. The men that kept the store for you to trade to, were killed by your people, and the goods carried into your land; you have not punished the men that did this, or given any satisfaction for die injury done. John Galplun was the main hand in those murders and robberies. Major Seagrove informed me, last winter, he was condemned to die in your land, and had fled to the Spaniards. I am informed he is now returned as then-agent; and, wishing to disturb your land with bad talk, wants you to go to war with the United States. This is Mr. Panton’s doings: he wishes to have all your trade, and make you give what prices he pleases to ask for his goods. _ Does your father, General Washington, order any of his agents to ask you to make war on any other nation? No, he is too good a man to do it; lie wishes to see you. and all nations, at peace and friendship. You have killed many of our citizens, and carried away a great number of our horses, cattle, and negroes; all this your father. General Washington, has borne with, from a wish to be the friend of your nation, and all the red people, as he is to all white ones. Asa proof of this, he sent Major Seagrove into your land last winter, to see it peace was to be restored; you told Mr. Seagrove you were for peace, and that you would give the prisoners and negroes, and return the properly; but in the spring, when he returned, he only brought four prisoners, and none of our negroes, or property. After so many disappointments, on your part, ask yourselves, what your father. Genera! Washington, or the people of Georgia, have to expect from you? On his part, all the goods that were promised you, have been given; and a wish still remains to keep the path open and white, and with your nation it rests whether it will be so or not. If you return to us our prisoners and property, restrain your bad bad men from stealing our horses, all will be peace, and General Washington will open a trade to your land, when you may have goods for one-fourth less than you now give Mr. Panton for them, and get more for your skins and furs. In one of your talks you say a ship of Mr. Panton's is taken, that was bringing your goods; and ask, whether we are at war with the British and Spaniards? To which I answer, we are neither at war with the British nor Spaniards, or know, or care, any thing about Mr. Panton, or his ship; the British and Spaniards are at war. with your fathers, the Frenchmen, who have taken a great many of their ships, and it is possible Mr. Panton's is one of them. Friends and Brothers: In wars between white people, I would advise you to take no part,: peace is best for you: carry your skins and furs to the nation that will give you the most for them, and let you have goods cheapest: for, compared with any white nation, you are a poor and weak people; you cannot make your own cloths, nor guns that kill your provisions, nor your powder or lead; therefore, yon are in need of the assistance of white people, and should make it your study to be at peace with them all; and when any white men wishes you to go to war on their account, they wish to ruin your nation. You ask about forts on the Apalachy, or Tulapaka. There are two forts built by my orders on that river; I told the White-bird king last winter, at fort Fidius. 1 would build them; our situation with the Cherokees required it: they are on the north side of the river, and on the lands that were given by your nation at the treaty at New York, for which you have been paid, and cannot see why you complain of it. By that treaty your nation is to receive twelve hundred dollars a year for the lands, which is ten times as much as all the game you can kill on it in one year is worth. 1 cannot see how your nation can dispute the river’s being the line, as it was agreed on at three treaties in Georgia, and the one at New York. At the one at New York, all your warriors that met General Washington, your father, at the great, council house, where the old men of the United States sat to make hws for the whole nation, the treaty you had signed was read and interpreted, and General Washington, on his part, for the United States, promised to perform it, and all your warriors then promised the same on the part of your nation; from this, it. appears to me, you only wish to treat with a view to get presents, and have no intention of complying with any part of jour treaties. 'Ehe fort you complain of over the Oconee, is not built by my orders, nor your father, General Washington; it is done by men that are acting without any authority. 1 am informed they intend to rent the land of you; but if you don't, choose to let them live on it, and you will comply with your treaties, by giving up our prisoners, and restoring our property, you need not be uneasy about them; your father. General Washington, w ill have them put oft’ of it. You talk of two men you had killed on the Oconee last winter—I might tell you of many. You have killed our people, but I refrain doing so. If we wash to have peace, we must not think of matters that are past. We must pull up a large oak tree, bury the bones of those that have been killed on both sides under it, then plant the tVee, that it may grow in remembrace of our being one people; then, when we meet in the woods, we will eat and drink together as friends, and not wish to kill one another. You say. you are afraid we wish to take all your land; that it is your father, and can’t spare it. If you will be at peace, we want no more of your land. It is a father to us as well as you; by ploughing and planting, it gives bread and meat to our wives and children, and gets us all the goods we want. But, when yourbad men steal our horses, we cannot plough and work our land, and our wives and children want meat and clothes. Therefore, when you steal our horses, you rob us of what our father, the land, gives us. Friends and Brothers: Open your ears, and near now what your father says to you. If you stain our land again with blood, your father, General Washington, will not think of peace with you again. Your land will be the seat of war, and you will have no place of safety for your squaws and children; but if you listen to the talk of peace I now send you, and return our prisoners anil property, I will write to your lather. General Washington, to open a trade with you, so that your nation maybe supplied with every thing you want. We live in the same land, and under the same sun; therefore, good sense and reason says, we should be friends. Major Seagrove, your Inend, has gone to see your father. General Washington: lie was sick fur sometime alter he lelt your nation, therefore you must not expect to see him as soon, by two moons, as he told you. True copv. Attest, J. MERIWETHER, S. E. D. Deposition of Gilliam Jones. Geotigia: William Jones, of the county of Wilkes, in the Slate afroesaid, being duly sworn, maketh oath, and saith, that,about fourmonths ago. he was employed, and did go through the Creek country, to carry a letter to Ford, Reid, & Co. at Pensacola, from Willing, Morris, and Swumvick, of Philadelphia; that, arriving at Pensacola, the Lieutenant Governor directed him to go to the principal Governor at New Orleans, which the deponent did; that, returning from New Orleans, and arriving again at Pensacola, about four weeks since, he there saw Colonel Brown and Colonel Richard Paris, of and from the island of New Providence, with letters from Lord Dunmore to the Governor of Pensacola, to obtain a passport to the Creek country, which letters he saw delivered? and that the deponent understood they had a large quantity of goods for the Creeks, and was told by Baillee China, and the Indian Trader Russel, that they were to hold a treaty with the Creek nation. The deponent further saith, that, from the above facts, and the circumstances of the apparent gladness of the tories, who tied from the States, and live there and at Tombigby. lie supposes they were on a public embassy, and not on a trailing scheme. The deponent, upon his said oath, further saith, that the house of Panton, Leslie, and Forbes, lately sent a parcel of goods to the Chickasaw country, and that the Mountain Leader had seized them, and made prisoners of the traders, alleging a treaty with the United States; and the deponent heard that their goods were also sent by the said Brown and Paris. WILLIAM JONES. Sworn to in Scriven county, the 15th day of August, 1794. In addition, the deponent further saith, that although he had been promised a pass to return to Georgia, after the arrival of Brown and Paris, he was refused, otherwise than circuitously by water. Sworn as above, before me. GEO. WALTON, One of the Judges of the Superior Court for the body of the said State. Taken from the original. EDWARD WATTS, S. E. D. Copy of a letter from his Excellency the Governor of Georgia to the Secretary of War. State House, Augusta, 30tli Jiugusl, 1791. Sir: Nothing extraordinary has taken place since my communications to you of the 19th instant. I lune to request the President’s instructions with respect to the prisoners which may fall into my hands in the event of a military force being employed against the settlements forming on the southwest side of the Oconee. Enclosed I send you a printed copy of Judge Walton’s charge to the grand jury of the county of Richmond. I feel myself much indebted to the judge for his spirited exertions on this occasion. 1 have furnished General Twiggs with copies of that charge, the solicitor general’s opinion, and your letter, and directed him to repair to the settlements before alluded to, and, after explaining the nature of his mission, to order the settlers immediately to remove. Should the order not be obeyed, I shall lose no time in drawing together a force adequate to compelling them. I have no doubt ol your having instructed the agent of supplies to direct the contractor to furnish what may be wanting in the commissary’s and quartermaster’s department. GEO. MATHEWS. Judge (Vailon's charge to the Grand Jury of Richmond County, State of Georgia. Gentlemen oe the Grand Jurv: Tiie eastern circuit, for the present summer, ended in Burke; the term ior this county being appointed to be held after all the rest, it is to be considered as the court at which the judges are met to decide on cases reserved for consul tation; and by an union of session, to assimilate the doctrine and practice of the circuits, and to close the whole in like manner as it used to be in Burke. 'With the knowledge and experience of this usage, and with this construction of the intention of the Legislature. I do propose to share the labors and responsibility of office with my brother Smith, upon the present occasion. I shall do this the more readily, because the moment is eventful; because the eyes of the Union are necessarily turned towards this State; and because it is disgraceful for public men to shrink from the duties of their appointment. Iti addition to the presentment of the grand juries for the counties of Chatham and Burke, where I presided, I have seen in the public prints, that it is alleged by the Executive department of Government, that certain and divers persons have gone over the temporary boundary line, between the white and Indian inhabitants of this State, u with intent to establish a separate and independent government, on the lands allotted to the Indians for their hunting grounds.” That the proclamation in which this is alleged, warns the citizens from engaging in such unlawful proceeding, and commands and requires all judges, justices, sheriffs, and other officers, to be aiding and assisting in apprehending and bringing them to justice. What has been done in pursuance of this proclamation, I know only from general report, and the public prints. These state that General Clarke, who is at the head of the enterprise, surrendered himself at Washington, in the county of Wilkes, during the sitting of the superior court, to a justice or justices of the peace, and was] discharged, as having offended against no known law. Not having been in the way to act, and duly respecting the presentments of the grand juries before mentioned, as well as the Executive department and the Government of the United States, I consider it. a duty I am not at liberty to dispense, as one of the judges of the republic, to state this case, in my place, for your information, and that of my fellow citizens at large. In doing this, I feel myself moved by no other considerations than those of the public law and order, the collective and individual rights of the citizens, and the obligations of office. With the gentleman who directs this enterprise. I have been a long time in the habits of regard and friendship; I have known his virtues, and esteemed them. In the long and arduous war, which produced our liberty and independence, he stands high in the lists of Revolutionary patriots and soldiers. But he himself will forgive and justify me,, in detailing the laws against a scheme which tends to undermine the fair fabric he contributed to raise, and to subvert the order of that society, of which he has been so long an useful member. It was in a former charge to the grand jury, at Washington, in Wilkes county, in the summer western circuit of the year 1792, that I had occasion before to treat of this subject. It was then, and in that place, that I stated the existing laws against encroachments on the Indian hunting grounds, belonging to the State, and before a very large assemblage of the citizens, and which the present occasion demands to be repeated. Before the Revolution, the laws imposed the severest penalties upon those encroachments. But, as these succeeded a new order of things, we will confine our attention to the acts which have been passed since. Immediately after the peace, a law passed at Savannah, for opening the Land Office, dated the 17th day of February, 1783, and which contained the following clause: “ And he it further enacted, That all surveys, which have or may have been made, or lines run, by any means or under any pretence whatever, beyond the present temporary boundary line within this State, between the white inhabitants and the Indians belonging to the same, or on any part of the lands not already laid out into counties, but allowed to remain as hunting grounds for the. Indians at present, shall, and the same is, and are hereby, declared to be null and void, to all intents and purposes, as though such surveys or lines had never been made; and all and every person and persons whatsoever, who shall hereafter survey, or assist in surveying, or procure to be surveyed, and marked with lines, any of the lands above described, whereon the Indians are allowed to hunt for their support, or who shall obtain, or attempt to obtain, a grant for the same, before such lands arc taken, within the boundary of the white inhabitants of this State, and the mode of granting such lands so to be taken in, be agreed and determined on by the Legislature, and published by proclamation, al and every such person and persons shall forfeit and pay a penalty of twenty shillings for every acre of land he, she, or they, shall so run, or attempt to run or obtain, or attempt to obtain a grant for; which said penalty shall be recovered in any court of record or conscience (according to the amount thereof) within the State; and shall lie for the use of any person or persons, who will inform of. and sue for the same, either by way of information or action: and if any person or persons, against whom a judgment shall be obtained, for any penalty as aforesaid, shall be unable to pay the same, or will not produce property whereon the sheriff may levy to the amount thereof, he, she, or they, shall be liable, and the justices of the county where such cause shall be tried, shall order him, her, or them, into close confinement, without bail or mainprize, for the space of two days, for every twenty shillings the said penalty, so recovered as aforesaid, shall consist of, and which shall remain unpaid out of the property of the delinquent.” And to another clause in the same act. declaring the real boundary line, of the State, it is added: “ Provided nevertheless, That nothing herein before contained, shall extend, or be construed to extend, to authorize and empower any surveyor, or other person or persons whatsoever, to survey, run, or mark lines, upon the lands before described, as being allowed to the Indians for hunting grounds, or any part or parcel thereof, before or until permission for that purpose shall be granted by the Legislature, and made known by proclamation."’ Two years after this, on the 22d February, 1785. the Legislature passed another act, having for object, among other things, the prevention of surveys being extended over the temporary boundary line. The clause respecting the latter is as follows: “ .dad be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That, in case any surveys have been made, or grants obtained, for any lands lying and being without, or beyond, the lines of some one of the counties of this State, already laid out, all and every such survey or grant, shall be considered as fraudulent, and the same is hereby declared to be null and void; and (he person or persons making such survey, or obtaining such grants, shall be prosecuted, and punished agreeable to the 11th section of the said land act, passed the 17th February, 1783.” This doctrine was again repeated two years afterwards, on the loth of February, 1787, in an act passed for the appointment of commissioners to run the line designating the Indian hunting grounds. By this act. fine and impri sonment for the first offence, are added to the penalties herein before pointed out, for marking, surveying, or attempting to survey, or obtain, grants beyond the temporary line; and the second is made felony. It was some time afterwards, in the year 1791, the twobranches of the Legislature passed the following resolution: “ Resolved, That.the judges of the superior courts of this State, or one of them, be required, on proper information thereof being given, to issue a warrant against any surveyor or surveyors, who have or shall run any lands beyond the boundary line, designating the Indian hunting grounds; so that they may be, and appear, betore the superior courts, in their respective counties, to answer for such conduct.” Thus far on the part of this State. On that of the United States, itis provided in the federal constitution, section 3d of article 4th: “New States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union: but no new State shall be formed or erected within the jurisdiction ot any other State, nor any State be formed by the junction of two or more States, or parts of States, without the consent of the Legislatures of the States concerned, as wrell as ol the Congress.” And, in an act of Congress of the 1st March, 1793, is the following clause: "And be it further enacted, That, if any such citizen or inhabitant shall make’a settlement on lands belonging to any tribe, or shall survey sueli lands, or designate their boundaries, by marking trees or otherwise, for the purpose of settlement, he shall forfeit a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, nor less than one hundred dollars, and suffer imprisonment not exceeding twelve months, in the discretion of the court before whom the trial shall be; and it shall, moreover, be lawful for the President of the United States, to take such measures as he may judge necessary, to remove, from lands belonging to any Indian tribe, any citizens or inhabitants of the United States who have made, or shall hereafter make, or attempt to make, a settlement thereon.” The same act contains a clause prohibiting any purchases to be made, but through the agency of the United States. Soon after the accession ol all the States to the present federal constitution. I stated my doubts to a grand jury, also of Wilkes county, as to treaties with savages being of the same rank of those with civiliy.ed nations; and was inclined to be of opinion, that they ought not to be considered in the list of supreme law s, and of equal efficacy with those in the statute book; but the construction of the United States has been otherwise. This lias established it in law, in practice, and opinion, and it is my duty to acquiesce. It appears, indeed, that General Clarke claims with impunity, from the tenor of an article in the treaty of New York, which gives to the Indians the right of repelling, and which it would seem, he did not fear. That treaty, therefore, may, on every account, be fairly resorted to. The 5th article ol the said treaty is in the following words: The United States solemnly guaranty to the Creek nation, all their lands within the limits ol the United States, to the westward and southward of the boundary described in the preceding article. And the Creeks have lately demanded of the Governor, whether this settlement has been made with the knowledge and consent of the President. Whether, therefore, we have reference to the laws of the United States, or of this State, the enterprise must be considered as illegal, and of course liable to prosecution and penalty, if persisted in. Bat. independent of this, and regarding the persons engaged as still our friends and fellow citizens, it will not be amiss to state, that the lands, which are the object ol their plan and their hopes, belong to the public or State at large: and that all the citizens have an equal claim upon them, when they shall be made grantable. and of which they will be deprived by this anticipating monopoly. This is unjust; and this opinion lias been of long standing with me. In the charge before referred to. is the following clause: " The motives which have uniformly governed the Legislature. and induced it so often to repeat its prohibitions, w ere no doubt of a general nature: to preserve good faith with the Union, and peace with the savages, to prevent surreptitious grants, and the monopoly of vacant territory; but more especially, that all the citizens should have equal and common right, when such territory is permitted by law to be taken up. Upon this occasion I will add. that it is well, at any time, to be right; but still better to be uniform.*’ Should the spirit which generated the plan of this new settlement, still urge its pursuit, what mischiefs may it not produce to the community. A young country, scarcely recovered from former ravages, but with the means of progressive amplification and aggrandizement, to be involved in a civil war, with all the evils incident to it, will have the effect of arresting its progress, and putting it in the back of any present calculation. It is already known that the President of the United States lias directed, in the event of other means failing, that the settlement should he suppressed by military coercion. And shall the blood of citizens be spilled, to support the pretensions of a small parted the people—pretensions without law, and resting not on the foundations of justice? But, it is said, they have expatriated themselves. This is neither fact, or capable of being made so. The district, the object of their contemplation, is still Georgia; and they must be either citizens or insurgents. Would that these new settlers might attend the voice of reason, of benevolence, and moderation, before they plunge themselves and their country in distress and trouble. A little time will extend our limits, and we shall then be all upon a footing. But suppose that the State, from the recollection of the past services of the principal in this adventure, and a tender regard to his adherents, (the United States out of view for the moment) should be disposed to wink at the establishment of this intended settlement. Is the extent of the precedent perceived? The richest jewel the State of Georgia possesses, and the real basis of her future wealth and rank in the Union, is her western territory; and if one set of men should be permitted to take possession, and keep a part of it, without the consent of her government, will it not be an example of right, for any other set of men to do the same, with any other part, or with the whole of it? Hence. 1 conclude, that if General Clarke lias the same regard for the State he has heretofore given so many proofs of. he will desist from an enterprise so pregnant with evils to her. It is not to be wished, that the Federal Government should have occasion to exert its power upon any such occasion. It might, one day, give color to pretensions, not consonant with the interests of the State. There ought to exist no fears at present; but who can keep pace with the progress of time and of revolution? Gentlemen of the Jury: 1 have now given a state of this case to you and to the world, in doing it. I have done my duty, because I think so. At the seat of Government, in the centre of business, and where courts so very frequently return, it is not necessary for me to add any thing upon your particular duties. Intend well, and act as you intend. Consult your oath, and be governed by it, and you cannot fail to do rieht. GEORGE WALTON. Avgusta. 36th August, 1794. Extract of a letter from the Governor of Georgia to the Secretary of fJar, dated State House, Augusta. October 15, 1794.* Major General Twiggs having returned from the settlements formed by Elijah Clarke, on the southwest side of the Oconee, with a positive answer from Clarke that he would not relinquish his enterprise, 1 lost no time in putting Brigadier General Irwin in motion, with a sufficient detachment of militia to cut off'the communication, and otherwise act as circumstances should require. I also ordered another detachment to hold themselves in readiness to march as soon as some heavy artillery could be brought from Savannah, but, from the prudence and address of General Irwin, the marching of this detachment became unnecessary. He soon compelled the adventurers to propose relinquishing their unlaw ful attempts, and submit to the laws of their country. The posts are all burnt and destroyed, and the whole business happily terminated without the loss ol blood. I have the pleasure to inform you that the militia, on this occasion, showed a determined disposition to act with firmness in support of the laws of their country. Enclosed you will receive a copy of a deposition relative to some murders and depredations which have lately been committed by the Indians in Greene county. 1 have also received a letter from General Jackson, informing me of some negroes and horses which have been taken from Liberty county: and late accounts from the Creek nationstate, that the Tallassee King and Broken Arrow are both for war. .State of Georgia, Greene County: The year and day hereafter specified, came before me, Messrs. John Mikal, wagon-man, and Davis Harrison, of aforesaid State and county, and, after beitm duly sworn, declared), that, on the 30th of September, 1794, they both were near fort Fidius, where .a young lady of the name of Catharine Cessna, had been just shot down, and, on examination, found a shot gun wound through her body, of which wound she died, and had been scalped; they also declare having seen a negro wench, which had received two gun shot wounds, was scalped, but had yet life in her; that, by every circumstance, they have reason to believe these horrid murders were committed by Indians; that they have heard the negro wench declare she saw five Indians, and that she was thus barbarously treated by them. The aforesaid deponents further say nothing. September 30, 1794. Received November 8, 1794. I do certify the above to be the truth, being there shortly after, and seeing the dead and wounded, and followed the trail of said Indians some distance. Sworn to the above on the above date. GEO. REID, J. 1\ Copy of a letter from Constant Freeman. .Llgent for the Department of liar, in Georgia, to the Secretary of liar. Fort Fidius, -29th September, 1791. Sir: I have the pleasure to inform you, that the post opposite to us, on the soutli side of the Oconee, has been taken and destroyed by the militia, and that General Clarke and his adherents have been removed. Soon after the Governor's proclamation was issued against General Clarke, he delivered himself up to the superior court in the county of Wilkes, who dismissed him, because it was their opinion that he had not violated the laws of this State. This decision greatly encouraged his party, and the settlements were pushed with vigor. The measure had also become very popular, and it was believed by him and his adherents, that the militia would never march against them. Under these flattering circumstances, his works were completed ; houses were erected within his forts, a town was laid oft’at fort Advance, the post opposite to us; General Clarke was chosen Major General, and placed at the head of the enterprise; the members were elected for the general committee, or committee of safety, and every thing bore the appearance of a permanent settlement. I enclose you a copy of the letter written by General Clarke, on this occasion, which has been furnished me by Colonel Melton. On the third instant, Lieutenant Devereaux, of Fauche’s dragoons, stopped a wagon, said to be loaded with military stores, for fort Advance, but, as nothing was found, it was dismissed; about this time the Governor received his orders from I lie President of the United States. His Excellency directed one third of the militia to hold themselves in readiness to march. In the mean time, he sent Generals Twiggs and Irwin to General Clarke, to induce him to remove. These officers visited him at his post; and General Gunn and Mr. Carnes had an interview with him at Georgetown, thirty miles from lienee, but without effect. General Twiggs had ordered Major Adams to cross the river, and endeavor, by persuasion, to remove the settlers from fort Defiance, six miles above; his life was threatened, and the person who commanded ordered his men to tire upon him. This exasperated the inhabitants in that neighborhood, who held a meeting, the result of which was, that Major Adams should proceed to Augusta, and request the Governor to give him orders to dispossess these people. On the twenty-third, a cornet and eighteen men, of Fanche's dragoons, came to this post, and, near to it, took a prisoner, one of General Clarke's lieutenants; the same day, a lieutenant and twenty men joined, took two prisoners, and occupied the landing opposite to fort Advance, and, as far as their force would admit, cut off the supplies. On the twenty-fifth, Captain Fauche joined, with another detachment of his corps, and took two prisoners. General Clarke made every exertion to strengthen his post. Some of those above were abandoned, and the garrison removed to fort Advance. General Irwin had collected a party of militia, and lay at Town creek, nine miles from hence; on the twenty-sixth he encamped on the bank opposite to fort Advance; Colonels Melton and Lamar, Major Adams, and other officers of the militia, crossed the same day, with one hundred and thirty men, and cut oft'the communication on the south side of the river. General Irwin promised General Clarke that, ifhe would evacuate the post, himself and his men should be protected in their persons and property. Accordingly, next morning, the baggage was removed, and, in the evening, a party of the militia took possession of the works. Yesterday morning the iort was set on fire, and destroyed, and parties were detached to demolish fort Defiance, and the other posts above. There has been no lives lost in this business; the prisoners are all set at liberty except one, who is detained in our guard house until farther orders. I never could, sir, ascertain, with any precision, the number of men who have joined General Clarke in his enterprise; there have a great many enrolled themselves, who would not appear on the present occasion; the greatest force that lias,at any time, been collected at fort. Advance, was on the morning of the twenty-sixth, when there were about eighty men within the fort, but, at the time it was taken, there were not twenty. The militia have shown great zeal to support the laws, and have preserved good order and conduct; there has been the greatest harmony between them ana the Federal troops. They all returned to their homes yesterday, and were mustered before they left this place. I suppose there has been about two hundred, exclusively of Fauche’s dragoons. As soon as I receive the rolls I shall transmit them. it is of consequence that I should, sir, inform you that settling the lands on the south side of the Oconee is a favorite object with the inhabitants of the upper counties, although General Clarke’s plan has not been approved. They would conceive themselves safe from Indian depredations, were these lands occupied, and exertions will be made to induce the Assembly, at their next session, to open a land office for (hat purpose. I enclose you the copy of a petition which has been offered to the inhabitants in this neighborhood. It is to be observed, that it has been drawn up by the party the most violently opposed to General Clarke. It is a singular circumstance, sir, that not the least opposition has been shown by the Indians to the settlements which were making on their lands, otherwise than by representations to the Governor, and they have at no time been more quiet than they are at present; we have not heard from the nation since the fourth ultimo. Colonel Gaither proposes, as soon as he can procure a proper person, to send a message to the Indians, to inform them that the Government has removed all encroachments from their lands. I have the honor to be, &c. &c. CONSTANT FREEMAN. Copy of a petition for opening an office for the lands south of the Oconee, which is to be presented to the Legislature of Georgia. To the honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Georgia: Your petitioners humbly shew: Whereas the State has an only right of soil to the vacant territory granted the Indians for their hunting grounds, who dwells within its respetive limits, and who as a conquered people preserved merely to themselves the claim of vassals at the definitive treaty of peace, concluded between the United States of America and Britain, &c.!and that said claim, through cruel outrages, has frequently been broke by the most aggravating hostile proceedings on their part; and that our government, by a law, entitled “ An act to suppress the violence of the Indians,” passed in 1787, has guarantied certain bounties to soldiery raised lor the purpose of repelling the dangers of such unwarrantable doings of said savages, together with other reasons which is too tedious to be described here, which we humbly conceive justice and policy loudly call on you seriously to consider, and actuated by the high sense generally entertained of the magnanimity and wisdom of the honorable the Legislature, and from a mature consideration become sensible of the grand benefit an enlargement would speedily render to tin: State from the rapidness of migration of substantial farmers from our sister States and Europe, that stand in need of farms, your petitioners humbly solicit that you, in your wisdom, may open an office for the land lying southeast of a line drawn from the Currahee mountain, the nearest direction to the Cfiatahoochee river, thencedown the said river until it intersects the Spanish line, thence with the said line to the temporary line on St. Mary’s river. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, mil ever pray, &e. Copy of a letter from General Clarke to the Committee of Safety. Fort Advance, 5lh September, 1794. Gentlemen: Your favor of the 3d instant is now before me; accept my thanks for your information and attention to what may, if ever neglected, so materially injure our enterprise. I consider myself honored by meeting with the unanimous voice of all the officers belonging to the different garrisons. 1 shall always endeavor to acquit myself worthy of the command committed to my charge. The information you have received agrees with mine from Augusta. The artillery of Augusta are ordered to be in readiness to march in eight or ten days, and one-third of the militia are directed to be draughted. It has been tried in Burke and Richmond counties, but quite unsuccessful; the troops declare they will not fight against us. _ I am happy to find the disposition of the people with you, so exactly agrees with my own friends’ here; I believe it to be the general disposition of every garrison. I am detenniuately fixed to risk every thing, with my life, upon the issue, and for the success of the enterprise; you will apply to the enclosed orders how to conduct yourselves with inimical individuals. In case of a body appearing, yon will give me the earliest information. If you are summoned to surrender in the garrison, you must refuse, with a firmness ever accompanying the brave. Inform those who apply, that, if you have done wrong, and the grand jury of the county have cognizance of your crime, you will cheerfully submit to be tried by a jury of your fellow-citizens. But you will consider any orders from the Secretary of War. to be unconstitutional; the Governor’s proclamation, as determined in Wilkes, illegal. I am informed that Captain Fauche’s troop are directed to stop men and supplies, crossing to the south side of the Oconee. They have no right to take hold ofany private property whatever, anil, for every thing detained, to the value of one shilling, belonging to any adventurer, they shall sutler the penalty of the law. If such case should turn up, apply to a magistrate, and bind the party offending to the next superior court. To avoid disputes, it will be best to use a prudent precaution in every case. The president of the board of officers, E. Bradley, Esq. mentions my appointing a meeting of the committee of safety on Monday, the fifth of October; if it is the first Monday of the month, that is the day on which our constitution requires them to meet. If two members meet, they may adjourn from day to day. until the whole or a majority of them can be convened. It is entirely out of my power to appoint the 23d of this month, or any other day, if it does not agree with the constitution; you will attend to appointing your members for the committee on the 15th of this month, at the several garrisons. Meet the first Monday in next month, but, in case of the election as mentioned, the members who cannot attend on Monday, meet on Tuesday or Wednesday, that is, those who first meet must adjourn from day to day, until they are convened. Must beg you to copy orders, and send them to the several garrisons above you. Yours, &c. E. CLARKE. Note.—You receive one petition, which will suit every body but a real tory. Our own people and particular friends will subscribe them, with the addition of the office being opened to no persons but those who will become settlers. Copy of a letter from Constant Freeman, Agent for the Department of I far, in Georgia, to the Secretary of War. Augusta, 12th October, 1794. Sir: 1 have the honor to enclose a duplicate of my letter to you of the twenty-ninth of last month. I arrived at this place, from fort Fidius, last evening. When I left the frontiers, the troops were in perfect health, excepting Col. Gaither, who was then indisposed. The Indians, who had been for some time quiet, killed and scalped, on the thirteenth ultimo, a white woman and a negro wench, near the Cow ford on the Oconee: they also have stolen horses and negroes, from Liberty county. Colonel Gaither has received letters from the nation, informing him that the Tallassee king had gone out for war; the chiefs disapproved of Ins conduct. We have not, however, heard ofany mischief being done by him; and as runners were sent alter him, to persuade him to return, 1 have hopes that he has not proceeded. As soon as I shall have examined and forwarded the militia muster and pay rolls for the services performed last year, 1 shall return to the frontiers. Yours. &c. CONSTANT FREEMAN. Copy of a letter from the Secretary of I far to his Excellency the Governor of Georgia, elated War Department, July 28th, 1794. Sir: It is with great regret that the President of the United States has been lately informed, that a considerable body of people, in the upper part of Georgia, have associated themselves for the purpose of setting up an independent government on the territory belonging to the Creek Indians, and of erecting forts from the Oconee to the Oak-mulgec. Wc only understand, in general, here, that such a movement, without the sanction of your Government, is contrary to the laws, without being informed, at the same time, of the name and degree of offence in your criminal code. Notwithstanding the formation of a new State cannot take place without the consent of Congress, as well as the State concerned: and the United State?, on application of the Legislature, or of the Executive of a State, when its Legislature cannot be convened, are bound to protect it against domestic violence; it might, perhaps, be proper to leave this attempt, under its present circumstances, to the management of your own State, if it were not that the laws of the United States arc infringed thereby. And yet. sir, so serious a struggle as this against the authority of the State, and the erection of forts, (both of which steps may lie so easily turned against the United States) would be sufficient in themselves to call forth precautions on the part of the General Government. The President, however, entertains the most perfect reliance on your exertions, to repel the mischief arising from this quarter. But the Government has its own obligations to fulfil on this occasion. The President is required, by a law of the L’nited States, passed the 28th February. 1793, entitled “An act to regulate trade and intercourse with the^ Indian tribes,” to take such measures as lie may judge necessary to remove from lands, belonging to any Indian tribe, any citizens or inhabitants of the United States, who make, or attempt to make, a settlement thereon. We cannot expect to live in peace with those tribes, if individuals are at liberty to invade their lands. We cannot expect to bring them to the proper temper for any of the operations of Government. These considerations determine the President to meet the evil in the commencement, and he therefore requests your Excellency to adopt the following line of conduct, without delay: 1st. To warn, by proclamation, these disturbers of the peace, that they are offending against the laws of the United States and of Georgia, and that their attempts will be repelled by military force. 2d. To embody such parts of your militia as may be necessary to accomplish the business with decision. 3d. To call upon the commanding officer of the Federal troops in Georgia, who is instructed to obey your Excellency’s orders, to co-operate in the removal of these settlers from the Indian lands. 'I'he foregoing is founded on the supposition of the intelligence, stated at the head of the letter, being true. Indeed, it is supposed to be known to your Excellency to be true. If it be not of the magnitude represented here, 64 still a monitory proclamation seems to be expedient, and upon the whole of this affair, it is confided to you to render your efforts commensurate with the necessity, so as in the most complete manner to avert the evil which threatens the United States from these turbulent spirits. The President, moreover, requests your Excellency to communicate to him, at the earliest possible moment, the actual state of things in your quarter, and particularly to note whether it will be necessary to resort to the militia of any other State for aid. The Attorney of the United States for the District of Georgia will receive your commands, and be ready to institute prosecutions in any cases which you may be pleased to lay before him. Copy of a letter from the Secretary of the Treasury to his Excellency the Governor of Georgia, dated War Department, September 25, 1794. Sir: In the absence of the Secretary of War, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letters to his Department, of the 5th. 19th. and 30th of August, and to reply to such parts as are the most pressing, referring the others to the return of that officer. _ Among the posts which have been established, that at Doclors town creates a question, in consequence of Lieut. Colonel Gaither’s information, that it is within the Indian boundary. This is a matter which ought to be unequivo-/ cally ascertained, and if found to be within the Indian line, or if it be even doubtful whether that be the case, the post must be immediately removed. It is deemed essential that no encroachment should take place. And your I Excellency is relied upon for a strict and scrupulous adherence to this principle. Under the circumstances which led to it, the President has thought proper to authorize the adoption, by the United States, of the new troop ordered by you into service, from the time of its commencement, anil to continue until the first of November ensuing, w hen it is to be disbanded. And you are at liberty, if the state of things shall render it, in your judgment, essential, to substitute at that time a company of infantry for the same service. Corps of horse, upon the terms on which that in question is engaged, are expensive in the extreme: and in a much greater proportion, compared with infantry, than any supposable superiority of usefulness can justify. Indeed, it would require a treasury much better supplied than that of the United States, to support the expense of a multiplication or extension of such corps. Consequently, that multiplication or extension would tend to defeat its own object: for our instruments of defence, to be durable, must be relative to our means of supporting them. And when we find, as in the instance of the insurrection now existing in the western parts of Pennsylvania, that those for whose immediate benefit the objects of military expenditure occur, are among the first to resist, even to violence, the necessary means of defraying them, it is easy to appreciate the perplexing dilemma to which the Government is reduced, between the duty and the means of affording protection, and the necessity, consequently, of economy in the inodes of effecting it.   _ Your Excellency is pleased to express your concern, at being so repeatedly compelled to solicit protection for the State of Georgia. This is not understood as implying any want of due disposition on the part of the Executive of this Government, to afford all the protection w hich is within the compass of the means placed within its power, having regard to all the objects which, along a very extended frontier, equally demand attention: It is not doubted that you render justice, in this respect, to the views of the Executive. But the observation you have made, in this particular, naturally leads to another, which calls for the most serious attention of the Governments of the States, exposed to Indian depredations. It is this, that there is a reciprocal duty in the case. The obligation upon the United States, to afford adequate protection to the inhabitants of the frontiers, is no doubt of the highest and most sacred kind. But there is a duty no less strong upon those inhabitants, to avoid giving occasion to hostilities, by an irregular and improper conduct? and upon the local Governments, sincerely and effectually to punish and repress instances of such conduct, and the spirit which produces them. If these inhabitants can, with impunity, thwart all the measures of the United States for restoring or preserving peace? if they can, with impunity, commit depredations and outrages upon the Indians, and that in violation of the faith of the United States, pledged not only in their general treaties, but even in the special (and, among all nations, peculiarly sacred) case of a safe conduct, as in the instance of the attack upon the Indians, while encamped within our protection, on the 10th of May last; can it be surprising if such circumstances should abate the alacrity of the. National councils to encounter those heavy expenses, which the protection of the frontiers occasions, and of the readiness of the citizeus of the United States, distant from the scenes of danger, to acquiesce in the burdens they produce? It is not meant, by these remarks, to diminish the force of the excuse, w ithin due limits, which is drawn from the conduct of the Indians towards the frontier inhabitants. It cannot be denied, that frequent and great provocations to a spirit of animosity and revenge are given by them: but a candid and impartial survey of the events w hich have from time to time occurred, can leave no doubt that injuries and provocations have been too far mutual? that there is much to blame in the conduct of the frontier inhabitants, as well as in that of the Indians. And the result of a full examination must be, that, unless means to restrain, by punishing the violences which those inhabitants are in the habit of perpetrating against the Indians, can be put in execution, all endeavors to preserve peace with them must be forever frustrated. An example, worthy of imitation, in its spirit, has lately been given, by the surrender to Governor Blount of some Indians who latelv committed a murder upon one John Ish, an inhabitant of the Southwestern territory, and w ho have been tried and executed. The record of such an example of justice and fair dealing, will giye occasion to us to blush, if >ve can cite no instance of reciprocity, amidst the numerous occasions which are given lor the exercise of it. These reflections, your Excellency may be assured, are merely designed to present to consideration some very-important truths—truths, a due attention to which are of the most serious concern to those States which have an exposed frontier. To give full weight to their claims, upon the exertions of the Union to afford the, requisite protection, it is of great moment to satisfy the United States, that the necessity for them has not been created, or promoted by a culpable temper, not sufficiently restrained, among those to whom the protection is immediately to be extended. The President learns, with great pleasure, the measures your Excellency had begun, and was about to pursue, for the removal of die settlers under General Clarke. It is impossible to conceive a settlement more unjustifiable in its pretexts, or more dangerous in its principle, than that which he is attempting. It is not only a high handed usurpation of the rights of the General and State Governments, and a most unwarrantable encroachment upon those of the Indians; but, proceeding upon the idea of a separate and independent government, to be erected upon a military basis, it is essentially hostile to our republican systems of government, and is pregnant with incalculable mischiefs. It deeply concerns the great interests of the country that such an establishment should not be permitted to take root, and that the example should be checked by adequate punishment? in doing which, no time is to be lost: for. such is the nature of the establishment, that it may be expected rapidly to attain to a formidable magnitude, involving great expense and trouble to subvert it. The President, therefore, depends absolutely upon measures, equally prompt and efficacious, to put an end to it. Mr. Habersham, agent for supplies, is instructed to co-operate? and the Governor of South Carolina is requested to afford, upon your application, the aid of the militia of that State, if circumstances, as does not appear probable, should require it. No agreement or arrangement which may be made, or pretended to be made, between these settlers and the Indians, ought to be suffered to make any alteration in the plan of suppressing the settlement: for, no such agreement, or arrangement, can possibly be legal, or, considering the manner in which the settlementhas been commenced, can, without affording a most pernicious example, receive the future sanction of Government. You desire instructions with regard to the prisoners that may be made, in the event of the employment of force. You will be pleased to cause them to be delivered over to the custody ol the judiciary, and in preference, to that of the United States: as their laws define and prescribe particular punishments in such cases. alex’r Hamilton. Extract of a letter from his Excellency Governor Mifflin to the President of the United States. Permit me, sir, to take the present opportunity of transmitting, for your information, a copy of an act of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania, entitled "‘An act for laying out a town at Presqu’ isle:"' and of the proceedings which have been instituted tor the purpose of carrying that law into effect. Philadelphia, 28th March, 1794. Copy of an ,dct of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania, for laying out a town at Presqu Isle. Whereas establishing a town at Presqu; Isle woujd promote the settlement of the neighboring country, and thereby place the frontiers of Pennsylvania in a safer situation: Therefore, Section 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House oj Representatives of the Commomvealth of Pennsylvania, in General Assembly met, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same. That the Governor be, and he is hereby, empowered to cause to be surveyed, the tract reserved, at and near Presqu’ Isle, by the act, entitled " An act for the sale of the vacant lands within this Commonwealth,” passed the third day of April. 179-2: and at the most eligible place, within the said tract, he shall cause to be laid out and surveyed, sixteen hundred acres of land, in town tots, not more than one-third of a'n acre each; and, also, three thousand four hundred acres, adjoining the same, in out lots, not less than live acres, nor more than ten acres each: Provided, always, That the Governor shall reserve, out of the lots of the said town, so much land as he shall deem necessary for public uses: also, so much land, within or out of the said town, as may. in his opinion, be wanted by the United States for the purpose of erecting forts, magazines, arsenals, and dock yards. Sec. 2. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid. That the first two hundred persons that shall actually inhabit and reside, on or before the first day of January next, within the said town, shall each and every of them be entitled to one unappropriated town lot, and one out lot, to be ascertained by lottery, for which they shall, respectively, receive a deed, clear of all charges: Provided, That such persons, respectively, or their respective representatives, or assignees, shall inhabit and reside within the said town, for the term of three years; and, also, within the said town, build, or cause to be built, a house at least sixteen feet square, and containing, at least, one brick or stone chimney, on the tow n lots to be granted in pursuance of this act. Sec. 3. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid. That the Governor is hereby authorized to sell two hundred of the town lots, exclusively of those granted by the next preceding section, and the whole of the other out lots, in such manner as he shall think most to the advantage of the State, and make conveyances of the same; excepting, ahvays, such as shall be made upon this condition: that the respective purchasers shall, and do, within the term of three years, erect and build one house, at least sixteen feet square, and containing, at least, one brick or stone chimney, on each and every town lot by them purchased; and no deed of conveyance shall be granted by the Governor, to any purchaser, nor, after the expiration of the said term of three years, shall the sale be deemed, or construed, to vest any title, claim, or demand, in any purchaser, unless satisfactory proof be first given that a house has been erected and built, on the town lots sold, as aforesaid, according to the true intent and meaning of this act. Sec. 4. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the streets, lanes, and alleys, of the said town and out lots, shall be common highways forever; and that, previous to the sale, or sales, of the said town lots and out lots, notice shall be given of the same, in at least three of the newspapers of the State, at least ten weeks previous to such sale or sales. Sec. 5. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid. That the expenses necessary to carry this act into operation, shall be paid out of the moneys arising from the aforementioned lots and out lots. GERARDUS WYNKOOP, Speaker of the House of Representatives. SAMUEL POWELL, Approved: April 8, 1791. Speaker of the Senate. T1IOMAS MIFFLIN, Governor of Pennsylvania. Copy of a letter from Governor Mifflin to Captain E. Benny. Philadelphia, 1st March, 1794. Sir: Enclosed you will receive a copy of an act of the General Assembly, entitled “ An act for more cllectually securing the trade, peace, anti safety, of the port of Philadelphia, and defending the Western frontiers of the commonwealth;” a commission, by which you are appointed Captain of the Alleghany company; a sketch of the appointments and arrangements of all the companies directed to be raised; and a copy of an act, entitled “ An act for laying out a town at Presqu’ Isle.” You will be pleased, sir, to take all lawful measures, under the instructions of the brigade inspectors of the county, and with the aid of the officers of your company, lor engaging, during the term, and for the pay prescribed by the act for the defence of our frontiers, four sergeants, four corporals, one drummer and lifer, or two buglers, and sixty-five rank and file, or privates. In making your enlistments, you will stipulate with the men, that, if the state of the war, on the frontiers, shall, in my judgment, require their continuance in the service of the Commonwealth, after the expiration of the term of eight months, mentioned in the law, they shall continue accordingly, until the meeting of the Legislature, next ensuing the expiration of the said term, or for any shorter period that I may direct. From the sketch of the appointments, and arrangements of the several companies, you will perceive that you are called on to command the detachment which is made, in order to carry into effect the act, entitled “An act for laying out a town at Presqu’ Isle;” and the importance of the object, as well as the difficulties that may attend its accomplishment, will evince the confidence that is reposed in your zeal, spirit, and prudence. In the discharge of your trust, 1 am persuaded you will pay a due respect to the design anil spirit of the laws which I have communicated to you; and, therefore, I shall content myself with suggesting the following general regulations: 1st. Messrs. Irvine, Ellicot, and Gallatin, the commissioners who arc employed to lay out the town at Presqu’ Isle, will probably be engaged in that duty, early in the month of May next. It will be necessary, therefore, that, before that time, arrangements should be made tor establishing some post of protection and defence in the neighborhood of Presqu’ Isle; and the commissioners have thought that a spot at Le IJoeufwill be the most eligible and convenient for their undertaking. The lieutenant, who is detached from the artillery company, will transport thither, under the convoy of his detachment, a competent supply of provisions, cannon, arms, ammunition, and camp equipage. Of these articles, an officer, in the nature of quartermaster, will have the immediate custody; but they are, nevertheless, to be considered as being under your superintending care and disposition, to be preserved with the greatest caution; not to be used, but in cases of necessity; and to be accounted tor, by you, to any person who may be appointed to succeed in your command, or who may be authorized to receive the same, where the purposes of the post shall be attained. You will be pleased to strengthen the detachment of artillery by a party of the infantry, under your command, whenever they advance from Pittsburg; and this party should consist, I think, of not less than a sergeant and fifteen men, or, if circumstances will admit, of an officer and twenty men. 2d. As the object of the detachment under your command is to carry the act for establishing a town at Presqu’ Isle into effect, you shall deem it your duty to comply with every lawful request of the commissioners, in stationing the men in such numbers, and at such places, as they shall, from time to time, think requisite to ensure their safety and defence, and generally, in aiding and facilitating their measures by all the means in your power. 3d. The Legislature having made provision for surveying and opening the roads, one from Reading, and the other from French Creek, to Presqu’ Isle, it is obvious that the establishment of the town is intimately connected with those objects; and therefore, you shall deem it your duty to grant all the aid and protection to the respective commissioners and contractors employed in surveying and opening those roads, that is compatible with a due attention to the particular charge which is confided to you. _ _ _ 4th. In the present state of our Northern frontier, you will deem it a duty peculiarly incumbent on you, to avoid giving any occasion of offence to the peaceable Indians, or to the British garrisons which are in that quarter. You will endeavor, in case any intercourse should necessarily or accidentally take place with them, to conciliate and cultivate a good and friendly understanding, and you are, above all things, to remember, that the objects of your appointment are strictly those of protection and defence, and thatany act of agression or hostility, committed against any person or persons, in amity with the United States, or committed against'any person or persons whomsoever, out of the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania, wil be unauthorized, and punished according to law. 5th. For the purposes of information, you will keep a journal of your proceedings, and maintain a regular correspondence, as well with the commissioners appointed to lay out the town at Presqu’ Isle, as with the Brigade Inspector of Alleghany county; and when any matter of public importance shall occur, you will, with all possible despatch, communicate the same to me. _ _ 'To these regulations, it is perhaps unnecessary to add, that it is expected that you will give the strictest attention to the health, order, and discipline, of the detachment under your command; and in all things so act, as to justify the confidence which your country has reposed in you. THOMAS MIFFLIN. To Ebenezer Denny, Esq. Captain of the Alleghany Company, $c. 1 ' | True Copy: A. J. Dallas, Secretary. Copy of a letter from Mr. Dallas to the Secretary of War. Sir: In the absence of the Governor, permit me to communicate to you, for the information of the President, copies of letters which have been received this day from General Wilkins and Captain Denny, relatively to the arrangements that are made for laying out a town at Presqu’ Isle, agreeably to a law of the State of Pennsylvania, and the possible opposition which the Indians may give to the accomplishment of that object.- A. J. DALLAS. Secretary’s Office, Philadelphia, 9th May, 1794. Copy of a letter from General Wilkins to Clement Bidcllc, Esquire, Quartermaster General of-Pennsylvania. Fort Franklin, 25th April, 1794. Dear Sir: 1 arrived at this place yesterday evening. There came a party along, consisting of about forty men, from Captain Denny’s command, arid thirty volunteers, from the county of Alleghany. We proceed to-morrow to Cassawago. The news at this place is not favorable towards our establishment at Presqu’ Isle. All the persons most conversant'with the Indians at this place, as well as the commanding officer of this fort, agree, that the Indians, irritated by the British, are meditating an opposition to the designs of Government respecting that place. Corn-planter, and the other Indians on the Alleghany river, have been invited to a council at Buffalo creek, to which place lie and they immediately went; and, on the result of that council, seems to hang peace or war, between us and the Six Nations. There have been a great deal of pains used latqly, by the English, to sour their minds; anil they seem, in some measure, to have effected it. The claims of the Six Nations seem to rise as the Western Indians are successful against the army of the United States, and as the British promise to afford them assistance. This council, to which the English has summoned, and the readiness with which the Indians obeyed the summons, promises no good towards this part of the country. My intention is to proceed to Cassawago, and wait for further intelligence a day or two; and should a serious opposition seem to be meditating by the Indians, to proceed no farther with the stores, until reinforced by’more men. to enable the effecting an establishment at Le Bceut. The water is very low; it is with the utmost difficulty we will be able to gb on with small canoes at present, but live in hopes that we shall have a rise in the waters. JOHN WILKINS, Jun. True Copy: A. J. Dallas, Secretary. Copy of a letter from Captain Denny to Governor Mifflin. Pittsburg, April 25th, 1794. Sir: I had the honor of writing to you by the last post; mentioning the necessity we were under of calling out a few militia, in order to take advantage of the rivers, while up. 1 then could not calculate, with any certainty, what time the detachments from the other counties would arrive; however, the greatest part ot them came in time to join the volunteers. They marched on Monday last, and encamped, the first night, twenty one miles from here, on the route to fort Franklin, and in all probability would reach that place yesterday. Ensign Mchaffy, from Westmoreland, had the direction of the State troops, two sergeants, two corporals, and forty three privates; the volunteers consisted of a captain, lieutenant, thirty men; total, one captain, one lieutenant, one ensign, and seventy-seven men. They will go no further than Lc Boeuf. I have not such confidence in the Six Nations as to think they will favor the establishment; and a small party, subject to the power of a few ill disposed Indians, would be more liable to be stopped by them; not f hat I think they will offer any.violence immediately, but I think they will throw some objections in the way; perhaps desire the business postponed for a while. We have certain information, that the chiefs were lately assembled in council at the mouth of Buffalo; their meetings there have always been influenced by British agents, and I should not be surprised to find them return with a wish to prevent the settlement at Presqu’ Isle. 1 have received letters from the inspectors of Washington and Westmoreland counties, informing me of the orders they had from you, telling me that, whatever reinforcements we required, might be depended on. Doctor Wilkins is gone in company with the party to Le Boeuf. I have requested him, and directed Mehaffy, to write to me by every opportunity; and should any thing material be discovered, to send oft'an express. I am, with respect, &c. EBENEZER DENNY Captain. True Copy: A. J. Dallas, Secretary. Copy of a'letter from Captain Denny to Governor Mifflin. Pittsburg, May 2d, 1794. Sir: I had the honor to address you on the 25th ultimo, since which nothing material has happened. The party sent forward to establish a post of protection and defence at Le Boeuf, consisted of a captain, lieutenant, and thirty volunteers, and an ensign and forty-seven of the State troops; they were at fort Franklin the 21th, as expected. A very seasonable rain, which fell while they were on their march to that post, will (provided flic way is open) enable the contractor to push all the provisions and stores up the creek, without loss of time. We are not without apprehensions that this council-holding between the chiefs of the Six Nations and the British, at the month of Buffalo creek, may terminate unfavorably to our establishment. The Cornplanter is not with them; but I am told he has ordered away the traders, who had stores in his town. Before our detachment, proceeds farther than 'Mead’s settlement, the disposition of those Indians will be known; and, in case any opposition is offered, the party will halt, and secure themselves and the stores until a sufficient reinforcement joins them. I depend upon Doctor Wilkins and Ensign Mehalfy’s earliest notice. Lieutenant Murphy and Ensign Patterson have been about three weeks away, endeavoring to find men for the Alleghany company. Patterson has been tolerably successful; Murphy, I have not heard from; he is in Fayette county. They must both be.here in a few days, now. No doubt but you have been informed of the death of Lieutenant Ilazlewood; his men will reach this, perhaps, in six days. I acknowledge the honor of your letter of the 25th April. The delays which took place in sending on the men from the other counties, the inspector took pains to account for, and I am in hopes there will be no ill consequences. The inspectors are all desirous to promote the establishment at Presqu’ Isle, and have informed me of their orders from the Governor. E. DENNY, Captain. True Copy: A. J..Dallas. Copy of a letter from Governor Mifflin to the Secretary of ICar. Philadelphia, May 23, 1794. Sm: As I am desirous to furnish the President with every article of useful intelligence which I receive, I have thought it proper to communicate to you, for that purpose, a copy of a letter from Brigadier General Wilkins, dated the eleventh current, relatively to the murder of a friendly Indian at fort Franklin, and the prospect of opposition from the British troops, in laying out a town at Presqu’ Isle, agreeably to the, directions oftheJLegislature of Pennsylvania. On the first of these subjects, I have received the copy of Lieutenant Polhemus’ letter, enclosed in yours of this day, but the depositions mentioned by General Wilkins, as well as by Lieutenant Polhemus, have not been transmitted to me; 1 shall, however, refer the case to the attorney general of this State, with instructions for proceeding, in the most expeditions manner, to bring the murderer to justice. THOMAS MIFFLIN. Copy of a letter from General ffilhins to Governor Mifflin. Foiit Fuanki.in, 11 th May, 1794. Sir: On the 1st of this month a very disagreeable affair happened at this [dace. A white man by the name of Robertson killed a friendly Indian. The man was taken into custody immediately, by the commanding officer, and still remains in confinement. Robertson is a young man, and perhaps was a little intoxicated, but his character is not good. It is thought best not to remove him from this place, until the Indians are satisfied. If lie is removed before, some innocent person may suffer, as the Indians say the white people always tell them they will punish crimes of this kind, but never yet have done it, and they are determined not to let this instance pass without having justice. The father of the young man, who is a decent old man, living at Pittsburg, has sent Joseph Nicholson to endeavor to satisfy the friends of the deceased. Yesterday, Nicholson had a council with the Indians that were here, at which we all assisted, and offered about one hundred dollars to replace, in the Indian way, the man that is dead. The Indians were all well satisfied with the offer. The property is to be deposited in the hands of the commanding officer, until the relations come for it, if they are satisfied with it, and the young man is to remain in confinement at this place, until the opinion of the relations istaken. Too much cannot be done at present, by the State of Pennsylvania, to keep the Six Nation Indians friendly, and, perhaps, on this occasion, some person might be authorized to make them some presents. I enclose the depositions I took of some white men who were present. The troops of the State took possession of the forks ol French creek, about two niiles below the old post of Le Bumf, and had a small block-house built, to which place I accompanied them. I was with them two days, but a runner from the Indians occasioned my return to this place, on account of the man being killed. The troops would move forward to Le Boeuf in two or three days: only waited the cutting of logs out of the creek, which obstructed the navigation, and until the fatigue parties had finished getting materials, so that the whole might go forward at once, and cover themselves. This part of the business has been accomplished by about seventy men, consisting of forty men, raised by Captain Denny's command, and thirty volunteci-s from Alleghany county. The greater part of the military stores have been forwarded as far as Cassawagq, but, owing to the low waters, from the advanced season of the year, they now remain, and I am waiting the first rise in French creek, to convey them completely to Le Boeuf. No doubt but you have been officially informed of the result of the council at Buffalo creek, held by the Six Nations. They refuse attending a treaty they were invited to, at this place, by the agent of the United States. All the friendly Indians I have talked with here and at other places, say, the British arc determined to oppose the progress of the State troops from Le Boeuf to Presqu’ Isle. An Indian, this day, a very honest intelligent fellow, told me, that the English were fixed in making an opposition to the first party that should attempt opening the road from Le Boeuf to Presqu’ Isle, by sending a number of Indians and English to cut them off Cornplanter writes to the commanding officer of this post nearly to the same effect. I mention these circumstances, and I mean to know more, as it is probable he will have to be strengthened by a party of inilifia. 1 am, &c. JOHN WILKINS, Jun. True copy: A. J. Dallas, Secretary. From Governor Mifflin to the President of the United States, dated Philadelphia, 25th May, 1794. Sir; I have occasion to regret that your opinion on the expediency of suspending, for the present, the establishment at Presqu’ Isle, was not communicated to me previously to the receipt of the letter from the Secretary of War, dated yesterday, in which that opinion is, for the first time, explicitly expressed. I am apprehensive, indeed, that it is too late to prevent the execution of the measures, which, under the authority of the law of Pennsylvania, were concerted relatively to that object, and of which, I had the honor, regularly, to apprise you. But. ever anxious to promote the views of the General Government, and to avoid increasing the dissatisfaction of the Six Nations, or, in any other manner, extending the sphere of Indian hostilities, I shall consider your interposition and request as a sufficient justification for'attempting, even at this late period, to arrest the progress of the commissioners in laying out the town at Presqu’Isle, conformably to those directions of the Legislature, which, I could not, on any less authority, venture to supersede. Copies of my letters to the commissioners, to the captain of the detachment, and to the brigade inspectors of the western counties, for that purpose, are now enclosed. It may not, at the same time, be improper, sir, to remark, in vindication of the measure projected by the Legislature, that the territory, within which the town is directed to be laid out, has not only been purchased from the United States by Pennsylvania, but has likewise been ceded to her, for a valuable consideration, by the Six Nations. It could not, therefore, be in the contemplation of her government, that any hostile opposition would be made to her settling upon a property thus fairly acquired, or, that the advancement of her peculiar interests in that respect, would be deemed incompatible with the general interests of the Union. In regard to my agency upon the occasion, permit me also to trouble you with a short recapitulation. On the 8th of April, 1793, the act for laying out a town at Presqu’ Isle, was passed, in which I was empowered to obtain a survey of the'reserved tract in that quarter, and directed to cause a certain number of acres to be surveyed and laid out in town lots and out lots. It was obviously the intention of the Legislature, that this trust should be speedily executed, as the bounty offered to settlers, was limited to those who should actually inhabit and reside in the town, before the 1st of January, 1794. But the dangerous state of the frontiers, at that time, induced the commissioners, appointed for making the survey, to protract their departure till the meeting of the Legislature, in December last, when I represented the necessity of providing adequate means for the protection and safety of those gentlemen, if the accomplishment of the plan confided to them was deemed of immediate importance. Accordingly, during the same session, two laws were passed; by one of which, I was authorized to make a detachment for that particular service, from the four defensible companies raised by Pennsylvania, and the other, the period for allowing bounties to settlers, was extended to the 1st day of May, 1795. The language and spirit of these Legislative provisions left me no alternative, but as to a choice of means for carrying them into effect; and lest, even in that respect, any interference with the Federal arrangements should occur, 1 have punctually communicated to you, information of every step that was taken, as you will perceive bv areference to my several letters of the 28th of March, the 9th, 23d, and 24th of May, 1791. Under these circumstances, sir, I trust it will appear, that I could not, with justice to my official station, act upon the bare intimation given on the 10th current, by the Secretary of War to the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and, that I sufficiently manifest my confidence in your advice, by pursuing it, when it is expressly stated. [enclosures.] No. 1. Governor Mifflin to the Commissioners for laying put a town at Presqu’ Isle, dated Philadelphia, May —, 1794. . Gentlemen: The enclosed copy of a letter from the Secretary of War, which was transmitted to me, subsequently to the departure of the post on the 24th current, will show you, that it is the particular request of the President of the United States, that the survey and establishment of the town at Presqu’Isle should, for the present, be suspended. Though I have reason to lament that this interposition was not made at an earlier period, a sincere desire to promote the views of the General Government, and-to avoid the imputation of extending I he sphere of Indian hostilities, commands, on my part, a prompt and willing acquiescence. You will therefore be pleased to suspend all proceedings for executing the law directing a town to be laid out at Presqu’ Isle, until further orders, and, in the mean time, I shall direct Captain Denny’s detachment to remain at Le Boeuf. No. 2. From the Governor to Captain Denny, dated Philadelphia. Sin; The enclosed copy of a letter from the Secretary of War, which was transmitted to me, subsequently to the departure of the post, on the 24th current, will show you, that it is the- particular request of the President of the United States, that the survey and establishment of the town at Presqu’ Isle should, for the present, be suspended. Though I have reason to lament that this interposition did not take place at an earlier period, a sincere desire to promote the views of the General Government, and to avoid the imputation of extending the sphere of Indian hostilities, commands, on my part, a prompt and willing acquiescence. I have, consequently, instructed the commissioners to suspend all proceedings for executing the law directing a town to be laid out at Presqu’ Isle; and, as the only object of your detachment, was to protect them in discharging that trust, your further progress has of course become unnecessary. You will, therefore, remain at Le Boeuf, until further orders, taking every lawful precaution for the safety of your detachment, and the general protection of the neighboring frontier. No. 3. From the Governor to the Brigade Inspectors of the Western counties, dated Philadelphia, 24III May, 1794. vSir: _ At the particular instance and request of the President of the United States, (communicated to me subsequently to the departure of the post, with my letter of the 23d current) I have been induced to suspend, for the present, the execution of the act of the General Assembly for laying out a town at Presqu’ Isle. You will therefore consider my orders for draughting from your brigade——men, being your quota of one thousand militia, intended to support the detachment under Captain Denny’s command, as rescinded by this letter.. I do not mean, however, to withdraw, or to impair the general authority, which I have heretofore given, for embodying, in cases of emergency, a force of the militia, competent to repel any threatened or actual invasion, and hostility: for the existing circumstances of the Indian war seem, on the contrary, to require the utmost vigilance and spirit, in providing for the safety and defence of our frontiers. From Governor Mifflin to the President of the United States, dated Sir: Philadelphia, 21 th Muy, 1794. The information contained in the letter from General Wilkins, which I communicated to you yesterday, and the general aspect of our affairs on the frontiers, enforcing the necessity of an immediate exertion, to support the detachment winch the Legislature of Pennsylvania directed to be formed, for the purpose of protecting the commissioners, who were authorized to lay out a town at Presqu' Isle. I have issued orders for draughting one thousand militia from the Western brigades, for that particular service. 1 have the honor to enclose a copy of my orders. [circular.] From the Governor to the Brigade Inspectors of TUestmoreland, U'ashington, Alleghany, and Fayette counties, dated Philadelphia, 23d May, 1794. Sir: The information that I have received, relatively to the hostile disposition of the Indians, as well as of the British, upon our Northern frontier, convinces me of the necessity of immediately taking effectual measures, to ensure the execution of the law, which directs a town to be laid out at Presqu’ Isle. Notwithstanding, therefore, the general discretionary authority which I have formerly given, I have determined to direct a draught of one thousand militia, officers included, from the brigades of Westmoreland, Washington, Alleghany, and Fayette, expressly to co-operate under the command of General Wilkins, with Captain Denny’s detachment. The quota of the----------- brigade, amounts to-------., which you will muster with all possible despatch, and march them to such place of rendezvous as General Wilkins and the Brigade Inspectors of the other counties, above mentioned, shall agree upon. In this and every other arrangement, however, relatively to the Presqu’ Isle object, 1 wish particular attention to be paid to the opinion and advice ofGeneral Irvine, who will. I hope, be at Pittsburg before the receipt of this letter. Should the establishment of block-houses, on the route to Presqu’ Isle, be deemed indispensable to the safety of the detachment, and the execution of the law, a judicious and an economical plan, of that kind, will also meet my approbation. I rely essentially upon your zeal and prudence, in the execution of these orders, which, owing to my distance from the scene of action, and the nature of the service, must be in a great measure discretionary; but I am persuaded you will proceed with such circumspection as to preclude every idea of reproach, either with respect to your own conduct, or the confidence I have reposed in you. I shall therefore only add a wish to hear from you, by every regular opportunity, and if any extraordinary event occurs, you will communicate it by express. From Governor Mifflin to the Secretary of IJ'ar. Philadelphia, June, 1794. Sir: For the information of the President, I have enclosed a copy of a letter from Brigadier General Wilkins, dated the 23d of May, in which he represents some circumstances relatively to the disposition of the British and Indians, on our Northern frontier. 1 am, &c. From Brigadier General Wilkins to General Mifflin, enclosed in the foregoing. Pittsburg, 23d May. 1794. Dear Sir: I this moment received yours of the 17th instant. I arrived about fifteen minutes ago from Le Brnuf. 1 have left the small detachment there well covered, and in good spirits. They have built, under my directions, two small block-houses, picketted, which, 1 think, will render them sufficiently strong, until the reinforcement goes under Captain Denny. The Indians I have conversed with, still continue of opinion, that the British will make an opposition to the establishment at Presqu’ Isle. There arrived at Cassawago, while I was there, an Indian from Sandusky, where he had been left by the Senecas last fall, sick. _ He says, McKee, the Lieutenant Governor of Upper Canada, and Elliot, the Indian agent, both refugees from this country, were visiting all the Indian towns in that quarter, and exciting them then to continue their opposition to the Americans, and assuring them of support from their father, the British monarch. Sic further adds, that they were prepared for lighting General Wayne, the moment he moved, and that the British were erecting garrisons at the Miami river. He confirms the accounts of the other Indians, that they were determined to oppose the establishment at Presqu’ Isle. I cannot say more, as the post is just going. 1 1 am. &c. From Governor Mifflin to (he President of the United Stales. Philadelphia, 1 Sth June, 1794. Sir: . . ... I think it proper to communicate the.letters which I have received from the western counties, representing the hostile proceedings of the Indians in that quarter, and the dissatisfaction of the citizens, at the suspension of the Presqu' Isle establishment, in compliance with your request. As I wish to answer these letters by to-morrow’s post, I have, for the sake of despatch, transmitted the originals, which you will be pleased to return as soon as you have perused them. I take the liberty to request, likewise, that those parts of this correspondence, which are of a private nature, maybe considered as a confidential communication. i am, &c. List of original tellers referred to in the foregoing: No. 1. The PVesqu’ Isle commissioners to the Governor, June 5. ’*94. No. 2. General Gibson to the Governor, Gth June. 1794. No. 3. Captain Denny to the. Governor. 4th June, 1794. No. 4. Brigade inspector of Alleghany to same, 6th June, 1794. No. 5. Brigade inspector of Westmoreland to same, 5th June, 1794. No. 6. Andrew Ellicott to the Secretary. No. 7. From Mr. Jack to the Governor, Gth June, 1794. No. 8. From General Irvine to the same. 3d June. 1794. Note.—In this hist letter, are sent a part of General Wilkins’ narrative to General Irvine, and a copy of a letter from John 0‘Bail to Lieutenant John Polneinus. [Originals returned; copies of which have not been furnished the War Office.] From Governor Mifflin to the President of the United States. Philadelphia, 14th Jane, 1794. Sir: * I have the honor to acknowledge your answer, communicated in a letter from the Secretary of War, (dated this day) to my letter of the 13th instant, stating that the reasons, which induced your opinion relatively to the suspension of the Presqu’ Isle establishment, continue to operate, and have not been weakened by any information since received. The nature of the trust reposed in me, by the act of the General Assembly, the dissatisfaction which the suspension of the proceedings of the commissioners has excited, and the ambiguity of some of the expressions contained in the Secretary’s letter, seem to demand an early explanation of the principles that have regulated my conduct upon this occasion. ■ , As it is the peculiar province of the, Legislature to judge of the policy of the laws, it would be thought, perhaps, an act of supererogation on my part, were I to attempt to enumerate the various motives, which suggested, and justify, the act for laying out a town at Presqu’ Isle; but I may be indulged in observing, generally, that the maintenance of a system (for the sale and settlement of the public lands, by which a sufficient revenue had been produced to exonerate the State from the pressure of her debts) and the obligation of the Government to strengthen the means of protecting our distant frontiers, might fairly be considered by the representatives of Pennsylvania, as very cogent inducements to the measure which they contemplated. With a right acquired by honest purchase, either to advance, or to decline, the establishment of a town at Presqu’ Isle, the expediency of, exercising that right must have formed the principal subject of consideration; and, when we reflect, that the consequences of a rupture with the Six Nations, would, in a peculiar manner, be injurious to the citizens of this State, we must presume, that the Legislature either thought that the improvement of our territory in that quarter could not be obnoxious to the Indians, or, that the projected establishment would afford the most effectual defence against that hostile disposition, which even the Northern tribes had previously manifested, for reasons certainly unconnected with our plan of settlement. Nor could a collision of the State and Federal institutions have been anticipated, as naturally flowing from the measure, since it was rather to be expected by the Legislature, that, independently of the constitutional obligation of the Union, to protect all its members in the enjoyment of their respective territorial rights, the General Government was, in this instance, peculiarly bound'to maintain the title and occupancy of the State, as vendor, for a valuable consideration, of the property in question. But, whatever may be the policy of the Legislature, ho\vever erroneous in its principle, or pernicious in its consequence, the province of an executive magistrate is certainly circumscribed to inquire what the law is, not what it ought to be; to perform the task prescribed, not to arraign the wisdom that prescribed it. Hence, sir, you will perceive, from the documents (which have been regularly communicated to you) that the prosecution of the preparatory steps for forming a settlement at Presqu’ Isle, was imposed upon me as a duty; and, consequently, that the most cogent reasons will be necessary, on my part, to justify a neglect or suspension of the work. By the act of the 18th April, 1793, it is declared, in mandatory terms, that, in the most eligible spot within the reserved tract on lake Erie, “ the Governor shall cause to be laid out and surveyed, one thousand six hundred acres of land, in town lots, not more than one third of an acre each; and also, thiee thousand four hundred acres adjoining the same, in out lots, not less than five acres, nor more than ten acres.” And, that every obstacle arising from an apprehension of hostile opposition might be removed, an act of (he 28th February, 1794, after providing for the security of the port of Philadelphia, and the defence of our Western frontiers, authorizes V the Governor to detach from'the several companies of artillery and infantry, raised by the State, as many men as can be conveniently spared from the specific objects of protection and defence, for which the companies w'ere particulary destined; and to station the detachment, so made, at such place, or places, at, or near, Presqu’ Isle, on Lake Erie, as shall, in his judgment, be best calculated to carry into efiect, the act, entitled “ An act for laying outa town at Presqu’ Isle, to protect the infant settlements beyond the river Alleghany, and to promote the general defence of the frontiers.” By the language of these acts, it is obvious, (as I have remarked on a former occasion) that nothing was expressly left to my discretion but the mode of carrying them into efiect; and conclusively to demonstrate the legislative expectation of a speedy execution of that trust, it can only be necessary to consider, that, by the first regulation, the time for allowing a bounty to persons who “ shall actually inhabit and reside within the town,” wras limited to the first of January, 1791; that, by the second regulation, it is only protracted to the first of May, 1795; and that, by the third regulation, the very existence of the companies, from which the detachment is formed, to carry into efiect the act for laying out the town, is limited, in its utmost extent, to the meeting of the General Assembly in the ensuing month of December. Acting under these peremptory injunctions, to perform a specific duty, I have not, sir, been regardless, either ol the respect that is due to the General Government, or of the precautions, which a movement of so deliberate a nature required. The laws, and my instructions founded on those laws, for forming the detachment and laying out. the town, were communicated to you during the session of the General Assembly; and, although any attempt to interrupt the proceedings of the commissioners, must have been accompanied with a deliberate and hostile invasion of the territory of Pennsylvania, for it never lias been intimated that the station at Presqu’ Isle is actually pre-pccupied by any other power, whether British or Indian; I admonished the officers and commissioners to observe a friendly and conciliatory conduct towards every description of persons whom they should.meet; and, even in the event of an attack or menace, from any quarter, to confine their resistance strictly to defensive operations within the acknowledged boundaries of the State. . 1 The machinating efforts of the agents of a foreign nation, in the neighborhood of the United States, and not the inimical disposition of the Indians, produced in my mind the apprehension of a design to oppose the settlement at Presqu’ Isle, soon after the detachment for effecting this object wans formed at Pittsburg: and the intelligence which was brought by successive posts, and punctually communicated to you, sir, rendered it, at last, expedient, in my judgment, to resort to the general authority of the militia law, for calling into actual service a competent force to repel the threatened invasion; to support the party destined for Presqu’ Isle; and, generally, to prevent a failure ol the measures which the Legislature had directed to be pursued, and which, without father authority, I did not conceive it would be warrantable to abandon. On your receipt of a copy of my orders for leaking this draught, it was, for the first time, directly stated to me, that you deemed it advisable to suspend, for the present, the establishment at Presqu’ Isle; and “it will, indeed, be happy, that the circumstances which have already occurred should not be found to have matured the evil beyond the possibility of a remedy.” I derive some consolation in recollecting, that you were possessed of the law' while the Legislature (whose power was alone competent to repeal it) wras in session; that you were seasonably apprised of every step that was taken to carry it into effect: and that, if, from infonnation unknown to me, an earlier discontinuance of the Executive proceedings was deemed salutary, my conduct will evince the readiness with which I should have acquiesced in an earlier declaration of that opinion. But I confess, sir, that, on this ground, I perceive very little cause for disquietude or reproach. If the Legislature has prescribed a task to the Executive magistrate, which cannot be performed w ithout endangering the public tranquillity, the Legislature, and not the Executive magistrate, must be responsible for the consequences. But there is, indeed, another reflection, which weighs heavily on my mind at the present moment, and which claims, perhaps, an interest in your consideration of the subject. Can the requisition or advice of the Executive authority of the United States justify the act which suspends the operation of a positive law ol' Pennsylvania? The constitutional supremacy of the laws of the Union will not be disputed: but may it not be asked, what law of the Union does, nay. what power is there to pass a law which could control the Commonwealth in the legitimate exercise of her territorial jurisdiction? Where there is no law, there can be no obligation; nor, consistently with the principles of a republican government, can reasons of State, or the admonition of circumstances, (upon which the Secretary of War relies) furnish an Executive Magistrate with an authority to substitute his opinions for legislative institutions. While, then, I was impressed with these sentiments, the prompt compliance wliich followed the communication of your wishes for the suspension of the Presqu’ Isle establishment, must, at least, be regarded as an incontrovertible evidence of an official disposition to promote the views of the General Government; of an ardent desire to cultivate every possible means ol peace; and of a personal confidence in your judgment and patriotism. But, however consolatory such considerations may be to my private feelings, as my public trust may require other instruments of vindication, I receive with peculiar satisfaction “an assurance, that nothing will be omitted to obviate the temporary obstacles which exist.” The bare suspension of our measures, will, probably, indeed, increase the difficulty of accomplishing them; and any great delay might eventually introduce a controversy upon the right of doing so. The evil would become irremediable by any peaceable process, if, taking advantage of the circumstances which have already occurred, either the Six Nations, or any other ill-disposed neighbor, should seize on the station which has been designated for our establishment. For these contingencies, however, and for the'expense which the State has already incurred, I have no doubt the justice of the General Government will satisfactorily provide. It only remains, therefore, sir, to repeat, that (notwithstanding the remark made by the Secretary of War in his letter of the 21th ultimo) T am not sensible of having failed in duly appreciating every consideration of delicacy and moment, connected with the subject; and that, whatever may be the result, the establishment at Presqu’ Isle will be suspended until you shall vary the opinion which you have delivered. I am, &c. Letter from Governor Mifflin to the President of the United States. Phii.adei.imua, June 19th, 1794. Sir: I have the honor to transmit, for your information, a copy of the despatches winch I have received this morning from General Gibson, relatively to the hostile disposition of the Six Nations, instigated and supported, as it is alleged, by the British, and to be, &c. &c. List of the documents above referred to. 1. A letter from General Gibson to the Governor, dated 11th June. 1791. 2. The deposition of D. Ransom, taken the 9th June, 1794. 3. The. deposition of H. Verts, taken the 9th June, 1791. 4. A letter from Ellicot & Denny to General Gibson, dated 8th June, 1794. 5. A letter from Denny to General Gibson, dated June, 1794. tl. A letter from Presley Neville, Brigade Inspector, of Alleghany, to the Governor, dated 10th June, 1791. No. I. From General Gibson to Governor Mifflin. Pittsburg. June 11, 1794. Dear Sir: Enclosed are two depositions, taken by me. by which you will be informed of what has happened since my last to you, per post; also of the disposition of the Indians. From every account, I have reason to believ e the Six Nations mean to be hostile. The detatchment under Captain Denny, with whom went Mr. Ellicot and General Wilkins, marched from this place on Saturday last, and, on Sunday evening, I received from them the enclosed letters. I immediately transmitted to them a copy of Vert’s deposition, and gave it as my opinion that they ought to remain where they were, until Ransom and the Broken Twig came here, as we then might be better able to judge what was best to be done; since which I have not heard from them. I have wrote to the different inspectors of my division, pressing them to have the men ready, agreeable to the requisiton of the Adjutant General, and you may rely on my using every means in my power for the protection of the Western frontiers. The bearer, Mr. Sloops, intended setting out on Monday, but I detained him until Ransom came in: he lias promised to go express with those letters. I hope you will please to allow him for his trouble. 1 shall esteem myself happy on hearing from you, and am.&c. No. 2. Deposition of D. Ransom. Au.eoiianv Co i:\tv, ss. Personally appeared before me John Gibson, one of the associate judges of the above county, Daniel Ransom, who, being duly sworn, deposed) and saith, that he. this deponent, has, for sometime past, traded at Fort Franklin with the Senecas and other Indians, and that a chief of the Senecas, named Tiawancas. or the Broken Twig, came there and informed him the times would soon be had, and advised him to move off’ his family and effects. On this he, thisdeponent, asked him how lie knew the times would soon he bad. The Indian then informed him that the British and Indians had sent a belt of wampum to him, inviting him to council at Buffalo creek; that he had declined going, and that the messengers then informed Inin of the intended plans of the Indians: they said that the Corn-planter had been bought by the British, and had joined them; that he, the Cornplanter, intended soon to come to fort Franklin, on pretence of holding a council respecting the Indian who was killed by Robertson ; that there the British and Indians were to land at Presqu’ Isle, and then form a junction with Cornplanter on French Creek, and were then to clear it by killing all the people,and taking all the posts on it; that he was so much affected as to shed tears, and said, what shall I dor I have been at war against the Western Indians, in company with Captain Jeffers, and killed and scalped one of them. If I now go back to the Indians, after having discovered this, they will kill me. He also informed this deponent, that a number of cannon had been purchased by the British, and collected at Junis-adagoe, the town where Cornplanter lives, for the purpose of conveying the Indians down the river. He, this deponent, further saith, and the Standing Stone, a chief of the Onondagoes, also informed him, at fort Franklin, that he thought the. times would soon he had, and pressed him very much to leave fort Franklin, and assisted him in packing up his goods, &c.; that, from what he heard, and seen, from other Indians, he has every reason to believe the above account to be true. That seven white men came down the Alleghany, a few days ago, to fort Franklin, who informed him they saw the abovementioned cannons at Junisadagoe, and that the Indians appeared very surly, and had not planted any corn on the river, at their towns. Sworn and subscribed at Pittsburg, this 11th June, 179 ). I). RANSOM. Before me. JOHN GIBSON. A true copy: attested. 05 * John Gibson. No. 3. Deposition of Henry Verts. Alleghany County, ss. Personally appeared before me, John Gibson, one of the associate judges for the above county, Henry Verts, who. being duly sworn, deposeth and saith: That he, this deponent, left fort Franklin, at the mouth of French creek, on Thursday, the fifth instant, in company with three other men, at three o’clock, P. M.j that they came along the road leading to this place, about ten miles, and encamped: that, in the night, one of the cattle, which had been sent oft’the day before, by a certain Ransom, in order to be driven to this place, passed them in the night: that, the next morning, they started by break of day, and came along the road, about four miles, when they met the remainder of the cattle, turning back to fort Franklin; that, on their proceeding about a mile further, he, this deponent, heard a noise like a man groaning, and immediately discovered a man lying on the ground, dead, or dying, as he appeared bloody about the shoulders and body; that the party being very much alarmed, they left one of their horses, and luggage, and immediately took into the woods, came to the mouth of Pine creek, on the Alleghany river, and from thence to this place. He further saith, that the commanding officer and inhabitants, at fort Franklin, told them they were expecting an attack from the Indians, daily, and were much alarmed. Sworn and subscribed, this 9th of June, 1794. HENRY + VERTS. mark. At Pittsburg, before me, JOHN GIBSON. A true copy: John Gibson. < , No. 4. ' From B. E/licot and E. Denny to General Gibson. Sir: Camp, three miles from Pitt, June 8, 1791. From the information received last evening, by two men from fort Franklin, we have some reason to apprehend, that the Six Nations have determined upon joining our enemies. The account is, that D. Ransom was told, by the Standing Stone, that it was, or would be the case; and it seems Ransom must believe it, from his breaking up his store at French creek, and bringing oft- all his effects, cattle, and every part of his property; and it appears, that Tiawancas, an old friendly Indian, has also taken the alarm (from some cause, no doubt) and is on his way down, with all his family. The bearer is sent back to bring forward to us the facts upon which these apprehensions are founded. We wish you, sir, to take Ransom’s deposition, and to get every thing possible from the Indian. You will be able to judge whether we ought to proceed, or not, until reinforced by volunteers, or by a draught of-militia. If it is true, that the Six Nations are at war, it would be no difficult matter for them to send a party to meet us. The bearer will wait your orders, and remain until Ransom gets down, which will be to day, we suppose. We intend halting at Ewault’s Cabins until he joins us, and will be governed by your opinion. ' < We are, &c. No. 5. From Captain Denny to General Gibson. Dear.Sir: Ewault’s Cabins, 2 o'clock, June 8, 1794. Since we have been on this ground, Mr. Woods, one of the spies, came to us, and informed us, that four men had made their way good to the mouth of Pine creek, where Woods lef t this morning. That the said four men were just from fort Franklin; that they came ten miles only, upon the common road, and there met with Ransom's cattle, turned back; that the people who were drawing them down to Pitt, were killed by the Senecas: however, yon will have an opportunity of getting more particular information, and we trust you will take such measures as will be best. No. 6. From Presly Neville to Governor Mifflin. Pittsburg. June 10, 1794. Sir: j I i On Friday last. General Wilkins, Mr. Ellicot, and some volunteers, with Captain Denny, and his detachment, left this place for Le Uccuf, since which, alarming accounts have arrived from Venango, by one Ransom, a trader, and an Indian, called Broken Twig, of the Senecas. The statement of the former, on oath, is forwarded to you by Genera! Gibson. The substance of the whole is, that the Six Nations, at the instance of the British, had joined the other Indians against us, and that a large body assisted by them (the British) some in crossing the lake, and others in descending the Alleghany, were to take fort Franklin, destroy the settlements at Cassawago, and make an establishment at Presqu’Isle. What credit is to be given , to these reports, I will not pretend to say; but this trader, well acquainted with Indian affairs, believes them. He moved his family and goods to this place by water, and sent his cattle with three white men, who were killed near fort Franklin. For my own part. I have no doubt of the hostile disposition of the Senecas, and that they actually committed the late murder on the Alleghany river. I think we shall have interesting news shortly from Venango, which I shall communicate without delay. I have the honor to lie. &c. From Governor Mifflin to the President oj’ the United Stales. Philadelphia, June 90, 1794. Sir: , ..... I have the honor to transmit, for your information, copies of two letters, both dated the 15th instant, and received by yesterday’s post, from Pittsburg; one from General Gibson (enclosing a letter from Lieutenant Polheinus) and the other from Mr. Neville. I am, &c. , From General Gibson to Governor Mifflin. Pittsburg, June 13. 1794. Dear Sir: Since my last, per Mr. Sloops, I received the enclosed from Lieutenant Polheinus, commanding at Venango. The messenger who brought it says, that the Senecas disavow the relation of the Broken Twig, as mentioned in my last, and threaten to kill kim. Captain Denny, and his party, have proceeded on to Venango. I have wrote him, that on his arrival there, in case he found the reports to be well founded, to inform me, and I would endeavor to support him. I have also wrote to the different brigadiers and brigade inspectors to have their quotas ready, and shall think myself justifiable in ordering them out, should these accounts prove to be true. Captain Powers, in a letter from Cassago to General Wilkins, writes, that on the people who live there, hearing of the murder of the two men, as mentioned in the letter of Lieutenant Polhemus. they were going away, and that he would, if possible, try and move the artillery to fort Franklin. I have ordered one hundred and fifty of the militia of Westmoreland to range on the frontiers of that county, in order to protect the inhabitants. Should the present alarm subside, they shall immediately be discharged. I have appointed James Bryson, Esquire, one of my aids. You will please to order a coimnision to be sent for him. I have the honor to be, &c. From Lieutenant Polhemus to General Gibson. Fort Franklin, 9th June, 1794. Sir: From my letter, which I expect you have received from Mr. Wolf, who left this place the 2d instant, you may have reason to suppose, I consider those under my command exposed to the intentions of the hostile Indians; since which time, on the 5th day of (his month, three men. named Wallace. Power, and Richard Van Sickler, on their way to Pittsburg, were overpowered by Indians. The two former were killed; the latter returned, who gave me this information. The day following, I ordered five Seneca Indians, and five white men, not belonging to the garrison, to go in search of the deceased. They found Wallace and Power, shot, scalped, and tomahawked.* You will please to judge, whether the application which I have already made, be rational; I will endeavor not to be deficient in doing that which may be most for the benefit of my country. I am. &c. From Presley Neville to Governor Mifflin. , Pittsburg, June 13th. 1794. Du ah Sir; Since I had the honor of addressing you last, we learn that one man of the party, said to be all killed near fort Franklin, had escaped. We have, also, reason to believe, that the Indians who did the mischief were from the West, and not of the Six Nations; nay. by the accounts from the officer commanding fort Franklin, so far from being hostile, a party of Senecas, joined to a detachment of that garrison, went in pursuit of the perpretators of that last murder. The fluctuation and inconsistency of our news is such, that it is difficult to form a proper opinion: Captain Denny has continued his march, and. I suppose, is now' at Venango. I shall continue the company of militia, about thirty-five in number, on the frontier of this county. We have only twelve of Denny's men; should you think proper to order a completion of the Presqu" Isle busi ness, and a draught lie necessary for that purpose, 1 flatter myself this county will be excused, on account of having spared her whole protection already to that object; for the twelve men left as above mentioned, are the refuse of the earth, some of them cannot walk. I have the honor to be, &c. Governor Mifflin to the Secretary of U'ur. < Philadelphia, 24th June, 1794. Sir: The cultivation of a good understanding between the officers of the Federal and State Governments, has been among the favorite objects of the administration, which my fellow-citizens have entrusted to my care, and I am persuaded that the President of the United States will not. perceive any thing, in the recent explanation, which I have given of my conduct, relatively to the Presqu’ Isle establishment, that would warrant a deviation from that cordial and harmonizing spirit, by which he has been reciprocally actuated. That the Northern Indians, previously to the passing of the act, by which I was enabled to carry into effect the law for laying out the tow n at Presqu' Isle, hail manifested a hostile disposition, for reasons unconnected with our plan of settlement, is a fact of such notoriety, that I did not think the evidence of official documents would be necessary to establish it. But it may be proper, in answering your letter of the 21st instant, to refer you to the. reply which the Six Nations made to a speech, delivered by General Chapin, on the 10th of February last, a copy of which you transmitted to me on the 24th clay of May. Ily this document, furnished from the records of your office, independently of all other evidence, it will, I think, appear, that some old grievances, alleged to have been suffered from the Union, the inflammatory speech of Lord Dorchester, the constant machinations of British agents, and the corruption of British bribes, hail. in truth, previously excited that hostile disposition, which you seem to consider as the effect of the measures pursued by Pennsylvania, for establishing a town at Presqu’ isle. I am not inclined, sir, to enter into a discussion of the extent or operation of those principles of society, or of that practice of political communities ** which, " you observe, “ will frequently concur in postponing the enjoyment of a particular light, or interest, of a part of a nation, to considerations respecting the safety or welfare of the whole nation;” but it is obvious, that a doctrine of this nature must depend essentially upon the terms of the social or political compact to which it is applied,ami that, of all the modifications of w hich it is susceptible, the least adapted to our system of Government, (a Federal Republic) would, perhaps, be the acknowledgment of a discretionary power in the Executive magistrate of a particular State, to suspend, under any circumstances, the execution of a law, enacted by the only competent authority, and directed by legitimate means, to a legitimate end. The question on the propriety of consulting the welfare and interest of the whole nation, at the expense of a part of it, might, indeed, he justly proposed to the Legislature of Pennsylvania, and would, I am persuaded, icceive, from that department of our Government, a liberal consideration; but you will recollect, sir, that my difficulty occurred, because the question was proposed to the Executive magistrate, who, if he had not originally the authority to interpose, could not, I was apprehensive, acquire it, merely from the consideration of “the weight of the reasons” which might be suggested on the subject. It may be proper here to remark, that my determination to continue the suspension of the Presqu’ Isle establishment, till the President shall vary the opinion which he has delivered, is founded principally on the assurances I have received, that the obstacles are of a temporary nature; and. consequently, that the success of the attempts, which you inform me are put in train to remove them, may be so seasonably attained, as to admit, not only of an accommodation of the views of the General Government, but, also, of the execution of the law of Pennsylvania, w ithin the period contemplated by the Legislature. For, although no arguments can be necessary to convince me of the patriotic attention of the President to the interests of the Union, it would he contrary to die ideas which ! entertain of his justice, candor, and wisdom, to suppose, that, in order to facilitate the duties of his station,he would advise me to pursue a measure, inconsistent with the duties of mine, or that he would deliver an opinion to the Executive of any State, which it might be thought indelicate to disregard, and illegal to adopt. 1 am, with great respect, sir, your most obedient servant, THOMAS MIFFLIN. You M ill please to have the above inserted in the l’iltsburg Gazette. Copy of a letter from Governor Mifflin to the Secretary of I Car. Philadelphia, 30thJune, 1794. Sm: On the receipt of your letter of the 24th, covering an extract from General Chapin’s letter, dated the 12th current, in which that gentleman states, “That the Indians do not acknowledge the validity of the Cornplanter’s sale to Pennsylvania,” referring, I presume, to the triangular tract on lake Erie, I have thought it proper to prepare and communicate the enclosed copies of the deeds ot cession, for the information of the President. I take this opportunity likewise to transmit a copy of a letter, dated the 20th inst. and the accompanying documents, which I received from General Gibson by the last post. I am, &c. THOMAS MIFFLIN! Copy of the articles between the Chiefs, S,-c. of the Six Motions of Indians and the Commissioners of Pennsylvania. Be it remembered, by all whom it may concern’: That, on the ninth day of January, in the year of our Lord 1789, in open and public council, we, the undersigned chiefs, warriors, and others, representing the following named tribes of the Six Nations, to wit: theOndawa-gas. or Senecas, Cayugas, Tuscaroras, Onondagas, and Oneidas, for, and in behalf of ourselves, our tribes, our and their heirs and successors, on the one part, ami Richard Butler and John Gibson, Esqrs. commissioners for, and on behalf of the State of Pennsylvania, (Onas) on the other part, did make, and conclude upon the following articles, viz: ‘ 'Article 1. That, as soon as these articles are signed, interchangeably, by the aforesaid chiefs and commissioners, the said chiefs will execute.a deed of conveyance to the State of Pennsylvania, for a tract of country, as shall hereafter be described. Article 2. The signing chiefs do acknowledge the right of the soil,and jurisdiction to, in, and over, that tract of country, bounded on the south, by the north line of the State of Pennsylvania; on the east, by the west boundary of the State of New York, agreeable to the cession of that State, and the State of Massachusetts, to the United States; and on the north, by the margin of lake Erie, including Presqu’ Isle, and all the bays and harbors along the margin of said lake Erie, from the west boundary of Pennsylvania to where the west boundary of the State of New York may cross, or intersect, the south margin of the said lake Erie; to be vested in the said State of Pennsylvania, agreeably to an act of Congress, dated the 6th day of June last, 1788. Article 3. The said chiefs do agree that the said State of Pennsylvania shall, and may, at any time they may think proper, survey, dispose of, and settle, all that part of the aforesaid country, lying, and being west of a line running along the middle of the Conowago river, from its confluence with the Alleghany river into the Chadochque lake, thence along the middle of said lake, to the north end of the same, thence a meridian line from the north end of the said lake, to the margin, or shore, of lake Erie. Article 4. The said chiefs do agree, that the navigation, or water communication, of the said Conowago river,and the Chadochque lake, shall be free to the citizens of the State of Pennsylvania, in common with themselves; but that neither party shall build, or erect dams, over or across the Conowago river, so as to obstruct the passage of boats or canoes, up and down the same to the Alleghany river. Article 5. That, as several villages, belonging to the signing chiefs and their people, are now living on the said Conowago creek, and in other parts of the country, supposed to be within the tract of country west of the west line of the State of New York, and east of the line through the waters, as described in the third article: and as they have no country to remove to, from where they now live, the said chiefs do reserve for their own and their people’s residence, hunting and fishing, all that part of the tract of country described in the second article, passing from the Alleghany river, along the middle of the Conowago creek, the Chadochque lake, and a meridian line from the north end of said lake to lake Erie. - . Article 6. The said chiefs do engage for, and in behalf of themselves and their tribes, to give protection to the citizens of the said State of Pennsylvania, and others who may come to trade or transact business, under proper authority, among them, and to live peaceably with all the citizens of the United States. Article 7. The said Richard Butler and John Gibson, Esqrs. commissioners, for, and in behalf of the State of Pennsylvania, do agree to the aforesaid articles, in their true intent and meaning; and they do further engage, on the faith of the State of Pennsylvania, that the aforesaid chiefs, and the people of their tribes, shall have full and peaceable liberty to hunt and fish within any part of the country first above described, they demeaning themselves peaceably towards the inhabitants. But the said chiefs, or their successors, shall not, at any time hereafter, directly, or indirectly, lease, rent, or make sale of, any paid, or parcel, of the tract here reserved, for their use and residence, to any other State, person, or persons. In testimony of the above articles being duly, openly, and fairly agreed and concluded upon, the chiefs and commissioners aforesaid, have interchangeably set their hands, and affixed their seals, the day and year first above written. „ ■ Senecas.............Gyantwachia, or the Corn-planter, ...... Gyashota, or the Big Cross, I N. B. Kanassee, or the New Arrow, Achiout, or the Half Town, Anachkout, or the Wasp, Chishekoa, or the Wood Bug. Sessewa, or the Big Bale of a Kettle, Sciawhowa, or the Council Keeper, Tewanias, or the Broken Twig, Souachshowa, or the Full Moon. Caehunevasse, or Twenty Canoes, Tuscarora Chief . Hichonquash, or Tearing Asunder, Senecas.............Cageahgea, or Dogs about the Fire, Sawedowa, or the Blast, Kiondashowa, or Swimming Fish, Onandago Chief . Oncahye, or the Dancing Feather, Cayugas.Soahaes, or Falling Mountain, Otachsaka, or Broken Tomahawk, . Tekahiefs, or the Long Tree, . Onesechter, or the Leaded Man, . Kiatulahoh, or the Snake, Aqueia, or the Bandy Legs, Senecas.Kiandoeh-gowa, or Big Tree, Wwenewah, or Thrown-in-tlie-water, The two Munseys signed as being residenters on the land, but not owners. I Oneida Chief . Seneca Chief . Munsey Chiefs + L. S. + L. S. + L. S. + L. S. + L. L. + L. S. + L. S. + L. S. + L. S. + L. S. + L. S. + L. S. + L. S. + L. S. 4* L. S. + L. S. + L. S. + L. S. + L. S. +   L. S. + L. S. + L. S. + L. S. + L. S. R. BUTLER. r i o Olo In the presence of Ar. St. Clair, J vmes Harmar. Lt. Col. Com. 1st C. S. Reg!. and Brig. Gen. by brevet. David Zeigler. Captain 1st U. S. Regt. Wi.vthrop Sargent. John Tracar. N. McDowell, Ensign. Jacob Melciier, Cadet in I st V. S. Regiment. Joseph Nicholson. Be it remembered, that, on the 30th day of May. in the year of our Lord 179-2, and in the 16th year of the independence of the United States of America, came, personally. Joseph Nicholson, one of the witnesses within named, before me. James Biddle, Esq. president of the courts of common pleas, in the district consisting of the city and county- of Philadelphia, and counties of Bucks, Montgomery, and Delaware, and made oath, on the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God, that he was present, and saw the twenty-four grantors, and two commissioners, in the within deed named, make the signatures, or marks, to the said-deed, and seal and deliver the same, as their act and deed, voluntarily and fieely; and that the said deponent subscribed his name as a witness to the execution thereof; and that he also saw the other seven witnesses subscribe their names within written, respectively, to the same deed, and thatthe name. Joseph Nicholson, thereunto subscribed, is of his own proper hand-writing. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set mv hand and seal, at Philadelphia, the same day and year aforesaid. JAMES'BIDDLE. JOSEPH NICHOLSON. Enrolled in the Rolls Office for the State of Pennsylvania, in Commission Book. No. 1. page .709. Witness my hand and seal of office, the 19th of June. 1791. MATHEW IRWIN, M. R. A true copy from the original. JAMES TRIMBLE, Deputy Secretary. Secretary's Office, Philadelphia. Jane 30th. 1794. Copy of the Deed from the Si.e Nations of Indians to the State of Pennsylvania. Know all men by these presents, that we, the undersigned chief?, warriors, and others, representing the following named tribes of the Six Nations, to wit: the Ondawagas. or Senecas, Cayugas, Tuscaroras, Onondagas, and Oneidas, for. and in consideration, of the sum of two thousand dollars, to us in hand paid, by Richard Butler and John Gibson, Esquires, commissioners for. and in behalf of. the State of Pennsylvania, the receipt whereof we do hereby acknowledge, and we. for ourselves, our tribes, our and their heirs and successors, are therewith fully paid and satisfied: have granted, bargained, sold, and assigned over, and, by these presents, do grant, bargain, sell, remise, release, quitclaim, and assign over, unto the said State of Pennsylvania, all our and their right, title, claim, and interest of, in. and to. all that tract of country situate, lying, and being, within the territory of the United States, bounded on the sooth by the north line or boundary of the State of Pennsylvania, on the east by the western line or boundary of the State of New York, agreeably to an act of cession of the said State of New York and the State of Massachusetts, to the United States; and on the north, by the southern shore, or margin of lake Erie, including Presqu' Isle, and all the bays and harbors along the shore or margin of the said lake Erie, from the west boundary of the said State of Pennsylvania, to where the west line, or boundary, of the State of New York, may- cross or intersect the southern shore, or margin, of the said lake Erie: to have and to hold the said tract, as above described, with all its appurtenances and advantages, to the only proper use and behoof of the said State of Pennsylvania, forever, under, and subject to the provisos and reservations made and agreed upon in behalf of ourselves and our tribes, their heirs and successors, mentioned in certain articles of agreement, made and concluded with the aforesaid Richard Butler and John Gibson, Esquires, commissioners for, and in behalf of. the said State of Pennsy lvania; which articles were signed by the aforesaid chiefs and commissioners interchangeably, before the executing and signing of this deed. In testimony whereof, we, the, said chiefs, have hereunto set our hands and seals, this---day of January, in the year of our Lord 17A). Senecas   . Gyantwacbia. or the Corn-planter, + L. S. Gyasliota, or the Big Cross. + L. S. Kanassee, or the New Arrow, + L. S. Achiout, or the Half Town, + L. S. Anaehkout, or the 'Wasp. + L. S. Chishekoa, or the Wood Bua. + S. Sessewa, or Big Bale of a Kettle. + L. S. Sciawlmwa, or the Council Keeper. + L. S. Tewanias, or'the Broken Twig, + L. S. Souachslmwa, or the Full Moon, + L. S. Cachunevasse, or Twenty Canoes, + L. S. IYscakora Chief . , Hichonquash, or Tearing Asunder, + L. S. Senecas   . Cageahgea, or Dogs about the Fire, + L. S. Sawedowa. or the Blast, + L. S. Kiondashowa, or Swimming Fish, + L. S. Unadago Chief . . Oncahye,y>r the Dancing Feather, + L. S* Cayuga Chiefs . . Soahaes, or Falling Mountain, + L. S. O'tachsaka. or Broken Tomahawk, + L. S. Oneida Chief . . . Tekahiefs, or the Long Tree, + L. S. Seneca Chief . . . Onesechter, or the Leaded Man, + L. S. Munsey Chiefs . . Kiatulahoh. or the Snake, I T L. S. Aqueia, or Bandy Legs, + L. S. Senecas   . Kiandocli gowa, or Big Tree, + L. Owenewah.or Thrown-into-the-water,+  L. S. N. B> The two Munsey s signed as being residenters on the land, but not owners. R. BUTLER. In the presence of Ar. St. Clair. Jos. IIarmar, IAeul. Col. Com. 1st (T. S. Regt. and Brig. General by brevet. David Zeigi.er, Captain I st U. S. Regiment. Winthrop Sargent. John Tracey. N. McDowell, Ensign. Jacob Melciier, Cadet 1st U. S. Regiment. Joseph Nicholson. Be it remembered. that, on the 29th day of October, in the year of our Lord 1790, and in the fifteenth year of the independence of the United States of America, came personally, Joseph Nicholson, one of the witnesses within named, before the Hon. Thomas McKean, Esq. Doctor o! Laws, chief justice of the supreme court of the State of Pennsylvania, and made oath, on the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God, that he was present, and saw the twenty-four grantors, in the within deed namedj make the signatures or marks to the said deed, and seal and deliver the same, as their act and deed, voluntarily, and freely.; and that the said deponent subscribed his name as>a witness to the execution thereof; and that, he also saw the other seven witnesses subscribe their names within written, respectively, to the same deed: and that the name, Joseph Nicholson, thereto subscribed, is of his own proper hand-writing. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal, at Philadelphia, the same day and year aforesaid, THOMAS McKEAN. t l « Recorded in the oilice for recording of deeds, &c. for the city and county of Philadelphia, in Deed Book, No. 31, page 184. . Witness my hand, and seal of oilice, the 5th day of May, 1792. MATHEW IRWIN, Rec. A true copy from the original. JAMES TRIMBLE,'Deputy Secretary. Secretary?s Office, Philadelphia, June 30, 1794. . - Copy of a letter from General Gibson to Governor Mifflin. Pittsburg, June 20, 1794. Sir: I had the honor of receiving yours per this day's post; in my last, I informed you that I had ordered one hundred and fifty militia, for the protection of'the frontiers of Westmoreland, and have wrote to the different brigade inspectors to have their quotas complete. The enclosed letters have since come to hand, and from their contents, and the information received by a man, who left Cornplanter’s town about twelve days ago, we have every reason to conclude that the Six Nations will be obliged to join the Western Indians. This niaii declares, that an attempt had been made to take his life, by an Indian, but That the Cornplanter prevented it, by telling the Indian the time was not yet come for them to strike: that the Indians, at the towns, appeared very surly and ill-natured, and that a person of the name of Jennings, who lives at the Cornplanter’s. town, informed him, that he thought the Cornplanter must join the Western Indians. 1 am in great hopes Captain Denny, with his detachment, will get safe to Le Bcruf, and will be able to make a stand, until he can be supported. I shall use every means for the protection of the frontiers, and shall afford Captain Denny every assistance in my power, if necessary. It is more than probable, that, in a few days, the result of the council at Buffalo creek will be known; if favorable, the Indians will send in messengers to palliate their conduct; if the reverse, they will strike’on our frontiers. I shall, at any rate, give you the earliest information. I have the honor to be, &c. &c. ’ Extract of a letter from Captain Denny, dated fort Eranklin, June 14th, 1794. Sir: . - I have the honor of acknowledging your two letters, dated the 9th and 11th instant: after receiving the first, we concluded it would be best to proceed upon our march. We arrived here the day before yesterday, all well. The account of Ransom's people being killed was too true, but by what nation of Indians, is yet doubtful. Mr. Ellicot and Mr. ’Wilkins have written, and sent two runners for the Cornplanter, and they have requested me to wait the return of the express: when they arrive you shall be informed of the success of the message. I am suspicious the old fellow will not show himself. The fact is, that the Indians, about here, from twenty downwards, for some time past, have been exceedingly insolent, treated the officer, the fort, and every person about it, with the utmost contempt; but, since our arrival, they have altered their tune, so say Lieutenant Polhemusand Doctor McCray. We have written to Le Boeuft', and gave the officer there a caution: the day after to-morrow the runner is to be back. Van Horn and Bales, the two men who brought your last letter, saw one Indian at the plain, about twenty miles this side of Pittsburg, and the trace of six or seven. June 16th. Yours, enclosing a copy of Polhemus’, came yesterday. The Cornplanter’s nephew arrived from the towns about the same time. He delivered a long speech from his uncle to Lieutenant Polhemus.' Upon summing up the whole, we have not a shadow of doubt, but that a plan was formed to destroy all the posts and settlements in this quarter. It was all done upon the strength or prospect of a war between the British and-■ : that subsiding, the other, I am in hopes, lias also. There is no doubt but the English will urge them to-join the Westen Indians, and have done every thing possible, and perhaps a feu may; but I rather think that) unless we have a war with them, we’ll have none with the Six Nations generally. _ The Cornplanter has gone to another cou ncil at Buffalo; he set out the same time the nephew started for this place, and will return in about ten days. He says he is very serry for the mischief done lately, and is extremely concerned at the account given of their going-to take up the hatchet; says they are bad men that reported it; that it’s a lie, and insists upon knowing who the information came from, as it is evident that a stroke was meditated, but now, perhaps, dropped. Every apology, which lie can possibly make, won’t be sufficient to clear him ef the imputation of a traitor. 'Some of the nation say the English have bought O’Beal. We shall spend two days to come, in helping Mr. Polhemus to put his garrison in some skate of defence: for, should any thing happen it, we should fare the worse above. ’ f Copy of a letter from Governor Mifflin to the President of the United Slates. Philadelphia, 15 th July, 1794. Sir: I have the honor to transmit, for your information, copies of the various documents which I have received, by express, from General Gibson, stating, among other things, the. proceedings of a council held at fort Le Boeuf, on the 36th ultimo, between Captain Denny and Mr. Ellicot, and a deputation from the Six Nations, in the presence of General Chapin. The requisition'which has been made on this occasion, for the abandonment of a great portion of the territory of the State, is so extravagant, that we must suppose it to proceed from the instigation of a policy more hostile to the United States than can reasonably be ascribed to (he natural arrogance or enmity of the Indians themselves. It is a circumstance, indeed, additionally mortifying, that no attempt was made even to conceal the source from which the insult came. Mr. Johnson, the British agent, attended the council. It will be obvious to you, sir, that it is not in my power to authorize a compliance with the requisition, or to treat upon the subjects. My duty calls upon me to execute the laws; and, in doing so, it will be incumbent on me to maintain, not only the public claim of jurisdiction, but the private rights and property throughout the State, 1794.1 GENERAL VIEW. 515 against invasion and outrage. For that important purpose. I shall exert ail the legal authority of my office; and I take this opportunity to request the co-operation of the General Government, as far as its Federal obligations extend. The suspension of the Presctu’ Isle establishment'has probably increased the difficulty; but, after the information which lias been just received, i conceive the essential interests of the State, the safety of its citizens, and the. preservation of its property, are involved in the immediate prosecution of our object, and I trust that you will now find reason to concur in that opinion. I am, with respect, &c. THOMAS MIFFLIN. Copy of a letter from General Gibson to Governor Mifflin. Pittsburg. July Tlh, 1791. Sir: The enclosed papers, from Captain Dear.). came to hand yesterday, which, with two other letters directed to your Excellency, and one to General Knox, I now send to you, by express, as they contain matter of the utmost importance to the State. The British have, at length, succeeded in accomplishing their long wished for object, in getting the Six Nations to join the Western Indians against the United States, and lam afraid our frontiers will feel the effects. Your Excellency may rest assured, that nothing shall be wanting on my part to afford them and Captain Denny every assistance in my power. I was under the necessity of promising forty dollars to' the express for his sen ice. as none could be got to engage lower; you will please to order him to be paid. 1 have the honor to be. &c. A true copy. James Thimble. Deputy Secretary. JOHN GIBSON. \ Copy of a letter from Israel Chapin io the Commanding Officer at Lc Bauf Df.ak Sir: Pkes<(i ' Isle. Tuesday, 21 th June, 1791. at 3 o'clock P. M. 1 have just arrived at this place, with a deputation from the Six Nations of Indians, consisting of sixteen chiefs and warriors, with a message we were desired to deliver to some people, whom they supposed were here. I thought it would be consistent to inform you of my arrival, and that I shall be at Le Bcruf to-morrow, at 2 o'clock, with this deputation. 1 am. sir, your most obedient servant, ISRAEL CHAPIN, Secretary of the Six Motions. A true copy. James Trimble. Deputy Secretary. Copy of a letter J'rom Captain Ebenczcr Denny to Major General Gibson. Fort Le Beef, Jane '27th, 1791. Dear Sir: Enclosed you will receive a copy of a message brought me by a deputation of chiefs and warriors sent for that purpose, from the Six Nations, and also our reply. You will perceive by the message, that the Indians are disposed to have us pushed back; and if we dont leave the country, they are to consider us as no friends. I don't apprehend much danger here, as long as wo can keep our men together; but, at present, a number of the people who were on before me, are ill with the flux; and flic working parties, w hich we arc necessarily obliged to have at some distance, together with two escorts, one sent to Franklin with pack-horses, the other somewhere between, and Cas-sewago, with boats, reduces our force very considerably. Doctor Wilkins has made a requisition for ten or twelve men, to be sent to Pitt, to guard a drove of cattle on to this place. From the present appearances, it would be very improper to detach so many men from my command; I am, therefore, here under the necessity of begging a few militia for that purpose; they will be wanted about, the first week i:i the next month. Indeed, at this particular juncture, I don't think a company would be too many to assist us in having the supplies brought forward. The people at Cas.iev.ago wished for a guard of my men; I could not spare them yet; the consequences. I am afraid, will bo a total evacuation of that settlement. If you should think proper to send on a company, a part posted at .Mead's will answer a double purpose; there the contractor has a deposite, and it serve -, our people as an intermediate post between Franklin and this place, which ought to be by all means supported. You promised you would not neglect us. 1 am. with great regard. &c. EBKNEZER DENNY. Captain Pennsylvania Stale troops. A true copy. James Thimble. Deputy Secretary. Copy of a letter from fmlrcic Ellir.ot to Governor Mifflin, dated Fort Le Bceef, Jane 29, 1791. Sir: In my last letter to you, from Pittsburg, I mentioned that you might expect to hear from me, both from fort Franklin and Le Baud'; but, from a variety of circumstances no opportunity occurred of writing from the first. On my arrival there, the place appeared to be in such a defenceless situation, flint, with the concurrence of Captain Denny and the officer commanding at the fort, we remained there some time, and employed the troops in rendering it more tenable. It may now be considered as defensible, provided the number of men is increased. The garrison, at present, consists of twenty-five men. one-half of whom are unfit for duty: and, it is my opinion, that double that number would not be more than sufficient, considering the importance of the safety of the settlements on French creek. At fort Franklin, General Wilkins and myself wrote to the Cornplanter to attend there, (hat we might have an opportunity of explaining to him the nature of our business, and of obviating any difficulties that might arise in our proceedings. However, he did not come, as was expected, having gone some days before to a council of the Six Nations, at Buffalo. With this letter, you will receive a copy of their message.'presented by General Chapin and Mr. Johnson, to Captain Denny and myself, with our reply to*the same. I leave to yourself to consider the propriety of a British agent attending a considerable number of Indians, with a superintendent of Indian affairs of the United States, to order the people of Pennsylvania to remove from those lands which had been ceded to them by treaty, by the King of Great Britain, and since that time regularly purchased from the Six Nations, and punctually paid lor. After repairing fort Franklin, vve proceeded to this place, and are now beginning to strengthen the works here, so as to render it a safe deposite lor military and other stores: and in doing which, agreeably to instructions, economy shal^ be strictly attended to, 1 - The line described by the Indians, on the map, will take from the State of Pennsylvania the Cassewago settlement, being part of the purchase of 1784, and the whole of the purchase of 1788. But, with respect to this claim, they can be serious only so far as encouraged by the British agents, and the countenance shewn them by the late interference of the United States. The objection made by.Mr. Brandt, to General Cliapin, that the establishment at Presqu’ Isle would cut off the communication between the Six Nations and the Western hostile Indians, and thereby diminish their joint strength, is the strongest argument that can be urged in favor of that establishment. General Chapin and myself are of opinion that all differences between the State of Pennsylvania and the Six Nations might be accommodated by treaty, which treaty ought not to be held in the neighborhood of any post occupied by the British, the United States, or this State, at present; and that Presqu’ Isle is the most eligible place for such a treaty. General Chapin, I presume, has communicated his sentiments to General Knox on this subject. Standing Slone, a chief residing at Conyat, has informed us, since we arrived at this place, that the late mischief on the Alleghany river and Venango path was done by a party of eight warriors, from Huron river, which falls into Lake Erie, about twenty-six miles above Cuyahoga. One of his brothers saw them on their way to commit those depredations. Those Indians are only to be chastised by the way of the lake: but it is neither the interest of the British, Brandt, nor the other agents, to have them punished: it is the interest of the United States: and yet the United States, by directing a suspension of the Business at Presqu' Isle, have taken effectual measures for the security of this nest of murderers, whose cruelties have, for some years past, been severely felt by the. citizens of this State. ' ’ . You must recollect that I always had my doubts respecting the fulfilment of the contract for opening the navigation of French creek, and a road from Le Boeuf to Presqu’ Isle, and, agreeably to my expectations, have hitherto’not been able to discover anything done in that business. For the further security of the frontiers of this State, it would be necessary to erect two mock houses on the Venango path, between fort Pitt and Venango, and a third between Venango and this place. At present, Meade's settlement appears to me to be the most proper situation. I am, with great respect, your real friend, » ANDREW ELLICOT.- A true copy: James Thimble, Deputy Secretary. Extract of a letter froai Captain Ebenezer Denny to Governor Mifflin, dated June 'Dili. 1794.'1 The route-from Franklin to Le Boeuf. by way of Cassewago, is not less than sixty miles. The first part may be made good, but the other will he very difficult. A straight route from Franklin to Le Bceuf won't exceed 45 miles: hut it’s yet uncertain what kind of road the country will afford. We would he much the better of a surgeon. Many of the men who were on here are lying bad with the flux. However, we are doing every thing possible to get them oil foot. Constant salt provisions, and not the least attention paid to cleanliness, has caused it to spread. Our fresh meat, with the little knowledge we have of medicine, has already had a good effect. The evening oiour arrival here, I received the enclosed letter from Israel Chapin, superintendent for the Six Nations. .The. next day, by the time mentioned, he, and the Indians arrived. They expected to meet us at Presqu’ Isle. They came from the mouth of Buffalo there, in a row boat. Next morning we met and received their message, a copy of which, together with our reply, is also enclosed. William Johnson, who is mentioned in the message, is a British agent; he acted slyly as prompter to the chiefs. They denied having sold their country; told us that the paper (deed) which they signed at Fort Harmar was thought by them then to be nothing blit a treaty of peace, and that the goods which was delivered them, they considered as presents. Money, they say, they received none. The line which they had marked upon their map began at O’Beal’s town, and in a direct line crossed French creek, just below Mead’s, and on the Head of Cuyahoga; from thence to the Muskingum, and down the Ohio, and to its mouth, and up the Mississippi; leaving a small square for a trading house at the mouths of the rivers, and one where Clarkesville now is. The fellows were very inquisitive to know if any surveyors were out, and told us to stop every person going towards the lake. They will expect an answer from our great council. I would just remark, that, in case of a war, it will be. very difficult keeping either horses or cattle about the place, and impossible to get any supplies, being so near their towns, unless we have three times the number of men which we now have, and establish several intermediate posts. I have the honor to enclose a return of the troops, and am, with perfect respect, sir, your most obedient servant, E. DENNY, Captain. A true extract: James Trimble, Dqmty Secretary. - , ' ', - s }   ... Copy of the proceedings of a council held ivith [he Six Nations at fort Le Bceuf 8 (>th June, 1794. At a council hoi den at fort Le Boeuf, June 8<ith, 1794,' by Mr. Ellicot and Captain Denny, with General Chapin and a deputation from the Six Nations. General Chapin opened the business by reading the proceedings of the council at Buffalo, which were as follows: At a council holden at Buffido creek, by the Six Nations of Indians, June 18, 1794, General Chapin was addressed as follows: Captain O’Beal, Speaker. Brother: When we sent for you it was because we placed great dependence upon you. Wc expected that you would not fail in doing every thing in your power to assist us. Brother: We now hope that you will exert yourself in removing those people off our lands. We know very well what they have come on for, and wc want them pushed back. Brother: We now wish that you and Mr. Johnson would go together and remove those people back over the line which we have marked out upon the map. Brother: If diesc people remove off immediately, we shall consider them as our friends; if not, wc shall consider them as no friends. . v _ , Brother: We wish that you and Mr. Johnson would go together upon this business, and we shall send ten warriors to attend you; and we shall expect that you will bring us word when you return. This speech was delivered with six strings of black and white wampum. After the above speech had been read, Mr. Ellicot and Captain Denny desired an interval of one hour to prepare an answer; at the expiration of w hich, Mr. Ellicot delivered the follow ing reply to the message sent by General Chapin and William Johnson: Brothers of the Six Nations: , _ Your brethren of Pennsylvania have always been attentive to the interest of the Indians, especially to that of the Six Nations, and happy to meet with them i if peace and unity. Brothers: Wc have heard your message by General Chapin, and have considered the request. Brothers: By the peace of 1783, the King of Great Britain ceded to y our brethren of Pennsylvania all the land.' which they claim, hut, from a regard to justice, and considering you as the real owners of the soil, could not consider themselves as entitled to it, until fairly purchased from yourselves. Brothers: The lands which you have requested us to move off have for several years been purchased by the State of Pennsylvania from the Six Nations, and the line- bounding the same were opened and marked with their consent and approbation. The purchase north of the north boundary of Pennsylvania, west of the Conewango river, lake Chataque, and the path leading from thence to lake Erie, and south of the said lake, was made of your chiefs at fort Harmar, (by General Butler and General Gibson) and the money and goods punctually paid to them. Brothers: Your brethren of Pennsylvania have fairly and openly made the purchase of all the lauds to which they lay claim, and have sold those lands to such people as choose to settle and work them: they think it now their duty to protect such settlers from the depredations ot all such persons as may attempt to molest them. Brothers: The present military preparations of your brethren of Pennsylvania were intended to protect their citizens against the Western hostile Indians only, not supposing any protection necessary against the Six Nation', whom they consider as their friends and allies. Brothers: The line which you have marked upon the map will take back from your brethren of Pennsylvania a large tract of land, which they have purchased from you. We cannot, therefore, consistently with our duty, remove from those lands, unless directed by the great council of our people, to whom we shall immediately send your message. Brothers: We are sorry that our continuing on the lands which, you have sold to your brethren of Pennsylvania, should be the cause of any uneasiness, or why we should not be considered by you as friends. Brothers: Your brethren of Pennsylvania are a generous people; they have never wished for more than they were willing to pay for, and have never attempted to take what did not belong to them. They will be glad to meet you at all times, and afford relief to the weak and hungry of your people, who may take the trouble to come and see them at this place. In the mean time, as we are ordered here by the great council of your brothers of Pennsylvania, we cannot, consistently with our duty, remove from hence, until orders come from them for that purpose. Your message, however, shall be immediately forwarded by express to them, for their consideration. ANDREW ELLICOT. EBENEZER DENNY. Thomas Nesbit, Secretary. Captain of the State troops. Copy. A. J. Dallas. Secretary. From Governor Mifflin to the President of the United States, dated Philadelphia, 18//i July. 1794. Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's answer to my letter of the lath instant, communicated in a letter from the Secretary of War, dated yesterday; and it is with peculiar regret that I perceive the embarrassment of my situation, relatively to the Presqu' Isle establishment, increasing with every addition to the correspondence which the subject has produced. I certainly, sir, have hitherto proceeded upon the presumption, that, whatever form of words may have been employee], it was your request that the execution of the Presqu' Isle law, should be suspended; and as you possessed all the information upon which that request was founded, 1 have thought, likewise, tliat you would readily assume the responsibility attached to a prompt and confidential compliance with it. But, when the Secretary of War remarks, that you never contemplated carrying your opinions upon the subject farther, than to state them as strongly as they were conceived; he leaves it to be inferred, that, for all the consequences of the suspension, without possessing the information, or, perhaps, entertaining the sentiments that led to the measure, I am deemed to be exclusively responsible. This idea, sir, claims and justifies, on my part, the utmost circumspection; and I am persuaded that, while the Executive of the General Government is solicitous to avoid reproach tor inattention, or neglect to make full representations of any danger which is apprehended to the interests of the Union, a similar solicitude in the Executive of a particular Government to avoid reproach, either for transgressing the constitutional boundaries of his authority, or for sacrificing the interests of the State, will be equally approved and indulged. Hence, sir, I have been induced, in order satisfactorily to compare your opinions on this occasion with my constitutional and legal powers, to take the advice of the attorney general of Pennsylvania, and I have the honor to enclose a copy of the letter in which his sentiments are expressed. From this document you will perceive, that, although any delay, consistent with the performance of the duties enjoined upon me, may be permitted, a delay, which will prevent the execution of the law, within the time prescribed, will not be justifiable, it is of importance, therefore, to know how long the temporary obstacles, which induced you to advise the suspension of the establishment at Presque Isle, are expected to continue: for, if they should not be shortly removed, I must either direct the commissioners to proceed in laying out the town, or (resorting to the alternative suggested by the attorney general) convene the Legislature upon the occasion. The latter measure, however, I shall not think it expedient to adopt, unless you expressly request it. Though the title of the .State to the jurisdiction and soil of the territory, on which she proposes to form her settlements, can admit of no just controversy, 1 would cheerfully, as far as my power extends, co-operate in any amicable proceeding to conciliate the minds of the Six Nations: but I have no authority to appoint a commissioner to treat with them upon the subject; and, indeed, the Secretary of AN ar has misunderstood the purport of my conversation in that respect, since he ascribes to me an opinion, that, under the present circumstances, all differences may be accommodated by treaty. The truth is, that, if a sense of justice influenced the conduct of those Indians, no opposition would have been made to our improving the lands, which we had fairly bought, and the sale of which they have repeatedly acknowledged; and if they act (a> 1 believe they do) under the direction and control of British agents, their opposition must be expected to last as long as the policy by which it is excited. If, however, sir, you should be pleased, on the part of the United States, to authorize a treaty to be held, 1 shall think it my duty to furnish you with all the documents that relate to the title of Pennsylvania, and its repeated recognitions by Cornplanter, and the other Indians who now presume to deny it. From Jl. J. Dallas to Jared Ingersoll, Esq. Attorney General, dated 14th July, 1794. Dear Sir: The Governor directs me to submit to your consideration, the various measures which have been pursued to carry into effect the act for laying out a town at Presqu' Isle, and the correspondence that has passed between the President and him, relatively to a suspension of the proceedings of the commissioners. When you have perused these documents, and the laws to which they refer, the Governor requests you will favor him with your opinion on the following propositBi: Can the Executive of Pennsylvania, under all the circumstances of the case, justify, in point of law, a continuance of the suspension of the proceedings of the commissioners, beyond a period that will admit ot his carrying into effect the act for the laying out of the town at Presqu’ Isle, as directed by the Legislature? It may be proper to remark, that, in order to ascertain the period alluded to, the Governor must eventually take into consideration the limitation of the time for allowing bounties to persons who shall actually settle in the proposed town; the limitation ol the G6 ' * time for which the corps is enlisted that furnishes Ihe detachment to protect the commissioners; and the length of time that will probably be consumed in making the necessary surveys. The Governor is anxious, as far as is consistent with the power and duty of his office, to promote the views of the General Government; and even should it be your opinion, that his authority, as an Executive magistrate, does not extend to the present object, he will propose convening the Legislature, if the President shall declare, in his opinion, the interests of the Union require it. From the nature of the inquiry, you may readily suppose, that the Governor is anxious to receive an early answer. From Jaral IngersoH, Esq. to Alexander.1. Dallas, Esq. dated Philadelphia,' July 18th, 1794. Dear Sir: I have considered the question you state, as arising upon the law for laying out a town at Presqu’ Isle. The terms in which you have expressed yourself, as well as the nature of my office, excludes from my view, in giving an opinion, every consideration of policy or expediency. In point of law, I conceive, even under the circumstances mentioned in the communications enclosed, the Executive of Pennsylvania cannot justify omitting to conform to the directions of the act of the Legislature to which you refer, though the Executive may justify any delay, consistent with the performance of the duties enjoined, within the time prescribed. The United States are at war with the Indians; a State may, therefore, raise troops; the law is not contrary to the federal constitution; the act is imperative in its language, and obligatory. The circumstances you recite, the limitation for allowing bounties, &c. determine the period, beyond which, delay could not be justified. If it shall appear that measures of a general concern will be defeated by pursuing the line of conduct pointed out by the Legislature, as the Governor has no dispensing power, convening the Legislature is the only remedy for the inconvenience. From Governor Mifflin to the President of the United States. Philadelphia, 22d July, 1791. Sir: I have received a letter from (he Secretary of War, dated the 21st instant, in which he informs me of your intention to appoint a commissioner, for the purpose of holding a treaty with the Six Nations, at Canandaigua, on the 15th of September next; and I shall, with all possible despatch, transmit, for your information, the documents relating to the title of Pennsylvania, so far as it is founded on a purchase of the Indian claims, w ithin the limits particularly designated in the late council at Lc Baud'. But, at the same time, I wish it to be clearly understood, that, on my part, no assent is given to any proposition, that shall bring into doubt or controversy the rights of the State. With respect to the opinion expressed hv the Secretary of War, that, before the lapse of the period, during which, it is thought, the Presqu’ Isle settlement may lawfully lie suspended, there is sufficient time for holding a treaty with the Six Nations, if begun about the middle of September, I confess, ray judgment has not dictated the same conclusion, from a consideration of the circumstances, which the case presents to my view. It is true, as the Secretary of War observes, that the enlistments of the troops do not expire till the 1st of December, and that they may be continued until the meeting of the Legislature, that is, until the 2d December; but. independent of the various casualties, which usually protract, and sometimes defeat, the project of Indian treaties, it must be obvious, that a knowledge of the result of a treaty, held at Canandaigua, on the 15th September, cannot reasonably be expected in this city, till the middle of October; that, after knowing the result, a fortnight or three weeks must necessarily be employed in notifying the commissioners, and in the prosecution of their journey to Presqu’Isle; and that, by a progress of this kind, the surveys must be executed (if any men, indeed, can then be found, so hardy as to undertake the task) in the depth of winter, and at the very moment w hen the authority for affording protection to the commissioners expires by its own limitation. Nor is the subject without embarrassment, when we consider it in relation to the bounties offered to the persons who shall actually inhabit and reside in the town, on or before the 1st May, 1795: for, no residence can take place till the surveys arc returned; and the surveys cannot be returned, under the circumstances which have been remarked, till the winter and its effects, have, probably, rendered it impracticable to travel to the settlement within the limited period. Not only may the public policy lie thus defeated, but the hopes of many adventurous individuals will be totally destroyed. ■ Under the impression ol’ these sentiments. I might lie tempted to express a wish, that an earlier day should be fixed for holding the proposed treaty, but that a sense of duty suggests an impropriety in the slightest interference upon the occasion. I will content myself, therefore, with informing you, that I shall instruct the commissioners to hold themselves in readiness to perform their trust, as soon as the treaty is over; if the issue is favorable to our object, they will be authorized immediately to proceed to Presqu’ Isle; but, if the Indians should menace opposition, directions will lie given to wait for a further communication from me. In the latter event, I shall rely upon receiving the military aid of the General Government, not only to prevent any inconveniency that may arise from the expiration of the Pennsylvania enlistments, but effectually to subdue that resistance to the execution of the law of Pennsylvania, which its suspension, by giving time and confidence to our ill disposed neighbors, must naturally increase. I am, &c. &c. THOMAS MIFFLIN. The Secretary of War to Alexander Dallas, Esq. Sir: War Department, May 10, 1794. 1 bad the honor to lay before the President of the United States your letter of yesterday. I am instructed to say, that, under the actual circumstances of the United States, it becomes a subject of serious consideration, whether any measures ought now to he urged, which are likely to produce disgust to our friends, the Six Nations, and to extend Indian hostilities. The. Secretary of JFar to Governor -Mifflin. War Department, May 24, 179). Sir: The President of the United States h; s directed me to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency’s letter of this date, enclosing a copy of the orders which you have issued, for draughting one thousand militia from the western brigades, to support the detachment which the Legislature of Pennsylvania directed to be formed, for the purpose of protecting the commissioners who were authorized to lay out a town at Presqu’ Isle. 1794.1 GENERAL VIEW. 519 It was intimated to the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, by me, on the loth instant, that, under the actual circumstances of the United States, it became a subject of serious consideration, whether any measures ought now to be urged, which are likely to produce disgust to our friends, the Six Nations, and to extend Indian hostilities. Since then, information has been received from Israel Chapin, of which a copy is herein enclosed,* by which it will be perceived, that affairs are critically circumstanced between the United States and the said Six Nations. The President of the United States, on mature reflection, is of opinion that it is advisable to suspend, for the present, the establishment at Presqu’ Isle. That, independent of certain other considerations of delicacy and moment, which, at no distant day, will be better appreciated, the high probability of an immediate rupture with the Six Nations, if the measure be persisted in, countenanced by the late information, and increased by the recent murder of one of their people, appears to him a solid reason for a temporary suspension. The Secretary of War to Governor Mifflin. War Department. Muy21. 1701. Sir: I have the honor, in confidence, to transmit your Excellency the extract of a letter received from General Chapin, agent to the Six Nations, dated at Canandaigua, the tith instant. And I am instructed, by the President of the United States, to acknowledge, that yesterday, he received your favor of the Roth instant, and its enclosures, stating the measures which you have taken to suspend, for the present, the establishment at Presqu’ Isle, conformably to his opinion transmitted to you on the 24th instant. This opinion was communicated on the same day your letter was received.announcing your orders for draughting a thousand militia, to support the establishment, and it was the result of a general view of the subject, founded upon the recent information which had been received. [enclosed.] Extract of a letter from General Chapin to the Secretary of War. Since the departure of my son, T hav e received more direct information of the British having began to erect a fort at Sandusky, than I had when I had the honor of writing to you by him. I therefore, at that time, only verbally directed him to acquaint you therewith. They feel very much alarmed at the garrisoning of Presqu’ Isle, and endeavor to persuade the Indians that it is only to secure the property of that place, which, they contend, was fraudulently purchased of a few individuals, and not of the nation. If the garrison destined for that place is not pretty strong, it is doubtful whether it will not be attacked. The Secretary of I Car to Governor Mifflin. W ar Department. 1 ith June. 179 4. Sir: I am instructed by the President, to reply to your letter of the Kith instant, and to inform you. that the reasons which induced the opinion communicated to you on the tilth ultimo, continue to operate, and have not been weakened by any information since received. It must be obvious to you, sir, and seems even to result from some of the information which you have transmitted, that the proposed movement is an extremely delicate one. as it regards our peace with the Six Nations. To bring on hostilities with those nations, would be. at any time, a serious evil; considered in reference to the operations we are carrying on against the more western tribes, its possible mischiefs assume a still more important aspect. It is unnecessary to enlarge upon the inconveniences which might ensue to those operations, by throwing, unexpectedly, in the midst of a campaign, so considerable an additional weight into the adverse scale. When we take into the calculation, the precarious situation of our allitirs with the Creek Indians, hostilities wiih the Six Nations might co-operate to place us too near the verge of a general Indian war, not to admonish us to particular caution in any step which might lead to those hostilities. It w ill be happy, indeed, if the circumstances w hich have already occurred, should be found not to have matured the evil beyond the possibility of a remedy. A comprehensive view' of the subject, cannot but include some considerations relative to the foreign nations in the neighborhood of the United States, in aid of the primary ones which respect the Indian nations. In the present delicate, if not critical, posture of our affairs, viewed in connexion with tlio>e of Europe, amidst negotiations, which concern not only our peace, hut other great interests of our country, w here every moment may be expected to bring some new developments, very cogent and urgent reasons, indeed, ought to be found in support of any measure which may have even a remote tendency further to embarrass or embroil. If. in the execution of the measures which are in train, there shall be found reason for varying the opinion now-delivered. it shall be communicated to you without delay: and you may be aJSlired, that nothing shall be omitted to obviate the temporary obstacles which exist. 'The Secretary of War to Governor Mifflin. War Department, June 19, 1794. Sir: Your Excellency’s letter of this date, addressed to the President of the United States, has been opened by me. The appearances up the Alleghany dictate that fort Franklin be reinforced. I have, accordingly, ordered this done, and Captain Craw-ford is to assume the command, and to have with him an abundant supply of provisions and military stores. Besides this measure, some recruits, on their march to Pittsburg, amounting to about one hundred, will be detained there for the present, under Major Butler, excepting such a portion of them as shall be necessary to reinforce the garrison of fort Franklin. In addition to this, I have forwarded five hundred arms and accoutrements, one hundred barrels of powder, and twenty tons of lead, to form a magazine at Pittsburg, to serve in case of an exigency. ’ See letter from General fliapin, dated 29tb April, 1794, and proceedings of a council holden at liuffalo creek, 21st April 1794, transmitted 21st May, 1794. The Secretary of War to Governor Mifflin. War Department, June 21, 179-1. Srn; Your Excellency's letter to the President of the United States, dated the 14th instant, (which has been opened pursuant to general directions) was only delivered to Mr. Dandridge, the Secretary, on the 17th instant, at three o'clock. The departure of the President for Mount Vernon, on the morning of that day, prevents my being able to reply to it at this time under his immediate direction. But antecedent communications with the President, on the transaction to which your letter relates, and my immediate agency in the matter, afford me the means of offering some explanatory observations, which I shall do in a spirit ihat will accord with what I know to be a primary rule of conduct on his part—the steady cultivation of harmony and cordiality between the officers of the general and particular Governments. With regard to that sentence, in my letter of the 14th instant, which has been particularly adverted to, and which is in these words: “ It will be happy, indeed, if the circumstances which have already occurred shall not be found to have matured the evil beyond the possibility of a remedy,” it will. I hope, be sufficient to say, that it was a mere general reflection on the probable or possible tendency of the circumstances which had occurred; without intention of passing an opinion on the motives or reasons for the measure which had been pursued by the government of Pennsylvania, either in a legislative or an executive capacity. Among the circumstances alluded to, was the unfortunate coincidence of the murder of one of the Indians of the Six Nations, an ingredient which was mentioned in my letter of the 24th of May. In order to avoid the inference of having acquiesced in the suggestion, I beg leave to add, that there is no evidence in the possession of this office which establishes the fact of a previously hostile disposition of the Six Nations. Your Excellency appears to lay stress on the lateness of the communication of the President’s opinion as to the expediency of suspending the proposed establishment. In proportion to the validity of the considerations which support the right of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to project and make the establishment, was the delicacy of the interference of the United States. Whatever may have been the anticipations entertained of the effect of the measure, the situation seemed to require that an opinion should be deferred till the progress of the experiment had produced some indications of probable consequences. When this happened, the opinion was given. Had it been given sooner, it might, perhaps, have been deemed premature. The rights of Pennsylvania in this case, and the obligations which are urged to exist on the part of the United States in relation to them, would be improperly made a question. But the fundamental principles of society, and the practice of all political communities, frequently concur in postponing the enjoyment of a particular right or interest of a part of a nation, to considerations respecting the safety or welfare of the whole nation; the propriety, then, of a temporary suspension, in the present instance, must depend on the weight of the reasons which dictate it. The discussion how far the requisition or advice of the Executive of the United States can justify such a suspension, under the circumstances of the laws of Pennsylvania, is rendered more absolutely useless by your Excellency’s determination, that, whatever may be the result, the establishment at Presqu’ Isle will be suspended, until the President shall have varied the opinion which has been delivered. No arguments, I am persuaded, can be necessary to satisfy you, that, when he saw, or thought he saw, in a measure of a particular State, consequences endangering important interests of the Union, he discharged a duty in declaring to the Executive of that State an opinion that it was advisable to suspend the execution of the measure, leaving that opinion to be appreciated as it deserved. The President of the United States cannot fail to do justice to the disposition which has produced the determination you have announced, to comply with his opinion. No time will be lost, after the arrival of the President, in submitting to him your letter, and this reply; and, in the mean time, the attempts for obviating the temporary obstacles, are put in a train of execution. The Secretary of TT’ar to Governor Mifflin. War Department, June 24, 1794. Sir: 1 have the honor to transmit, for your information, the enclosed extract of a letter from General Israel Chapin, this moment received. Extract of a letter from General Israel Chapin to the Secretary of War, dated Canandaigua, June 12, 1794. The council, which was to have been held at Venango, is to meet at Buft’alo creek. I have already received three messages from the Indians, requesting my immediate attendance. I was in hopes that I might have been able to put oft’ going until the return of my son, but this last message presses me, in the most earnest manner, to repair thither immediately, and I shall, accordingly, start to-morrow. I am afraid of the consequences of the attempt to settle Presqu’ Isle at present. The Indians do not acknowledge the validity of the Cornplanter’s sale to Pennsylvania. 1 shall inform you, by express, of the result of the treaty at Buffalo creek, on my return to Canandaigua. 77ie Secretary of War to Governor Mifflin. War Department, July 15, 1794. Sir: I have the honor to transmit, for your information, a letter from General Chapin, Agent to the Six Nations, dated at fort Le Bceuf, the 26th of June, last. You informed me that you had had transmitted to you the proceedings of the council at Buffalo creek, and the answer thereto, by Mr. Ellicot and Captain Denny, dated at Le Bceuf, the 26th of June. General Chapin to the Secretary of War, dated Fort Le Bceuf, June 26, 1794. iIon. Sir: 1 left Canandaigua on the 13th of this month, in order to attend a council at Buffalo creek. I waited more than a week, after my first notification, for my son to return, that I might have an answer from you; but the chiefs, growing impatient, kept constantly sending runners. I was obliged to set out at last, to my great disappointment, without having received any infonnation from you. On my arrival I found the minds of the Indians much agitated with regard to the movements made by the State of Pennsylvania. On the 18th I met the Indians in general council, the proceedings of which you find here enclosed. At this council I was requested to go to Presqu’ Isle, (as you will see by their speech) to desire those people to move off who had made encroachments on their lands. 1 found that no excuse would answer, and was finally obliged to comply with their request. On the 19th I left Buffalo creek. accompanied bv a deputation from the Six Nations, consisting of sixteen chiefs and warriors. I arrived at Presqu* Isle on the 04tli. but. finding no person there, I proceeded to Le Baud’, where i found Mr. Ellicot. and Captain Denny. After informing those gentlemen the business I came upon. I gave them a copy of the speech which had been delivered tome at Buffalo creek. The answer which they made I send you. enclosed with the other speeches. Although the minds of the Six Nations are much disturbed at. the injuries which they say they have sustained, they are stdl opposed to war. and wish, if possible, to live in peace with the United States. They are much opposed to the establishing of garrisons in this’quarter, as they think it will involve them in a war with the hostile Indians. They are likewise displeased with having those lands surveyed, which they say were not legally purchased. In this critical situation, would it not be best to have commissioners appointed to treat with the !six Nations, that all difficulties may be settled which subsist between them and the United States, especially those that regard the State of Pennsylvania? And it is the wish of the Six Nations, that this treaty should be holden at their council fire at Buffalo creek. 1 shall return by the way of Buffalo creek, where I expect to hold another council: the proceedings of which I shall forward to you as speedily as possible. Proceedings of a Council holden at Buffalo each. by the Six Xations of Indians, on the 18th of June. 1794. Present: The principal sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the Six Nations. From the United States. General Chapin, with his attendants. From Upper Canada. Mr. Johnson, the Interpreter of the Indian Department: Captain O’Bail, Speaker; Mr. Horatio Jones. Interpreter. Brother: (addressed to General Chapin.) We are thankful that you have attended to the call of the Six Nations, and that you have been preserved by the Great Spirit. &c. Brother: (addressed to the President of the United States.) I have for a long time aimed at the good of both parties. 1 have paid you different compliments, as that of brother, father? and now I call you friend. We were pleased when we heard that you were appointed to have the chief command of the United States. Brother: The Great Spirit lias so ordered, that every nation shall have some one to be at their head. You are to look over your people, and settle all difficulties; and we. the Six Nations, expect that you will not be unmindful of us. but see that we have justice done, as well as your own people. * Brother: We, the Six Nations, now call upon you. We pay no attention to what has heretofore been done by Congress: their proceedings we consider as unjust. We wish for nothing but justice, and hope that it will take place. Brother: You know our demands; we ask hut for a small piece of land; and we trust, as you are a great man, you can easily grant our request. Brother: You wish to be a free people in this country, who have come from the other side of the water and settled here; and why should not we, whose forefathers have lived and died here, and always had possession of the country? Brother: We, the Six Nations, have determined on the boundary we want established, and it is the warriors who now speak. Brother: You have the map on which the boundaries are marked out which we want established. Brother: We want room for our children. It will be hard for them not to have a country to live in after that we are gone. Brother: It is not because that we are afraid of dying that we have been <o long trying to bring about a peace. We now call upon you for an answer, as Congress and their commissioners have oftentimes deceived us; and, if these difficulties are not removed, the consequences will be bad. This speech was delivered with eight strings of black and white wampum. Brother: We have opened this fire upon two different kinds of business; we wish you to listen to them with attention. Brother: We are in distress. A number of our warriors are missing, and we know not what is become of them, but suppose that they have been killed by the Americans. Brother: Last fall an Indian chief, by the name of Big Tree, left this country, and went to the American army in a friendly manner, and we have since been informed that lie wa» killed by them. Brother: The other day a very unfortunate circumstance happened. One of our nephews (of the Delaware nation) was killed at Yenango, by a party of warrriors. who were going on to Presqu* Isle, without giving us any notice whatever. Brother: You are sensible this must be very hard, to have a man killed in time of peace, one who was sitting easy and peaceable on his seat. You certainly would complain if we were to treat you in the same manner. Brother: It has been customary, when one person has killed another, that those who have done the injury go to the injured party ami make satisfaction. Brother: We told you that we had two pieces of business to attend to: we hope that you will pay attention to both. Brother: The establishing a garrison at Presqu* Isle may occasion many accidents, as the Southern Indians may do injury, and we may be blamed without a cause. This speech was delivered with ten strings of black wampum. Captain ()*Bail then addressed himself to General Chapin: Brother: When we sent for you, it was because we placed great dependence upon you; we hoped that you would not fail of doing every thing in your power to assist us. Brother: We now expect that you will exert yourself in removing those people oft’our lands. W e know very well what they are come on for, and we want them pushed back. Brother: We now wish that you anil Mr. Johnson would go together and remove those people back over the line which we have marked out upon the map. Brother: If those people remove oil* immediately, we shall consider them as our friends; if not. we shall consider them as no friends. Brother: We expect that you and Mr. Johnson will go together on this business, and we shall send two warriors to attend you; and we expect that you will bring us word when you return. 'Phis speech was delivered with six strings of black and white wampum. General Chapin's answer to the speech delivered by Captain O’Bail. Brothers: I have heard the speeches which you have delivered, with great attention, and have thought seriously on what you have communicated to me. You have requested me to go to Presqu’ Isle. As I wish to do every thing in my power,both t'orthe United States and the Indians. 1 shall comply with your request. Brothers: 1 can do no more to those people than to give them my advice. It is not in my power to drive them oft*. Brothers: You must be sensible that I am obliged to look to the interest both of the United States and the Indians, and consider myself as accountable to both for whatever I do, and you may depend that, when I return, I will give you a just account of whatever takes place. Brothers: This business is of a serious nature, and is really a matter of importance to both parties. You may rest assured that the President is your friend, and that he will pay attention to thebusiuess which you laid before him. Brothers: You observed that you would send ten warriors to attend me. 1 must also request that you would send two of your chiefs. Brothers: The business which you desire me to do, is what I had little thought of. I am unprepared for (he journey; however, as I informed you that I would go, I shall set out immediately. Brothers: The speeches which you have delivered for the President, shall be. sent on as soon as is convenient, and you may shortly expect to receive an answer. 7'he Secretary of War to Governor Mifflin. War Department, July 17, 1794. Sir: The letter which your Excellency addressed to the President of the United States on the lath instant, while it presents a new aspect of our affairs with the Six Nations, does not remove the suspicion originally entertained. Tne proceedings at Buffalo creek on the 26th June. 1791, speak in t h rea (e ni nglanguage the dissatisfaction of those tribes with the new' settlements proposed. A second interview was had between General Chapin and them, at the same place, on his return from Le Boeuf, on the 4th instant, and a copy of (he minutes is now enclosed. The answer of Mr. Ellicot and Captain Denny could not move their purpose, as formerly expressed, and General Chapin, on the 29th of the same month, writes to me that, “ if he had not preceded to Le Boeuf, and the party of surveyors, &c. had proceeded, he believes that blood would have been shed.” We cannot well doubt, therefore, that the immediate prosecution of the establishment at Presqu’ Isle would call that confederacy to arms against the United States. If, indeed, sir, no hope remained of quieting them, or, at least, of preventing them from joining the hostile nations, forbearance might perhaps be misplaced. But General Chapin, whose duty requires him to attend minutely to those people in particular, and who, by enjoying their confidence, possesses full opportunity jo tie well informed, has delivered this opinion in his letter of the 26th ultimo: “ Although the minds of the Six Nations are much disturbed at the injuries which they say they have sustained, they are still opposed to war, and wish, if possible, to live in peace with (lie United States. They are much opposed to the establishing of garrisons in this quarter, as they think it will involve them in a war with the hostile Indians. They are likewise displeased at having their lands surveyed, which, they say, were not legally purchased.” On the 9th instant he adds: “Their main anxiety is, at present, respecting the settlement at Presqu’ Isle, as, they say, they have not fairly sold the land; the lines I described to you last winter are strongly adhered to by them, and. if the party at Le Boeuf proceed to erect garrisons at Presqu’ Isle, it will immediately call the attention of the hostile Indiaus that way, and would, in a short time, involve the Six Nations in a war which they wish to avoid. They wish to continue in a state of neutrality, if possible.” In both these, letters, sir, General Chapin urges the appointment of commissioners, who may treat on behalf of the United States and Pennsylvania, with the Six Nations; and lie is of opinion, that such an appointment would answer valuable purposes. Mr. Ellicot, who lias been employed by Pennsylvania, thinks that alt differences may be accommodated by treaty. Such, also, I understood, were the sentiments of your Excellency, in a conversation which I had the honor of holding with you, on Tuesday last. The President of the United States, therefore, instructs me to inform you, that lie is ready to nominate a commissioner, for opening a treaty with the Six Nations, at the Genesee river, on the fifteenth day of September next: that he shall have it in charge to endeavor, in conjunction with a commissioner from Pennsylvania, to adjust all differences against the establishment at Presqu’ Isle, and that the Department of War shall make all necessary arrangements, upon (bis bead, with your Excellency. It is not his intention, by this proposition, to cast any doubts upon the validity of the Pennsylvania title; that must stand upon its own ground. But, under the present circumstances, it must occur to you, sir, that the peaceable accommodation of the heart-burning of the Six Nations, is an object of great importance. There are other considerations, of real weight, which have been already communicated to you; these, too, have lost nothing of their force from late events. It. was never contemplated by the President of the United States to carry his opinions upon this subject farther than to state them as strongly as they were conceived by him. It is with your Excellency to compare them w'ith your constitutional and legal pow ers. If our enemies should receive so powerful an accession as the Six Nations, the General Government cannot be reproached for inattention, or a neglect to make full representation of the danger to be apprehended. The following are the proceedings of a General Council of the Six Nations, holden at Buffalo Creek, on the fourth of July, 1794. Clear Sky (an Onondaga chief) first spoke: He thanked the Great Spirit for the preservation of those who had been sent with the message to Le Boeuf. He then observed, that they had appointed Captain O’Bail, a Seneca chief, to he their speaker. The speech of Captain O’Bail: General Chapin, Mr. Johnson, and the whole deputation, attend; I thank the Great Spirit that you have all returned in safety. Captain O’Bail then addressed himself to General Washington, and said, now I call you friend. We, the Six Nations, ever since the beginning of the world, have had love for one another. We have now assembled concerning the business we sent to Presqu’ Isle, as we have received an answer to the message which we sent to that place. The answer we had brought from the men at Le Boeuf, relates every thing that has taken place since the peace; they mention every payment that has been made, and the greater part they have told us is not true. General Washington, attend; what gives ns room for the making of so many speeches, is, because you relate all the former deceptions which have been used. There is but one word that was said at Le Boeuf that makes me glad, which was, that they had given me land; but, to complete my wishes. I desire that the whole Six Nations might have land given them also. General Washington, I depend upon you to gratify our request, and that will make my mind easy: for sometimes I hear that I am going to flee from my seat for the injuries I have done. These reflections make me so unhappy, that I am almost tempted to die with the Six Nations. Brother: We are as determined now, as we were before, that the line shall remain. We have fully considered on the boundary we have marked out; we know all that we have received, from time to time, and we think, if you establish this line, it will make us about, even. Brother: If you do not comply with our request, we shall determine on something else, as we are a free people. Brother: We are determined to be a free people. You know, General Washington, that wc, the Six Nations, have always been able to defend ourselves, and we are still determined to maintain our freedom. _ Brother: You must not suspect that any other nation corrupts our minds; the only thing that can corrupt our minds, is not to grant our request. Brother: If this favor is not granted, I wish that my son may be sent back with the answer, and tell me which side, he means to join; if he wishes to join that side, he is" at liberty. General Washington, I wish you would give an answer as soon as is possible to this speech; and I desire the messengers who bring it, should come to this place. ‘ And you, General Chapin, stand between the Indians and the United States; we wish that you would give every assistance in your power to forward the business.—[.This speech was delivered with eight strings of black and white wampum.] Genera] Chapin's answer: Brothers: I am happy the Great Spirit has preserved us again to meet in council. 1 have heard with attention the speeches which you have made, and have had committed to writing; they have since been explained to you, and you see there is no deception. Brothers: 1 give it as my opinion, that General Washington is a firm friend to the Six Nations, arid that lie will not, by any means, see you wronged. Brothers: I am happy to hear that you think yourselves a free independent people: that is the case with the United States: they are tree and independent, and wish to take yon by the hand as brothers. It seems now that there is some dispute, hut the only way to have it settled is to come together, face to face, and talk the matter over candidly. Brothers: I shall now return home, and I shall forward your speech to General Washington as soon as is possible. In the meantime. 1 hope you will sit easy on your seats, until you hear General Washington’s voice. Brothers:' I always consider myself accountable to the Indians, as well as the United States. I aim at the good of both parties, and you may rest assured that nothing in my power shall be wanting to assist you. 1 shall prepare a copy of your determinations, to be sent on to Le Bceuf, provided you send runners for that purpose. N. B. The mention made of lands by Captain 0‘Bail, has reference to Mr. Ellicot's conversation in the council at fort Le Bceuf. Mr. Ellicot, alter relating the particulars concerning the treaty at fort Harmar, informed the Indians that the State of Pennsylvania had made three grants of land to Captain O’Bail. The Secretary of JTar to Governor Mifflin. W ar Department, July 21, 1791. Sir: Your Excellency’s letter of the 18tli instant, to the President ol the United States, has been duly received. It certainly was not his intention that personal embarrassment should be produced to you, from the suspension of the establishment at Presqu’ Isle. It has been uniformly avowed to your Excellency to be his wish, that it should be suspended until the efforts should be made for removing the temporary obstacles. The expression of this wish was a duty, inasmuch as an harmonious co-operation of the State Governments with the General Government must always be necessary, upon subjects in which the movements ol the former might essentially counteract those of the latter. Still the President does not mean to press upon your Excellency the slightest infringement of your constitutional or legal powers: for, while he himself pursues (lie constitution and laws of the United States, he shall always observe respect to those of individual States. Whatever responsibility, therefore, is attached to this communication of this desire to your Excellency, he readily assumes, and he deems it a fortunate circumstance that you have thought yourself hitherto at liberty to comply with it. How long the temporary obstacles to this settlement will continue, it is impossible to determine: they will certainly last until the campaign against the Western Indians is ended, unless the disposition of the Six Nations should be materially changed. Neither your Excellency, nor the attorney general, have defined the period to which the suspension may, under the circumstances stated by him. be legally continued; but, as the enlistments of the. troops do not expire before the first of December, and may be continued longer, and as the period for allowing bounties for actual settlement does not close before the first ol next May, it is evident there is sufficient time for holding a treaty with the Six Nations, if begun about the middle of September. A commissioner will attend for that purpose, in behalf of the United States, at Canandaigua, on the fifteenth day of September next, and those tribes will be invited thither. As the object will be not only to pre\ent them from engaging in hostilities against us, but also to procure an acquiescence in the settlement proposed, it may be naturally expected, that their objections to the purchase will stand very forward. It might prove beneficial if a commissioner could be sent from Pennsylvania: but it appears from your Excellency's last letter that this cannot he done. Our commissioner will, therefore, take charge of the documents which you have promised, ami nail use his best endeavors to quiet the discontents. He will not he authorized to make any concessions injurious to the title, nor to give expectation of any further compensation from your State. If he cannot accommodate the dispute under the influence of the United States, by proper explanations, he will report the result, as the basis of ulterior measures. Copy of a letter from the Secretary of I Tar to the Attorney General of the United Staten. M ar Department, March 31, 1791. Sir : The Governor of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has transmitted to (he President of the United States the enclosed copy of a law, for raising lour companies of troops for the port of Philadelphia, and the defence of the frontiers. And. as it may he considered by some persons as a matter of doubt, whether this measure of Pennsylvania is not incompatible with the constitution of the United States, 1 am instructed to request your opinion thereon in writing. Sir: Answer of the Attorney General. April 3d, 1791. By your letter of the 91st ultimo, I understand that a question is made, how far the measures contemplated by an act of Pennsylvania, for securing the trade, peace, and safety, of the port of Philadelphia, and defending the western frontiers of the Commonwealth, are consistent with the constitution of the United States. 1 have, therefore, considered that question with attention, and have now the honor to state to you my opinion, agreeably to your request. The act authorizes the Governor to raise by enlistment, from the militia of the Commonwealth, three companies of riflemen, and one of artillery, to serve under his orders and instruction* for eight months, anil from thence, until the next meeting of the Legislature, if, in his opinion, the war in Europe, or on the frontiers, shall require it. The artillery company is to be stationed at lort Mifflin, for the purpose of securing the trade, peace, and safety, of the port of Philadelphia—a measure which the preamble declares to be expedient, “during the continuance of the war which now rages in Europe;" the rest of the companies (with a detachment of the artillery, which the Governor is empowered to make) are to he stationed for the defence of the Western frontiers, and to protect the infant settlements at Presqu’ Isle. By the constitution of the United States, it is provided, “that no State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage, keep troops or ships of war in time of peace,” &c. This restriction on the power of keeping troops, I am of opinion, is not absolute,- hut that the qualification intended by the terms “ in time of peace,” extends to it as well as to that of keeping ships of war. There is, therefore. I apprehend, nothing in the constitution which prohibits the several States from keeping troops in time of war. So far, then, as the act in question contemplates the defence of the Western frontiers against the hostilities of the Indians now at war with the United States, 1 consider it as within the strictest limits of the constitution. Such measures have heretofore been pursued by the State of Pennsylvania, without objection, and a practical construction of this clause has thus been given. The rest of the act, however, is questionable, and it is not without some hesitation that I decide upon it. The spirit of a prohibition to keep troops in time of peace, seems to imply, that the troops raised and kept in time of war, ought to be raised, kept, and employed, with reference to the objects of that war. It is easy to perceive that the dangers which the people of the United States intended to guard against by this prohibition, will exist, if on every breaking out of Indian or other hostilities, the members of the confederacy may raise troops, and build ships of war for any object but that of repelling such hostilities. But, although these consequences are evident, I cannot find in the instrument itself, any thing which prohibits the States from stationing and employing the troops which they have a right to keep in time of war, in such manner as they please, so that it be within their respective limits, and do not interfere with the Federal arrangements. I consider all those clauses in the constitution, which restrict the powers of the several States, as subject to a strict construction; and, that these prohibitions are not to be extended by implication, nor the natural and obvious meaning of the words to be enlarged by a consideration of inconveniences which may possibly result from adhering to it. But, I am also of opinion, that so much of the act as goes to authorize the Governor to keep up those companies, if the circumstances of the war in Europe should, in his opinion, require it, is not compatible with the constitution of the United States. If peace shall be made with the Indians, and the United States be engaged in no other war, these troops cannot be constitutionally kept tip by Pennsylvania, although the war should continue to rage in Europe. AVM. BRADFORD. 3d Congress.] 
