NO. 234 FUR TRADE. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, MARCH 8, 1826. [Mr. BENTON, from the Committee on Indian Affairs, reported a bill “ for the better regulation of the fur trade,” and laid on the table the, following documents in relation thereto: SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 15, 1826. I have the honor to enclose, herewith, copies of a letter and report to the chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs of the House of Representatives, which embrace the reference of the same subject made by you to me in yours of the 7th instant. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, *	JAMES BARBOUR. The Hon. THOMAS H. BENTON, Chairman Committee on Indian Affairs, United States Senate. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 15, 1826. In reply to your letter of the 10th February, I have the honor to state, that as my attention had been previously called to the subject referred to, (viz: the operations of the fourth section,) by Messrs. Stuart and Pratte, engaged in the Indian trade, with a view to collect all the information within my reach, I referred the communication of these gentlemen to Governor Cass and the officer in charge of the Indian Bureau, connected with this Department. Their reports I herewith enclose, and to which I respectfully refer the committee. I beg leave to invite the attention of the committee to the other amendments suggested by Governor Cass, as being necessary to the successful operation of the policy of the United States in respect to the Indians. I have not the bill before me, and therefore am less able to say precisely what the additional provision should be, whose necessity is suggested, in reference to the protection of the emigrants; yet, I venture to submit one which can be modified by the committee, who will give it its place in the bill. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, &c. JAMES BARBOUR. To the Hon. JOHN COCKE, Chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs. And, upon a declaration being made by any Indian or Indians to a United States commissioner or commissioners, or to the Indian agent residing near or with the tribe or nation to which such Indian or Indians may belong, of a willingness to remove, he, she, or they, upon enrolling their names for that object, shall be considered by that act to be under the protection of the United States; and any injury done, thereafter, to the person or property of 83 E such Indian or Indians, shall subject the offender or offenders committing the same to be prosecuted and punished in the same manner, and to the same extent, as though the offence had been perpetrated on the person or property of a citizen within the territory of the United States. SIR:V	* WASHINGTON CITY, January 28, 1826. We are extensively engaged in the Indian trade, and our experience has shown us some prominent and practicable defects in the present system. The fourth section of the act of Congress, approved 25th May, 1824, makes it the duty of “Indian agents, from time to time, to designate certain convenient and suitable places for carrying on trade with the different tribes; and to require all traders to transact their business at the places thus designated, and at no other place or places.” The evils resulting, both to the traders and Indians, from the operation under this section, are apparent to all those who are practically informed on the subject; and we will take the liberty to point out some of them. 1st. The traders being bound .to hold no intercourse with the Indians but at the designated houses of trade, causes a very considerable portion of the furs of the Upper Missouri, and those along our northern boundary line, to fall into the hands of the British(traders, who, being aware of our circumscribed locations, will make all possible diligence to find out our Indian debtors, and secure the whole advantage of the result of their hunt; and thereby take from us a commercial resource, which was contemplated by our Government to be secured to its citizens. 2d. When the Indians are supplied with necessaries by their traders, they go off to a great distance from the trading stand, to make their Hunt; and when it is completed, they have not the means, if they had the inclination, to transport the proceeds to the trading establishment: the consequence generally is, that the hunt is prosecuted with little energy; but, should it prove abundant, the first lawless itinerant who roams the country, regardless of the laws and regulations, will profit by the opportunity thus afforded, and obtain for little consideration a part, if not all the furs, to the great injury of the Indians, as well as the honest trader, who furnished the means of making the hunt.	. 3d. The Indians usually divide their country into different districts; they will hunt in one this season, and in another the next; and the location made this year will not suit the trader the year following. Nor can he be informed sufficiently soon each season in what quarter the. Indians will pursue the next fall hunt, to enable him to apply for a change of his trading location, and obtain the sanction of the proper authorities in time to meet the trade. • 4th. By this system, the trader can seldom know what supply of goods, clerks, and boatmen to take into the Indian country, not knowing the exact number of locations; and if to each tribe a location is assigned, the number of clerks and men must be adequate, and, consequently, the profit of the trader becomes extremely doubtful. But were he permitted, as formerly, to locate himself in the vicinity of the hunting ground, so as to be enabled to supply the casual wants of the Indians, and receive and carry home their peltries, it would enable him to make an accurate calculation of what men and other means should be required. 5th. Different establishments must, at present, be made, to secure the whole trade of any one band^ who, for hunting purposes, are divided into small parties; and it is impossible to say what means may be necessary at any one point, either for protection or the purposes of trade. A large supply may be sent to one location, and but few Indians may hunt in that quarter, while additional men and means are required at another point. 6th. By the present system, it is rendered very unsafe for the trader to accord to the Indians the usual credits; without which, their sufferings must be great, and their wants will press them to commit depredations to obtain those necessaries, without which they are miserable. We are firmly of opinion that no evil can possibly result by permitting free intercourse between the traders and the Indians, and that it would tend greatly to their mutual benefit and accommodation; because the Indians would then be securely trusted with the necessary articles for the winter, which is very important for the happiness of themselves and families; and the trader would be enabled to make the most judicious disposition of his men and goods, and have an opportunity of receiving his payment in furs and peltries, and of carrying them, to watercourses; thereby saving the Indians the excessive labor of transportation. Should you, sir, concur with usin this belief, we respectfully solicit the influence of your judgment in procuring a repeal of the fourth section above alluded to, and thereby give tu this valuable branch of trade an additional and much desired facility fur promoting its prosperity. Sir, we are, most respectfully, your most obedient servants, BERN. PRATTE, Hon. JAMES BARBOUR.	'	ROBERT STUART. SIR:	WASHINGTON, February 2, 1826. I have examined the letter addressed by Messrs. Stuart and Pratte to the War Department; and although in some of the details I may dissent from them in opinion, yet I agree in the general conclusion at which they arrive. I believe the system of establishing stationary posts for the traders in the Indian country has produced little advantage, while it has been attended with serious inconvenience to the traders and the Indians. I think it may be abolished with safety. There are some defects in the existing laws regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, which I will take the liberty of suggesting to you, in the hope that the subject may be brought before the proper committee. The act of Congress of March 30th, 1802, to regulate trade and intercourse among the Indian tribes, and to preserve peace on the frontiers, contains several general provisions, prohibiting all white persons from going into the Indian country, for certain objects enumerated in the act. These provisions will be found in the second, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh sections. They are, generally, to hunt or destroy game, to commit certain specific offences, to make settlements and surveys, and to trade.	■ In the third section, however, there is a provision wholly general in its operation, which renders it penal for any citizen to go into any part of the Indian country south of the Ohio, without a passport from some officer or agent authorized to grant it. Why this provision was limited to the Indian country south of the Ohio, it is difficult to discover. It is certainly as necessary elsewhere as there. It is frequently impossible to ascertain with what intention a person enters the Indian country. As the law now stands, he is not liable to any penalty north of the Ohio, unless his intentions are disclosed by some other act; consequently, he has full time to mature and execute his plans, before the proper agent can take measures to prevent or secure him. Foreign emissaries may likewise enter any part of our Indian territories, and acquire and exercise an influence equally injurious to the Government and the Indians. The ninth section of the same act prohibits any citizen from purchasing or receiving of an Indian a gun, or any other article commonly used in hunting, any instrument of husbandry or cooking utensil, or any article of clothing. in the efforts now making to civilize and improve the Indians, it is important that they should learn the value of ' cattle, and direct their attention to raising them. Oxen have frequently been given to them, at their own request, to promote their agricultural operations; but, the first time they become intoxicated, it is easy to prevail upon them to exchange their cattle for whiskey. It is, therefore, important that this prohibition should be extended to cattle. In the second section of the act of Blay 6, 1822, Indian agents are authorized to cause the stores and packages of all traders to be searched, upon suspicion or information that ardent spirits are carried into the Indian country by said traders. The expression “ Indian traders,” used in this act, is not sufficiently definite. It may be doubted whether it means the country to which the Indian title has not been extinguished, or the country where they live, and which they occupy. The objects of the law would require the latter construction; and such has been the decision of the district court of Indiana. But the question has already occasioned much doubt and difficulty, and it is important that it should be settled. The section is also defective in another particular: it contains no directions respecting the disposition which shall be made- of the property between the time of seizure and the time of trial. The agent is consequently exposed, in the performance of this duty, to much pecuniary responsibility. It is very desirable that a law should be passed prohibiting the giving or selling whiskey to Indians, in any place, or under any circumstances. There are, generally, local laws upon this subject, but they are not enforced. There is reason to believe that an act of Congress would be carried more fully into effect, and would producer beneficial operation. In granting licenses, a discretionary authority should be vested in the agent. Many persons obtain licenses who are utterly unfit to enter the Indian country. While there, they violate the laws, and produce the worst effects upon the morals of the Indians. From the nature of the trade, and the residence of the persons engaged in it, it is difficult and almost impossible to detect breaches of the laws committed in the Indian country. Offenders too often escape with impunity; and, although some restraint is imposed by the abundant security which is given by all the traders, still an irreproachable character in life is a better guaranty for the correct conduct of the applicant than any previous security or eventual fear of punishment. The traders exercise a paramount influence over the Indians, and little can be done towards meliorating the condition of the latter, without the co-operation of the former. By vesting in the agent discretionary power to withhold a license from a person of unworthy character, a very' • wholesome restraint would be exercised upon (he conduct of the traders. The abuseof this authority may be prevented, by allowing an appeal from the agent to the superintendent, and from the latter to the War Department. It is also important that, when a person has been once detected in a breach of the laws regulating trade and intercourse with the Indians, he should be forever excluded from the Indian country. In the existing state of things, a trader may go on sinning against the law, year after year, paying the penalty if the misdemeanor be discovered, and still be entitled to a license as often as he applies for it. The practical operation of this course of measures upon a frontier is, that the agent is enabled to exercise little efficient control over the important subjects in our Indian relations. The provisions I have mentioned would guard the Indians against the improper conduct of the traders, and would strengthen the authority of the officers of the Government. I have the honor, &c. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War.	LEWIS CASS. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, February 14, 1826. I have had the honor to receive your directions of this date, (accompanied by a letter from the chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs of the House of Representatives, of the 10th instant, to you,) to “ furnish my views of the expediency or inexpediency of repealing the fourth section of the act of Coiagréss of the 25th of May, 1824; also, such information as I may possess in regard to General Ashley’s location, and why he has not been located, as the committee suppose, in obedience to the aforesaid section; also, what provision is necessary to guard emigrant Indians against any violence that may be offered to prevent their separation from their respective tribes, under the contemplated provision for their location upon lands west of the Mississippi.” The fourth section of the aforesaid act is in the words following, to wit: “ And be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of Indian agents to designate, from time to time, certain convenient and suitable places for carrying on trade with the different Indian tribes, and to require all traders to trade at the places thus designated, and at no other place or places.” The expediency or inexpediency of repealing this section may be considered, first, as a measure affecting the Indians; and, secondly, those who hold intercourse with them. The chief object of the Congress in adopting this provision was, doubtless, the protection of the Indians. In this point of view, the provision is as just as it is humane. Just, because the Indians have claims upon the Government for protection; and humane, because, without its interference, all experience testifies that they must be injured. But the question is, does the provision in the section under consideration answer those great ends? An answer, to be conclusive, could be given only by a comparison of the state of excitements in the Indian country, and along our borders, prior to the operations of this act, and since it has been in force. But the act is of too recent origin to have disclosed any very striking effects in correcting the evils which it was intended to remedy. It is believed, however, that a comparative quiet has been produced by it already; that fewer murders have been committed among the Indians themselves, and by them upon the whites, since the trade has been restricted, than before. In myopinion, its operations have been salutary; and, if every thing which it was hoped to gain by it has not been realized, it is owing more to the short period in which the act has been in operation than to any defect in its provisions. But the adaptation of the provision to the objects contemplated by it may be reasoned upon; and, perhaps, without waiting for the tests of experience, it may be shown that the Congress was not mistaken in its policy, but acted with both wisdom and humanity in determining that the trade with our Indians should be carried on at “ convenient and suitable places, to be designated, from time to time, by the Indian agents, and at no other place or places.” It is not necessary that I should enter into a minute detail of the nature of the trade with our Indians, or stop to illustrate the principles which, it is admitted on all hands, but too universally govern it. The legislative enactments of Congress demonstrate that, in the opinion of that body, checks are essential for its control, and severe penalties required to guard it from abuse. I need do no more, in this place, than refer to the twenty-second section of the act of 30th March, 1802, and to the second section of that of the 6th Blay, 1822—both striking at the very root of the evil; or, I should rather say, aiming to do so; and which the fourth section of the act of 25th Blay, 1824, was so wisely and mercifully intended to second and sustain. These acts may be taken as conveying the views of the Congress on the necessity of protecting the Indians; and, that the correctness of these views may appear, I have the honor to accompany this with an extract front a letter from Colonel Snelling, dated “ Detroit, August 23,1825.” This letter sheds, it must be confessed, a very painful light upon the evils which the Congress has been so long and so humanely essaying to correct! And yet it is but one of many from which similar extracts could be made. The source of all the difficulty is to be found in the necessity which the traders esteem them- ’ selves to be under to carry spirituous liquors into the Indian country; and it is iron) this source that so much wretchedness and so many evils proceed. There are many persons engaged in this trade whose feelings, no doubt, revolt at the calamities which a traffic of this sort occasions; but the forbidden and destructive article is considered so essential to a lucrative commerce, as not only to still those feelings, but to lead the traders to brave the most imminent hazards, and evade, by various methods, the threatened penalties of the law. It was but recently that General Tipton, Indian agent at Fort Wayne, seized an outfit on its way to the Indian country, to a considerable amount, owned by the American Fur Company, and in possession of one of its agents, in which was a parcel of whiskey. The tribunal before which the case was tried confirmed the act of the agent, and confiscated the property; but an appeal has been made to a higher tribunal, and the case remains to be rejudged. If the experience of the country, the legislative enactments of the Congress, and the report of Colonel Snelling, have any claims upon our confidence, then the evidence is conclusive that evils of the most mischievous and degrading kind do attend upon the trade with our Indians, and call loudly upon the Government fora remedy. If former laws, and printed regulations under them, have proved inoperative, and have fallen short of their object, shall we, for that reason, permit the avenues to remain wide open as heretofore, and take away all our guards; or seek to narrow the one, and multiply the other? Does net policy unite with justice and humanity in demanding the adoption of the latter course? If the Indians are to remain subject to the excitements of an intoxicated and bruti- fied state, where is the security against acts of violence upon our settlements, or against the rupturing of the peace of our borders, or for travellers who may be passing in unsuspecting security within their reach? Or, who can tell, while acting under such excitements, and committing such violence, when the wars that may be kindled by such doings will cease, or estimate the cost to the United States which these may occasion? It is believed that sound policy, no less than justice and humanity, requires that it should be made a capital offence for any person to furnish spirituous liquors to Indians, under any circumstances. But, in the absence of such a provision, it does appear to me that the next best measure, viewed in connexion with existing prohibitory laws, is, to oblige those who may carry on trade with them to do so from certain designated places. These, however, ought to be made “suitable and convenient;” and so the law provides. In such immeasurable and undefined regions as make up our western world, who would ever think of detecting in the passes to it, much less of overtaking and convicting, those who might once get through, as violators of the laws, by introducing whiskey into them? Ooce through the passes, and fairly by the points where the sentinels of the laws are placed, (and it would take an army of these to guard all the points,) there can be no efforts resorted to vigorous enough to authorize any reasonable expectation of success in overtaking and arresting the evil. As well might the agents attempt to catch a distant and flying cloud, or to stop the descent of a mountain torrent. They might oppose the progress of both in the directions in which they were tending; but the movements of neither could be stopped until the one should evaporate, and the other become dry at its source.	• The existing obligation to locate and carry on trade at places which are known, and no others, and which are previously designated, does appear to me to bring the evils, which it is esteemed on all hands to be so important to remedy, more, immediately within the eye of the officers of the Government and the grasp of the law, than any that has been heretofore devised. It is apparent, from the very statement of the case, that the chances of detection are greatly multiplied by the existing provision; and just in proportion as this point is gained will the evil diminish. The agents have a power over the vending of spirituous liquors in the one case, which they could never attain in the other. There needs no argument to prove this, as nobody, it is presumed, will dispute it. Bur the penalty is heavier in the one case than in the other; and this will operate as an additional check. Wherever the trader may be located, there is the whole amount of his property, in one confined and tangible place; whereas, when he roams the country at will, it is separated into smaller parcels, and borne about upon pack-horses. In the latter case, even if he is detected, (experience has proven, however, that, once in the forests, there is very little risk,) the levy might fall upon no more than the amount of what a single pack-horse would carry; and that, if forfeited, would be matter of small concern, and scarcely worth guarding. These are some of the considerations which make it, in my opinion, inexpedient to repeal the fourth section of the act of thé 25th of May, 1824. I have assumed the position that the Government owes protection to our Indians; this, it is presumed, is admitted. • I have shown, by reference to acts of Congress, and the report of Colonel Snelling, the nature and character of the trade which is carried on with them, and its demoralizing and afflictive consequences; and offered some reasons to show that the provisions of the fourth section of the aforesaid act arc well adapted to correct, if not all, yet some of those evils; from which the inference is drawn, that it would be inexpedient to repeal the section. Apart from considerations relating to the protection of the Indians, (and, I may add, affecting the honor of the country,) is one which I will beg leave to introduce here: it relates to the fur trade, and to the importance, for statistical purposes, of having more exact returns than have ever yet been furnished. It is a branch of commerce highly important and interesting to the country; and yet no means exist by which the country can arrive at any satisfactory knowledge of its amount or value. A simple regulation, requiring of the licensed and located traders to make annual reports, and in detail, of their outfits and returns to the agents within whose jurisdiction they might carry on their trade, would secure this information. These returns could be more systematically made, and be received more promptly and regularly from loCal places of trade, than from a trade which would be shifting over the vast regions of the north and west, with no settled spot from which a trader could so regularly make them. The question of expediency or inexpediency of repealing the section remains to be considered in regard to the traders. The reference in the letter of the chairman of the committee to the British trade points to this same issue. If it is pernicious to the Indians, and makes them miserable and wretched, and tends to stir them up to war upon one another and upon the whites, for the British to seduce them across the lines by the influence of whiskey, it can be no justification to multiply this wretchedness by cutting loose the restrictions which now exist, and leaving the American traders the more free to compete with their British neighbors by the use of this same article, although they should derive additional pecuniary benefits from it. Upon this point, the British traders being denied the privilege, by law, of trading within our limits, there is no way in which they can carry on trade with our Indians (except by risking the penalties to which all unlicensed traders are liable) but for the Indians to go over to them. This, truly, is an evil of which our citizens have a right to complain. But it is respectfully suggested whether it should not be made a question between the American and British Governments, and not one with this Government alone; and which, if yielded to, would add to the afflictions of the unfortunate race for whose helplessness both Governments should feel a sympathy, and to whom both Governments should unite in extending protection. To conclude: under any views which may be taken of the suitableness or unsuitableness of the provision in the fourth section of the aforesaid act, is it not desirable, on many accounts, that, before the question of repeal is taken, time enough should be allowed to test its merits? If it be a shield, intended to protect our Indians, and secure the peace of our borders, and shall, after a fair trial, answer those great ends, even in part, it is presumed the Con- ' gress would not feel willing to repeal,it. But the object being protection, and this measure turning out to realize only in part this design, the next step that would be taken effectually to cure the evil might be to make it a capital crime for spirituous liquors to be furnished to the Indians, under any circumstances. With such a provision now, the fourth section of the act aforesaid might be dispensed with. The committee are mistaken in regard to General Ashley; he is within the superintendency of General Clark, of St. Louis. The report from that oflicer of the 14th of September, 1825, states that William H. Ashley bonded, on the 24th of September, 1824, in the sum of $4,000, and that his term was for three years. His location is among a band of the Snake Indians, west of the Rocky Mountains, at the junction of two large rivers, (names unknown, but supposed to be the branches of the Bonaventura and the Colorado of the West.) His capital employed is stated to be $8,000. All that would be necessary, as a provision to protect such Indians as may incline to emigrate from the penalties which their respective tribes might be led to inflict, to stop their emigration, would be a line in one of the sections of the bill securing to such as might enrol their names for emigratiomtlie protection of the United States. All which is respectfully submitted. THOS. L. MCKENNEY. To the Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War. Extracts of a letter from Colonel J. Snelling to the Secretary of War, dated ' DETROIT, August 23, 1825. In former letters addressed to the Department of War, I have adverted to the mischievous consequences resulting from the introduction of whiskey and other distilled spirits into the Indian country. The pretext is, that our traders cannot enter into successful competition with the British traders without it. Jf the sale of whiskey could be restricted to the vicinity of the British line, the mischief would be comparatively trivial; but, if permitted at all, no limits can be set to it. A series of petty wars and murders, and the introduction of every species of vice and debauchery by the traders and their engagés, will be the consequences. It becomes, also, a fruitfill source of complaint with those engaged in the same trade from the west. The traders who obtain supplies from St. Louis pass Fort Snelling, at the mouth of the river St. Peter’s, where, in obedience to the orders I have received from the President, their boats are searched, and no spirituous 1 iqtiors are permitted to be taken further. The traders who arc licensed for the lakes, spread themselves over the whole country between Lake Superior and the Upper Mississippi; their whiskey attracts a large proportion of the Indians to their trading-houses; and the western traders not only have to complain of the loss of custom, but, in many instances, the Indians, who have obtained their goods of them, are seduced by whiskey to carry the produce of their winter’s hunt to others. This has long been one of the tricks of the trade. The traders, who are not generally restrained by any moral rules, after they pass the boundary, practise it without scruple whenever opportunities occur; and he who has the most whiskey generally carries off the furs. They are so far from being ashamed of the practice, that it affords them sfibjects for conversation by their winter fires. I have myself frequently heard them boast of their exploits in that way. The neighborhood of the trading-houses where whiskey is sold presents a disgusting scene of drunkenness, debauchery, and misery; it is the fruitful source of all our difficulties, and of nearly all the murders committed in the Indian country. In my route from St. Peter’s to this place, I passed Prairie du Chien, Green Bay, and Mackinac; no language can describe the scenes of vice which there present themselves: herds of Indians are drawn together by the fascinations of whiskey, and they exhibit the most degraded picture of human nature I ever witnessed. I happened to be at this place in July, when the Indians within the territory of the United States visited Malden. The presents they received there were infinitely greater in quantity, and superior in quality, to those received of our agents; these were immediately brought to our shore, and exchanged for whiskey. For the accommodation of my family, I have taken a house about three miles from town; and, in passing to and from it, I had daily opportunities of seeing the road literally strewed with the bodies of men, women, and children, in the last stages of brutal intoxication. It is true there are laws in this Territory to restrain the sale of whiskey, but they are not regarded; too many are interested in what is here considered a profitable trade. I was informed by a person of veracity, that one man (a Mr.	) had purchased this season above three hundred blankets for whiskey; they cost him, on an average, about seventy-five cents each. I passed this man’s door daily; it was always surrounded by Indians, and many were passing in and out with kegs on their backs.	, If the evil could be confined to the places I have mentioned, it would be of little importance; but the facilities afforded to traders on the upper lakes are spreading it through all those extensive regions within the American boundaries. The present year there has been delivered to the agent of the North American Fur Company at Mackinac (by contract) three thousand three hundred gallons of whiskey and two thousand five hundred of high wines. The practice of using high wines is a favorite one with the traders, as it saves transportation, and the quantity of liquor can be increased at pleasure. I have been inadvertently Ird further into this subject than I intended; but I will venture to add, that an inquiry into the manner in which the Indian trade is conducted, and especially by the North American Fur Company, is a matter of no small importance to the tranquillity of the borders. 19th CONGRESS.] 
