No. 67. [1st Session. TREATY OF GREENVILLE. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 9, 1795. Gentlemen of the Senate: I lay before you, for your consideration, a treaty of peace which has been negotiated by General Wayne, on behalf of the United States, with all the late hostile tribes oflndians, northwest of the river Ohio; together with the instructions* which were given to General Wayne, and the proceedings at the place of treaty. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, December 9, 1795. A treaty of peace between the United States of America and the tribes of Indians called the Tfyandots, Delawares, Shawancse, Ottawas, Chippewas, Pattawatamies, Miamies, Eel Rivers, JUeas, Kickapoos, Piankeshaws, and Kaskuskias. To put an end to a destructive war, to settle all controversies, and to restore harmony and friendly intercourse between the said United States and Indian tribes, Anthony Wayne, Major General, commanding the army of the United States, and sole commissioner for the good purposes abovementioned; and the said tribes oflndians, by their sachems, chiefs, and warriors, met together at Greenville, the head quarters of the said army, have agreed on the following articles, which, when ratified by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States, sliall be binding on them and the said Indian tribes: Article 1. Henceforth, all hostilities shall cease; peace is hereby established, and shall be perpetual; and a friendly intercourse shall take place between the said United States and Indian tribes. Art. 2. All prisoners shall, on both sides, be restored. The Indians, prisoners to the United States, shall be immediately set at liberty. The people of the United States, still remaining prisoners among the Indians, shall be delivered up in ninety days from the date hereof, to the General or commanding officer at Greenville, fort Wayne, or fort Defiance; and ten chiefs of the said tribes shall remain at Greenville as hostages, until the delivery of the prisoners shall be effected. Art. 3. The general boundary line, between the lands of the United States and the lands of the said Indian tribes, shall begin at the mouth of Cuyahoga river, and run thence, up the same, to the portage between that and the Tuscarawas branch of the Muskingum; thence, down that branch to the crossing place, above fort Lawrence; thence westerly, to a fork of that branch of the great Miami river running into the Ohio, at or near which fork stood Loro-mie’s store, and where commences the portage between the Miami of the Ohio and St. Mary’s river, which is a branch of the Miami, which ruus into lake Erie; thence, a westerly course to fort Recovery, wliicli stands on a branch of the Wabash; thence, southwesterly in a direct line to the Ohio, so as to intersect that river opposite the mouth of Kentucky or Cuttawa river. And, in consideration of the peace now established, of the goods formerly received from the United States, of those now to be delivered, and of the yearly delivery of goods now stipulated to be made hereafter, and to indemnify the United States for the injuries and expenses they have sustained during the war, the said Indian tribes do hereby cede and relinquish, forever, al l their claims to the lands lying eastwardly and southwardly of the general boundary line, now described, and these lands, or any part of them, shall never hereafter be made a cause or pretence, on the part of the said tribes, or any of them, of war or injury to the United States, or any of the people thereof. And for the same considerations, and as an evidence of the returning friendship of the said Indian tribes, of their confidence in the United States, and desire to provide for their accommodation, and for that convenient intercourse which will be beneficial to both parties, the said Indian tribes do also cede to the United States, the following pieces of land, to nut: 1. One piece of land, six miles square, at or near Loromie’s store, before mentioned. 2. One piece two miles square, at the head of the navigable water or landing, on the St. Mary’s river, near Girty’s town. 3. One piece six miles square, at the head of the navigable water of the Auglaize river. 4. One piece six miles square, at the coniluence of the Auglaize and Miami rivers, where fort Defiance now stands. 5. One piece six miles square, at or near the confluence of the rivers St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s, where fort Wayne now stands, or near it. i). One piece two miles square, on the Wabash river, at. the end of the portage from the Miami of the lake, and about eight miles westward from fort Wayne. 7. One piece six miles square, at the Ouiatanon, or old Wea towns, on the Wabash river. 8. One piece twelve miles square, at the British fort, on the Miami of the lake, at the foot of the Rapids. 9. One piece six miles square, at the mouth of the said river, where it empties into the lake. 1°. J^e piece six miles square, upon Sandusky lake, where a fort formerly stood. 11. One piece two miles square, afthe lower rapids of Sandusky river. 12. The post of Detroit, and all the lands to the north, the west, and the south of it, of which the Indian title has been extinguished by gifts or grants to the French or English governments: and so much more land, to be annexed to the district of Detroit,as shall be comprehended between the river Rosine, on the south, lake St. Clair, on the north, and a line, the general course whereof shall be six miles distant from the west end of lake Erie and Detroit river. 13. The post of Michilimackinac, and all the land on the island on which that post stands, and the main land adjacent, of which the Indian title has been extinguished by gifts or grants to the French or English governments; and a piece of land on the main, to the north of the island, to measure six miles on lake Huron, or the strait between lakes Huron and Michigan, and to extend three miles back from the water of the lake or strait; and. also, the island De Bois Blanc, being an extra and voluntary gift of the Chippewa nation. 14. One piece of land six miles square, at the mouth of Chicago river, emptying into the southwest end of lake Michigan, where a fort formerly stood. 15. One piece twelve miles square, at or near the mouth of the Illinois river, emptying into the Mississippi, 1(3. One piece six miles square, at the old Peorias fort and village, near the south end of the Illinois lake, on said Illinois river. And whenever the United States shall think proper to survey and mark the boundaries of the lands hereby ceded to them, they shall give timely notice thereof to the said tribes oflndians, that they may appoint some of their wise chiefs, to attend and see that the lines are run according to the terms of this treaty. And the said Indian tribes will allow to the people of the United States, a free passage by land and by water, as one and the other shall be found convenient, through their country, along the chain of posts hereinbefore mentioned; that is to say, from the commencement of the portage aforesaid, at or near Loromie’s store, thence, along said portage to the St. Mary’s, and down the same to fort Wayne, and then down the Miami to lake Erie: again, from the commencement of the portage at or near Loromie’s store, along the portage; from thence to the river Auglaize, and down the same to its junction with the Miami, at fort Defiance; again, from the commencement of the portage aforesaid, to Sandusky river, and down the same to Sandusky bay and lake Erie, and from Sandusky to the post which shall be taken at or near the foot of the rapids of the Miami of the lake; and from thence to Detroit. Again, from the mouth of Chicago, to the commencement of the portage, between that river and the Illinois, and down the Illinois river to the Mississippi; also, from fort Wayne, along the portage aforesaid, which leads to the Wabash, and then down the Wabash to the Ohio. And the said Indian tribes will, also, allow to the people of the United States, the free use of the harbors and mouths of rivers along the lakes adjoining the Indian lands, for sheltering vessels and boats, and liberty to land their cargoes where necessary for their safety. ’The instructions are not on file. Art. 4. In consideration oi the peace, now established, and of the cessions and relinquishments o) lands made in the preceding article by the said tribes of Indians, and to manifest the liberality of the United States, as the great means of rendering this peace strong anil perpetual, the United States relinquish their claims to all other Indian lands, northward of the river Ohio, eastward of the Mississippi, and westward and southward of the Great Lakes, and the waters uniting them, according to the boundary line agreed on by the United States and the King of Great Britain, in the treaty of peace, made between them in the year 1783. But, from this relinquishment by the United States, the following tracts of land are explicitly excepted. 1st. The tract of one hundred and fifty thousand acres, near the rapids of the river Ohio, which has been assigned to General Clark, for the use of himselt and his warriors. 2d. The post of St. Vincennes, on the river Wabash, and the lands adjacent, of which the Indian title has been extinguished. 3d. The lands at all other places in possession of the French people, and other white settlers among them, of which the Indian title has been extinguished, as mentioned in the 3d article; and 4th. The post of fort Massac, towards the mouth of the Ohio. To which several parcels of lands, so excepted, the said tribes relinquish all the title and claim which they or any of them may have. And for the same considerations, and with the same views as above mentioned, the United States now deliver to the said Indian tribes, a quantity of goods, to the value of twenty thousand dollars, the receipt whereof they do hereby acknow ledge; and henceforward, every year, forever, the United States w ill deliver, at some convenient place northward of the river Ohio, like useful goods, suited to the circumstances of the Indians, of the value of nine thousand five hundred dollars; reckoning that value at the first cost of the goods in the city or place, in the United States, where they shall be procured. The tribes to which those goods are to be annually delivered, and the proportions in which they are to be delivered, are the following: 1st To the Wyandots, the amount of one thousand dollars. 2d. To the Delawares, the amount of one thousand dollars. 3d. To the Shawanese, the amount of one thousand dollars. 4th. To the Miamies, the amount of one thousand dollars. 5th. To the Ottawas, the amount of one thousand dollars, tith. To the Chippewas, the amount of one thousand dollars. 7th. To the Pattawatannes, the amount of one thousand dollars. 8th. And to the Kickapoo, Wea, Eel River, Piankeshaw.and Kaskaskia tribes, the amount of five hundred dollars,each. Provided, that if either of the said tribes shall, hereafter, at an annual delivery of their share of the goods aforesaid, desire that a part of their annuity should be furnished in domestic animals, implements of husbandry, and other ^ utensils convenient for them, and in compensation to useful artificers, who may reside with, or near them, and be employed for their benefit, the same shall, at the subsequent annual deliveries, be furnished accordingly. Art. 5. To prevent any misunderstanding about the Indian lands relinquished by the United States in the fourth article, it is now- explicitly declared, that the meaning of that relinquishment, is this: the Indian tribes who have a right to those lands, are quietly to enjoy them, hunting, planting, and dwelling thereon, so long as they please, without any molestation from the United States: but when those tribes, or any of them, shall be disposed to sell their lands, or any part of them, they are to be sold onl> to the United States: and until such sale, the United States will protect alt the said Indian tribes in the quiet enjoyment of their lands, against all citizens of the United States, and against all other white persons who intrude upon the same. And the said Indian tribes again acknow-ledge themselves to be under the protection of the said United Suites, and no other Power whatever. Art. G. If any citizen of the United States, or any other w hite person or persons, shall presume to settle upon the lands, nowr relinquished by the United States, such citizen or other person shall be out of the protection of the United States: and the Indian tribe, on whose land the settlement shall be made, may drive oft'the settler, or punish him in such manner as they shall think fit; and because such settlements, made without the consent of the United States, will be injurious to them, as well as to the Indians, the United States shall be at liberty to break them up, and remove and punish the settlers as they shall think proper, and so effect that protection of the Indian lands herein before stipulated. Art. 7. The said tribes of Indians, parties to this treaty, shall he at liberty to hunt within the territory and lands which they have now ceded to the United States, without hindrance or molestation, so long as they demean themselves peaceably, and offer no injury to the people of the United States. Art. 8. Trade shall be opened with the said Indian tribes; and they do hereby respectively engage, to afford protection to such persons, with their property, as shall be duly licensed to reside among them, for the purpose of trade, and to their agents and servants; but no person shall be permitted to reside at any of their towns or hunting camps, as a trader, w ho is not furnished with a licence for that purpose, under the hand and seal of the superintendent of the department northwest of the Ohio, or such other person as the President of the United States shall authorize to grant such licences, to the end, that the said Indians may not he imposed on in their trade. And, if any licensed trader shall abuse his privilege by unfair dealing, upon complaint and proof thereof, his licence shall be taken from him, and be shall be turther punished according to the laws of the United States. And if any person shall intrude himself as a trader, w ithout such licence, the said Indians shall take and bring him before the superintendent, or his deputy, tube dealt with according to law. And, to prevent impositions by forged licences, the said Indians shall, at least once a year, give information to the superintendent, or his deputies, of the names of the traders residing among them. Art. 9. Lest the firm peace and friendship now established should be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals. the United States and the said Indian tribes agree, that, for injuries done by individuals, on either side, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place; hut, instead thereof, complaint shall be made by the party injured, to the other: by the said Indian tribes, or any of them, to the President of the United States, or the superintendent by him appointed; and by the superintendent, or other person appointed by the President, to the principal chiefs ot the said Indian tribes, or of the tribe.to which the offender belongs: and such prudent measures snail then he pursued, as shall he necessary to preserve the said peace and friendship unbroken, until the Legislature (or great council) ot the United States shall make other equitable provision in the case, to the satisfaction of both parties. Should any Indian tribes meditate a war against the United States, or either of them, and the same shall come to the knowledge of the beforementioned tribes, or either of them, they do hereby engage to give immediate notice thereof to the general? or officer commanding the troops of the United States, at the nearest post. And should any tribe, with hostile intentions against the United States, or either of them, attempt to pass through their country, they will endeavor to prevent the same, and in like manner give information of sucli attempt, to the general, or officer commanding, as soon as possible, that all causes of mistrust and suspicion may be avoided between them and the United States. In like manner, the United States shall give notice to the said Indian tribes of any harm that may he meditated against them, or either of them, that shall come to their knowledge, and do all in their power to hinder and prevent the same, that the friendship between them may he uninterrupted. Art. 10. All other treaties heretofore made between the United States and the said Indian tribes, or any of them, since the treaty of 1783, between the United States and Great Britain, that come within the purview' of this treaty, shall henceforth cease, and become void. In testimony whereof, the said Anthony "Wayne, and the sachems and war chiefs of the beforementioned nations and tribes of Indians, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. Done at Greenville, in the territory of the United States northwest of the river Ohio, on the third day of August, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-five. ANTHONY WAYNE. [Signed by certain chiefs and warriors of the tribes enumerated in the title. ] Extract of a letter from Major General Anthony Wayne to the Secretary of War, dated Head Quarters, Greenville, 0(h August, 1795. It is with infinite pleasure I now inform you, that a treaty of peace between the United States of America and all the late hostile tribes of Indians northwest of the Ohio, was unanimously and voluntarily agreed to, and cheerfully signed, by all the sachems and war chiefs of the respective nations, on the 3d, and exchanged on the 7th instant. Minutes of a Treaty with the tribes of Indians culled the Wyandots, Delawares, Shawanesc, Otlawus, Chippeivas, Pattawatamies, Miamies, Eel River, Kickapoos, Piankeshaws, and Kaskaskias, begun at Greenville, on the 1Gth day of June, and ended on the 10th day of August, 1795. A considerable number of Delawares, Ottawas, Pattawatamies, and Eel River Indians, having arrived at Greenville since the beginning of June, General Wayne caused them to be assembled together on Tuesday, the 16th, and, for the first time, met them in general council. They were presented with and smoked the calumet of peace; after which the General arose, and addressed them as follows: I take you all by the hand as brothers, assembled for the good work of peace. I thank the Great Spirit for this glorious sun, (who appears to rejoice at our meeting) and for permitting so many of us to assemble here this day, the' first of that moon appointed for holding the intended treaty. The Great Spirit has favored us with a clear sky and a refreshing breeze tor the happy occasion. I have cleared this ground of all brush and rubbish, and opened roads to the east, to the west, to the north, and to the south, that all nations may come in safety and ease to meet me. The ground on which this council house stands is unstained with blood, and is as pure as the heart of General Washington, the great chief of America, and of his great council—as pure as my heart—which now wishes for nothing so much as peace and brotherly love. I have this day kindled the council fire of the United States: we will now cover it up, and keep it alive, until the remainder of the different tribes assemble, and form a full meeting and representation. I now deliver to each tribe present a string of white wampum, to serve as records of the friendship that is this day commenced between us. [Wampum delivered.] The heavens are bright, the roads are open; we will rest in peace and love, and wait the arrival of our brothers. In the interim, we will have a little drink, to wash the .dust out of our throats. We will, on this happy occasion, be merry, without, however, passing the bounds of temperance and sobriety. Te-ta-boksh-ke, King of the Delawares, rose, and spoke as follows: Our meeting this day affords me infinite pleasure. I thank the Great Spirit, and I thank you, for bestowing on us so great a happiness. All my people shall be informed of, and will rejoice in, the commencement of our friendship, which, I-hope, will never end. [ /V white string of wampum. ] The fire was raked up, and the council adjourned. ■ June 17. Forty Pattawatamies arrived, and had audience. The New Corn, one of their chiefs, addressing the General, said: I have come here on the good work of peace; no other motive could have induced me to undertake so long a journey as I have now performed, in my advanced age and infirm state of health. I come from lake Michigan. I hope, ; after our treaty, you will exchange our old medals, and supply us with General Washington’s. My young men will no longer listen to the former; they wish for the latter. They have thrown oft’the British, and henceforth will view the Americans as their only true friends. We come with a good heart, and hope you will supply us with provision. The General replied: I give you all a hearty welcome. I am particularly pleased with the presence of so venerable a man as New Corn. You. young warriors, will, I am persuaded, pay the highest respect to the counsels of this aged chief. Your friend, the Sun, (a Pattawatamy chief) will tell you, that yesterday we kindled the council fire; that the roads are all clear, and that we only wait the arrival of the other expected chiefs, to begin the good work. You must be fatigued. I will not detain you at present. You will be supplied with provision, .and some drink to refresh you, and to make your hearts glad. , June 21. Buck-on-ge-he-las, with a party of Delawares, and Asi-ine-the, with a party of Pattawatamies, arrived, and was received in the council-house. Te-ta-boksh-ke, the Delaware king, for the former party, addressed the General as follows: Brother, listen! We are here met, by permission of the Great Spirit. Our forefathers used soft cloths to dry up their tears: we use this, (wampum) and hope by its influence to do away all past inisfortunes. ifakhave now opened our eyes and ears, and hope to settle all differences. [A white string.] A-si-me-the, a Pattawatamy chief, spoke as follows: I have nothing to observe; our grandfathers, the Delawares, have said what is necessary. Excuse my not presenting you with wampums. Why should we, elder brother, be of a different opinion with our grandfathers, the Delawares? The Great Spirit has been equally kind to us in this meeting. You see us all here. _ You sent for us. The remainder of us are dead, or incapable of coming to see you. In compliance with your requisition for the surrender of prisoners, and as a proof of our sincere wishes for peace, I now present you two—all in our possession. The General arose, and spoke thus: Brothers: I take you all by the hand, and welcome you to Greenville. The great council fire has already been kindled, and the calumet of peace has been smoked by the different nations already here. This old chief (Te-ta-boksh-ke) has been witness to and joined in this solemn act, in the presence of the Great Spirit. We have raked up the fire until the chiefs generally assemble. Last night I had accounts from the Wyandots of Sandusky and Detroit, and all the Indians in that quarter. This day they rise upon their feet, to come and join in councd with us; the roads being all clear, they will arrive, without difficulty, in ten days. We will then add fresh w'ood to our fire, whose pure flame shall be seen from the rising to the setting sun. We will postpone entering on business until that period. In the mean time, I will give you, my brothers, what will make your hearts glad. I have already given wainpum to all the tribes present: I now present you with a little more, to evince that my mind and heart are always the same. [Wampum. ] June 23. Le Gris, the Little Turtle, and seventeen Miamies, arrived, and were presented. Le Gris merely observed, that he was very happy to see the General; that he had nothing particular to say at this time; he wished to encamp, and prepare for bad weather; and added, that the Miamies were united with him in friendly sentiments and wishes for peace. The General spoke thus to them: I feel much satisfaction in taking you all by the hand; my pleasure is equally great with yours in this interview The council fire was kindled in this house on the first day of this moon; we covered it up, and have preserved it clear, waiting for your arrival and the appearance of our brothers the Wyandots, Shawanese, and a part of the Five Nations, anions us; they are now three days on their way hither. I will not now detain you; you must require rest, and ! will order you to be provided with proper refreshments. This belt testifies the sincerity of the welcome with which I receive you. [A belt.] June 25. The Indian chiefs present were assembled. The General thus addressed them: Brothers: I take you all by the hand. I have invited you to this meeting to inform you of some measures I have taken for your convenience. I now give you up my exterior redoubts, to accommodate the different nations with council houses; my people are called in from them, and you will allot them amongst you, as you may think proper. I take this opportunity to make you acquainted with some customs which we observe: Upon tiring our evening gun, all our men repair to their quarters; I wish your people to act in the same manner; I am persuaded you will perceive the propriety of this measure. If you find any of my foolish young men troubling your camps after that signal, 1 would thank you to tie them, and send them to me. I wish to preserve good order and harmony. I will now explain, w hat yesterday might have had a strange appearance. It is a standing rule, in ail our armies, upon any alarm or accident whatever, for our warriors to repair instantly to their posts. I mention this to you. to prevent, for the future, any misapprehensions. It is by my invitation you are here, and I stand pledged for your safety and security. It is also our practice to parade our men. morning and evening, and call every man by his name. An accident occurred yesterday, in the explosion of some of our fireworks; it will have no other effect than to delay, lor a few days, the exhibition intended for the. 4th of July, the anniversary of the independence of America. I have nothing further to mention to you at this time; I called you together, merely to acquaint you with these things, to repeat my sentiments of care and regard for you, and to assure you again, that you may rest as easy, and are as safe here, as if you were in your own villages. The council fire remains covered, until the arrival of the rest of our brothers. General Washington and Ins great council have sent you large presents, whose arrival I expect about the same time. Your friends (Onas) the Quakers, have also sent you a message, and some small presents, as a token of their regard for you. Mash-i-pi-nash-i-wi-h (or Bad-bird) a Chipewa chief, arose and said— Elder Brother: I thank you. in the name of all the Ottawas, Chippewas, and Pattawatamies, for what you have this day told us; it is all very right and good. The Delawares signified their concurrence in opinion with their grand children, the Chippewas. &c. The General rose and said— I have never yet. in a public capacity, told a lie. You will not be deceived, by placing the utmost confidence in what I shall tell you. I again repeat, that your own towns and villages could not afford you greater liberty, safety, and security, ihauyou will enjoy, whilst you choose to remain with me. Meeting adjourned. June 26.—Thirty-four Chippewas ami Pattawatamies arrived. Michi-mang, a Pattawatamy, briefly observed— That, as soon as they heard his (the General's) words, they rose to come and see him; that they had no old chiefs, or they would have come forward on this great occasion—they were all dead; that they came in expectation of being supplied with provisions, to refresh them after their fatigues. June 30.—The chiefs were assembled, at their own request. Le Gris, chief of the Miamies, addressed the General as follows: Brother: I have only come this day to see you: the other chiefs present have no other object than that pleasure. I hope every thing, hitherto, appears well to you: 1 now express our perfect satisfaction. Our young warriors are glad to meet and see yours, and I hope no suspicions have existence with either. You have told us, we should share your provisions whilst we stayed with you, and in consequence, depend upon receiving it; as you have promised, and do give us these things, we now visit you with real pleasure. The chiefs present are happy in the belief of their perfect safety: and I am persuaded, the other chiefs, when they arrive, will be equally satisfied of their situation. Vfhen brothers meet, they always experience pleasure. As it is a cool day, we would hope you would give us a little drink; you promised to treat us well, and w e expect to be treated as warriors: eve wish you to give your brothers a glass of wine. I hope you are pleased with this visit of your brothers. You have some things of which we have not yet had any: we would like some mutton and pork, occasionally. The New Corn, a Pattawatamy chief, rose and said— I agree perfectly in sentiment with my brother, Le Gris. I hope you will comply with his request; our hearts are sorry and afflicted, at seeing the graves of our brothers, who died here last winter. The Sun, a Pattawatimy chief, rose and said— When I came to your house, you told me I should have what I wanted. We get but a small allowance; we eat it in the morning, and are hungry at night. The days are long; we have nothing to do; we become weary, and w ish for home. The General answered thus: I am pleased to see you all here, and happy to find you think yourselves secure in this camp; I wish you to think yourselves perfectly'at home. The chiefs on their way, I am persuaded, will also think themselves safe when they arrive; they are now ten days on their journey towards us, and we may with certainty expect them. I have received a speech from their nations to this effect. Blue Jacket comes by the Miami villages; the others may, perhaps, arrive by a different route. You sav, that when you came forw ard, I promised you plenty; it is my wish and intention you should have sufficient. The Sun. alone, complains of scarcity. I wish you to consult generally, and let me know if you really do not receive enough. Pork, we have none; the few sheep we have, are for the comfort of our sick, and occasionally for our officers; your sick shall, most cheerfully, share with mine; and I will, with pleasure, participate with your chiefs. The Xew Corn has oberved, that your hearts were troubled for the loss of your brothers, who died here last winter: grief is unavailing, and ought not to be indulged. I will give the chiefs, of each nation present, a sheep for their use, and some drink for them and their people, this afternoon, to make their hearts glad, and to dry up their tears: at present, we will have a glass of wine together. \ wish to see you all happy and contented. Council adjourned. July 3.—The chiefs of the different nations present were assembled. The General addressed them as follows: Brothers: I take you all by the hand, with that strong hold with which brothers ought to salute each other. Tomorrow will be the anniversary of the dav which gave peace, happiness, and independence, to America; to-morrow, 72 * all the people of the Fifteen Fires, with shouts of joy, and peals of artillery, will celebrate the period which gave them freedom. Nineteen times have the United States, already, hailed the return of that auspicious morn; to-morrow, we shall, for the twentieth time, salute the annual return of this happy day, rendered still more dear by the brotherly union of the American and red people; to-morrow, all the people within these lines will rejoice; yon, my brothers, shall also rejoice, in your respective encampments. I called you together to explain these matters to you; do not. therefore, be alarmed at the report of our big guns; they will do no harm; they will be the harbingers of peace and gladness, and their roar will ascend into the heavens. The flag of the United States, and the colors of this legion, sha]l be given to the wind, to be fanned by its gentlest breeze, in honor of the birth-day of American freedom. I will now shew you our colors, that you may know them to-morrow; formerly, they were displayed as ensigns of war and battle; now, they will be exhibited as emblems of peace and happiness. This Eagle, which you now see, holds close his bunch of arrows, whilst he seems to stretch forth, as a more valuable offering, the inestimable branch of peace; the Great Spirit seems disposed to incline us all, to repose, for the future, under its grateful shade, and wisely enjoy the blessings which attend it. Mash-i-pi-nach-i-wish, chief of the Chippewas, arose, and spoke as follows: Elder Brother: 1 have heard your words, and have received great pleasure from them. I never make long speeches; what I have to say, I say in a few words. Look at your warriors around you, and view ours. Does it not give you pleasure to see us all met together in brotherly love? . _ . Elder Brother: You may believe what I say, and what I am going to say. As we are here on good business, our hearts must dictate what our tongues express. The Great Spirit knows when we speak truth, and punishes falsehood. As you have told us we are to rejoice, I have a favor to ask of you, compliance, with which will prepare our hearts for the occasion. We would wish to rescue from death two of your young warriors, whom we brought in to vou, and whom we hear are to die. I entreat you, in the name of all present, to spare their lives, and pray you to indulge us in this request. [A white and blue string.] Te-ta-boksh-ke, king of the Delawares, thus spoke: ' . Elder Brother: I thank you for having kindly explained to us what will take place to-morrow. Ourvoung men shall all be informed of it. We thank you for your attention to us. We will sincerely rejoice on the happy occasion. The General replied— Brothers: I have heard your words, and will answer you presently. As I never speak without deliberation, you may depend on what I say. Brothers: I have considered your request respecting the two warriors condemned to die. I will now answer you. The two men condemned to death are not those whom you brought to me. but two very bad men, from another quarter. I desired this good man (Doctor Jones) to prepare the minds of these men for ihe awful change they are about, to experience. We put no men to death without giving them time to repent, and to whiten their hearts. The lives of the two men whom you brought in, (although very culpable.) are now granted to your humane entreaties. That yon may all remember that, to-morrow, and every anniversary of it, the Americans rejoice, I now present each nation with a white string of wampum. We will now retire, and hope that to-morrow’s dawn maybe propitious to the happy occasion. [Wampum.] 'July 4.—A-goosh-a-way, and twenty-three Ottawas, from the vicinity of Detroit, arrived, and had audience. The Genera] addressed them: Brothers: I take you all by the hand. I am happy to see you. You must be hungry and dry. I. will order you refreshments to make your hearts glad. The hearts of jour brothers are also made glad this day. I will no longer detain you from taking that repose of which you seem to stand in so much need. I deliver this string as a proof of my happiness in seeing you. [A white string.] A-goosh-a-way spoke as follows: Brother: Those nations who are now represented at this meeting, are probably all you may reasonably expect; as for the Shawanese and Wyandots oD Detroit, I do not believe they will come. I frequently told them they'ought to advance without hesitation, but they still continue irresolute, and hover round their enemies, the British. I cannot discover the motives which actuate the Wyandots. The Six Nations sent two letters, prevailing on me to wait their junction; but finding they delayed, and suspecting their sincerity, I came away without waiting long for them. July 9.—In Council: Present the chiefs of the Delawares, Ottawas, Chippewas, Pattawatamies, Miami, and Wabash tribes. The General arose and addressed them as follows: Younger Brothers: I take you all by the hand, and welcome you to this council fire. Viewing the number of nations who, last „ winter, signed the preliminary articles, I perceive dll are present except the Wyandots of Sandusky and Shawanese. It is now twenty-five days since the council fire was kindled at this place; it has continued to burn bright, and it has happily dissipated the clouds which have hung over the people of Sandusky. They now see that the sky is clear and serene, that the roads are open, and free of thorns. Four runners arrived from them last evening, to announce to me the near approach of all the chiefs of the Wyandots and others of Sanduskjr. The intelligence which these messengers have brought me, is this: that the dark cloud which enveloped the Shawanese in the neighborhood of the British post, (for that, my brothers, is a very cloudy place] has also been dispelled; that they have It length awoke from thenr intoxicated slumber, and are now on their feet, coming to this place. They and the Wyandots, &c. of Sandusky, may be expected to arrive here in the course of three days. The queslion then is, shall we now name the day upon which to begin the great and good work, or, shall we wait the arrival of those chiefs, and have their united voice on the subject? This is all I shall propose at present, until I hear your respective opinions. The Little Turtle made some remarks on the General’s speech, to the other chiefs, and gave them some reasons why the fixing of the day should be postponed, when A-goosh-a-way, an Ottawa chief, arose and said, Elder Brother: I am much obliged to you for requiring our opinions on this matter. ’Tis true, as the-Little Turtle has observed to us, that we have been here a long time waiting, but it will be best to remain contented a few days longer, that we may begin the good work all together. I now present you our pipe, and hope that you and your warriors will smoke it. Elder Brother: You see that all your chiefs, as well as ours, have smoked out of this calumet of peace, and the Great Spirit is well pleased to see it. The calumet does not now speak; it remains silent until the arrival oi our brothers, who are on their way. The General arose and said: Younger Brothers: / Twenty-five days a,50 (he calumet of peace of’ the Fifteen Fires of the United States was smoked in this house; it did not then speak ; and it yet remains silent. 1 am pleased to hear you all concur in opinion with the Little Turtle, that we should wait the arrival of our brothers, the Wyandots and Shawanese. 1 therefore propose that we shall meet again at this place on Monday next. [A white string to each nation present.] Council adjourned to Monday the 13th. Monday, July 13. At the request of the "Wyandot chiefs (who arrived on the 10th) and others, the meeting proposed for this day is postponed until Wednesday, the 15th; some necessary regulations among them not having been decided upon. Wednesday, July 15. In Council, agreeable to adjournment: Present the chiefs of the 'Wyandots, Delawares, Ottawas, Grippe was, Pattawatamies, Miamics. and Wabash tribes. The Council opened with swearing in the interpreters: after which, the General addressed (he Indians thus: Younger Brothers: These interpreters whom you have now seen sworn, have called the Great Spirit to witness, that they will faithfully interpretail the speeches made by me to you, and by you to me: and the Great Spirit will punish them severely hereafter, if they do not religiously fulfil their sacred promise. This is the calumet of peace of the Fifteen Fires of the United States of America: I shall first present it to the soldier (Wabash tribe) who first took us by the hand, as I do not yet know which nation among you is in future to have the precedence; the next were the Wyandots. who came forward last fall early; the next were the Ottawas, Chippewas. Pattawatamies and Sauckeys; and the next were the Delawares. Younger Brothers: All the chiefs and warriors of the. different nations present, I now take you all by the hand. It was my wish to have waited for the arrival of the Shawanese, Wyandots of Detroit, and some Chippewas, who I learn are on their way; but as it is the desire of the chiefs present to commence the business generally, I will now shew them by what authority I hold this treaty. Treaties made by all nations on this earth ought to be held sacred and binding between the contracting parties; hence it is the practice to commission certain persons with powers to make and conclude stipulated articles of treaties accordingly. These books contain treaties which have been held with all the Indian nations in North America, and shew what has been said and done at each, without the smallest alteration. I11 the first place, this is a commission appointing me Commander-in-chief of the American legion, presented to me by General W ashington, anti the Fifteen Fires, three years since. On the 4th day of April, 17!)4, I received a commission from the same authority, for settling a peace with all the tribes of Indians, northwest of the Ohio. I will now read another commission, given me on the loth day of April last. [Here the General read the renewal of his powers as commissioner to treat with the Indians.] Having thus produced my authority, given me by General Washington, and the Fifteen Fires, I will now proceed to review the preliminary articles which we mutually entered into and exchanged during the past winter. Younger Brothers: Open your ears, and listen to the question asked me by the \\ yandots of Sandusky, on the OGth September last: This was the voice of the Wyandots and other tribes of Sandusky: Brother: Bring forth from the bottom of your heart your sentiments, respecting making a definitive treaty n* peace, and upon what terms. We shall deliver our prayers daily to the Great Spirit above, our maker, that he wil open your heart and sentiments to ns." This was a strong and serious question, upon which the happiness of thc United States and the, Indian nations mutually depended. The answer made to that question required some expla' nations, which are tedious, and do not seem at present necessary to repeat; but I will read that part which explains the principles upon which a peace could fake place. ‘Brother: You desired me to bring forth, from the bottom of my heart, my sentiments respecting a peace, ami upon what terms it could be obtained. “ Brother: I now call upon you to exert your utmost powers of attention, and listen to what I shall say to you. It is now near six years since the chiefs of the Wyandots, Delawares, Ottawas, Chippewas, Pattawatamies, and Sac nations concluded a treaty at the mouth of the Muskingum, with Governor St. Clair, for removing all causes of controversy. and settling the boundaries between them and the United States. That treaty appeared to be founded upon principles of equity and justice, and to be perfectly satisfactory to all parties at that time: I therefore propose that treaty, as a foundation lbra lasting treaty of peace between the United States and all your nations of Indians. Should you have any well grounded objections to these principles anil to this proposition, come forward and speak your minds freely, and rest assured of a sincere, welcome and safe conduct in coming hither, and in returning to y ar homes, from your friend ami brother, Anthony Wayne," Ac. This was my answer to the Wyandots; they are here present, and can testify the truth of it. I11 consequence of this answer, the Ottawas, Chippewas, Pattawatamies, Sauckeys, Miamies, Delawares, and Shawanese, came forward and signed these preliminary articles, of which you have all, respectively, copies. Having now shown you, that I sland here in thc place of General Washington, and represent the Fifteen Fires of America; and having shEvn you ihe manner in which this happy meeting came about, by an application, first from (lie Wyandots,' whose good example wras followed by the other nations, I shall forbear to say any more, as the day is far spent, but to request you to consider what I have said. Brothers: I wish you all clearly to understand that we have progressed so far in thc good w ork, as to explain those preliminary steps. 1 would advise you to appropriate two or three days to revolve, coolly and attentively, these matters, and those which will naturally follow them. I take you all by the hand. We will now rake up thc lire: and, as we have talked a long time, we must be dry, and have a little drink. Council adjourned, to meet on the 18th. Saturday, July 18. In Council: Present as before. The Little Turtle, a Miami chief, addressed the General as follows: Brother: We have heard and considered what you have said to us. You have shown, and we have seen, your powers to treat with 11s. I came here for the purpose of hearing you. I suppose, it to be your wish that peace should take place, throughout the world. When we hear you say so, we will be prepared to answer you. You have told me that the present treaty should be founded upon that of Muskingum. I beg leave to observe to you, that that treaty was ellected altogether by the Six Nations, who seduced some of our young men to attend it, together with a few of the Chippewas, Wyandots, Ottawas, Delawares, and Pattawatamies. I beg leave to tell you, that I am entirely ignorant of what was done at that treaty. I hope those who held it may give you their opinion, whether or not it was agreeable to them. The Sun, a Pattawatamy chief, arose and said: Brother: The Master of Life had pity on me, when lie permitted me to come and take you first by the hand. With the same hand and heart I then possessed, I now salute you. When I gave you my hand, you said,“ I thank you, and am glad to take your hand, Pattawatamy:" and you thanked the other Indians also, and told them you had opened a road for them to come and see you. When I got this belt from the Americans, (hey told me the roads were open and clear, and that no obstruction should prevent our coming to see you. 1 \vas happy when you gave me the road, [a belt] and so are we all: for we have all travelled it. I hope it will remain free of bushes and thorns as long as Americans and Indians live. You, yourself, havejtold me it should be so; and that this, (meaning the olive branch, held by the eagle) was a leaf of that great tree, under whose shade we, and all our posterity, should repose in safety and happiness. Elder Brother: We have followed the road you gave us in safety. I now' present ittoyour view as your gift. [Presenting a road belt, with the eagle of the United States attached.] Mash-i-pi-nash-i-wish, a chief of the Chippewas, arose and said: Brothers of the different nations present, listen to what our elder brother tells us, with attention; I am satisfied it is the truth: listen to me also. Elder Brother: Last winter, I heard your word, when you stretched your hands to us, and asked us to come and see you. 1 never heard before, what the Sun has been observing; when I heard what you said last winter, I took you by the hand; and now', w hen I returned, I found your gates open to receive me, and that you told me truth. I was deputed by the chiefs of my nation to hear your words, and am happv that they now are convinced of the truth of them. You now also find the truth of my words: that I then came only to carry back your words; and the other chiefs would come to see you. You now’ see them present, the representatives of their nations: here are the chiefs of the Ottawas, Chippewas,and Pattawatamies. We three are faithful allies, and one of us’speaks for the whole, when in council. The w ords you spoke last winter are fresh on my memory. I know nothing of the treaty in question, w hich took place at Muskingum: the people who made it are present, and will be able to speak to it. My remote situation on Lake Michigan prevented me from being acquainted with it. Tarke (or Crane) chief of the Wyandots, arose and said: Brothers of all nations present, listen! Flder Brother: I dontthink it proper to select any particular nation to speak for thewhole. You have kindled the council fire. I wish you to determine what nation shall speak, and appoint a day when we shall all be collected, and when those who are on their way shall have joined us. The General rose,and said: Brothers: I have paid very great attention to what has been observed by theMiamies, Pattawatamies, Chippewas, and Wyandots; and tne day after to-morrow, I will endeavor to fully explain the treaty of Muskingum, of which so many plead ignorance. I will bring to the recollection of the Wyandots, Delawares, Ottawas, Chippewas, Patta-watamies, and Sac nations, what they did at that treaty, and show' them and you. their names who witness it. There are some Chippewas approaching, who, perhaps, were at that treaty, and when I look around me. 1 imagine I see some faces who were present at it. This road (alluding to the Sun's road belt) is the true road. I have a branch similar to this, at my breast. I know them to be of the same tree, and of equal value. This is all I shall say at present. I thank the Great Spirit for assembling so many of us together on this good work, and I hope we will have all things perfectly understood and explained, to our mutual satisfaction, before w'e part. Council adjourned, to meet on the '20th. In the evening of this day. (18th) Blue Jacket, and thirteen Shawanese, and Masass with twenty Chippewas, arrived, and were received in the council house. Masass spoke as follows: I am very happy to be here this day; I was at the treaty of Muskingum, and have it now in my hand to show it you. Nothing but my having it in my possession could have brought me here at this time; for I came voluntarily and unasked. We should have come in greater numbers, but for Brandt's endeavors Xfo prevent us. The Wyandots and Six Nations are counselling. I do not know what may be the result of their conference. 1 am happy to find so many of my brothers with you. I hope, for the future, they will walk in the right way, and be sincere in their engagements. 1 again repeat my knowledge of the treaty of Muskingum; as far ■x as I undertand it, I have been faithful to it. I have brought these Frenchmen with me, that I may be w’ell acquainted with every thing that shall take place. This is all I nave to say at present, having travelled far. I am fatigued, require refreshment.—[A white string.] Blue Jacket spoke as follows: Brother: When I came here last w inter, I did not mean to deceive you; what I promised you, I did intend to perform. My wish to conclude a firm peace with you, being sincere, my uneasiness has been great, that my people have not come forward so soon as you would wish, or might expect; but you must not be discouraged by these unfavorable appearances. Some of our chiefs and warriors are here; more will arrive in a few days. You must not, however, expect to see a great number; yet, notwithstanding, our nation will be well represented. Our hearts are open, and void of deceit. The General spoke as follows: Brother the Chippewa: I am happy to see you and your people. The open and generous manner in which you u have acknowledged being present at, and acquainted with, the treaty at Muskingum,-displays an honest, open, and manly heart. I therefore take you by the hand, with the warmth and friendship of a brother. I know you have come a great way; provision shall be furnished yon and your people, to appease your hunger; and you shall have some liquor, also, to quench your thirst; and to enable yon to rejoice with your friends and brothers present. Brother the Shawaeee: 1 am well convinced of the integrity of your heart, and that your exertions have not been wanting to bring hither a full representation of your nation, at an .earlier hour. I therefore bid you, and my friends with you, a sincere welcome. 19//t July.—Blue Jacket, a Shaw'anee chief, in private conference with the General, spoke as follows: Brother and Ally: It is a long time since I left you. I believe it is about five months; many things have occured since that time, which, if you please, I will inform you of, as, perhaps, you may be unacquainted with them. 1 visited the British, and wras kindly received at their garrison, on the Miami. I was asked for new's; I had none for them, except that of my kind reception from you. A Mr. Magdalen wrote from thence to Detroit, that he hail taken oft’my blue coat, which I had received from the Americans, and broke my gun, w hich he also falsely said was presented tome by General Wayne. I did not rest until I exposed this man, and refuted his assertions. I informed all the Indians of my full persuasion of the truth of the kind and benevolent intentions you expressed to me, and that they, in due time, would be convinced of the goodness of.your motives. Mr. McKee invited me to his house, and told me he was very sory to find I had acted with such little regard for my people; that lie ascribed my strange conduct to the instigations of some evil spirit, who had led me astray front the plain good road, and put i, me in the path which led towards the Americans.' " The commission you received from Johnston,” said he, was not given you to carry to the Americans. I am grieved to find that you have taken it to them. It was with much regret I learned that you had deserted your friends, who always caressed you, and treated you as a great man. You have deranged, by yoyr imprudent conduct, all our plans for protecting the Indians, and keeping them with us. They have always looked up to you for advice and direction in war, and you have now broke the strong ties which held them all together, under your and our direction. You must now be viewed as the enemy of your people, and the other Indians whom you are seducing into the snares the Americans have formed for their ruin; and the massacre and destruction of these people by the Americans must be laid to your charge.” Brother: 1 am very happy, that, notwithstanding all the difficulties and obstructions I had to encounter from my relations and others at Detroit, 1 have succeeded so far, in bringing my people to you at this time. I expect intelligence this day of the approach of more of them. 1 have briefly acquainted you with these things. I repeat my assurances of tne sincerity of my sentiments and resolution, to be, for the future, a steady friend to the United States. ir95.i TREATY OF GREENVILLE. 569 Monday. July 20. In Council: Present as before, with the addition of the Shawanese and Chippewas, who arrived on the evening of the 18th. The General arose, and spoke as follows: Brothers: all the nations present: I take you by the hand; when we were last in council, two days since, the Little Turtle observed, “ We came with an intention to hear you: we expect your wish is for peace with all the world: we would be glad to hear your sentiments upon the subject." I did hope and expect, that every man among you would be perfectly acquainted with my sentiments on this subject, as I have, for a long time past, taken pains to diffuse them throughout your nations. I will read you a message which I sent amongst you by Mr. Miller, now present, on the 13th of August last, and which, I ant persuaded, from the best authority, had been fully explained to, and perfectly understood by, your chiefs and warriors. [Here the General read his message to the hostile Indians, of the 13th August, 17SM.] I likewise told you that the ears and heart of the President, General Washington, were ever open to the voice of peace: and that he had instructed me, his principal warrior, to listen to that welcome voice, from whatever quarter it might come, provided it came from proper authority, and from the heart. Six moons since, the Crane, (Wyandots) and a.number of Chippewa!, Ottawas, and Sacs, came here, in consequence of this invitation. They were also accompanied by the Miamies. I received them with great pleasure, and informed them that I thanked the Great Spirit for opening their eyes to see, anti their ears to hear, the happy dawn of peace. I told them that peace was like that glorious sun which diffused joy, health, and happiness, to all the nations of this earth, who had wisdom to embrace it. and that I, therefore, in behalf and in the name of the President of the United States of America, took them all by the hand, with that strong hold of friendship, which time could never break. These have been the sentiments of my heart with regard to peace, and I think may be considered as a full answer to the wishes expressed by the Little Turtle. To prove that my sentiments are still the same, I present to Mash-i-pi-nash-i-wisli, and to the Little Turtle, these strings of wampum, which are not purer or whiter than the heart that gives them. These will be considered as presented to the whole, for the same purpose. [White wampum to the Chippewas and Miamies.] The Little Turtle,observes: "You have informed us that the treaty of Muskingum shall be the foundation upon which the present treaty shall be founded. That treaty was held by the Six Nations, and by a few young men of the Chippewas, Ottawas, and Pattawatamies. We Miamies and Wabash tribes are totally unacquainted with it.’’ And Mash-i-pi-nash-i-wish has also remarked, that the Ottawas, Chippewas, and Pattawatamies, know nothing of that treaty; it had never reached as far as Michilimackinac. Younger Brothers: In order to refresh your memories, and to bring every article of that treaty fully to your recollection, 1 will now read and explain it to you. These are the articles of that treaty, made more than six years ago, between the United States of America and the Wyandots, Delawares, Ottawas, Chippewas, Pattawatamies, and Sauckeys. [Here was read and explained the treaty of fort Ilarmar, held in 178'.*. ] Younger Brothers: You have now heard the treaty of Muskingum read and explained to you. It has been for more than six years well understood by many of the chiefs, now present, of those, nations who concluded it. And I am persuaded that those who were present, and those who signed it, will have candor sufficient, when they hear their names called over, to acknowledge it. as their act and deed, as il/w.vw.s has freely ami sincerely done, (lie day before yesterday, by which he proved himself to be possessed of a manly, undisguised heart. Younger Brothers: I liave now fully explained to you the treaty of fort McIntosh, which was concluded ten years ago; and the treaty of Muskingum, which look place six years since: the boundaries agreed on by (he former, are the same that are stipulated by the latter. I have also pointed out a number of chiefs, in this house, who were present at. and signed, those treaties. As I have refreshed their memories in this manner, and read them a few passages of their own speeches and proceedings on those occasions, it is probable they will be able to inform you of every thing relating thereto, and give you full satisfaction on the subject. I have no more to say at present. I wish you to consider well what I have said to you, that we may be enabled to form a treaty that shall continue unbroken as long as the woods grow and waters run. Think seriously on the great business before you. Consult among yourselves; and, when we meet again, speak your thoughts freely, i am persuaded we shall agree in opinion; and, when,we return home, all nations will have cause to rejoice in the good work we have been doing. Pe-ke-te-le-mund, a Delaware chief, arose, and said: Elder Brother: \Yc are very happy to meet you here this day. The Great Spirit is kind, in permitting us to meet as brothers. We are pleased with what you have this day said to us. Five days ago you told us what you said last winter to our uncles the Wyandots. 'Tis true, brother, they were the first who then came in to you. \\ e were happy to hear their words when they returned. Wc sent forward immediately a deputation to you, with our grand children the Shawanese. and with them two prisoners. Brother, when our king returned,and proclaimed the happy news from you, we rejoiced to hear it,and prepared to come in and fulfil what lie had promised. Wc brought m all our prisoners, agreeable to your desire, and in conformity to our chief's engagements. Brtoiier: So lar we have evinced our disposition; when we meet again, we shall have more to say upon the good work before us. Mash-i-pi-nash-i-wish. a Chippewa chief, arose, and said: Elder Brother: I am very glad you have pointed out those of my nation who were at, and signed, the treaty of Muskingum. 1 did not know them before. That treaty did not reach ns who live in Michigan. I am happy in having it now explained. I thank you for expediting our good work. M e wish much to return to our families, many of whom have died since we left home. Council adjourned. Tuesday, 21s/ July. In Council: Present as before. Masass, a Chippewa chief, arose, and spoke as follows, in behalf of the three fires, Ottawas, Chippewas, and Pattawatamies: Elder Brother: I have heard what you said yesterday, and know it to be the same that was said at the treaty of Muskingum, i remember it perfectly well, and thought, whilst I heard you speak it. that it was again renewed. My eyes were opened, and I listened with attention. Elder Brother: I now address myself to you. You see the fire kindled at Muskingum. 1 now tell you that some words of that treaty we did not perfectly understand at the time we made it. The M yandots were foremost at that treaty; we, the three tires, followed them. You there told us that it was not in your name that you treated, but in behalf of the Thirteen Fires which lie along the greaf. water. You told us you would throw the tomahawk into the river; but you know the waters in our woods are not deep, and some Foolish young moil have had arms long enough to reach to the bottom, and again take it out. This day we will try to wipe away their bad actions, and to open their hearts to the voice of peace. ' ‘ Elder Brother: I live at the gate leading to all those nations, and to the Pattawatamies and those living in the prairies, and we, the three fires, will do our utmost to hury the hatchet so deep that it can never be iound: tor it is this hatchet which has reduced us to misery and wretchedness. I tell you this ns the true sentiments oi the three nations for whom I speak. I cannot answer for the others. Elder Brother: You see the wampum I hold is small; our three fires, it would appear, are small also. As the other nations have often told you, they have also told you, that they were masters of the Ottawas, Chippewas, and Pattawatamies, and of their territory. Notwithstanding I am so small a man, I do now, in the name ol the three na- tions, throw the hatchet into the middle of the great lake, where it will be so covered with sand, as never to be again found as long as white people and. Indians live. Elder Brother: This is all these three fires, and the tribe of the Little Turtle, whounites with us in sentiment, have at present to say. The hatchet is now buried forever, and we now expect your assistance. Your officers and our warriors are now around us; let us join sincerely in making a solid and lasting peace. Peace with our three fires is now established. [A string of blue and white wampum.] Elder Brother: You do not forget any of your words, and I show you this belt, which vou gave a great many , years ago to Hassling, one of our nation. You told him, at that time, that upon this road fie should always come and sec you: that he would always find it free from thorns. [Presided a road belt.] Elder Brother: When you yesterday read to us the treaty of Muskingum, I understood you clearly: at -that treaty we had not good interpreters, and we were left partly unacquainted with many particulars of it.   I was sur-ii prised when I heard your voice, through a good interpreter, say that we had received presents and compensation for those lands which were thereby ceded.   I tell you, now, that we, the three lires, never were informed of it; if our uncles, the Wyamlots, and grandfathers, the Delawares, have received such presents, they have kept them to themselves. 1 always thought that we, the Ottawas, Chippewas, and Pattawatamies, were the true owners of those lands, but now I find that new masters have undertaken to dispose of them; so that, at this day, we do not know to whom they, of right, belong: we never received any compensation for theni. 1 don’t know how it is, but ever since that treaty, we have become objects of pity; and our fires have been retiring from this country. Now, elder brother, you see we are objects of compassion; and have pity on our weakness and misfortunes; and, since vou have purchased these lands, we cede them to you; they are yours. Perhaps, at a future day, your younger brothers may be made happy, by becoming your children, should you extend to us your paternal protection. This is all your younger brothers, the three fires, have to say to you, our elder brother. Now the great men will address you.. . Tarke. chief of the Wyandots, arose and said: Brothers of the Fifteen Fires, listen! and you, my nephews, the Delawares and Six Nations, younger brothers, Shawanesc and Miamis, and elder brothers, Ottawas, Chippewas, and Pattawatamies; we are here assembled, this day, in the presence of God above. Brothers Americans: Our brothers, the. Ottawas, Chippewas, and Pattawatamies, have related to. you a little of what happened at the treaty of Muskingum; and observe, that we had sold the lands to you without their consent or knowledge: however, elder brother. I hope you will explain to them how the country was first disposed of into your hands. These people now claim the land, and must establish their right with you. We had, yesterday, some council, among ourselves, on this subject. We feel much alarmed at these words of our brothers, claiming, in this manner, these lands. This is all I have, at presenf, to say, brothers; Tarke rose again, and continued thus: Elder brothers and all nations, we have all assembled to effect a good work. My nephews and I have been talking together, concerning the speech of Masass. We were a little confused by it; and" now leave it to our brothers, the Fifteen Fires, to day, whether we shall now speak in answer to it, or consider of it until to-morrow.* The General replied: Younger Brothers: As I am called upon by the Wyandots to give my opinion, whether they shall, this day, answer the speech of Masass, or consider of it till to-morrov, I will give it freely. I do think it will be better to postpone until to-morrow, because, after reflecting coolly, and sleeping, the answer may be more dispassionate, and pleasing to all. I am convinced Masass had no intention to hurt the feelings of his uncle and grand father; he only meant to inform me that he had not received any goods or compensation for the lands ceded by the treaty of Muskingum. When we come into articles presently, for a permanent peace, all those nations, who have any right to the lands in question, ■J shall receive yet further compensation, I hope,, to the satisfaction of all parties. Mash-i-pi-nash-i-wish, chief of. the Chippewas. thus spoke: Elder Brother: I take you by the baud; I now tel! you I am not come here to take umbrage at trifles, but to accomplish the great and serious work in which we are engaged. My heart is good, and I will not be interrupted by little things. I now wish to know, in ihe name of our three fires, how long we may have to remain here on this business. When I first entered this house, my mind was prepared and made up. We live at a great distance from hence, and feel anxious to return. The General thus replied: Younger Brothers: It is rather difficult for me to say how many days it may require, to finally settle this good' work. I will, to-morrow, listen to what our brothers, the Wyandots and others, nave to say upon the speech of Masass, and then I shall be perfectly ready to enter upon the main object of this meeting, and lay before you the articles of a treaty, which may establish the happiness and peace of the Fifteen Fires, and of the Indian nations now assembled. Masass arose and said: I have beard the words of my elder brother: he has heard mine: I have reflected coolly: I approve of them; and, what I have said. I will never retract.'Little Turtle, a Miami chief, arose and spoke as follows: Elder Brother: 1 wish to ask of you, and my brothers present, one question. I would be glad to know what lands have been ceded to you, as I am uninformed in this particular. I expect that the lands on the Wabash, and in this country, belong to me and my people. I now take the opportunity to inform my brothers of the United States, and others present, that there are men of sense and understanding among my people, as well as among theirs, and that these lands were disposed of without our knowledge or consent. I was yesterday surprised, when I heard from our grandfathers, the Delawares, that these lands had been ceded by the British to the Americans, when the former were beaten by. and made peace with, the latter; because you had before told us that it was the Wyandots. Delawares, Ottawas, Chippewas, Pattawatamies, and Sauckeys, who had made this cession. Council adjourned, to meet at 10 o’clock to-morrow. Wednesday, 22d July. in Council: Present as before. The Little Turtle, a Miami chief, arose and spoke as follows: General Wayne: I hope you will paj attention to what I now say to you. I wish to infoim you where yoiir ounger brothers, the Miamics, live, and, also, the Pattawatamies of St. Joseph’s, together with the Wabash Indians. You have pointed out to us-the boundary line between the Indians and the United States, but I now take the liberty to inform you, that that line cuts off from the Indians a large portion of country, which has been enjoyed by my forefathers time immemorial, without molestation or dispute. The print of my ancestors’ houses are every where to be seen in this portion. 1 was a little astonished at hearing you, and my brothers who are now present^ telling each other what business you had transacted together heretofore at Muskingum, concerning this country. It is well known by all my brothers present, that niv forefather kindled the first fire at Detroit; from thence, he extended his lines to the head waters of Scioto; from thence, to its mouth; from thence, down the Ohio, to the mouth of the "Wabash, and from thence to Chicago, on lake Michigan: at this place I first saw my elder brothers, the Shawanese. ! have now informed you of the boundaries of the Miami nation, where the Great Spirit placed my forefather a long time ago. anil charged him not to sell or part with his lands, but to preserve them for his posterity. This charge has been handed-down to me. I was much surprised to find that my other brothers differed so much from me on this subject: for their conduct would lead one to suppose, that the Great Spirit, and their forefathers, had not given them the same charge that was give to me, but. on the contrary, had directed them to sell their lands to any white man who wore a hat, as soon as he should ask it of them. Now. elder brother, your younger brothers, the Miamies, have pointed oil t to you their country, and also to our brothers present. When I hear your remarks and proposals on this subject. I wil I be ready to give you an answer: I came with an expectation of hearing you say good things, but I have not yet heard what I have expected. Brothers: (the Indians.) I expected in this council that our minds would have been made up, and that we should speak with one voice; I am sorry to observe that you are rather unsettled and hasty in your conduct. Tarke, chief of the Wyandots, arose, and thus spoke: Elder Brother: Now listen to us! The Great Spirit above has appointed this day for us to meet together. I shall now deliver Iny sentiments to you, the Fifteen Fires. I view you lying in a gore of blood; it is me, an Indian, who has caused it. Our tomahawk yet remains in your head: the English gave it to me to place there. Elder Brother: I now take the tomahawk out of your head: but, with so much care, that you shall not feel pain or injury. I will now tear a big tree up by the roots, and throw the hatchet into the cavity which they occupied, where the waters will wash it away where it can never be found. Now I have buried the hatchet, and I expect that none of my color wil! ever again find it out. I now tell you, that no one in particular can justly claim this ground: it belongs, in common, to us all: no earthly being lias an exclusive right to it; the Great Spirit above is the true and only owner of this soil, and he has given us all an equal right to it.—[Spoken on a blue belt.] Brothers, The Fifteen Fires, listen! You now see that we have buried the hatchet; we still see blood around you, and, in order to clear away all grief, we now wipe away the blood from around you, which, together with the dirt that comes away with it, we bury with the hatchet, in the hole we have made for them, and replace the great tree as it stood before, so that our children, nor our children's children, can ever again discover it.—[Spoken on a blue string attached, and both delivered.] Brothers: Listen! I now wipe your both'clean from all blood with this white soft linen, (white wampum) and I do.it with as much tenderness as I am capable of. You have appointed this house for the chiefs of the different tribes to sit in with you, and none but good i words ought to be spoken in it. I have swept it clean; nothing impure remains in it. Brothers: Listen! We are both placed on this ground. I now wipe the tears from your eyes, and open your ears. I see your throat is so stopped that von are nearly suffocated. I now open your throat, and make it quite clean, that whatever the Great Spirit may think proper for you to swallow, may go down without any obstruction. I see, also, that your heart is not in its true situation; I now place it in its proper position, that any thing you may hear from us, your brothers, may descend directly to it, and what you shall say may come with truth and ease from it. Brother: I clear away you hovering clouds, that we may enjoy a clear bright day, and easily see the sun. which the Great Spirit has bestowed on us, rise and set continually.—[A white string.] Brother: Listen to us. all Indians, who now speak to you! The bones which lie scattered of your ancient warriors, who fell in defence of the present cause, we gather all together, and bury them now; and piace this white board over them, that they may never again be seen by our posterity.—[A white and blue belt and string.] Brother Warrior: Listen to us! the great chiefs are now about to speak to you. You. chiefs and warriors present, listen also! Brother: We speak not from our lips, but from our hearts, when we are resolved upon good works. I always told you that I never intended to deceive you. when we entered upon this business; it was never the intention of us Indians to do so. I speak from my heart what I now say to you. The Great Spirit is now viewing us, and did ■he discover any baseness or treachery, it would excite his just anger against us. Brother: Listen to me! We are all of one mind who are here assembled: this is a business not to be trifled with: it is a matter of the utmost concern to us. We happily so far agree in handling ourancestors’ records, who always worked for peace. Brother: You have proposed to us to build our good work on the treaty of Muskingum; that treaty I have always considered as formed upon the fairest principles. You took pity on ns Indians; you did not do as our fathers the British agreed you should. You might, by that agreement, have taken all our lands; but you pitied us, and let us hold part. I always looked upon that treaty to be binding upon the United States and us Indians. Brother: Listen to us Indians; 1 told you just now , that we were upon business of the greatest moment; I now conclude the great good works we have been employed in, and with thin I cover the whole earth, that it may appear white, and shine all over the world. 1 hope the Great Spirit will have pity on us. and make this work lasting.— [Four large mixed belts presented.] Brother: 1 am going to relate to you the treaty made at Muskingum, in a few words. I have not forgot that treaty, neither have you; at that time we settled a peace between the Delawares, Six Nations, Ottawa?, Chippewas. Pattawatamies. and us Wyandots. It is very true there were not so many different nations then assembled as are now present. We now establish a general, permanent, and lasting peace, for ever. Btotuers: We are all sensible, that when you struck the boundary at that time, it run from Tuscarawas to a little below Loromies, where the fort stood which was destroyed in 175-2. I understand the line lias since been moved a little towards us. Be strong, brothers, and fulfil your engagements. Brothers: Listen! I have told you that I speak from my heart; you see tile speeches I have delivered; peruse them, and see whether or not I have spoken with sincerity; this is all your brothers, of the different nations present, have this day to say to you.—[A large belt.] The General arose and spoke as follows: Younger Brothers: I have listened, with great attention, to every thing you have said this day. I find the hatchet has been buried by all the nations present. 1 shall peruse these belts, speeches, and boundaries, now laid before me, with great attention, and I am convinced they will agree with the records in my possession. The day is far spent, and we will now separate, to meet again to-morrow morning at ten o'clock, and proceed in this good work. Council adjourned. Thursday, 23d July. In Council: Present as before. Blue Jacket, a Shawanese chief, arose, and addressed the Indians as follows: Brothers: I hope you will not take amiss my changing my seat in this council. You all know the Wyandots are our uncles, and the Delawares our grandfathers; and that the Shawanese are the elder brothers of the other nations present: it is therefore proper that I should sit next my grandfathers and uncles. I hope, younger brothers, you are all satisfied with what our uncles said yesterday, and that I have done every thing in my power, at all times, to advise and support you. Au-goosh-a-way, an Ottawa chief, spoke asfollows: Brothers, the Indians: When I last had my calumet of peace, our elder brothers, the Shawanese. were not present; I now otter a to them, that the sentiments of their hearts may be similar to ours: all you nations present, you know this to be the calumet of the three fires. It is six years since it was sent from the North to Michilimackinac, to the three fires, who live at the Gate, to be presented by them to the Wyandots, Delawares, and Shawanese, with an injunction always to hide it when any thing bad was in motion, but to display it when any thing good was contemplated. You all know the importance of this sacred token ol peace among us Indians. Brother: I do not consider you as a brother; I view you as a friend. I present you this calumet, that came far from the North, and has gone'round all the lakes. When it was sent to us, the stem pointed toward you (the East.) Now, my friend, you may do with this pipe what you please; if you think proper, you may point it toward the Fifteen Fires, and afterwards turn it toward us. It is entirely at your disposal: I am ordered to deliver it into your hands. [Delivers the pipe.] Friend: I now present you with a bell, which has been given us by the Hurons, who received it from our brothers, the Americans, as a seat upon which we all should sit ‘"and rest. Our father, at Detroit, has always endeavored to lead us oft' from this seat, but we never listened to him; we considered it as a carpet spread for our use, and we now show it you, that you may recognise it. [A large belt, with men and a house designated upon it.] Masass, a Chippewa chief, arose and spoke as follows: Elder Brother: , This great calumet comes not from the little lake near us, but from the great lake Superior, to the North, from whence our great chiefs and warriors come. \ Elder Brother: When I returned from the treaty of Muskingum, I repeated the substance of its pooceedings to my nation. You. therefore, see thatfyour words have gone a great way, even po lake Superior. Brother, I live at a great distance from you, but, when you call a council, I hear your voice immediately, and I come without delay. You now see all your brothers around you. We are well acquainted with what we are now doing, and what we1 have done heretofore. The white heads on this belt denote the number of large villages from the North, who have heard your word. [A belt with nine white squares.] Mash-i-pi-nash-i-wish, chief of the Chippewas, spoke as follows: Elder Brother, and all you present, listen to me with attention! When the Great Spirit made the world, he put me at Michilimackinac, where I first drew my breath. At first I was entirely naked and destitute; and, as iI - he had compassion on me, he pointed out to ine the way to the white people. I followed his path, and found them below Quebec, at the falls of Montmorency. I was satisfied the Great Spirit pitied us, for you whites had all pity on us; and, hence, we always loved you. The Great Spirit has blessed you with greater knowledge than we arc possessed of; you are, therefore, entitled to great respect. AY hen we first found the French whites, we took them to our fires, and they have lived among us ever since. [A white string.] Elder Brother: You see all your brothers assembled here, in consequence of your messages last winter; at that time the Ottawas, Chippewas. Pattawatamies, some who call themselves Sauekeys, and the Miamies, heard your words. You remember, brother, I then told you, that I would withdraw the dark cloud from your eyes, that you might know us again. You see I have done so, for you now behold us all clearly. At the same time, 1 told you I would open both your ears, and iny own, that we might hear each other clearly. Our ears are opened accordingly, and we hear and understand accurately. I now speak to you with a pure heart. This white wampum testifies our sincerity and unanimity in sentiment. 1 now put your heart in its right place, as you did mine, that you may make known to the Fifteen Fires what I now tell you. [A blue and white string.] Elder Brother: ’When I tiew my situation, I consider myself as an object of compassion. Elder Brother; Listen to me; as I told you last winter, if we Indians have acted wrong, we are not entirely to blame. It was our father, the British, who urged us to bad deeds, and reduced us to our present state of misery. J He persuaded us to shed all the blood we have spilled. You this day see me fulfil my promise. AVith this belt I cover all the slain, together with our evil actions. [A white belt.] Elder Brother: Listen to me with attention. I speak in the name of all present. You see that I am worthv of your compassion. When I look upward, I see the sky serene and happy; and when I look on the earth, I see all my children wandering in the utmost misery and distress. I tell you this to inform you I have never moved my fire; that I still live where the Great Spirit first placed me. [A belt.] Elder Brother: Listen! The Great Spirit above hears us, and I trust we shall not endeavor to deceive each other. I expect what we are about to do shall never be forgotten as,long as we exist. When I show you this belt, 1 point out to you your children at one end of it, and mine at the oilier; and I would solicit the Fifteen Fires, and their women and children, to have pity on my helpless offspring: I now tell you that we will assist you to the* utmost of I our power to do what is right. Remember, we have taken the Great Spirit to witness our present actions; we will make a new world, and leave nothing on it to incommode onr children. [A white belt.] Elder Brother: I now use this white wampum, that the words I utter may descend to the bottom of your heart, and that of the Fifteen Fires. Elder Brother: I was not disposed to take up the hatchet against you; it was forced into my hand by the white people. I now throw it into the middle of the deepest lake, from whence no mortal can bring it back. Brother: I have thrown my hatchet into a bottomless lake, from whence it never will return; I hope you will also throw yours-so far that it may never again he found. [A string, blue and white.] Brother: After hearing ail your words, my heart feels easy, and in its proper place. I do not speak to you about lands, for why should I? You have told us we might hunt upon your lands; you need not apprehend any injury from us; we will, for the future, live and hunt in peace and happiness. Elder Brother: You see before you all my war chiefs; they never go ahead of their commander; they ever obey obey and follow his orders; when I was here last winter, you exprsssed a desire to see them; you told me you would treat them well; but they say they have not seen this treatment; and inquire the cause of this alteration. [A blue string.] The New Corn, a Pattawatimy chief, arose, and spoke thus: Elder Brother: Had you seen me in former days, you would have beheld a great and brave chief; but now I am old, and burthened with the weight of years. Elder Brother: 1 take you and the Fifteen Fires, by the hand with the lively.feelings of a brother. I am old, but my age does not prevent me from assisting in good works. I am happy,-and satisfied with the words you have spoken, and those delivered by my brother Indians. Our satisfaction is general; when a chief rises to speak, I wish him to speak nothing but truth; because I feel for my young men, women, and . hildren, whose happiness I have deep at heart. I must observe, that I never received any part of the compensation given at the treaty of Muskingum. Our chiefs are all well disposed, and I hope every thing that passes between you and them may be marked with sincerity and truth. My nation consists of one thousand men, who live at, and between Detroit and Lake Michigan. We have the Miamies for our allies, and we mutually assist each other. I am by birth a Sac, I married a Pattawatainy, and have resided amongst them. Twenty-three chiefs of that nation are inferior to me in command. [A belt.] The General spoke as follows: Younger Brothers: 1 have heard, with due attention,all that von this day have said; to-morrow I will reply fully to you. My plate, and my table, are not very large; they could not entertain all present at one time; but I hope to see all your chiefs in person, and in due rotation, before we part. In the mean time, you must acknowledge, that I have helped your plates pretty well, and kept them full all around me. I will send you a little liquor this evening; hut I hope you will keep your heads clear, to attend to what I shall say to you to-morrow. Council adjourned. Friday, 24th July. In Council: Present as before. Blue Jacket, a Shawanee chief, arose, and spoke as follows: Brothers: You know that we, the seven nations, have always been of one opinion. . You know, also, that our uncles have always taken care of the great fire; they being the oldest nation. Our elder brother will, therefore, address his words to our uncle the Wyandot, who will hand them round through-the different nations. The General arose, and spoke as follows: Brothers, the Ottawas, Chippcwas, and Pattawatamies, open your cars, and be attentive: I have heard with very great pleasure, the sentiments delivered by Masass, as the unanimous voice of your three nations. When Mash-i-pi-nash-i-wish, your uncle, came to me last winter, I took him to my bosom, and delivered him the key of all my forts and garrisons; and my heart rejoices when I look around me, and see so many of your chiefs and warriors assembled here, in consequence of that happy meeting. It will give infinite pleasure to General Washington, the Great Chief of the Fifteen Fires, when I inform him you have thrown the hatchet with so strong an arm, that ft has reached the middle, and sunk to the bottom of the great lake, and that it is now so covered with sand, that it can never again be found. The belt which was given to Wassung, many years since, establishing a road between you and the Fifteen Fires, I now return, renewed, and cleared of all the brush and brambles with which time had scattered it. Brothers ol the three great fires: You say you thought you were the proper owners of the land that was sold.to the Fifteen Fires, at the treaty of Muskingum; but, you say, also, that you never received any compensation for those lands. It was always the wish and intention of the Fifteen Fires that the true owners ol those lands should receive a full compensation for them; if you did not receive a due proportion of the goods, as original proprietors, it was not the fault of the United States: on the contrary, the United States have twice paid for those lands, first, at the treaty of McIntosh, ten years ago, and next, at that of Muskingum, six years since. Younger Brothers: Notwithstanding that these lands have been twice paid tor, by the Fifteen Fires, at the places I have mentioned, yet, such is the justice and libera lily of the United States, that they will now, a third time, ' make compensation for them. [A large string to the three tires.] _ Brothers, the Miamies: J have paid attention to what the Little Turtle said two days since, concerning the lands which he claims. He said his fathers ffrst kindled the fire at Detroit, and stretched his line from thence, to the head waters of Scioto, thence, dow n the same, to the Ohio; thence, down that river, to the mouth of the Wabash, and from thence to Chicago, on the southwest end of Lake Michigan, and observed that his forefathers had enjoyed that country undisturbed, from time immemorial. Brothers: These boundaries enclose a very large space of country indeed; they embrace, if I mistake not, all the lands'on which all the nations now present live, as well as those which have been ceded to the United States. The lands which have been ceded have, within these three'days, been acknowledged by the Ottawas, Chippcwas, Pattawatamies, Wyandots, Delawares, and Slmwanese. The Little Turtle says, the prints of his forefathers7 houses are every where to be seen within these boundaries. Younger brother, it is true, these prints are to be observed; but, at the same time, we discover the marks of French possessions throughout this country, which were established long before we were born. These have since been in the occupancy of the British, who must, in their turn, relinquish them to the United States, when they, the French and Indians, will be all as one people.—[A white string.] I will pointout to you a few places where I discover strong traces of these establishments; and first of all, I find at Detroit a very strong print, where the tire was first kindled by your forefathers; next, at Vincennes, on the Wabash; again at Musquiton, on the same river; a little higher up that stream, they are to be seen at Ouitanon; I discover another strong trace at Chicago, another on the St. Joseph's of Lake Michigan; 1 have seen distinctly the prints of a French and a British post at the Miami villages, and of a British post at the foot of the rapids, now' in their possession; prints, very conspicuous, are on the great Miami, which were possessed by the French, forty five years ago; and another trace is very distinctly to be seen at Sandusky. It appears to me, that, if the Great Spirit, as you say, charged your forefathers to preserve their lands entire for their posterity, they have paid very little regard to the sacred injunction: for I see they have parted with those lands to your fathers the French, and the English are now, or have been, in-possession of them all: therefore, I think the charge urged against the Ottawas, Chippcwas, and the other Indians, comes with a bad grace indeed, from the very people who perhaps set them the example. The English and French both wore hats; and yet your forefathers sold them, at various times, portions of your lands; however, as I have already observed, you shall now receive from the United States further valuable compensation, for the lands you have ceded to them by former treaties. . _ Younger Brothers: I will now inform you who it was who gave us these lands, in the first instance; it was r your fathers the British, who did not discover that care for yotfr interest w hich you ought to have experienced. This is the Treaty ol Peace, made between the United States of America and Great Britain, twelve years ago, at the end of a long and bloody war, when the French and Americans proved too powerful for the British; oil these terms they obtained peace. [Here part of the treaty of 1783 wa* read.] Here you perceive that all the country, south of the great lakes, has been given up to America; but the United States never intended to take that advantage of you, which the British placed in their hands; they wish you to enjoy your just rights, without interruption, and to promote your happiness. The British stipulated to surrender to us all the posts on their side of the boundary agreed on. I told you some days ago, that treaties should ever be sacredly fulfilled by those who make them; hut the British, on their part, did not. find it convenient to relinquish those posts as soon as they should have done; however, they now find it so, and a precise period is accordingly fixed for their delivery. 1 have now in my hand the copy of a treaty, made eight months since, between them anti us, of which  ! will read you a little. [First ami second article of Mr. Jay’s treaty, read.] By this solemn agreement, they promise to retire from Micliilimackinac, fort St. Clair, Detroit, (Niagara, and all other places on diis side of the lakes, in ten moons from this period, and ieave the same to the full and quiet possession of the United States. Brothers: All nations present, now’ listen to me! Having now explained those matters to you, and informed you ofall things I judged necessary for your information, u'e have nothing to do but to bury the hatchet, and draw' a veil overpast misfortunes. As you have buried our dead with the concern of brothers, so I now collect the bones of your slain warriors, put them into a deep pit, which I have dug, and cover them carefully over with this large belt, there to remain undisturbed. I also dry the tears from your eyes, and wipe the biood from your bodies, w’ilh this soft, white linen: no bloody traces will ever lead to the graves of your departed heroes; with this, 1 wipe all such entirely away. I deliver it to your uncle the Wyandot, who will send it round amongst you. [A large belt, with a white string attached.] I now take the hatchet out of your heads, and with a strong arm throw it into the centre of the great ocean, where no mortal can ever find it; and I now deliver to you I he wide and straight path'tothc Fifteen Fires, to be used by you and your posterity for ever. So long as you continue to follow this road, so long will you continue to be a happy people: you see it is straight and wide, and they will he blind indeed, who deviate from it. 1 place it also in your uncle’s hands, that he may preserve it for you. [A large road belt] I will, the day after to-morrow, shew you the cessions you have made to the United States, and point out to you the lines which may, for the future, divide your lands from theirs; and, as you will have to-morrow to rest, 1 will order you a double allowance of drink; because we have now buried the hatchet, and performed every necessary ceremony, to render propitious our renovated friendship. 73 * Tarke, chief of the Wyandots, arose, and spoke as follows: Brothers: the Fifteen Fires, listen! and all you chiefs and warriors present. This is a day appointed by the Great Spirit above, for us; he has taken pity on us all, and disposed us to perfect this good work. You have all heard what our elder brother has said, on these two belts; we will all now return thanks to this great chief, and to the Great Chief of the Fifteen Fires, for their goodness towards us; and we will, at the same time, oiler our acknowledgments to the Great Spirit; for it is him alone who has brought us together, arid caused us to agree in the good works which have been done. My thanks are also due to you chiefs and warriors present. Council adjourned, to meet on the 27th. Monday, 27//j July. . In Council: Present as before. The General arose, and addressed the Indians as follows: Younger Brothers: When we were last in council, I informed   you that I would, on this day, describe the general boundary line that shall be proposed to divide the lands of the United States, or Fifteen great Fires of America, from those belonging to the Indian nations, which I will now proceed to do, in such manner as to prevent mistakes or disputes, in future, respecting that boundary. I will therefore read and explain to you the several artir cles of a treaty, upon which a permanent peace shall be established, between the United States of America and all the Indian tribes northwest ol the Ohio. You will, therefore, younger Brothers, open your ears to hear, and your hearts to understand, all and every of the articles of agreement which I now hold in my hand-. . '[Here the General read the proposed articles of treaty, and, in explanation of the 3d, made the following observations:] . ' ‘ . Younger Brothers: I wish you clearly to understand the object of these reservations; they are not intended to annoy, or impose the smallest degree of restraint on you, in the quiet enjoyment and full possession of your lands; but to connect the settlements of the people ol the United States, by rendering a passage from one to the other more practicable and convenient, and to supply the necessary wants of those who shall reside at them: they are intended, at the same time, to prove convenient and advantageous to the different tribes of Indians residing and hunting in their vicinity, as trading posts will be established at them, to the end that you maybe furnished with-goods in exchange for your skins and furs, at a reasonable rate. You will consider that the principal part of the now proposed reservations were made and ceded by the Indians, at an early period, to the French; the French, by the treaty of peace of 1763, ceded them to the British; who, by the (reaty of 1783, ceded all the posts and possessions they then held, or to which they had any claim, south of the great lakes, to the United States of America. The treaty of Muskingum embraced almost all these reservations, and has been recognised by the representatives of all the nations now present, during the course of last winter, as the basis upon which this treaty should be founded. Younger Brothers: I have now proposed to you, articles of a treaty calculated to ensure our future friendship * and happiness, and which may continue till time shall be no more. I present this belt, emblematic of the ten articles which compose it, to your uncles the Wyandots. [A belt.] Tarke, chief of the Wyandots, arose and said: Brothers: the Fifteen United States, listen! and you, my nephews, the Delawares, brothers Ottawas,Chippewas, Pattawatamies, Shawanese, and Miamies. This is. the day the Great Spirit has appointed for us. wherein we have completed the good work of peace; we have opened our earse and we all understand well what has just now been said; we have paid the utmost attention to all your words in describing the boundary between the United States and us Indians, and the roads that you have made, which shall lead through our country, to the different posts and reservations you have mentioned. We thank you for your information; and we are persuaded you have acted with great equity and moderation, in dividing the country as you have done; wc are highly pleased with your humanity towards us. Listen you, chiefs and warriors present; our Elder Brother has made proposals to us, which require the greatest deliberation among us all. I do now request of you to consult upon this business without delay, that we may be enabled to return an answer to our brother to morrow. Make no delay in deciding. This is all I have to say. The Little Turtle, a Miami chief, arose and said: Listen you, chiefs and warriors, to what I am about to say to you; to you I am speaking. We have heard what our elder brother has said to us this day. I expected to have heard him deliver those words ever since we have been here, for which reason I observed that you were precipitate on your part. This is a business of the greatest consequence to us all: it is an affair to which no one among us can give an answer. Therefore, I hope we will take time to consider the subject, that we will unite in- opinion, and express it unanimously. Perhaps our brothers the Shawanese from Detroit, may arrive in time to give us their assistance. You, chiefs present, are men of sense and understanding; this occasion calls for your serious deliberation, and you, my uncles the Wyandots, and grandfathers the Delawares, view our situation in its true point of consideration. Council adjourned. Tuesday, 28th July. In Council: Present as before. Tarke, chief of the Wyandots, arose and said: Elder Brother: You told us yesterday to deliberate, seriously, on the subject of your communications to us. We, the Wyandots, Delawares, and Shawanese, have not yet formed our opinions; more'time is required to consider of so important a matter: to-morrow morning we will be prepared to answer you; our minds will, by that time, be made up. The Sun, a Pattawatamy chief, spoke as follows: , Elder Brother: If my old chiefs were living, I should not presume to speak in this assembly; but, as they are dead, I now address you in the name of the Pattawatamies, as Masass has spoken in the name of the three tires, of which we are one: I have to express my concurrence in sentiment with him. It is two years since I assisted at the treaty of Vincennes. My voice, there, represented the three fires. I then said it would require three years to accomplish a general peace; 1 am now of a different opinion, for I am confident it will be completed at this meeting. Elder Brother: I now bury the hatchet for ever; and tell you that all the bad and imprudent actions, which have been committed, were not done by me, the Indian. Elder Brother: You now see why I have done wrong. This war-belt caused us to spill so much blood through this country, The Great Spirit has, at length, put a period to the iniluencc of this pernicious belt. ~ You must know that it was presented to us by the British, and has involved us, for four years past, in misery and misfortunes. 1 am rejoiced to think it can never lead us again astray, even if a fresh war should break out with redoubled fury. At e have already the loss of too many chiels and warriors to lament? who fell a sacrifice in this destructive contest. Elder Brother: You have been told that the Pattawatamies are always foremost in mischief. I now tell you that was not a true representation. The Pattawatamy sits in the centre; nothing takes its beginning from thence. It is the three people who lived at the Miami villages, who assumed to themselves the privilege of going before; but this cannot be unknown to you. Elder Brother: I shall now dispose of this belt. I live too far from the lakes, and my arm is not long enough to throw it into the centre of any of them; neither have I strength sufficient to tear up a big tree and bury it beneath its root; but I will put it from me as effectually, by surrendering it into your hands, as by doing with it any thing else. TREATY OF GREENVILLE. 575 You may burn it if you please, or transform it into a necklace for some handsome squaw: and, thus, change its original design and appearance, and prevent, for ever, its future recognition. It has caused us much misery, and I am happy in parting with it. [A war belt.] Elder Brother: I have now made you acquainted with the determined resolution of the three fires; and ifan> other nation should pretend to tell you that their strength and influence can hereafter stir us up to war. do not believe them: for I now tell you that we, the three fires, are not only immoveable in our determination, but, being the most   powerful people, have nothing to dread from their compulsion. The New Corn, a Pattawatamy chief, arose and said: All you nations present, I must tell you that I am much surprised, that you cannot agree, in opinion, on the good work now before you. You do not act well. You undo to-day, what you did yesterday. It would appear as if you were ashamed to come forward with one voice: why do you hesitate? You know'good works are always better, when executed with decision. I now entreat you all to join hand and heart, and finish this good work with our elder brother. The Little Turtle, a Miami chief, spoke as follows: All you present must know that every kind of business, especially such as we are at present engaged in, exhibits difficulties, which require patience to remove, ami consideration to adjust. Your younger brothers, the Miamies, again light the calumet of peace, and present it to the Shawanese, who have not yet smoked out of it. Elder Brother: Your younger brothers, the Miamies, now thank you for the sentiments you have expressed, and for burying the hatchet; they oiler, at the same time, their acknowledgments to their elder brother, of the Fifteen Fires, for throwing his tomahawk, with so strong an arm , into the great ocean. We are convinced of the sincerity with which these actions were performed. 1 do not believe the hatchet was ever before buried so deep. I fancy it has always, heretofore, been cast into shallow running water, which has washed it up on dry- land, where some of our foolish young men have always found it, and used it to involve their people in trouble. Elder Brothers: I wish we could all unite and give our elder brother, at once, a final answer to his propositions; I am surprised at you, my uncles, the Wyandots.and you, my grandfathers, the Delawares,and you, Shawanese, should say you were not ready. Your younger brother expects that you will call them all together, and make them acquainted with your sentiments first, as elder brothers ought to do, and afterwards to listen to the opinion of your younger brothers. Mash-i-pi-'nash-i-wish, chief of the Chippewas, arose and said: Elder Brother, listen to me: My mind has long been made up; it is not necessary forme to consider upon what I am already resolved upon; we have been a long time here, and ought, without further, delay, to finish this good work. We, the three nations, are long united in opinion; we fully agree to your propositions; we want no turther private council; we should lay aside trifling; our tardy brothers have got their wives with them; they are content and easy; ours are at home, and we are anxious to be with them. Council adjourned. Wednesday, 29th .Inly. Council present as before. Tarke, chief of the Wyandots, spoke as follows: Elder Brother of the Fifteen Fires, listen to us, all you that are assembeil here! Brother Indians listen also.'W e are now come forward to give you an answer to what you proposed to us the other day, as my nephews, the Delawares, and my younger brothers, the Shawanese, have agreed upon what they will say to you. We request you, brother, to relate this answer to our brother Indians, after I have delivered it to you. The following written address was then presented: Greenville, Head Quarters, 29th July, 1795. Brothers of the Fifteen United Fires, listen to the voice of the Uyundots and their confederates of Sandusky! We take, the Delawares, our nephews, and our younger brothers, the Shawanese, by the hand, as their sentiments agree with ours, and have one heart and voice to speak. 1 now speak, brothers, in the name of the before mentioned tribes, in ans’wer to your proposals made to us two days ago—as we have said before, that you had done the greatest justice to us, which we do now again acknowledge a second time. Brothers, listen well’. We have only the following objections to make; you mentioned in one of the articles, that you would not protect us from the mischief that might take place amongst ourselves. Remember well, brothers, the speech you sent us, dated the 1st January, 1795. We shall only give part of the contents, and these are the words: “ Your father. General Washington, the President of the Fifteen great F'ires of America, will take you under his protection, and has ordered me to defend his dutiful children from any injury that may be attempted against them, on account of their peaceable disposition towards the United States, and for which purpose, he will order a fort or fortification to be built at the foot of the. rapids of Sandusky, on the reserved lands, as soon as the season and circumstances will permit.” Brothers: We never expected you would change your sentiments regarding our safety, on which depends our future happiness. Brothers: Reconsider this beneficial part of the articles—don't change your sentiments; Hold fast to General Washington’s orders, as we do; we shall never be happy or contented, if you do not take us under your powerful wings; we are sensible, that no one dare pluck a feather from your body; if they do, the fifteen speared arrows in your claws, will display in every direction. Brothers, listen! You have requested of us all, to give you an account of the nation or nations, the true owner of the soil northwest of the Ohio, of the boundaries you have laid off two days ago. We will ask you a few questions. Did you not, in the last war between you and the British, divide the country? He gave one part to you, and the other part he reserved for himself; we are well acquainted that you are master of the lands, and you have now thought proper to return a large tract of the country to us again. Brothers: We leave the disposal of the country wholly in your breast; make out the boundaries that shall divide the lands between our nations, as we, the Wyandots, Delawares, and Shawanese, wish to know if we are entitled to any part of it. We wish to inform you of the impropriety of not fixing the bounds of every nation’s rights: for, the manner it now lies in, would bring on disputes forever, between the different tribes of Indians; and we wish to be by ourselves, that we may be acquainted how far we might extend our claims, that no one may intrude on us, nor we upon them. Brothers: This speech we deliver you, is the unanimous opinion of the chiefs,- the Wyandots, Ottawas, Delawares, and Six Nations of Sandusky, and the Delawares and Shawanese, from the waters of the Miami river. My nephews, the Delawares, and my younger brothers, the Shawanese, have further added to this speech; it is their wishes, from their hearts, that the present proposed plan, ought to be left to your consideration, as you had pity on us in settling the present business in such a manner as you thought proper. You may rest assured, brothers, that this is our sentiments. J. WILLIAMS, .dgent, and commissioner for the chiefs and warriors of Sandusky. The Little Turtle, a Miami chief, arose and spoke as follows: Elder Brother, and all you present: I am going to say a few words, in the name of the Pattawatamies, Weas, and Kiekapoos.' It is well known to you all, that people are appointed on those occasions, to speak the sentiments of others; therefore am I appointed for those three nations. Elder Brother: You told your younger brothers, when we first assembled, that peace was your object; you swore your interpreters before us, to the faithful discharge of their duty, and told them the Great Spirit would punish them, did they not perform it. You told us, that it was not you. but the President of the Fifteen Fires of the United States, who spoke to us; that, whatever he should say, should be firm and lasting; that it was impossible he should say what was not true. Rest.assured, that your younger brothers, the Miamies, Ottawas, Chippewas, Pattawatamies, Shawa'nese, Weas, Kiekapoos, Piankeshaws, and Kaskaskias, are well pleased with your words, and are persuaded of their sincerity. You have told us to consider of the boundaries you shewed us: your younger brothers have done so, and now proceed to give you their answer.—[A white string.] Elder Brother: Your younger brothers do not wish to hide their sentiments from you. I wish them to be the same with those of the Wyandots and Delawares; you have told us, that most of the reservations you proposed to us, belonged to our fathers, the French and the British. Permit your younger brothers to make a few observations on this subject. Elder Brother: We wish you to listen with attention, to our words; you have told your younger brothers, that the British imposed falsehoods- on us, when they said, the United States wished to take our lands from us, and, that the United States had no such design; you pointed out to us the boundary line, which crossed a little below Loromie’s store, and struck fort Recovery, and run from thence to the Ohio, opposite the mouth of Kentucky river. Elder Brother: You have told us to speak our minds freely, and we now do it. This line takes in the greater and best part of your brothers" hunting ground, therefore, your younger brothers are of opinion, you take too much of their lands away, and confine the hunting of our young men within limits too contracted. Your brothers, the Miamies, the proprietors of those lands, and all your younger brothers present, wish you to run the line as you mentioned, to fort Recovery, and to continue it along the road: from thence to fort Hamil ton, on the great Miami river. This is what your brothers request you to do, and you may rest assured of the free navigation of that river, from thence to its mouth, forever. Brother: Here is the road we wish to be the boundary between us. What lies to the east, we wish to be yours; that to the west, we would dcsire-to be ours. [Presenting a road belt.] Elder Brother: In speaking of’the reservations, you Lsay they are designed for the same purpose as those for which our fathers, the French and English, occupied them. Your younger brothers now wish to make some observations on them. 'Elder Brother : Listen to me with attention. You told usyou discovered on the'Great Miami, traces of an old fort. It was not a French fort, brother; it was a fort built by me. You perceived another at Loromies: "tis true, a Frenchman once lived there for a year or two. The Miami villages were occupied as you remarked; but it was unknown to your younger brothers, until you told them, that we had sold land there to the French or English. 1 was much surprised to hear you say that it was my forefathers had set the example to the other Indians, in selling their lands. I wdl inform you in what manner the French and English occupied those places. _ Elder Brother: These people were seen by our forefathers first at Detroit; afterwards we saw them at the Miami village—that glorious gate, which your younger brothers had the happiness to own, and through which all the good words of our chiefs had to pass, from the north to the south, and. from the east- to the west. Brothers, these people never told us they wished to purchase our lands from us. Elder Brother: I now give you the true sentiments of your younger brothers the Miamies, with respect to the reservation at the Miami -villages. We thank you for kindly contracting the limits you at first proposed. We.wjsh you to take this six miles square on the side ot the river where your fort now stands, as your younger brothers Wish to inhabit that beloved spot again. You shall cut hay for your cattle wherever you please, and you shall never require in vain the assistance of your younger brothers at that place. Elder Brother: The next place you pointed to, was the Little river, and said you wanted two miles square at that place. This is a request that our fathers, tiie French or British, never made us; it was always ours. This carrying place has heretofore proved, in a great degree, the subsistence of your younger brothers. That place has brought to us, in the course ot one day, the amount of one hundred dollars. Let us both own this place, and enjoy in common the advantages it affords. You told us, at Chicago the French possessed a fort;, we have never heard of it. We thank you for the trade you promised to open in our country; and permit us to remark, that we wish our former traders maybe continued,and mixed with yours. [A belt.]   . Elder Brother: On the subject of hostages, I have only to observe, that I trust all my brothers present are of my opinion with regard to peace and our future happiness.   I expect to be with you every day when you settle on your reservations; and it will be impossible for me or my. people to withhold from you a single prisoner, therefore, we don’t know why any of us should remain here. These are the sentiments of your younger brothers present, on these particulars. [A white string.] Au-si-me-the, a Pattawatamy chief, arose and spoke as follows: Elder Brother: You have heard the voice of your younger, brothers present. I have nothing to add to what has been said; where could I find a contrary opinion? I have only to hope that we all may experience the truth ot what you have told us in the name of General Washington, who sent you. All our treaties, hitherto, have failed: this. 1 am confident, will be lasting. These words come from the three fires, and we hope the Great Spirit may witness our sincerity.—[A white string.] Council adjourned. Thursday, 30l/i July. In Council: Present as before. Au-si-me-the thus resumed his address: 'Elder Brother: What.I am about to say, is the voice of ail present. You know the Great Spirit witnesses our words; I am afraid to tell an untruth. I have nothing to add to what has been said; it meets the full approbation of all your younger brothers. You know we have all buried the hatchet, together with our bad actions. Why, therefore, do you wish to detain hostages from among us? You may depend on our sincerity. We cannot but be sincere, as your forts will be planted thick amongus. Although an Indian, I .respect the words of a good man; and when I pledge my faith, I do not deviate from my engagements. Your people with us will, undoubtedly, be restored as soon as possible; 1 cannot fix any precise period for their delivery: for, perhaps, I could not exactly lulfil my promises, and I should be sorry to give you cause to doubt my veracity. The Shawanese, Miamies, and Delawares, who lived at the gate, and who caused all our misfortunes, have wisely buried the hatchet forever; they wish to return to their former situation, and enjoy again their favorite abode. Elder Brother: Do' not view my freedom with displeasure.—[A white string.] Kee-a-hah, a Kickapoo chief, arose and said: I am sent by my nation to hear what the assembled nations should say at this treaty, together with the words of our elder brother. I shall now speak a few words through the Little Turtle.—[Presents a pipe to smoke.] The Little Turtle: Elder Brothers, the United States, and you, elderbrothers, present, look at this calumet—you see it is white. It is an instrument-given to us Indians by the Great Spirit, to assist in communicating our sentiments to each other. Elder Brother: I return you thanks for the good words you sent among us: in consequence of which we are here this day. We, the Kickapoos and Kaskaskias, are happy in perceiving your humanity towards us: we see. with great pleasure, all our elder brothers now'take you by the hand, and we sincerely hope your words to eacl other may never'be violated. We present this calumet as a token of our lasting friendship towards you, and of our anxious desire that this good work may last forever.—[A pipe delivered.] Mash-i-pt-nasli-i-wish. chief of the Chippewas, arose and spoke as follows: Elder Brother: Listen to what I now say: your younger.brothers, that is, .the Ottawas, f’ljippewas, and Pattawatamies, have told you. that they were but one people, and had but one voice? they have said the truth, ami what I now say, is in the name of the three fires? you have asked of us the island of Michilimackinac. and its dependencies, on the main, where the fort formerly stood: they are ceded to you, forever, with the utmost cheerfulness? you have also asked a piece of ground, at the entrance of the straits, to cut your wood on. and for other necessary purposes? 1 his is also granted to you ? and I further add to it. the Isle de Hois Blanc, as an instance of our sincere disposition to serve and accommodate you. You know, brother, when the French formerly possessed this country, we were but one people, and had but one fire between us? and we now entertain the hope of enjoying the same happy relation with you, the United States. Your brothers present, of the three fires, are gratified' in seeing and hearing you; those who are at home will not experience that pleasure, until you come and live among us? you will then learn our title to that land? you will then be convinced of my sincerity, and of the friendship and strength of our nations. *— This, elder bnr her, is all I have to say at present. We all know that the good work of peace is accomplished. I only address these few words to you. that all nations present may again hear the sentiments ot the three fires, and understand them perfectly.—[A blue and white string.] The Little Beaver, a Wea chief, arose and said:. Elder Brother: You already know what I am about to say. I have get a cold? I cannot speak well at present: my brother, the Little Turtle, will speak for me. The Little Turtle: Elder Brother: Here are papers which have been given to me by General Washington, the great chief of the United States. lie fold me they should protect us in the possession of our lands, anil that no white person should interrupt us in the enjoyment of our hunting grounds or be permitted to purchase any of our towns or lands from us? that he would place traders among us, who would deal fairly. I wish you to examine these papers. Elder Brother: You have asked for a reservation at the Ouiatanon: I hope you will put a trader there, on the spot formerly occupied by one. -We would wish Captain Prior to be our trader. I can’t give you any lands there, brother; I will lend you some as long as you want it. Elder Brother: You have told u- of a place possessed by the French, called Musquiton. We have lived at our village a long time; it is very surprising that we should never know any thing about it. The French lived at Vincennes, where they were permitted to settle by my forefathers, who told them they should have a small quantity of land for the'cattle, &c. on the east, but none on the west side of the Wabash.—[A white string.] Massas, a Chippewa chief, rose and said: All you, my brothers, present, when the chiefs of my village sent me hither to hear your proceedings in council-, they told me I could not see the extent of the American fires? that they believed their elder brother had called them together, in pity to them, their women, and children? and they enjoined the three fires to speak with one voice, and do their utmost to forward the good work? saying, that {hey had seen several treaties heretofore made with the United States, which the Indians had always violated by taking up the hatchet. Elder Brother: I have listened to all your words, and to those of my brothers. It would be very wrong in me to raise objections to what lias been done, as you have explained to us your treaty with Britain. Elder Brother: You say at the fort of Detroit you intend to take a piece of land six miles deep, from the river Kosine to lake St. Clair. I now ask you. what is to become of our brothers, the French, who live on this land? We look on them as our brothers and .friends, who treated us well, when abused by the British. We wish to know your .-entiments on this subject. We think, brother, you could find land cnoueh between tlie rivers Raisin and Rouge? we have no objection to your reservation at the foot of the Rapids. We have no objection to any other proposition you have made, and we sincerely wi.-h we could now take you among us: because the British, on our return, will renew their old songs. Elder Brother: Mv children must have suffered, since I left home? perhaps I, myself, may be made unhappy on my return to them: for the British may probably say. why don’t you seek relief "from your new friends? This makes me uneasy, and-urges me to entreat you to come immediately, and live nearer to us? you might then assist us; and it would be more convenient for the surrender of our prisoners. I hope you will pity my situation; when I returned from the treaty of Muskingum, McKee threatened to kill me? I have not now less cause to fear him, as he endeavored to prevent my coming hither. Elder Brother: You asked who were the true owners of the lands now ceileil to the United States. In answer, I tell you. if any nations should call themselves the owners of it, they would be guilty of a falsehood? our claim to it is equal; our elder brother has conquered it. Brothers, have done trifling. Let us conclude this great work; let us sign our names to the treaty now proposed, and finish our business. Elder. Brother: If I can escape the snares of McKee and his bad birds. I shall ascend as high as the falls of St. Mary’s, and proclaim the good tidings to all your distant brothers in that quarter. [A belt.] The General spoke as follows: You.vger Brothers, all of you. listen with attention! I shall now reply to what was said yesterday by the Wyandots? I will then answer the observations of the Little Turtle, made in behalf of the Miamies and Wabash tribes. Younger Brothers, the Wyandots, Delawares, ami Siiawanese. I am pleased to hear you say, with one voice, for the second time, that I have done the greatest justice to you in dividing the .lands of the United States front those of the Indian nations, by the boundary line which I have proposed. You request me to fix the boundaries that shall ^ divide the lands between the respective’tribes of Indians now present. Younger Brothers: A moment's reflection will show you the impropriety, as well as impossibility, of my acting in this business. You. Indians, best know your respective boundaries. I particularly recommend to all you nations, present, to continue friendly and just to each other? let no nation, or nations, invade, molest, or disturb, any other nation, or nations, in the hunting grounds they have heretofore been accustomed to live and hunt upon, within the boundary which shall now be agreed on; and, above all. I enjoin that no injury be offered to any nation, or nations, in consequence of the part any, or either of them, may have pursued, to establish a permanent and happy peace with ihc United States of America. Younger Brothers, the Wyandots. and other Indians, of Sandusky, make your hearts and minds easy. Be assured that, as soon as circumstances will permit, a fort shall be established on the reserved lands, near the entrance of Sandusky Lake, which will always afford you protection against the common enemy, should any such presume to disturb our peace and mutual friendship. Younger Brothers, the Miamies: I have listened to you with attention? and have heard your observations upon the general boundary line proposed by me, as well as upon the proposed reservations. It’ my ears did not deceive me. 1 have heard all the oilier nations give their assent to the general boundary line, and to the reservations, generally; I, therefore, address you, the Miamies: You say that the general boundary line, as proposed by me, will take away some of your best hunting grounds; and propose to alter it, and run it from fort Recovery, through the centre of this place, and along the road to the Miami river, opposite fort Hamilton. ■ Younger Brothers: This would be a very crooked, as well as a very difficult line to follow; because, there are several roads between this and fort'Hamilton, some of them several miles apart, which might certainly be productive of unpleasant mistakes and differences; that which I propose will be free from all difficulty and uncertainty. You all know fort Recovery as well as the mouth of Kentucky river; a straight line, drawn from one to the other, will never vary; they are two points which will ever be remembered, not only by all present, but by our children’s children, to the end of time; nor will this line .prevent your hunters, or young men, in the smallest degree, from pursuing all the advantages which the chace affords; because, by the 7th article, the United States of America grant, liberty to all the Indian tribes to hunt within the territory ceded to the United States, without hindrance or molestation, so long as they demean themselves peaceably, and offer no injury to the people of the United States. I find there is some objection to the reservation at fort Wayne. The Little Turtle observes, he never heard of any cessions made at that place to the French. I have traced the lines of two forts at that point; one stood near the junction of the St. Josephs with the St. Mary’s, and the other not far removed on the St. Mary’s; and it is ever an established rule, among F.uropeans, to reserve as much ground around their forts, as their cannon can command; this is a rule as well known as any other fact. Objection has also been made respecting the portage between fort Wayne and the Little river; and the reasons produced, are, that that road has been to the Miamies a source of wealth; that it has, heretofore, produced them one hundred dollars per day. It may be so; but,let us inquire who, in fact, paid this heavy contribution. It is true the traders bore it in the first instance: but they laid it on their goods, and the Indians, of the Wabash, really and finally paid it; therefore, it is the Little Beaver, the Soldier, the Sun; and their tribes, who have actually been so highly taxed. The United States will always he their own carriers, to, and from, their different posts. Why should the United States pay the large sum of eight thousand dollars, annually, if they were not to enjoy the privilege of open l oads to, and from, their reservations? And this sum of money the United States agree to pay for this and other considerations. And the share, which the Miamies will receive, of this annuity, shall be one thousand dollars/ I will then inquire, of all the nations present, whether the United States are not acting the part of a tender father, to them and their children, in thus providing for them, not only at present, but for ever? The Miamies shall be at liberty, as usual, to employ themselves for private traders, whenever their assistance may be required; and those people, who have lived at that glorious gate, (the Miami villages,) may now rekindle their fires at that favorite spot; and, henceforth, as in their happiest days,.be at full liberty to receive from, and send to. all quarters, the speeches of their chiefs as usual; and here is the road the Miamies will remember. [A road belt.] Now, all ye chiefs and warriors, of every nation present, open your ears that you may clearly hear the articles of treaty, now in my hand, again read, and, a second time, explained to you, that we may proceed to have them engrossed on parchment, which may preserve them for ever. t [The articles of treaty were here a second time read, and explained by the General, who observed upon] The article respecting hostages;— I did not expect any objections to this particular, for I see no reason why you should hesitate at leaving ten of your people with me, until the return of our people from among you; the promise of a mutual exchange of prisoners, made last winter, when we met at this place, you have riot performed on your part; I have kept none of your fleshand blood; nor would General Washington, the Great Chief of the United States, suffer me so to do; the period x\rill be short, and those who remain shall be kindly treated. On the Ouiatanon reservation;— _ , , The Little Beaver has asked for Captain Prior to reside, as a trader, at Ouiatanon; he shall reside at that place: but Captain Prior is a warrior, not a trader, lie shall have a few warriors with him, to protect the trade and the Indians in that quarter. On the reservation at Detroit;— Masass has asked, what will become of the French? The United States consider the French and themselves as one people; and it is partly for them and their accommodation, this reservation is made, whenever they become citizens thereof, as well as for the people of the Fifteen Fires. On the gift of the Isle de Dois Blanc;— 'In addition to the cessions which the three fires have made with such cheerfulness, of the reservations in their country, Mash-i-pi-nasb-i-wish.has, in their name, made a voluntary gift to the United States of the Isle de Bois Blanc, in lake Michigan. The Fifteen Fires accept of this unasked for grant from the Ottawas, Chippewas, and Pat-tawatamies, according to their intentions: and will always view it as an unequivocal mark of.their sincere friendship. And on trade;— Tiie Little Turtle yesterday expressed a wish, that some of their former traders might be. continued among them as a part of the number to be licensed by the United States. This is very fair and reasonable, and a certain number will be licensed accordingly, when properly'recommended as good and honest men. Brothers: All you nations now present, listen! , 'You now have had, a second time, the proposed articles ot treaty read and explained to you.- It is now time for the negotiation to draw to a conclusion. 1 shall, therefore, ask each nation individually, if they approve of, and are prepared to sign, those articles, in then-present form, that they may be immediately engrossed for that purpose. . I shall begin with the Chippewas, who, with the others who approbate the measure, trill signify their assent. You, Chippewas, do you approve of these articles of treaty, and are you prepared to sign them? [A unanimous answer.] Yes. ' , You, Ottawas, do you agree? [A unanimous answer. ] You, Pattawatamies? You, Wyandots, do you agree? You, Delawares? You, Shawanese? You, Miamies, do you agree: You, Weas? And you, Kickapoos, do you agree? [ditto.'ditto.] ditto.] ditto.] ditto. ditto. ditto. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes, Yes. Yes. Yes. The treaty shall be engrossed; and as it will require two or three days to do it properly, on parchment, we will now part, to meet on the 2d of August; in the interim, we will eat, drink, and rejoice, and thank the Great Spirit for the happy stage this good work has arrived at. Council adjourned. July 31.—The Red Pole, with eighty-eight Shawanese, and Tey-yagh-taw, with seven Wyandots, nine of the Six Nations, and ten Delawares,-arrived, from the vicinity of Detroit, and were received. August 2.—In Council: Present as before, with the addition of the Shawanese, Wyandots. &c. who arrived on the 31st ultimo. ‘ - The Red Pole, a Shawanee chief, arose and spoke as follows: I am very happy to see; yon all, my brothers, here assembled. 1 am come late, but I come with a good heart. I am well pleased to hear of the good work you have agreed upon, with our elder brother, the Fifteen Fires; and thank you for the pity you have shewn for our helpless women and children, whom we have left behind. The General arose and spoke as follows: Younger Brothers: I have received a letter from your ancient, friends and brothers, the people called Quakers, with a message to all the nations here assembled. The Quakers are a people whom I much love and esteem, for their goodness of heart, and sincere love of peace with all nations; listen then to their voice, and let it sink deep into your hearts. [Here the General read the address of the people called Quakers, and the invoice of their present.] Their present, you perceive, is small, but being designed with the benevolent view of promoting the peace and happiness of mankind, it becomes of important value. They wish it to be considered merely as a token of their regard for you,'and a testimony of their brotherly affection and kind remembrance of you. Younger Brothers: The articles of treaty are not yet completely engrossed; they will be ready by 8 o'clock to-morrow, when we will again meet here, read the treaty once more, and proceed to the act of mutually signing and exchanging it. . - The Shawanese and Wyandots, who arrived the day before yesterday, will then hear what we have all agreed upon, and be equally convinced, with all the others, of the liberality of the articles. Blue Jacket, a Shawanee chief, arose and spoke as follows: Elder Brother, and you my brothers present: You see me now present myself as a war chief, to lay down that commission, and place myself in the rear of my village chiefs, who, tor the future, will command me. Remember, brothers, you have all buried your war hatchets; your brothers the Shawanese, now do the same good act. We must think of war no more. Elder Brother: You now see that all the chiefs and warriors around you have joined in the good work of peace, which is now accomplished. We now request you to inform our elder brother, General Washington, of it; and of the cheerful unanimity which has marked their determinations. We wish you to inquire of him, if it would be agreeable that two chiefs, from each nation, should pay him a visit, and take him by the hand: for your younger brothers have a strong desire to see that great man, and to enjoy the pleasure of conversing with him.—[A blue string.] The General thus replied: Brothers the Shawanese, and all you other nations: 1 am confident the heart of the Great Chief, General Washington, will be rejoiced when he hears that you have unanimously joined in the good work of peace; and the instrument we will sign to-morrow, shall be an everlasting record of the good action; one part of which, twill immediately transmit to him. 1 will, with pleasure, make the inquiries you desire, and communicate the answer to you whenever I receive it. Council adjourned. .August 3.—In Council: Present as before. The General rose, and spoke as follows: Younger Brothers: When this council fire was first kindled, my commissions and authority for holding this treaty were read and explained to all then present: but. as several chiefs had not at that time arrived, I shall now read them a second time, for the perfect satisfaction of all. [The General here again exhibited and explained his powers.] That I have strictly performed my duty in fulfilling those instructions, and that they were manifestly calculated to establish the peace and happiness of all the Indian nations now present, will appear by the engrossed articles of treaty, unanimously agreed to, and now before us. They shall now be read a thin! time, that all may be perfectly acquainted with them; therefore listen. [The engrossed articles were here read; the signing commenced and finished; and the General thus proceeded:] Younger Brothers: Having completed the signing of this treaty, one part of it shall be delivered to the Wyandots, who will preserve it as a sacred pledge of the establishment of our future friendship: the other, or counterpart. I will send to the Great Chief, General Washington. In addition, one copy, on paper, shall be delivered to each nation, for their frequent and particular information. We will now proceed to apportion the goods designed to be given to you, and I hope to be prepared for their delivery in a day or two. Some assistance must be afforded to the Cliippewas, and other remote tribes, to facilitate the transportation of their proportions. We will, for the present, retire, and we will have a little drink this evening. Mash-i-pi-nash-i-wish, chief of the Cliippewas, arose, and said: Elder Brother: I now see that all is settled. It affords us a great deal of pleasure. I hope you feel equally gratified. I repeat our entire satisfaction, that all present may know it. We, the three fires, have never done you any harm. \\ ith the same good heart I met you here, I will depart, and return home. You will find the truth of these words when you come and live among us. You must not believe ill of me. Elder Brother: 1 hope you will listen with attention to my words, and have pity on me. I have a request to make of you. You know I have come a great distance to assist in this good w ork, and, as it is now happily completed. I hope you will deliver to us our friend, whom you sent from hence into confinement. We would be grieved to leave him in durance behind us, for he has been friendly to us. This is the request of your brothers, the three fires. ‘ \ Council adjourned. .August 7. In Council: Present as before. The General arose, and spoke as follows: Brothers, all nations now present: You have all smoked out of this calumet, when we first opened council at this place, except the Shawanese. I will, therefore, smoke with the Shawanese, and with some of the Wyandots who arrived late. Listen, all you sachems, chiefs, and warriors! Lift up your eyes, and behold these instruments of writing, to which the Wyandots,Delawares, Shawanese, Ottawas, Cliippewas, Pattawatamies, Miamies, Eel Rivers, Weas, Rickapoos, Piaukeshaws, and Kaskaskias, have set their lianas and seals, that they may be handed down to your children's children, as a memorial of the happy peace thereby established. When your posterity shall hereafter view these records, they will be informed that you were the great people who accomplished this blessed work, to ensure to them peace and happiness forever. One. of these I shall transmit to General Washington, the other I will deposite, agreeable to your own desires, with your uncles the Wyandots. A true copy, on paper, shall now be given to each nation. This large belt, and this seal, will accompany the original instrument, and will declare its sacred and important value. The next business will be the distribution of the goods and presents promised by treaty. To-morrow the Wyandots shall receive their proportion: the other nations will be sent for, m order as they signed, as soon as we are ready to deliver them. It will make no difference to any, who is first served, or who last: all shall have their due proportion.' I have only to recommend a just anil equal distribution among ypur respective nations. independent of this general delivery, and as a reward for the good disposition to peace of some chiefs and nations. early evinced, I shall make some further presents, which must be considered as private property to those who sliail receive them, and.as testimonies of particular regard. And, in return for the generous and unasked for present of the Chippewas, of the Isle de Bois Blanc, the Fifteen Fires will make them an'acknowledgment, to shew that they will never be outdone in kindness. I have to exhort you to take every measure to restrain your young men from the bad practice of stealing horses from those who are their friends. Some Frenchmen who accompanied you to this place, have complained to me of having had their horses stolen since their arrival. This is ungrateful and disgraceful. Be all now attentive! This letter in my hand informs me, that some very bad Indians, indeed, regardless of the good work we have been engaged in, have barbarously surprised and murdered an innocent family, who thought themselves secure from harm whilst negotiations for peace engaged your attention. This grieves me very much. By an article of the agreement entered into last winter, we were mutually to inform each other of any harm intended, which should come to our knowledge, and do our utmost to prevent it. And it is expressly stipulated in this treaty, that similar conduct shall be pursued by both parties. That for injuries done, no private or personal retaliation shall take place, but complaint shall be made by the party injured to the other, &c. I do, accordingly, at this tune, complain to you of the bad conduct of those bad people, and desire you. who live nearest to them, to exert your powers to restrain their practices and correct their lives. I fear, if they are permitted to continue uncontrolled, much mischief will ensue. They are a small, lawless banditti, who insult your authority at the same time they injure the United States, by their savage and inhuman practices. Our people, roused and provoked by their depredations and cruelties, will tollow them into their country, to punish them as they merit; and should they, in the pursuit, fall in with any of you or your people, who are our sincere friends, they might not be able to distinguish one from the other, and would probably wreak their vengeance on their innocent brothers, and hurt them, when they meant to chastise those guilty aggressors only.   . . Tarke, chief of the Wyandots, arose, and spoke as follows: Brothers, listen! and you also, brothers of the different nations present. The Great Spirit above has appointed this day for us to complete all the good work in which we have been engaged. You   remember that, some time ago, our brother, the American, rose up and thanked the Great Spirit above for conducting the good work so far as it then was; and he desired of us to know whether we would acknowledge him, the fifteen United States, to be our father; but we have not yet returned him an answer. Now, this day, the good work is completed. I inform you all, brother Indians, that we do now, and will henceforth, acknowledge the fifteen United States of America to be our father, and you will all, for the future, look upon them as such: you must call them brothers no more. The Great Spirit has crowned them with success in all their undertakings.. Father: You see we all now acknowledge you to be our father. I take you by" the hand, which I offer as a pledge of our sincerity, and of our happiness in becoming your children. 'Father: Listen to your children, here assembled; be strong, now, and take care of all your little ones. See what a number you have suddenly acquired. Be careful of them, and do not suffer them to be imposed upon. Don’t shew favor to one, to the injury of any. An impartial father equally regards all his children, as well those who are ordinary, as those who may be more handsome; therefore, should any of your children come to you crying, and in distress, have pity on them, and relieve their wants. ■Now, all my brothers present, you see that we have acknowledged- and called on the United States as our father. Be strong, brothers, and obedient to our father; ever listen to him when he speaks to you, and follow his advice. I now deliver this wampum, in presence of you all, as a token of our being now the children of the Fifteen Fires. [A large string, blue and white.] The General rose and said: ' * Listen! all you nations, to what your uncle, the Wyandot, has said. [Tarke’s speech was here interpreted to each nation.] Listen! all you nations present. I have hitherto addressed you as brothers. 1 now adopt you all, in the name of the President and Fifteen great Fires of America, as their children, and yon are so accordingly. The medals which I shall have the honor to deliver you, yon will consider as presented by the.hands of your father, the Fifteen Fires of America. These -you will hand down to your children's children, in commemoratjon of this day—a day. in which the United Statesof America gives peace to you and all your nations, and receives you and them under the protecting wings of her eagle. [Council adjourned.] August 8th.—In council: Present as before. The Sun, a Pattawatamy chief, arose, and said: Father: I now speak to acquaint you and all present that I am perfectly satisfied with all that has been done in this council. You have told us to bring in our prisoners without delay. I have not one in my village. I never took any. You further told us, if any of your people injured us, yon would punish them,' and enjoined on us a similar conduct as it respected our offenders. ” Father, I have not the same authority over my people that you exercise over yours. They live dispersed, and it is difficult to reach them on all occasions. As you have now become our father, we are no longer objects of pity; as your children, we shall be happy whilst you continue to protect us. When the British adopted us as children, they made false promises, and left us to the mercy of the traders, who took advantage of, and much abused, our ignorance and weakness. You have promised to send traders among us, by whom we will not be abused, and we have promised to protect their lives and property. We are happy, father] and thank yon for your kindness to your children. I now ask of you to send a trader to my village, which is a day’s walk below the Wea towns on the A Vabash. You said you would send one of your officers to command at those towns. We would wish you to send Captain Ouiatanon, (Prior) and should any meditated mischief come to my knowledge, I will immediately acquaint him of it, agreeable to our compact. All your children present have the articles of the treaty fully and indelibly impressed on their hearts, and should bad birds attempt to misconstrue or prevent them, we promise, sincerely, not to listen to their designing, artful songs. ■ Father: We, the Pattawatamies present, are in three classes. One from the river Huron, one from St. Joseph’s, and that to which I belong from the Wabash; and, as you intend to give the goods designed for us in bulk to that nation, I am afraid the division amongst ourselves will be attended with difficulty and discontent. I pray you, father, to make the division among us, and thus preserve proportion and harmony. [A belt.] The New Corn, a Pattawatamy chief, spoke as follows: My friend, when I first came here, I took you by the hand. You welcomed me, and asked me for my greatwar chief.- I told you they were killed, and that none remained but me, .who have the vanity to think myselt a brave man, and a great warrior. The Great Spirit has made me a great chief, and endowed me with great powers. The heavens and earth are my heart, the rising sun my mouth, and thus favored, I propagate my own species! [This is the Nestor of the wilderness, possessed by all the garrulity of age.] I know the people who have made and violated former treaties. I am too honorable and too' brave a man to be guilty of such unworthy conduct. 1 love and fear the Great Spirit. He now hears what I say. I dare not tell a lie. Now, my friend, the Great Wind, do not deceive us in the manner that the French, the British, and Spaniards, have heretofore done. The English have abused us much; they have made us promises which they never fulfilled; they have proved to us how little they have ever had our happiness at heart; anti we have severely suffered for placing our dependence on so faithless a people. Be you strong, and preserve your word inviolate; and reward those Frenchmen who have come so great a distance to assist us. My friend. 1 am old, but I shall never die. 1 shall always live in my children, and children's children. [A string.] Mash-i-pi-nash-i-wish, chief of the Chippewas, thus spoke: Father: The good work being now completed, we are left without a subject to employ our conversation. You see your children the Ottawas, Chippewas, and Pattawatamies, around you. Those at home will be rejoiced when we inform them that, for the future, they will enjoy the protection of a new father. Our happiness is great in being permitted to address you by that endearing appellation. Father, since we have been here, some mischief has been done. Weave entirely ignorant of the perpetrators. Itgrievesus much, and excites our anger and indignation. Time will discover to you and us those wicked disturbers, who richly merit punishment. I have to request you to license a trader to reside with your children at Ki-ka-na-ma-sung, where we shall pass the ensuing winter. I have never been guilty of stealing horses, nor shall I now commence the practice. But as I am an old man, I would ask you for one to carry me home. Welle-baw-kee-lund, a Delaware chief, spoke as follows: Father: Listen a few words from the Delawares. This is the speech you gave us when you first came into this country, and when we first met together in council. In this you told us we should live in peace and friendship with each other, and join our hands firmly together. It seems they were badly bound, for the ties were soon broken. We know not exactly bow or when they were destroyed. We will now renew them in so strong a manner that they will last forever, and bury in oblivion all past misfortunes. Be strong in this good work, and it will never fail. This belt was presented to us from brothers, ami our king now shows it to you. that you may recognise it. Okia, a Pattawatamy chief, arose and spoke as follows: Father: I come from the river Huron, near Detroit. My fathers have long possessed that country. The other Pattawatamies present live on the St. Joseph's, and in that direction. All my old chiefs are dead; you therefore see young chiefs only from my towns, who are unaccustomed to speak in council. You told us you would deliver the presents in bulk to the Pattawatamy nation. In this case, I am afraid my people will not get a due proportion, and I am too proud to complain to you, should they be unfairly distributed: therefore, as i live detached trom the others, and intend to return home with the Chippewas, by the way of fort Defiance, I beg my father would let me have my proportion separately, for we have many young women and children at home, to whom I shall be very happy to deliver the presents of their father. 1 wish much to carry with me a copy of the treaty, to show my people. Living so lar from the rest of my name, I can derive no advantage from the one you have given to our nation generally, and I should be ashamed and mortified to return without one. I would request a trader for my village, and would wish for Mr. La Chambre, with whom we are long acquainted. [A belt.] Te-ta-boksh-ke, King of the Delawares, spoke as follows: Father: You have in your prison a man (Newman) who came in to us about a year ago, and proved the preservation of many of our women and children, by the information he gave us: for this we cannot help feeling grateful. Now, your children, the Delawares, all beg of you to spare the life of this man, as he has been instrumental in saving many of ns from destruction. We hope, father, you will grant this first request of your children, the Delawares. [A string.] The General arose, and spoke as follows: My Children, the Pattawatamies: I wish you to endeavor to make among yourselves an amicable and fair division of the goods intended for you. It would be a very difficult task for me to perform with justice. You are acquainted with your own people and numbers. 1 am not well enough informed on this head, to make a true appointment. I wish all the other nations to act in a similar manlier, and make a distribution to the satisfaction of their respective people. 1 wish each nation to appoint two confidential people from among themselves, to receive the goods, and to give receipts to the storekeeper, who will thereby convince me of his having justly delivered them. Council adjourned. Slh .August, ajternoon.—The medals and silver ornaments, &c. were delivered. No material, or other than complimentary conversation took place. .'h/gitsl 10th. In Council: Present as before. The Red Pole, a Sliawanese chief, spoke as follows: You, my uncles, the Wyandots. my grandfathers, the Delaware?, ant! all you nations present, you see we are now here from all parts of this great island, and you happily accomplished the good work before we, the Sliawanese, arrived. 1 thank you all for it. I now present to your view, the wampum given to me by our elder brother, now become our father. He gave it to us from his heart: and I hope you will, for the future, view him as our true father. We must, for the future, live in harmony w ith iiim, and one another. The Great Spirit gave us this land in common. He has not given the right to any one nation, to say to another, this land is not yours, it belongs to me. Father: I have heard every thing which lias been here transacted. Peace is (irmly established. It affords me satisfaction and happiness the hatchet is cast away for ever. I have reason to believe that the mischief which lias been lately done, has been committed by a small party of-Sliawanese, who have been in the woods a long time hunting. It grieves us much, that, while we are here accomplishing the good work of peace, some of our own people are yet deaf to our advice. And. to convince you that we will never permit such practices, I now offer to leave with you my aged father, as a hostage, and proceed immediately, myself, to call home] those people, and take measures to prevent their future misconduct. I have just returned from an absence of two years to the Southward; and in that period, my young men, uncontrolled by their other chiefs, have fallen into bad practices; but they shall have an immediate end. All my brothers present, as the peace is now entirely completed, and as our Father of the Fifteen Fires lias adopted us as his children, and called us by that name. 1 now tell him. in presence of you all, tiiat we, the Sliawanese, do acknowledge the Fifteen Fires as our father, and that, henceforth, we will always regard him as such.—[A white string.] You, my uneles and grandfather, have settled with our father the boundary line, in a manner which meets my entire approbation. I am perfectly satisfied with it, and it appears you had our common interest in view. Father: As all the nations are now present, they can never hereafter deny their own work, nor say that other people acted for them, without authority. I, therefore, recommend to them, to fulfil strictly their agreements, and adhere religiously to their engagements.—[A belt.] The General arose and spoke as follows: Children: All you nations listen. By the seventh article of this treaty, all the lands now ceded to the United States, are free ior all the tribes now present to hunt upon, so long as they continue to be peaceable, and do no injury to the people thereof. It is, therefore, the common interest of you all. to prevent any mischief being done upon those hunting grounds. Those people who have committed the late outrage on our peaceable inhabitants, had been hunting on those grounds, and after finishing their hunt, proceeded to the commission of the had actions of which I have complained. These practices, for the reasons I have already given you, must have an immediate end. The Red Pole has behaved like a candid, honest man, in acknowledging the errors of his people, and in promising to restrain them immediately. He has done mote,: he has ottered to leave his own father as a nostage, until he can inform me of his having called them home; but, I will not separate him from his old father; I will depend upon his honor for the performance of his promise.—[A white string to the Red Pole.] All you, iny children, listen to me. The great business of peace, so long and ardently wished for, by your great and good father, General Washington, and the Fifteen Fires, and, I am sure, by every good man among you, being now accomplished, nothing remains but to give you a few words of advice from a father, anxious for the peace anti happiuess of his children. Let me earnestly exhort you to restrain your young people from injuring, in any degree, the people of the United States. Impress upon their minds the spirit and meaning of the treaty now before us. Convince them how niuch their future welfare will depend upon their faithful and strict observance of it. Restore to me, as soon as possible, all my flesh and blood which may be among you, without distinction or exception, and receive now from my hands the ten hostages stipulated by the second article, to be left with me as a security for their delivery. This unequivocal proof of the confidence that I place in your honor, and in the solemn promises you have made me, must satisfy you ot my full persuasion of your sincerity. Send those ten young men to collect your prisoners; let them bring them to me, and they shall be well rewarded for their trouble. I have here a particular account of the number remaining among you, and shall know' when they are all restored. I now' fervently pray to the Great Spirit, that the peace now established may be permanent, and that it may hold us together in the bonds of friendship, until time shall be no more. I also pray that the Great Spirit above may enlighten your minds, and open your eyes to your true happiness, that your children may learn to cultivate the earth, and enjoy the fruits of peace ana industry.—[A white string.] As it is probable, my children, that we shall not soon meet again in public council, I take this opportunity of bidding you all an affectionate farewell, and of wishing you a safe and happy return to your respective homes and families.—[A string. ] Bu-kon-ge-he-las, a Delaware Chief, spoke as follows: Father: Your children all well understand the sense of the treaty which is now concluded. We experience daily proofs of your increasing kindness. I hope we may all have sense enough to enjoy our dawning happiness. Many of your people are yet among us. I trust they will be immediately restored. Last winter, our king came forward to you with two, and when he returned with your speech to us, we immediately prepared to come forward with the remainder, which we delivered at fort Defiance. All who know me, know me to be a man and a warrior, and I now declare, that I will, for the future, be as true and steady a friend to the United States as I have heretofore been an active enemy. We have one bad young man among us, who, a few days ago, stole three of your horses: two of them shall this day be returned to you, and I hope I shallbe able to prevent that young man from doing any more mischief to our Father the Fifteen Fires. 'Mash-i-pi-nash-i-wish, chief of the Chippewas, spoke as follow s: Father: I liave heard, and understand, all that you have said. I am perfectly satisfied with every part of it; my heart will never change. No prisoners remain in our hands in the neighborhood of Michilimackinac. Those two Frenchmen present (Messieurs Sans Crainte and Pepin) can witness to the truth of this assertion. Masass, a Chippewa chief, arose and spoke as follows: I have heard all the proceedings relating to this treaty. 1 express iny perfect satisfaction at its happv conclusion. When I relate at home the important event, my people will stretch out their arms towards you; and when I have informed them that you have promised to cherish them as your children, they will rejoice in having acquired a new, and so good, a father. Council adjourned. I certify the foregoing to be a true register of the minutes and proceedings of the treaty of Greenville. Head Quarters, Greenville, 2Qlh Sept. 1795. H. DE BUTTS, Secretary. A return of the numbers of the different nations of Indians present at, and parties to, the treaty of Greenville, taken on thelth August, 1795. Wyandots, 180 Delawares. 381 Shawanese. 143 Ottawas, - - 45} Chippewas, - 46 v. - Pattawatamies, 240} Miamies and Eel Rivers, - 73}- Weeas and Piankshaws. - 12 C. - Kickapoos and Kaskaskias, 103'1.130 SUPPLEMENT. Interpreters. Isaac Zane and Abraham Williams. Robert Wilson. Jacques Lasselle and Christ’r. Miller. Messieurs Sans Crainte and Morin. William Wells. H. DE BUTTS, Aecretrtn/. To the Cherokees, now settled on the head waters of Scioto. Whereas, I, Anthony Wayne, Major General, commanding the army of the United States, and sole commissioner for settling a permanent peace with all the Indian tribes northwest of the river'Ohio, having accomplished that great and good work, and having this day signed and exchanged articles of a permanent peace with the Chip-pewas, Ottawas, Pattawatamies, Wyandots, Delawares, Shawanese, Miamies, Eel river,’'Weas, and Kickapoos, nations of Indians: Do, hereby, once more invite you, the said Cherokees, residing on the waters of the Scioto, to come forward immediately to this place, and enter into similar articles of peace: for which purpose, I now send Captain Longhair, a principal Cherokee chief, to conduct you to head quarters, where you shall be received in friendship,, and treated with kindness and hospitality. Captain Long-hair will give you the particulars respecting this treaty; as also those of a treaty of peace lately made between the United States and the Cherokee nation; so that you now stand alone and unprotected, unless you comply with this last invitation. Given at Head quarters, Greenville, 3d August, 1795. ANTHONY WAYNE. In consequence of the above message, some of this party of Cherokees returned to Greenville with Captain Longhair, and have since accompanied him home to their nation; the remainder promised to hunt peaceably on Scioto, until their corn was fit to gather: when they would quit this side of the Ohio forever, and return to their own country. At a private conference, on the 12th August, ivith the Miamics, Eel river, and Kickupoo Indians: 'The Little Turtle, in the name of the others, observed, that, as they intended soon to depart, and return to their re-pective homes, he took this opportunity of repeating to the General, that he, himself, and the Indians with him, were perfectly acquainted with every article of the treaty: that no part of it had escaped their serious and anxious deliberation: that, in the early stage of the negotiation, he had not comprehended the moderation and liberality with which he is now convinced it is dictated; that, to this cause, and to a duty which he conceives he owes his country, must be attributed the opposition he exhibited on sundry occasions; that he was persuaded, his Father would not think unkindly of him for it ; for he had heard him, with much.pleasure, approve of the freedom with which he delivered his sentiments; that he was a man who spoke as he thought, and a man of sincerity: and that he embraced this last occasion to declare, that, as he was fully convinced that the treaty was wisely and benevolently calculated to pro-niote the" mutual interest, and insure the permanent happiness of the Indians, and their Father, the Americans; so it was his determined resolution to adhere religiously to its stipulations. He asked for traders to reside at their different villages, and mentioned the names of some, who, for the confidence they had in their integrity, they wished might be licensed, and continued by the United States, as traders among them; he hoped (the W'eas particularly) that a fort would be.immediately established at Ouiatanon: and promised every assistance which they could afford to the establishment; that he, himself, would resole near fort Wayne, where daily experience should convince his Father of his sincere friendship; and that, as lie intended to rekindle the grand council fire at that place, by means of which the different nations might communicate with each other as usual, he requested his Father to give orders to the commandant of fort Wayne, to inform him. from time to time, of any measures which the great council of the Fifteen Fires might adopt, in which the interest of their children should be concerned; and that Mr. Wells might be placed there as a resident interpreter, as he possessed their confidence as fully as he did that of their Father. On the 9th September, a party of Shawanese. consisting of between sixty and seventy warriors, who had hitherto proved refractory and hostile, arrived at Greenville, with four prisoners, three of whom they captured on the 13th of last July, in Randolph county, Virginia. On the 11th. the General gave them audience, when Puck-se-kaw. (or Jumper) one of their chiefs, spoke as follows: Mv F ather: I have been in the woods a long time: I was not acquainted with the good works which were transacting at this place, by you, and all our great chiefs. Last spring, when we were hunting peaceably, our camp on Scioto was robbed: we are very poor, and the mischief that has since been done, was in retaliation for the injuries we then sustained. As soon as I received this belt, which you sent me by Blue Jacket, one of our great chiefs, and as soon as I was informed by him, that the good work of peace was finished, I rose to come and see yon, and brought with me these four prisoners. I now surrender them up to you, my father, and promise sincerely that we wall do no more mischief. I hope that, for the future, we shall be permitted to live and hunt in peace and quietness. We were poor, ignorant children, astray in the woods, who knew not that our nation, and all the other tribes of Indians, had come in, and made peace with you. I thank the Great Spirit for at length opening our eyes. Father: We beg you will forgive, and receive your repentant children: these people whom I now deliver to you, must plead our forgiveness, and vouch our sincere intention to alter our conduct for the future.—[A white string. ] ... I he foregoing is the supplement to the treat* ot Greenville. II. DE BUTTS, Secretary. 1th Congress.] 
