NO. 193.	[2d SESSION. EXTINGUISHMENT OF INDIAN TITLE TO LANDS IN FAVOR OF CERTAIN STATES. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEBRUARY 13, 1823. Mr. RANKIN, from the Committee on the Public Lands, to whom was referred a message of the President of the United States, in relation to the extinguishment of the Indian title to lands in any State where the right of soil is claimed by any individual State, tec., [vide No. 184,] reported: Previous to the 18th December, 1789, the right of soil in the public domain, in the then district of Kentucky, was vested in the State of Virginia; at which time the Legislature of Virginia assented to the formation of a free, independent, and sovereign State from said district, now constituting the State of Kentucky. In the act authorizing the formation of said State, which contains a compact between the parent State and that to be formed, among other things it was stipulated that the unlocated lands, appropriated by the State of Virginia, on account of military or other services, should be subject to location, and to be disposed of by said State, until the. 1st day of May, 1792; after which time, the residue of unlocated lands should be subject to the disposition of the proposed State of Kentucky. From the unquestionable right of Virginia, and from the act authorizing Kentucky to form a constitution, and by her admission into the Union, the right of soil in the unlocated lands within her limits became vested in the State of Kentucky. On the — day of December, 1789, the State of North Carolina gratuitously ceded to the United States the territory now formed into the State of Tennessee; and this cession was accepted, subject to certain conditions contained in the deed of cession, ratified by Congress on the 2d of April, 1790. It was expressly agreed that all grants belonging to the soldiers of the continental line, their heirs and assigns, should be satisfied out of any lands in the ceded territory, after the lands previously set apart for that purpose, fit for cultivation, had been located; and that all lands granted by, or claimed by entry, occupancy, and pre-emption from, the State of North Carolina, should be as valid as though the country had not been ceded to the United States. The right of soil, if any had remained, (which it is believed will not,) after providing for the claims recognised as valid by the cession, is in the United States. Nothing is said in the act of cession as to the extinguishment of Indian title for the exclusive benefit of the citizens of North Carolina and Tennessee, who held the right of locating the land so soon as the Indian title was extinguished. The practice elsewhere under the Government, and the circumstance that the United States can scarcely hope, in any event, for the least remuneration for expenditures of money in holding the treaties and the purchase of the land, are far from leading to a belief that the United States were under any obligation to extinguish Indian title in Tennessee. The only circumstance on which any such obligation can be predicated is, the promise to hold valid all claims derived from North Carolina; which stipulation could unquestionably be’ear- ried into effect without imposing on the United States a new and independent obligation—that of purchasing the claim of others, or extinguishing the Indian claim. The States of New York and North Carolina, having achieved their independence in the revolutionary war, established their right to the public domain within their chartered limits, on the extinguishment of the Indian title within those limits. The States of New York, North Carolina, Kentucky, and Tennessee are the only States where the Indian title has been extinguished, so far as known to your committee, by the United States, without the consideration having been paid by the State within which the lands have been acquired, except within the State of Georgia, where the United States are hound by compact to extinguish the Indian title. After the formation of the constitution of the United States, the first article of the tenth section was supposed to have prohibited any State from holding a treaty with the Indians; and the twelfth section of the act of 30th March, 1802, expressly prohibited them. After the latter period, and in some instances previously, when any State desired a treaty for lands within its limits, commissioners were appointed by the United States, who held the treaty in presence of an agent of the State, and the payment of the purchase money was promised to be made by the State for whose benefit the treaty was made. All these treaties have undergone the usual formalities of ratification directed by the constitution of the United States. The committee find that, on the 9th day of January, 1789, a treaty was held at Fort Harmar, recognising the treaty,held at Fort Stanwix on the 22d of October, 1784, with the Six Nations of Indians, by which New York procured an extinguishment of Indian title. The consideration to be paid by the United States was three thousand dollars, in goods. On the 11th of November, 1794, by treaty held at Canandaigua, a further extinguishment of Indian title was procured in the State of New York. The consideration for that purchase was the sum of three thousand dollars, which had been promised the Six Nations of Indians by a treaty of the 23d of April, 1792, and the additional sum of fifteen hundred dollars, to be expended annually in purchasing clothing, domestic animals, and implements of husbandry, and in encouraging useful artificers to reside in their villages. Your committee do not know that the United States were bound to make these expenditures, or that they have ever been reimbursed. On the 2d of October, 1798, by a treaty with the Cherokee nation of Indians, held at or near Tellico, the United States acquired lands within the State of Tennessee. The consideration for this purchase was five thousand dollars, paid at the time of the treaty, and an annuity of one thousand dollars to be added to the former annuity, making an annuity of six thousand dollars. On the 25th of October, 1805, by a treaty held at Tellico with the Cherokee nation of Indians, the United States procured-a further extinguishment of title to lands within the State of Tennessee, for which there was paid, at the time of the treaty, and within ninety days thereafter, fourteen thousand dollars, and an annuity of three thousand dollars promised. At the same place, and between the same parties, on the 27th of October, 1805, the United States paid the snm of sixteen hundred dollars for the further extinguishment of Indian title in Tennessee. At a treaty held at the Cherokee agency, on the 8th day of July, 1817, with the Cherokee Indians, which was altered, and the provisions enlarged, by a treaty held at the city of Washington on the 27th of February, 1818, a portion of territory was acquired within the limits of Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, and North Carolina; but the quantity in each your committee have no means of ascertaining. The consideration of this treaty consisted of a tract of country west of the Mississippi river reservations; pay for the improvements on the ceded land; a rifle gun, blanket, &c. to those who chose to emigrate, the value or amount of which your committee do not know. On the 23d day of July, 1805, a treaty was concluded between the United States and the Chickasaw nation of Indians, in the Chickasaw nation, by which lands in the States of Kentucky and Tennessee were acquired, and for which the United States paid twenty-two thousand dollars, and an annuity of one hundred dollars to the king of the nation, exclusive of expenses incident to running the lines of the tract ceded, &c. On the 19th of October, 1818, a treaty was concluded by the United States with the Chickasaw Indians, by which the residue of the Indian title in the States of Kentucky and Tennessee was extinguished, and for which the United States promised to pay twenty thousand dollars annually, for fifteen years, amounting to three hundred thousand dollars, and other sums to individuals, to the amount of seven thousand two hundred and twenty dollars. These several sums, expended and to be paid for the extinguishment of Indian title in the States of North Carolina, Tennessee, and Kentucky, have not, or any portion of them, as your committee believe, been refunded to the United States; in all other cases, so far as your committee have been able to ascertain, the commissioners on the part of the United States have promised a consideration, to be paid by the State which desired the extinguishment, or whose citizens claim the right of soil. Your committee, not being directed to bring their inquiries to any act of legislation, have reported the facts, which was all they conceived it was their duty to do. We, therefore, recommend the adoption of the following resolution: Resolved, That the Committee on the Public Lands be discharged from the further consideration of the President’s message, in relation to the extinguishment of Indian title to lands, the right of soil in which is. claimed by any individual State. CONGRESS.] 
