No. 90. [2d Sessiox. INDIAN TRADE. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEB. 5, 1801. Mr. Claiborne, from the committee appointed to inquire into the expediency of carrying on any further trade with the Indians, on a capital furnished by the United States, reported: That, in pursuance of the laws heretofore passed by Congress, on that subject, two trading houses or factories have been established; one in the State of Tennessee and another in the State of Georgia; anil, of the sums appropriated by Congress, the sum of ninety thousand one hundred and fifteen dollars ninety cents, has been drawn from the treasury, for the purpose of forming those establishments, and purchasing and conveying goods, suitable for trade with the Indians of the Gherokee and Creek nations: That the laws aforesaid expired on--, and no law was passed at the last session of Congress to continue the establishment and trade aforesaid; although the committee, to whom the subject was then referred, reported, that it was expedient to continue the trade. The committee further report: That, from the accounts in the Treasury Department, rendered by the persons who superintend those establishments or factories, the present state of this trade cannot be ascertained; and, although this trade may have produced some advantages, in attaching the Indians to the Government of the United States, by affording them necessaries, and avoiding the animosities which might be produced by the abuses of private trailers; yet, those have not been of such magnitude as to justify, in the opinion of the committee, any extension or increase of the capital stock, however proper it may be to continue the trade, on the stock now vested, for some time longer. The committee, unwilling to abandon institutions of public utility, and convinced that the establishment of Indian houses, with proper management, would contribute to the attainment of important advantages; and not Inuring ascertained, with any precision, how far the present establishment may be maintained without loss to the United States, therefore recommend the following resolution: Resolved, That it is expedient to provide, by law, for the continuance of the trade and trading houses, heretofore, by law established, on the capital already drawn from the treasury, for one year, and from thence to the end of the next session of Congress; and that provision should be made in such law, for the better regulation of said trading houses, and prescribing the duties of the agents employed therein. 7th Congress.] 
