NO. 236 SUPPLEMENTAL ARTICLE TO THE TREATY WITH THE CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, MARCH 31, 1826. [To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, March 31, 1826. I communicate to the Senate, herewith, a supplementary article to the treaty with the chiefs and headmen of the Creek nation, in behalf of that nation, which was transmitted to the Senate on the 31st of January last; and which I submit, together with, and as a part of, that treaty, for the constitutional advice of the Senate with regard to its ratification. A report from the Secretary of War accompanies the article, setting forth the reasons for which it has been concluded. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. Whereas a stipulation, in the second article of the treaty of the twenty-fourth day of January, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, between the undersigned, parties to said treaty, provides for the running of a line “ beginning at a point on the western bank of the Chattalioochie river, forty-seven miles below the point where the boundary line between the Creeks and the Cherokees strikes the said river, near the Buzzard’s Roost, measuring the said distance in a direct line, and not following the meanders of the said river; and from the point of beginning, running in a direct line, to a point in the boundary line between the said Creeks and the Cherokees, thirty miles west of the said Buzzard’s Roost; thence to the Buzzard’s Roost; and thence, with the middle of the said river, to the place of beginning:” and whereas, it having been represented to the party to the said treaty in behalf of the Creek nation, that a certain extension of said lines might embrace in the cession all the lands which will be found to lie within the chartered limits of Georgia, and which are owned by the Creeks: The undersigned do hereby agree to the following extension of said lines, viz: In the place of “ forty-seven miles,” as stipulated in the second article of the treaty aforesaid as the point of beginning, the undersigned agree that it shall be fifty miles, in a direct line below the point designated in the second article of said treaty; thence, running in a direct line, to a point in the boundary line between the Creeks and Cherokees, forty-five miles west of said Buzzard’s Roost, in the place of “ thirty miles,*” as stipulated in said treaty; thence to the Buzzard’s Roost; and thence to the place of beginning: it being understood that these lines are to stop at their intersection with the boundary line between Georgia and Alabama, (wherever that may be,) if that line shall cross them, in the direction of Buzzard’s Roost, at a shorter distance than it is provided they shall run: and provided, also, that if the said dividing line between Georgia and . Alabama shall not be reached by the extension of the two lines aforesaid, (the one three, and the other fifteen miles,) they are to run and terminate as defined in this supplemental article to the ireaty aforesaid. It is hereby agreed, in consideration of the extension of said lines, on the part of the other party to the treaty aforesaid, in behalf of the United States, to pay to the Creek nation, immediately upon the ratification of said treaty, the sum of thirty thousand dollars. In witness whereof, the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their handsand seals, this thirty-first day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six. OPOTHLE YOHOLO, his x mark. JOHN STEDHAM, his x mark. MAD WOLF, his X mark. TUSKEEKEE TUSTENUGGEE, bis X mark. YOHOLO MICCO, his x mark. MENAWEE, his x mark. CHARLES CORNELLS, his x mark. In presence of THOMAS L. MCKENNEY. JNO. CROWELL, Agent for Indian Affairs. JOHN RIDGE, Secretary. DAVID VANN. WM. HAMBLY. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 31, 1826. The Senators of Georgia having communicated to me that the late treaty negotiated with the Creeks, and now pending before the Senate, might, by a small extension of two lines on the west of Chattahoochie, in certain contingencies, (depending on the direction of the river Chattahoochie, and the line between Georgia and Alabama,) embrace all the Creek lands in the State of Georgia, I, after'having obtained your approbation, proceeded to negotiate anew with the delegation here for the purpose of obtaining an additional cession, conforming to the views above suggested. The utmost that could be effected is the additional or supplemental article enclosed. The price agreed to be paid is large, for the additional extent of country acquired. It was given, however, without regret, in the belief that it would place this unpleasant subject on a footing that would be acceptable to Georgia, and thereby terminate a state of things whose continuance could be contemplated only with regret. I have the honor to be your obedient servant, JAMES BARBOUR. The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. 19th CONGRESS.]	
