No. 55. [2d Session. THE SOUTHWESTERN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ON THE 19t11, AND TO THE SENATE ON THE 22n DECEMRER, 1794. Department of War, December 19, 1794. Sir: I am instructed by the President of the United States to submit to Congress, communications from Governor Blount, of the territory of the United States, southwest of the Ohio, which accompany this letter. I have the honor to be, &c. H. KNOX, Secretary of War. [Addressed to the presiding officers of botli Houses of Congress. ] Copy of a letter from Governor Blount to the Secretary of War, dated Knoxville, October 24, 1794. StR; In my letter of the 2d instant, I enclosed you a copy of Major Ore’s report respecting the destruction of the Running M ater and Nickajack, two of the most hostile ot the Lower Cherokee towns, together with a copy of my letter to the General of the 1st instant. I now enclose you a copy of the General's answer to that letter, and a copy of his order to Major Ore. Whether the General’s reasons are such as will justify his order, I judge most prudent to leave to your determination; consequently shall expect your order on that head. My last accounts from Mero district are as late as the 20th instant, when only one man was killed in that district since the 10th ultimo. The person killed was Thomas Bledsoe, one of the soldiers belonging to the post at the ford of Cumberland, on the 2d instant. I also enclose you a copy of a letter front General Robertson to John Watts, of Will's town, the greatest chief of the nation, (Will's town is within thirty miles of the Running Water) to which he immediately sent a string of white beads in answer to John McKee, the agent resident at Tellicu block house, to be by him forwarded to me. The enclosed copy of Major Doyle's letter from fort Massac, M ill inform you of the state of the garrison at that place, and the rebel a Horded it. I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant. WILLIAM BLOUNT. General Knox, Secretary of War. Copy of a letter from General llobertson to Governor Bloimt, dated Nashville, October 8th, 1794. Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's letter of the 2d instant. Enclosed you ha\e a copy of my order to Major Ore, of the fith of September; my reasons for giving it were, that I had received two expresses from the Chickasaws; one by Thomas Brown, a man of as much veracity as any in the nation, the other by a common runner, giving information that a large body of Creeks, with the Cherokees ot the Lower towns, were embodying, with a determination to invade the district of Mero; and not doubting my information, I conceived, if Major Ore did not meet this invading army of Creeks and Cherokees, as I expected, that it could not be considered otherwise than defensive to strike the first blow on the Lower towns, and thereby check them in their advance,* nor could I suppose that the pursuing of parties of Indians, who had recently committed murders and thefts, to the towns from whence they came, and there striking them, could be considered as an offensive measure, unauthorised by die usage of nations in such cases. It cannot be necessary to add, as a justification, the long, repeated, and I might say, almost daily sufferings of the people of the district of Mero, by the hands of the Creeks, and Cherokees of the Lower towns. The destruction of the towns by Major Ore, was on the 13th of September. On the 12th, in Tennessee county, Miss Roberts was killed on Red river, forty miles below Nashville, and on the 14th, Thomas Reasons and wife were killed, and their house plundered near the same place by Indians. On the 16th, in Davidson county, twelve miles above Nashville, another party killed-Chambers, wounded John Bosley and Joseph Davis, burned John Donaldson’s station, and carried on sundry horses; and in Sumner county, on fhe same day, a third party of Indians killed a woman on Red river, near Major Sharp’s, about forty miles northeast of Nashville, and carried off several horses; this proves that three separate and distinct parties of Indians were out for war against the district of Mero, before the march of Major Ore from Nashville. Enclosed is a copy of a letter from Doctor R. J. Waters, a citizen of the United States, resident at New Madrid, to John Fasten, his factor, in Tennessee county, strongly supporting the information the Chickasaws had given of the intended invasion of the Creeks; and is not the Old Maw’s information to yourself, in the latter part of August, to the same purport? And to him, and his friendly party, are the people of this country indebted for their not invading us, as they intended. If IJiave erred T shall ever regret it; to be a good citizen, obedient to the laws, is my greatest pride; anil to execute the duties of the commission, with which the President has been pleased to honor to me, in such a manner as to meet his approbation, and that of my superiors in rank, has ever been my most fervent wish. Previous to the march of Major Ore from Nashville, Colonel Whitley, with about one hundred men, arrived there front Kentucky, saying they had follow ed a party of Indians who had committed depredations on the southern frontier of that country; that in the pursuit they had a man killed by the Indians, and several horses taken, and that they were determined to pursue to the Lower towns. They were attached to Major Ore’s command, which augmented the number to upwards of five hundred and fifty men. I should be happy if my apprehensions of a Creek invasion were removed: but they are not, for Billy Colbert, and other Chickasaws, inform me, that they yet threaten Mero district, not in so large numbers, but in small detached parties, which are equally dangerous, as there is no possibility of guarding against a number of small parties invading the frontiers, at different places, at the same time. Enclosed is a copy of a letter from John Watts; and, from my experience of Indian affairs, I have my hopes that, from the scourging Major Ore has given the Lower Cherokees, we shall receive less iniury from them than heretofore. I also enclose you Major Doyle’s letter from fort Massac to me, in consequence of which, I ordered to his relief an ensign, sergeant, corporal, and eighteen privates, mounted infantry. I have engaged Mr. Shute fifty dollars for going to you, express. , I have the honor to be, with great respect, your Excellency’s most obedient servant, JAMES ROBERTSON. His Excellency Governor Blount. Copy of General Robertson's order to Major Ore, dated Nashville, Gth September, 1794. The object of your command is to defend the district of Mero against the large party of Creeks and Cherokees of the Lower towns, which, I have received information, is about, to invade it, as, also, to punish, in an exemplary manner, such Indians as have committed recent depredations in the said district. For these objects, you will march, with the remainder of your command, from Brown’s block house, on the'8th instant, and proceed along Taylor’s trace towards the Tennessee, on which, from the information I have received, you are momently to expect to meet a large party of Creeks and Cherokees, advancing to invade this district; anti if you do not meet this party before you arrive at the Tennessee, you will pass it, and destroy the Lower Cherokee towns, which must serve as a check to the expected invaders, taking care to spare women and children, and to treat all prisoners, who may fall into your hands, with humanity, and thereby teach those savages to spare the citizens of the United States, under similar circumstances. Should you, in your inarch, discover the trails of Indians, returning iVoin the commission of recent depredations on the frontiers, which can generally he distinguished by the horses stolen being shod, you are to give pursuit to such parties, even to the towns from whence they come, and punisli them for their aggressions, in an exemplary manner, to the terror of others from the commission of similar offences; provided this can be consistent with the main object of your command, as above expressed—the defence of the district of Mero against the expected party of Creeks and Cherokees. I have the utmost confidence in your patriotism and bravery, and with mj warmest wishes for your success, I am, &c. Major Ore. Copy of a letter from John Fasten to.General Robertson, dated Clarksville, October 1, 1794. Dear Sir: I think it highly incumbent on me to transmit to you a copy of a letter from Doctor R. J. Waters, dated New Madrid, September 13, 1794, relative to an army of Creeks coining against this territory; I will copy it exactly, so that you may judge from his fears on the occasion. The Doctor supposed I would go to Kentucky, and had sent, by Mr. Haiully, a few days before the date of this, one thousand dollars for this place; but lie was robbed of all the money, by the Cherokees, at the mouth of the Ohio. I have the honor to be, &c. Copy of a letter from Doctor R. J. J Raters to John Fasten, dated New Madrid, September 13//;, 1794. Sir: Since my last, per Mr. Haiully, some reports here have given me some uneasiness; and my regard for you, my own interest, and the welfare of the people ot Cumberland, makes it necessary I should transmit the cause by this opportunity; a very formidable invasion, by the Creeks, is announced among the Indians as certain, and that they will consist of at least nine hund red men; their object appears important; they mean to strike at the thick, strong, settlements, and endeavor at extirpating all together; how far this report is to be relied on, must be judged of by concurrent circumstances and appearances; it. comes to me by a Shawanese, who is in good repute here, and who says he is veiy lately from among them; he adds, that, let their success in their first attempt be as it may,'they mean, afterwards, to beset Cumberland river, and the Ohio, a little below the mouth of Cumberland. ’Tis very certain the Indians do, in many instances, tell a great many lies; but I think there is some probability in this. 1 would wish you to judge with caution, and with good evidence. I do not wish to run risks much longer; we have run too many; and yet. if \vc give ear to every alarm, we may never be quiet. I must beg you to use your utmost caution and circumspection; make the necessary inquiries, and act, from the result, according to your own judgment and feelings on the occasion. If you find much danger like to await you, and your apprehensions up, without a sufficient force, or protection, I recommend you not to run too much risk,’ but rather abandon a prospect so obstructed with danger; but, if you iind your own inclinations inclined towards die enterprise, do not suffer me to damp your hopes and expectations. I shall not. blame you on my own account. I am principally concerned about you, ana am really apprehensive you will venture once too often, so most earnestly beg you to be very cautious. Copy of a letter from General Robertson to John Walts, dated Nashville, 20th September. 1794. Old Friend: I am glad to hear you talk as you did in old times, " that peace is good;-’ this I hear from j our people, (prisoners.) They say that Nickajack and Running Water were just listening to good talks; but, that we did not know: for our people were killed every day; the trails came and went towards them towns; and, one thing we do know, we found property that was taken from our people when killed, and letters that people had who were killed on the Kentucky road; so them towns cannot plead innocence; and we have long known them to be our enemies; but, if they are about to be good, we are sorry we did not know it in time; but what is past cannot be recalled; so, if friendship is to be between us, we must take care, on both sides, for the future. We will not listen to hall-way peace, that we are tired of; our ears are shut to such talks; but our ejres are open, and, if we see no white people killed, we shall not kill or distress the Cherokees. Our people were strong enough to have gone to-Look-out Mountain, or Will’s town; but they heard Dick Justice was head of Look-out Mountain, and is known to be a good man, and that the Middle Striker did live at Will’s town, and you were now giving good talks; so they returned, to see if enemies come again from that way, and, if they do, our people will soon return the visit. This I do not tell you as a threat, but you may depend on the truth of it; so let your people not blame us for the future, if the innocent should suffer with the guilty: for, when our people go to the towns, they cannot distinguish the innocent from the guilty; so, it will lay on your head-men to send a llag, which can, at all times.come safe, and let us know who are enemies; so that the innocent can be spared. We have borne with your injuries a long time; but jou will find our people as dreadful, when forced to take arms, as they are peaceable when you do not injure them. There are so many of them who have seen their near relations lying cut to pieces, by your people, that, when they find their enemies, they will have no mercy on them. Your nation sent men to make a treaty with the President, and, in the mean time, while they were talking, you killed his people. These are the talks we are done listening to. I do not hear that one of you talk of punishing those that murdered the people in the boats, taken this summer, neither have I heard of your sending in the negroes; but it is as well to say no more; we want peace, and love it, and, if you do the same, take steps to bring it about. Do not let (he Creeks pass through your country to war against us. There is a new town settling below; if that is to flourish, let them be peaceable, or their towns will be spoiled. We have got seventeen of your people prisoners, who will be well treated till we hear from j'ou. Our people will not go to war against j’our towns any more, if you come in and make peace. We shall wait long enough for you to come with a flag; but, if you do not come, our people will be sure to come again to war; and we have men enough to fight, and destroy you all, and burn your towns. Four of your prisoners are taken to Kentucky, by some of their men who went with us to war, and they will keep them till you send in four negroes you have taken from General Logan, who lives in that country, and will come aftei his negroes if peace is not soon made. The prisoners we have will be returned, if you will come in with a flag, and good assurances of a peace, and bring in a girl j-ou took prisoner, and killed her father and mother, on the Tennessee, on their way JV0111 the Chickasaw nation, whose name was Collins: when I say you, I mean jour nation. I am your old friend. JAMES ROBERTSON. John Watts, Chief of the Cherokee Nation. Copy of letter from Major Thomas Doyle to General James Robertson, dated Fort M assac, September 19. 1794. S t r : Enclosed I send you information very interesting to the people of j our country. From the present state of my garrison, having many sick, I shall not be able to render that service I could wish, as to giving information, watching the movements of the Indians in this quarter, which fifteen or twenty woodsmen would enable me to do. I am confident, had I those, I could render great services to my country: therefore I have to request you will send that number for a few weeks; as it is for the public good, I am confident you will comply with (his my request. Mr. Henley, who also writes by this conveyance, will no doubt give you an account of his defeat near the mouth of the Ohio. Nothing else worthy of notice has transpired since mine by Mr. McFarland. I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, THOMAS DOYLE, Major, Commanding fort Massac. General James Robertson. Copy of a letter from Governor Blount to the Secretary if War. Knoxville, November 3d, 1794. Sir: The enclosed copy of my letter, of the 29th of October, to Double-head, in answer to his of the 20th, will inform you of the pleasing prospects of peace at that time with the Lower Cherokee towns; but, since that time, I have received information of an intended invasion of those towns, by a volunteer army, headed bjr General Logan, from Kentucky; for the particulars of which, so far as yet come to my knowledge, and the measures I have taken to prevent, I refer jrou to tlie enclosed copies of my letters to General Logan, Colonel Whitley, General Robertson, the chief of the Lower Cherokee towns, John McKee, and my orders to Sergeant McClellan. Whether these measures will have the desired effect, time onlj’ can determine, but I am induced to hope, that, when General Logan is informed that the Indians have notice of his intentions, he will be induced to desist, and return home; because lie can but discover that the Indians will warmly oppose him. or flee to the mountains; and. in either case, lie must fail of his objects; and, as he is not made acquainted with the contents of inj' letter to the chiefs, the most probable construction he can draw, from their having any knowledge of his approach, must be, that they will oppose him at die crossing of the river, and every difficult pass upon his march. A daily and friendly intercourse is kept up at Tellico blockhouse (on the north bank of the Tennessee) between Mr. McKee, the temporary agent, resident at that place, on the part of the United States, where James Carey, the interpreter, also resides; and the Upper Cherokees, and the people generally on the frontiers, who have for upwards of two years been miserably huddled together in stations, for their common defence, have such confidence in the sincerity of this part of the nation, not only that they will not injure then.si Ives, but will guard them against such other Indians as maybe hostilely disposed, that they are generally about to move out to their respective farms. Should General Logan desist from his attack upon the Lower towns, 1 am of opinion the appointment of Mr. Dinsmoor to reside in the nation will have happy effects; but I would advise.that his general residence should be in Will’s town, in preference of the Turkey's. My reasons are, the Turkey’s is, and has long been, one of the most peaceable towns in the nation,nor do, if any of the war parties of Creeks pass through it, to, or from, Cumberland; so his presence or address, at that place, does not appear necessary to restrain either Cherokees or Creeks from war. Will’s town is one of the most powerful of the Lower towns, the residence of John Watts, a very leading chief, the most contiguous of them to the towns of the Creeks, and through which the hostile parties of Creeks frequently pass to and from Cumberland. Here his presence, address, and information, could but be of great service to the United States. Before I found it essential to the interest of the United States to order Mr. McKee to reside permanently at Tellico block house, I contemplated that town as his place of residence, where it could be done with safety to his person. But, admitting the Lower Cherokees, as well as the Upper, should, from the measures taken with them, preserve an inviolate peace, it will not give peace to the frontiers, unless the Upper Creeks can be induced or compelled to follow their example. They can be induced, il at all, only by some person acquainted with Indian customs and manners, in whom they have confidence, residing among them, in the character of agent. Such a person, I have been taught to believe, for I have no personal acquaintance with him, now lives at Will’s town, a Scotchman, of the name of John McDonald, heretofore in a subordinate character, under the British superintendent, Colonel Brown, who, I have reason to believe, would accept such an appointment, provided the salary was a good one—say equal to that allowed Mr. Dinsmoor. But salary alone would not be sufficient; he ought to be allowed to keep a table better than his salary would support; and, on proper occasions, to reward, with presents, such Indians as should render services, or give uncommon proofs of friendship towards the United States. This would have a greater degree of influence and confidence, and the better enable him to effect the object of his appointment. The particular towns lie should reside in, I cannot, at this moment, recommend; but it ought to be one of the most hostile of those lying contiguous to the Lower Cherokee towns, and most directly on the way from the other hostile towns of the Creeks, to and from Cumberland. Another advantage, in appointing this gentleman, would be, that he has as much, or more, influence with the Lower Cherokees, than any other man who resides among them; and, being in the pay of the United States, that influence would, consequently, be exerted over them in aid of Mr. Dinsmoor; and a third reason is, there are several Scotch traders, heretofore adherents to the British Government, in the Lower towns, inferior in consequence to McDonald, who would be pleased with his being noticed by the United States, and support him and his measures to peaceful objects. > My reason for believing Mr. McDonald M ould accept the appointment in the Creeks, is, that he has informed me, by letter, not long since to my hands, though written in May, 1793, that he would accept such an appointment from the United States to the Lower Cherokees. _ 'The want of wagons, in the first instance, at Manchester, and, after procured, the death of several of the horses, the poverty of others, and the want of health of the wagon drivers, have delayed the last load of the Chickasaw goods until to-day; but, a boat and hands being in readiness, to-morrow Opoia Mingo and party take their leave for the mouth of Bear creek, where they expect to meet their nation, prepared with pack horses, to take home the goods given them at Philadelphia. I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant, WM. BLOUNT. Coosaw'atee, October 20, 1794. ■ Friend and Brother: I send you this talk from this town, on my way home, just returned from our father the President, and our beloved brother General Knox. Now, my brother Governor Blount, you know very well, and the rest of the white people, when I and some of our people went tp Congress, we Mere sent by our head-men of our land to go to that place. Now we have returned back, the head-men anil warriors, and young men also, are satisfied with what we have done, and are determined to hold the United States fast by the hand, and keep peace. Nom-, this is the talk of them all, and I am glad to inform you so, my friend, and it is pleasing to me that I did not spend my breath for nothing. But, it appears now we shall have a lasting peace between us, which the old head-men strove a long time for. tve shall nowlive in peace like brothers. My people are now wanting to go out a hunting, which you know is high time to be out; for you all know very wrell where our hunting ground is. on the other side of the Big river, and on the mountain, and on the waters of Cumberland, though you know very well where we hunt, and we hope you will keep the white people from coming to hurt the hunters, as we all want to live in peace now with you all. Now, if some ol our mad young men should go and steal a horse from some of your people, you must not get in a passion for that with us, but wait till the horse or horses shall be returned to you again. This is what the great beloved men told us, to return all such horses, and keep our young men from doing any bad thing to the white people. When I was at Oconee mountain, we sent all the head-men at it to the Big river (the Tennessee) to come down there and hear all the talk we had brought with us. But, however, they did not all come, on the account of some people having come in and killed some of them; that it was not our people’s doings that made the white people come in and kill our people, but it was the Creeks doings that caused all this. And when we gave them the talk, they all received it. and have taken hold ol it fast; and we all mean to hold the talks that are given us by the President and General Knox, and we hopejhe white people will not let our hands go, but hold us by the hand as we mean to do. What mischief has been done, was done by the Creek Indians’doings; and if the white people hold us by the hand, we may still stand our ground with them: for, it is they who have made us angry with'one another. We hope you have now found them out, and our foolish young men who used to be set on by them. We send the Quadroon and his friend to carry this talk to you, and we hope yon will receive them kindly, and treat them well, that they may have a good talk to tell their friends when they come home, and we hope you will send us the truth about our people’s going a hunting: for they will all be wanting to hear the news from you, M'hether they may hunt in peace or not. I am your friend and brother, DOUBLE HEAD, his + mark. Governor Blount. , Knoxville, October 29, 1791. Mv Friend and Brother: Your letter of the 20th instant, w'as delivered toMr. John McKee, the agent resident at Tellico block house, and by him forwarded to me express by Andrew Millar. The Quadroon, the Turkey’s Son, and the other two messengers, wait there for my answer, which I hasten to give you. Mr. McKee, I am sure, will treat them well. That you and other deputies of the Cherokees have been to visit the President of the United States, and your beloved brother General Knox, there made a‘peace, and that you and your people, now you are returned, are well pleased, and determined to keep the peace you nave made, is truly pleasing to me. It is hardly necessary for me to repeat to you and to your nation, that ever since I have acted in the character of superintendent of if, I have always wished and exerted myself to keep peace between your nation and the citizens of the United States, and now, with your exertions for peace on the part of your nation, and the continuance of mine on the part of the United States, I hope we shall have no more war. In your letter, you say, “now, it some of our mad young men should go and steal a horse, or horses, from some of your people, you must not be in a passion or mad with us, but wait, and the horse or horses so stolen, shall be returned to you again.” To this proposal I agree, and whenever a horse is stolen, I will give your nation notice, and allow thirty days to return the horse or horses stolen, to John McKee, at Tellico block house; but, if the horse or horses stolen are injured, damage must be paid, as well as the horses be returned. You next ask, “ if your hunters may go out to their hunting grounds in safety?” My answer to that question is, that though the white people have lost a great deal of blood, and many horses, they wish peace, and will not hurt your people, if all red people cease to injure them. I say the white people will not hurt your people, if all red people cease to injure them, anil by all red people. I mean Creeks as well as Cherokees: for, if Creeks hurt them, they will not be able to distinguish them from Cherokees, and may hurt your hunters in retaliation. It is true, 1 have long found out that the Creeks kill the citizens of the United States, and I fear they will continue so to do, and if they do. j our people will surely be blamed for it; and if you earnestly wish peace, you and your people must stop them, and turn them back from annoying our frontiers. Or if you see or hear of their returning with hair or horses, you must apprehend them, and bring them to Tellico block house, as the Maw’s people served one last summer: for it is better you have war with the Creeks, who, you say, have already brought great mischief upon your people, than with your friends, the citizens of the United States, who sincerely wish peace with j our nation, and the world at large. And if jmu, lor the sake of peace with the United States, are forced into a war with the Creeks, you majr be sure of friends enough: for, besides the white people, vho must be your friends, the Upper Cherokees, the Chickasaws, and Choctaws, neither, love the Creeks. It now appears, that you, and myself, and our people, wish peace; and, for fear it should be disturbed or broken, while some or both sides can’t quite forget their relations and friends, I would advise your hunters for this winter, not to cross the ridge that divides the waters of Duck river and Cumberland, nor to come near the Cumberland nor Kentucky traces, nor near the frontiers of this country; there is ground enough'besides to hunt on this winter; and this winter passing off in entire peace, people will be more good humored next summer, and will more firmly believe that there is really a peace taken place between us. Mj friend Colonel Watts, who has received a letter from General Robertson, respecting the destruction of .the Running Water and Nickajack, will inform you the. reasons the general gave for its being done. The Quadroon, the Turkey’s son, and j our other runners, will report to you the good understanding and peace that subsists between the United States and the good old Maw, and all the Upper towns. John McKee resides at Tellico block house, in the character of a temporary agent, to cherish and keep up this friendship, and all times, when you wish to write me, or send me a runner, let it be done bjr way of that place. Peace is my wish, but, by peace I mean that not one more white person is to be killed. Iam your friend and brother, WM. BLOUNT. Double-head, a Chief of the Cherokees. Copy of a letter from Governor Blount to Brigadier General Robertson, dated Knoxville, November I si, 1791. Sir: Enclosed are copies of my letters to Colonel Whitley, and General Logan, and the newspaper containing a copy of Double-head’s letter to me. and my answer; the latter serving to show the prospects of returning peace, and the former my sense and disapprobation of General Logan’s intended invasion of the Lower towns. It is a duty you owe to the office and rank you hold in government, to your common country, and to your exposed fellow frontier citizens, in particular, to use your authority and address, to compel or induce General Logan to desist from his unauthorized invasion of those towns. My letter of information to the Indians, of the approach of General Logan, of this date, will appear in the next number of the Knoxville Gazette. Captain Evans is to remain on the frontiers of Mero district, and range, under his present order, until such time in December as shall be sufficient to afford him onlj- time to appear at this place, and muster out of service on the last day of that month. [enclosures.] From Governor Blount to Colonel IVhitley, dated Knoxville, November I si, 1791. Sir: I have been informed, first, by Ilousen Kenar, which has been in a greater degree confirmed since, by the examination of Major Ore, the bearer, that you passed this place.'yesterday. with an intention to join General Logan, who is said to have marched from Kentucky, in force, to invade the Lower Cherokee towns. The newspaper you will receive herewith, contains copies of a letter of the 26th ultimo, to me, from Double Head, a principal chief of those towns, and my answer to him of the 29th, by which you will understand these towns, as well as every other part of the Cherokee nation, are considered in the peace of the United States. By what authority General Logan has raised an armed force to invade a nation, declared by public authority in peace with the United States, I am uninformed. Hence, I am compelled to suppose he has no legal authority for so doing, and to command him, you, and all others concerned, to desist from such illegal and unauthorized enterprise. Having so recently received from, and given to the Cherokees, assurances of peace, as the above mentioned letters will prove to you, it becomes an official duty in me, to give information to the Cherokees of the intended invasion of General Logan, and the feelings of humanity equally compel me so to inform you, and, if possible, the general himself. It is my wish to act, so as that neither party can charge me with improper conduct, and to save the effusion of human blood. From the character of General Logan and yourself, I readily believe that you both wish peace and security to the frontier inhabitants; but should you persevere in your intended attack upon the Lower towns, it is my opinion, that the effect will be the drawing the Lower Cherokees and the Upper Creeks, highly incensed, upon those exposed people. From Governor Blount to General Benjamin Logan, dated Knoxville, November 1st, 1791. Sir: Enclosed is a copy of my letter to Colonel Wiiitlej", of this (late, forwarded to him express, and one of the newspapers containing tne copies of the letters of Double-head, a principal chief of the Cherokees, of the 20th ultimo, to me, and my answer of the 29th, as alluded to in my letter to the colonel. The first (the letter to the colonel) serving to show you the information I have received .respecting your intended invasion of the Lower Cherokee towns; and the latter, the pleasing prospects of a continued peace between the United States and the Lower Cherokees. Upon your receiving this information, I cannot suffer myself to doubt, but your love of peace and order will induce you immediately to desist from your intended enterprise. But, in this instance, it is my duty to command as well as inform: Therefore, 1 command you, as well as the men with you, or under your command, forthwith, to desist from the attempt of invading the Lower Cherokee towns, who are in the peace of the United States. And. I further command you, and the men with you, respectively, not to enter, in a hostile manner, the country or lands guarantied to the Cherokee nation, by the treaty between the United States and the said Cherokees, commonly called the treaty of Hoiston, warning you and them, that, incase of a violation of this order, which is issued by virtue of the authority in me vested, you and they will answer the same at your peril. Haying received my appointment from the Federal Government, I am answerable for iny acts only to it; yet, it may not be improper to give you my reasons for my conduct on this occasion; they are contained in part of my letter to Colonel Whitley, to which I refer yon; and an additional one is. my great desire to promote the peace and happiness of our frontier fellow citizens, and (uncommon country at large. This letter will be delivered to you by Sergeant McClellan, who I have sent with ten men, for that purpose, under instructions to follow jrou, if lie does not sooner meet with you, to the banks of the Tennessee. 68 Copy of a letter from Governor Blount to Double-head, and other Chiefs and Warriors. Knoxville, November 1st, 1794. William Blount, Governor in and over the territory of the United States of Jlmerieu, south of the river Ohio, and Superintendent of Indian Jiffuirs,for the Southern district, to Double-head, and the other Chiefs and Warriors of the Lower Cherokees: , It is only two days since I wrote you, in answer to your letter of the 20th October, and informed you the citizens of the United States all wished peace with you, since you were determined to be at peace with them, and sol then believed. But now I have to tell you, that I am just informed that General Logan, of Kentucky, has raised, or is about to raise, a large army of volunteers; unauthorized by Government, to invade and destroy the Lower Cherokee towns. The reason given for raising this army to destroy the Lower towns is, that the people of the Lower towns have unprovokedlv shed a great .deal of blood of the frontier citizens, and stolen and robbed them of much property, which they yet hold in their hands, consisting of negroes and horses. I give you this information, that you may not charge the United States nor myself, of having deceived you, by telling you all wished peace, when a large party were just about to invade your country. I have sent to General Logan, informing him of the good talks that have passed between you and myself, with orders to desist from his intended invasion of your country, which I hope he will attend to, and return home; but it may be that he will not return, but pursue his first intention, and invade your country. Here I feel myself at a loss, in case General Logan does invade your country, how to advise you to act for the best. But knowing the Government of the United States wish peace with your nation, and all the world, and believing you have now seen the folly of war, and also wish peace, 1 advise you, in case General Logan does enter your country, that you all quit your towns, and remove your stock, and other property, to the woods, leaving your houses and such of your corn as you cannot remove, to the inercy of General Logan, and his'party, and forbear to do him or his party, the least injury in person or property; relying that Government will compensate your loss of horses and corn, in preference to having the blood of their citizens shed, in defence of them. Too much blood has been shed already, and if more is shed, it will increase the difficulty of securing the blessings of returning peace. Peace ought to be the wish of both parties, for, in peace consists the true interests and happiness of both parties. War will cost the United States much money, and some lives, but it will destroy the existence of your people, as a nation, forever. 1 would advise you to deliver up at the Tellic.o block house, to John M’Kee, without delay, all the deserters, prisoners, negroes, and horses; then the people of Kentucky can have no more cause to invade your country. The Cherokee chiefs are requested, after this letter has been explained to them at Will’s town and the Look-out Mountain, to forward it to Mr. Dinsmoor, at the Turkey’s town. Copy of a letter from Governor Blount to John McKee. ’ , Knoxville, November 1st, 1794. Sib: 'Explain the enclosed letter to the Hanging Maw, and the Upper Cherokees, and immediately forward it by a runner, to the Lower towns; unsealed you have also a copy, which you are at liberty to show to whom you please, but not to give a copy to any body. It has not been even hinted to me, that Logan, in case he succeeds in the destruction of the Lower towns, wilL pass up by the Upper towns, and do them much injury; yet, it is possible; and. to guard as much as possible against such conduct, I would advise that the Upper towns keep spies below, and in case of his advance, to evacuate their towns, taking with them their most valuable effects, and leaving their houses and corn to his mercy. I cannot permit you to come up here, until the event of this lawless expedition of Logan’s is known. This letter will be delivered to you by Captain Ricard. Mr. John McKee, temporary agent to the Cherokees, resident at Tellico block house. Copy of an order from Governor Blount to Serjeant M'Clellan. , Knoxville, November Sd <$* 3d, 1794. The object of your being ordered on duty, is to go express with a letter to General Logan, who, from the information I have received, I have reason to believe, is on his march from Kentucky, with an army of volunteers, having an intention to invade the Lower Cherokee towns, unauthorized by Government. My information respecting the time when the General would march from Kentucky, is so vague, as not to enable me even to form any tolerable conjecture, where or when you will most probably fall in with him; but it is certain, if he does not desist from his enterprise, that he will march by way of Mero district, and from thence, by way of Ore’s trace, to the Tennessee, where Ore crossed it. You will take such course as will intercept him to the greatest certainty, before he arrives at the Tennessee, which will be to turn off the common trace to Nashville, at or near the Crab Orchard, and to proceed by such course as shall strike Ore’s trace, from Nashville to the Tennessee, about midway between the two places; and upon striking of it, you will readily discover whether he has passed on towards the Tennessee or not; if he has, you will pursue to the Tennessee, if not, you will turn towards Mero district, and upon finding the General, you will deliver him the letter addressed to him. It may be, that you may fall in with a part of the army of General Logan, and not with himself, and to provide against such an event, I herewith deliver to you a copy of my letter to the General, and a copy of my .letter to Colonel Whitley, also a newspaper, containing copies of Double-head’s letter to me, of the. 20th October, and my answer of the 29th, all of which you will read publicly to such party, and make known to them, that it is my order and command to them,' to desist from their attempt to invade the Lower Cherokee towns. And should General Logan, upon your delivering the letter to him, refuse to open it, or after he does open it, should neglect to make the contents known, you will, in either case, inform him that you have it in command from me, to order nim, and the men with him, to desist from his and their intended invasion of the Cherokee country; and in either case, you will read aloud to him and the men with him, or under his command, the letters above mentioned. And to the end that'j no party may enter the Cherokee towns or country, unadvised of their danger, you are commanded to declare to all and every party, who appear to have the entering of either for their object, that I have apprised the Indians of their approach, and you may add that I have considered it my official duty so to do, and that a copy of my letter to the Indians, on that head,' will appear in the next, number of the Knoxville Gazette, to the erid that the impartial public may judge of the propriety of my conduct in so doing. . v _ You have also, herewith, a letter addressed “ General Robertson or Colonel Winchester, Mero district/’ with which you will despatch two of your command, from the Crab orchard,along the old trace, directly to Colonel Winchester’s, and from thence to General Robertson. Having completed this order, so far as respects General Logan, you may return directly to this place, or go into the Cumberland settlements, and refresh from five to ten days, and return to this place, to be mustered out of service. Sergeant M’Clellan. M o.sDAY Morning, November 3rf, 1794. Having received more certain information of the intended movements of General Logan, namely, that he. with his party, are to rendezvous at the foot of the Cumberland mountain, on the north side, on the 9th instant, I find it proper to order that you, instead of turning oft'to the left, at the Crab orchard, push directly, with all possible haste, to Mero district, where you probably will arrive before the General leaves that district, and deliver the letter to him; but, should he have marched from Mero district before your arrival, you will instantly follow him. and pursue to the banks of the Tennessee, if you do not sooner overtake him. You are to consider the order of the ‘2d instant in force, except where this order otherwise directs. Sergeant McClellan. Copy of a Idler from Governor Blount to the Secretary of War, dated Kxoxville.,N'ovember 10 th. 1794. Sir: ~ . Enclosed are copies of sundry papers, a list of which is subjoined, serving to inform you of the pleasing pros-pects of peace with the Lower Cherokee towns. It is now my opinion these towns wish peace with the United States with great sincerity, and that that sincerity has its source in the victory obtained by General Wayne over the Northern Indians, in the successful attack made by Major Ore. upon Running Water and Nickajack: and in the decided part taken by the Upper Cherokees against the Creeks, w hereby they may eventually be brought into a war with that nation. The frontier people, too, generally, appear as sincerely to wish peace with the Indians: and that they have, without exception, in the districts of Hamilton and Washington, quit tne stations or forts, and moved out to their farms, affords a proof of their entire confidence in the assurances of the Cherokees. Permit tne, sir, to congratulate you on these pleasing piospects of peace, and to assure you, that you could not have received the many accounts of murders anil thefts, by the Cherokees committed, which I have been compelled to give, with more pain than I penned them. It remains yet to realize these prospects, that are to securea continuance of peace between the United States and the whole of the Cherokee nation, which I have the most sanguine hopes is practicable, provided the Government of Great Britain or Spain, nor the subjects of either, do not. stimulate them to murder or rob the citizens of the United States, and provided the Creeks can also be induced or taught to desist from killing the citizens of the United States. .... . 'One great source of hostility with the Cherokees lias been horse stealing, which, it is to be feared, will be continued, if measures are not taken to prevent it; and one of the most effectual is, to stop the sale from the Indians to the white people; which can only be done by proper persons, under the appointment and in the pay of the United States, being posted at the places where the horses stolen are carried to ihe settlements for sale. The markets within the United States, for the three last years, for stolen horses, have been Swannano in North Carolina, the settlements at the foot of the Oconee mountain in South Carolina, and at Tugelq in Georgia. From one to twenty at a time have been carried and sold at one or other of these places, without being in the least degree (that I have heard of) prevented by the law, now' in force against that iniquitous and injurious traffic. The most probable remedy that presents itself to me, for the prevention of this traffic, would be, to divide a company of the Federal troops into three parts, and station one at some well chosen spot upon the Indian boundary, near each of those places, the officer at each post, to have authority as to the execution of the law respecting trade with Indians, w ith additional pay for that duty. If it should be asked why I have not suppressed this traffic at these places, the answer is, that neither is within the country I have, the honor to govern, and that the. whole of them are very distant from me: the nearest, Swannano, upwards of one hundred miles. These posts would also serve as trading posts, and the only ones necessary, upon the frontiers of the States in which they respectively shall be, as well as posts for the preservation of peace and order between the whites and the Indians. In this country, early after my arrival, I issued a proclamation forbidding the citizens to purchase horses from Indians, which has been strictly obeyed; w hile the Indians have continued to steal horses from them, and to carry them to the three before mentioned markets. It will be readily seen, that the officers, commanding at these posts, ought to be appointed with an eye to the duties they are to perform. I have heretofore informed you, that I had made five detachments from the Federal company at this place, and posted them at different places on the frontiers, in advance of the settlements of Knox county, Hamilton district: and, to save you the trouble of having recourse to my letters. I mention three of them, which, in my opinion, ought to be permanently kept up, namely, the post at Southwest point, which is rituate upon the south bank of the Clinch, within half a mile of its junction with the Tennessee, forty miles from this place, and tw'enty-five in advance of the settlements (the road from this place to Nashville passes the Clinch at this post); fort Granger, upon the north bank of the Holston, at its junction with the Tennessee, twenty-two miles from this place, and seven in advance of the settlements; and Tellico block house, on the north bank of the Tennessee, immediately opposite the remains of fort Loudoun, thirty-two miles from this place, and seven in advance of the settlements: the two first for the preservation of peace and order between the citizens of the United States and the Indians only; the latter also to serve for that purpose, and for a trading post through which all intercourse w ith the upper part of the nation, by myself or others of this territory, should take place. With respect to the district of Mero, the most difficult settlement in America to protect. 1 am more at a loss what to recommend as a probable mean of preserving peace between the citizens of it and the Cherokees. This districts ninety miles from east to west, and its extreme width, from north to south, does not exceed thirty miles, surrounded by a heavy timber. &c. no five miles of which, together, but w hat has been stained with the blood of the inhabitants, since my arrival in this country. Hence, if it is contemplated to give effectual protection to this district, supposing the Indians should recommence hostilities, its situation being so well described to you, you can as well judge as any man as to the number of men necessary to give sue!) protection. But the presumption with me, is, that the Cherokees, as a nation, wish peace with the United States, and that but few, if any, individuals of it will kill in future; then, as the most eligible plan that I can think of to induce the Indians to continue their friendship with that district, or, in other words, to awe them from depredations, is to establish a post, with a company of Federal troops, if the Cherokees will permit it, at the lower end of the valley formed by the Tennessee and the Cumberland mountain, on the north bank of the Tennessee, nearly opposite the mouth of Look-out mountain creek, where there is a good ford across the river. , The advantages of this post would be, that, while it awed the evil disposed, it would serve as a trading post, in the midst of the Indian hunting grounds, which would tend, by the daily intercourse, to humanize the savage mind, and more firmly strengthen the friendship between the respective parties; another advantage of this post, and, in my opinion, a very essential one, would be, that, if, after all attempts to presene peace with the Lower towns, they should recommence hostilities, it would afford a proper place for a repository of provisions for militia or other troops, who might be employed to teach these towns the value of peace. You will readily see, to this post, there is a water conveyance down the Tennessee and its different branches, from every quarter of this country. From Southwest Point, (the mouth of Clinch) the distance to ii is about one hundred miles, all the way down a valley so open and level, that twenty-five pioneers can clear a road as fast as a wagon could be driven, along which, troops destined against, the Lower towns, could, at all times, pass to that post. Its distance from Will’s town, the most distant of the Lower towns from it, would not exceed forty miles, and not above twenty to the Look-out mountain, Running Water, or Nickajack, the two latter of which will probably be rebuilt. In other words, while it wall awe the evil disposed to keep the peace, and to strengthen and cherish the friendship of the friendly, it will serve to render extremely easy and certain the chastisement and destruction of the Lower towns, in case they recommence hostilities, bv a body of militia, that can, at any time, be raised at a weeks’ notice, and, in one month, destroy the towns, and be returned to their respective homes. The Captain who commands at tins post, to be a person proper for conducting IiuJian affairs, with an additional salary. General Robertson, and others, of the best informed of the Cumberland people, are of opinion that this post would more probably give quiet to them, than the establishment of any other post or posts, except such numbers were established as would actually cover their whole frontier, which is at least two hundred miles, and would, at least, require a brigade. It will be recollected, I recommend this post in case the Cherokees will a°ree to it, respecting which, I have made no inquiry; but if the Indians of the Lower towns are as fully impressed with their own folly, or with fear that the frontier people will no longer bear their many murders and thefts, as I believe they are, it is mv opinion I can obtain their permission for its establishment, for a small annuity, if not on the score of being particularly beneficial to them, which I verily believe it would be. At this time, too, I possess, with the principal chiefs and other leading characters, not only'of the Lower towns, but of the whole nation, a very great share of their confidence and attachment, owing, as they declare, to their being now truly sensible that, if it had not been for my efforts, the frontier people would long since have overrun their nation, and taken their country: and my conduct towards them, in Logan's affair, can but confirm that opinion. These posts being established, would, in my opinion, supersede the necessity of an agent in the nation. It is also my opinion, that no person whatever, ought to be permitted to carry trade to the Indians, but at one or the other of these posts, under the eye of the deputy or agent, residing at them, respectively. It is essential to the execution of this plan, that the officer.', acting as deputies, at the different posts, should be men of good understanding, prudence, and address, and particularly, that John McKee, the present temporary agent, resilient at Tellic'o blockhouse, should continue there: for, besides his having a great share of the confidence of the nation, lie is, from his abilities and knowledge of Indians, their habits and dispositions, the most proper man within my acquaintance or knowledge, for a deputy; and, if it should he necessary to his continuance, that he should be an officer, I can assure you that he is not only qualified, by his bodily and mental abilities, to perforin the duties of a captain, but of a field or general officer. I do not offer this as a plan of complete defence, but as a plan which, if executed, may probably prevent the necessity of it. But, lest I should be mistaken, and more effectual protection should become indispensably necessary, it may be proper I should repeat to you, that the districts of Washington and Hamilton have a very exposed frontier, of upwards of two hundred miles, upon almost every part of which the Indians have killed and robbed, since I have been in this country. Nor would I be understood as being so certain of the continuance of peace, pleasing as prospects are, as to render it unnecessary for Congress to provide against a change in the conduct of the Cherokees. In your letter of 01st July, you say, ‘'the goods which are at Knoxville, arid promised to be delivered to the Cherokees, I pray may be done, without the least deduction whatever, as per invoice marked No. 2.” A part of these goods had been delivered to Opoia Mingo and his party, on their way to Philadelphia, and, if I recollect, reported to }rou by Captain Chisolm. It was essential that Opoia Mingo and his party, should receive sundry articles to fit them for their journey to Philadelphia, and I judged it more to the'interest ot the United States, to lurnish from the public store, than to purchase from individuals, at the advanced prices at which goods sell,at this place.: the remainder of them have mostly been delivered to the Cherokees, at Tellico block house, and proper vouchers of delivery taken, and the whole will be delivered at that place, at. the time proposed for an exchange of prisoners, if not before, so that the account of delivery will be completed within the year, and the account exhibited for settlement. I have long expected Mr. Dinanioor at this place, but I have not yet heard of his arrival in the nation, and report says, he has returned to Philadelphia. The Hanging Maw and the friendly part of the nation had, by some means, been informed that these goods were to be delivered to Double-head and his party, upon which he promptly demanded of Mr. McKee, whether they were to be delivered to Double-head, and his party of murderers, or to that part of the nation who had given proof of their friendship to the United States, bv taking one Creek and killing two others in the settlements, as well as by other acts; if the latter, lie said, the friendly part of the nation would know how to ensure the reward of The United States for their services. So far as they have been delivered, every part of the nation have received a part, but those who have given the greatest proofs of their friendship, have received the greatest share. It is to be observed, that few, none that I know, of the latter description, attended ‘at the Oconee mountain to receive any part of those brought from Philadelphia by Double Head; hence, upon that score, they had a claim to a good share. May I ask, would it not be advisable to send on the annual payment for the year 1795, as early as possible; for. in the nature of Indian business, it is next to impossible to preserve their friendship, without occasionally bestowing some presents, and sometimes goods are wanting to reward particular ones, for meritorious services; I mean for the Cherokees and Chickasaws, anil Choctaws too, if any are allowed for them, for goods are very dear, both here and at Nashville, and the necessity of occasionally purchasing small articles is submitted to with great reluctance. That the Creeks will desist from tlieir depredations upon Mere district, until compelled, I have not the least hope; nor do I entertain the least doubt but I can, if so instructed, in any short time, induce the Cherokees, (I believe the whole nation) the whole of the Chickasaws, a part of the Choctaws, and, eventually, the whole of them, to aid the arms of the United States, in the total destruction of that nation. The. destruction of the Creeks, by the aid of these three nations, could be effected, not only much cheaper than by an army of citizens, but it would, to a certainty, prevent a combination of the Southern tribes at a future day, against the United States. If the citizens of the United States do not destroy the Creeks, the Creeks will kill the citizens of the United States; the alternative is, to kill or be killed. . Under the impression that the prospects of peace with the Cherokees is such as may be relied upon, from a certain knowledge that the people in general are more unanimous, and better disposed to support peace and order, than for two years past, and with the hope that no change Mill take place in my absence, I solicit permission to visit Philadelphia, in the latter part of January, or early in February. I have .the honor to be, &c. &c. YUM. BLOUNT. At a conference held on the ~th and 8th November, 1794, at Felico block house, upon the north bank of the Tennessee, between IVilliarn Blount. Governor in and over the territory of the United States of America south of the river Ohio, and Colonel John JUutts, of Will's town, (one of the Lower Cherokee towns) Scolacutta. or the Hanging Maw. and other chiefs of the Cherokee Nation: at which were present four hundred warriors and severed citizens of the United States, namely. Colonel Abisha Thomas, Major Sevier. Major David Craig, Ensign SamuelII. Davidson, of the Federal troops, commanding at this post, and others.—James Carey, interpreter. Governor Blount: (addressing himself to Colonel Watts.) Upon being informed by Mr. McKee that you were here, ami wished to see me about tbe affairs of your nation, 1 hastened to meet you. 1 am happy in this interview, because your presence here is an evidence of the wish of the Lower towns for peace, whose principal chief! have ever considered you, and in Scolacutta I behold the true, head of your whole nation. Having opened the conference, I shall sit down, and first expect the talk of Colonel Watts. Colonel Watts.—This meeting appears to me ordered by the Great Spirit, and affords me great pleasure. There is Scolacutta; he is old enough to be my father, and from my infancy he was a great man, and is now the great chief of the nation. In the spring of the year he sent a talk to the Lower towns, telling them he and the Upper towns had taken the United States by the hand, with a determination to hold them fast during life, and inviting the Lower towns to do the same. With tears in my eves have I thought ot this talk, and beheld the folly of the Lower towns, who at first refused to hear it. But, just before the destruction of the Running Water and Nickajaek. by Major Ore, I went to them as well as the Look-out Mountain town, and exerted myself for the restoration of 1T94.] I'll K SOIJIITW KSTMRN TRILLS. 537 peace, and I v-vrily believe those I owns had licaid 1113 I; d k s, and were determined lobe at peace with the United States. 1 do not say [limning Water and Nickajack did not. deserve the chastisement they received; nevertheless, it so exasperated those who escaped from the mins, tint, lor a time, I was compelled to he silent myself; hut the Class went to the Running Water people, and they told the Class that, not withstanding the injury they had sustained, they had not forgot my good talks, hot still held (hem last,and desired me to lake measures lor (hi; recmcry of (heir prisoners. When this answer was reported to me by I ho Class, I had my doubts, and could not act upon it; for they had told me so many lies, I was afraid to trust, them. I then sent the Bloody Fellow to the Running Water, and In; returned with the same report, which induced me to come forward to yon, knowing you were the man the United Slates had authori/.ed to transact such business. I deliver you this (presenting a sliing of white heads) as a true talk, and a public, talk from the Lower towns to you. Scolaculta, the head of the nation, is sitting by me; the Lower (owns instructed me to reipiest him not fo throw them away, but to come with me to you, and present this talk in (heir behalf. Ry a prisoner taken by Major On1, ami sent back by Cenernl Robertson, I received a letter from him. rcijuiriug me to deliver up a while prisoner, and a certain number of negroes, and that the prisoners taken by Major On-should all be restored to their nation. In this letter the Ceneral invited me to come in to him \vilh a llag; hut as the woman was pursued by some had while people,and obliged to ipiit her horse, and savehersell in the cane, although I know Ceneral Robertson to he a good man, I thought it imprudent to go to lorn; besides, I know that, an exchange ol prisoners could only be negotiated with you. As to the prisoners in my town. Will’s town, there are none; and when the people of my town once look a man of great worth (Captain Handy) they restored him without price. {Jcocacutta, or I he Hanging Maw. I too have a talk from the Lower towns: they- were once my people, hut not now; yet. I cannot, but think much about the talk I have now received by Walls. Ik-fore any thing happened to these towns, I had sent, them many peace talks, which they would not hear; but now, since, the attack made upon them by Major Ore, they send to me to make peace for them, in conjunction with Walts.  ' I am the head-man of my nation, as Governor Blount is of the while people; it was not the tail 11 ol either that those towns were destroyed, bill, their own conduct brought, destruction upon Ihem; the trail of murderers and thieves was followed to those towns. NeverlheliKS, I cannot neglect the. rcouesl they have made to me, to make peace for them; as I hope they have, seen their lolly, and will desist from murdering and nibbing the people ol the United Stales, and live in peace. 1 shall (hen hoot! to live much longer: for their had conduct, drew the white people on me, who injured me nearly unto death. This talk I deliver on the part of the Lower towns; and il they do not now desist from war, and live at peace, I will give, them up to the United Stales, to deal with as they shall judge, proper. All last winter I was compelled to live in the woods, by the bad conduct ol my own people drawing war upon me. In the spring ol the year, a communication was opened with you; yon invited me to meet your deputy, John McKee, in nine flays, which I did. John McKee assured me ol the pearelul disposition ol tie.- United Slates, and told me and my party to return to our houses and fields; this I also did. I could hear from several parts of the nation threats against, my life, to hi; elfected by killing flu- white people in my neighborhood, and thereby draw them on me and my friendly party. 1 then solicited that this block house or fort should be erected, as serving to protect me and my friendly parly, as well as the frontier inhabitants, and open a communication between the white and red people. I still heard inurmurings from several parts of my lialion, with threats that they would have no inter-course with it, or with John McKee; hut I see, now standing round me, many ol those very people who are glad to come to it, and to be in friendship with John McKee, and at peace with the United Slates. They need not liud fault with John McKee; I have found him to be an honest man, and never heard any thing from him but the (mill. November H/h. Governor Bi.oum'.—It is with pleasure I receive from 30111 the information that the Lower Uhcrokecs wish peace, with (he United Slates. When you, (addressing himself to Watts) the Bloody Fellow, ami the Glass, the three greatest chiefs of the Lower towns, come forward with such assurances, I can no longer doubt the sincerity with which they are made. Peace with flu: whole Cherokee nation has ever been the. wish of the United States, and il is yet their wish; so that the Lower towns have only to keep peace on their part, ami it will be peace. By saying the Lower towns rc-tpicslcd you to take measures for (lie recovery of the prisoners. I understand that they wish an exchange of prisoners; to this I agree, and propose that a general exchange shall lake place at this post, on the IH(11 of December. All negroes in your hands, whether caplined, or absconded Ironi their masters, ante he considered as prisoners in your hands, and are to hi: delivered up. My letter to the chiefs of the Lower towns, of the 1st instant, ha.-, informed you of the threatened invasion ol those town.-, by General Logan, with a large parly of men from Kentucky, unaulhori/.ed h}- Government. I have now li> add, as my advice to 3 011 and your people, that in ease. Logan should carry his intended invasion of your eountry into execution, and should he kill many or few ofynur people, or destroy little or much of your properly, that, it, shall not. prevent the meeting at (Ids place on the I Hr l> of December, and the proposed exchange of prisoners, wlieu w e will endeavor to heal all matters of dilference that can at that time exist between tin- I .owe:- towns and the United Stales; and in the. mean time let the injuries received I13' your nation, Ironi General Logan, be. wlial 11i«;y may, you will consult the happiness of your nation, and ensure flic blessings of returning peace, by restraining flu-warriors from turning out and taking satisfaction. 1’i-aee must, take place at some time, and (lie less blood is shed, the sooner and more easily will il be elleeled. I assure you, in ease you do not oppose General Logan, uorfake satisfaction for so cli injuries as lie may do you, that the United States will pay 3 011 for (lie loss of such houses and corn as he may destroy; your other properly you can move out of his way. The I United States are very tender of their cili/.ens, anil love peace, and would prefer paying you for your houses ami corn to having them killed in satisfaction for your injuries, or to being forced into a war with your nation. It is essential to the happiness of your nation that I should speak plainly to you about the Greeks, by whose bands you arc sensible the I rout ice inhabitants of this country have bled at every pore; they are without the pretext for such conduct—that these people have taken their land-,; for is it not a fact, that, in the division of lands among the red people, that the ridge that divides the waters of Mobile and Tennessee bounds them on the north? Then ihcy pass cpiile through the Cherokee or Chickasaw lands to arrive at our frontiers, and there kill our men at their ploughs, or our women and children in their houses. If you would secure a continuance of peace with the United ,States, it will be a duly you owe In yourselves, as well as the United States, not to permit the Creeks to pass through your eountry; or, if any should slip through, and your people should discover them, on their return, with hair or horses, to sci'/.e them, ami bring them to this place, as the Upper towns served one last slimmer. I have now in tell you what I believe to he the general will of the United Stales, with respect to the Creeks; which is, il they do not immediately desist from murdering the frontier eili/.ens, and also cease- to rob them of their property, that, next spring or summer, they will see a strong and powerful army in their country; and il is well Known that the Chickasaw's, ami part of tin: Choctaws, are great friends of the United Stales, and enemies of the Creeks, and it, is recently proved that the upper part of your nation are determined no longer to submit, to their insolence and injuries. Von are at liberty to tell to the Creeks what I say, not so much as a threat, hut as an information to Ihem, U) enable them to judge bow best to seek their own happiness. Colonel Watts. — I wish the time proposed for the exchange ol prisoners had been sooner; but, as I suppose von put it nll’to so distant a day to alford time to collect them, I agree to it. J fear the damage General Logan will do 103' people will be very great, but, as you advise, I shall instruct all my people, and whatever lie may do, shall not prevent, the proposed meeting and exchange of prisoners. What you say about I lie boundary of the Creeks’ lauds is right; hut, they an: a great and powerful nation, and die Chcrokees are but few, and cannot prevent their passing througn their lands, when they please, to war; and on their passage they kill our hogs and catt le, and steal our horses, which we dare not resent. The Upper Chcrokees were right, in ser/.iog one last summer, and delivering him up to you, and in killing two others. They live far from the Creek country, and have the white people to support them; Init die commands at this post, to be a person proper for conducting Indian affairs, with an additional salary. General Robertson, and others, of the best informed of the Cumberland people, are of opinion that this post would more probably give quiet to them, than the establishment of any other post or posts, except such numbers were established as would actually cover their whole frontier, which is at least two hundred miles, and would, at least, require a brigade. It will be recollected, I recommend this post in case the Cherokees will agree to it, respecting which, I have made no inquiry ; but if the Indians of the Lower towns are as fully impressed with their own folly, or with fear that the frontier people will no longer bear their many murders and thefts, as I believe they are, it is my opinion I can obtain their permission for its establishment, for a small annuity, if not on the score of being particularly beneficial to them, which I verily believe it would be. At this time, too, I possess, with the principal chiefs and other leading characters, not only of the Lower towns, but of the whole nation, a very great share of their confidence and attachment, owing, as they declare, to their being now truly sensible that, if it had not been for my efforts, the frontier people would long since have overrun their nation, and taken their country : and my conduct towards them, in Logan’s affair, can but confirm that opinion. These posts being established, would, in my opinion, supersede the necessity of an agent in the nation. It is also my opinion, that no person whatever, ought to be permitted to carry trade to the Indians, but.at one or the other of these posts, under the eye of the deputy or agent, residing at them, respectively. It is essential to the execution of this plan, that the officers, acting ns deputies, at the different posts, should be men of good understanding, prudence, and address, and particularly, that John McKee, the present temporary agent, resident at Tellico bjock house, should continue there: for, besides his having a great share of the'confidence of the nation, he is, from his abilities and knowledge of Indians, their habits and dispositions, the most proper man within my acquaintance or knowledge, for a deputy;, and, if it should be necessary to his continuance, that he should be an officer, I can assure you that he is not only qualified, by his bodily and mental abilities, to perform the duties of a captain, but of a field or general officer. I do not offer this as a plan of complete defence, but as,a plan which, if executed, may probably, prevent the necessity of it. But, lest I should be mistaken, and more effectual protection should become indispensably necessary, it may be proper I should repeat to you, that the districts of Washington and Hamilton have a very exposed frontier, of upwards of two hundred miles, upon almost every part of which the Indians have killed and robbed, since I have been in this country. Nor would I be understood as being so certain of the continuance of peace, pleasing as prospects are, as to render it unnecessary for Congress to provide against a change in the conduct of the Cherokees. In your letter of 21sf July, you say, “ the goods which are at Knoxville, and promised to be delivered to the Cherokees, I pray may be done, without the least deduction whatever, as per invoice marked No. 2.” A part of these goods had been delivered toOpoia Mingo and his party, on their way to Philadelphia, and, if I recollect, reported to you by Captain Chisolm. It was essential that Opoia Mingo and his party, should receive sundry articles to lit them for their journey to Philadelphia, and I judged it more to the'interest ot the United States, to furnish from the public store, than to purchase from individuals, at the advanced prices at which goods sell,at this place; the remainder of them have mostly been delivered to the Cherokees, at Tellieo block house, and proper vouchers of delivery taken, and the whole will be delivered at that place, at the time proposed for an exchange of prisoners, if not before, so that the account of delivery will be completed within the year, and (he account exhibited for settlement. I have long expected Mr. Dinsmoor at this place, but I have not yet heard of his arrival in the nation, and report says, he has returned to Philadelphia. The Hanging Maw and the friendly part of the nation had, by some means, been informed that these goods were to be delivered to Double-bead and his party, upon which he promptly demanded of Mr. McKee, whether they were to he delivered to Double-head, and his party of murderers, or to that part of the nation who had given proof of their friendship to the United States, by taking oiie Creek and killing two others in the settlements, as well as by other acts; if the latter, he said, the friendly part of the nation would know how to ensure the reward of the United States for their services. So far as they have been delivered, every part of the nation have received a part, but those who have given the greatest proofs of their friendship, have received the greatest share. It is to be observed, that few, none that I know, of the latter description, attended 'at the Oconee mountain to receive any part of those brought from Philadelphia by Double Head; hence, upon that score, they had a claim to a good share. May I ask, would it not be advisable to send on the annual payment for the year 1795, as early as possible: for. in the nature of Indian business, it is next to impossible to preserve their friendship, without occasionally bestowing some presents, and sometimes goods are wanting to reward particularOnes, for meritorious.services; I mean for the Cherokees and Chiekasaws, and Choctaws too, if any are allowed for them, for goods are very dear, both here and at Nashville, and the necessity of occasionally purchasing small articles is submitted to with great reluctance. That the Creeks will desist from their depredations upon Mero district, until compelled, I have not, the least hone; nor do I entertain the least doubt but I can, if so instructed, in any short time, induce the Cherokees, (I believe the whole nation) the whole of the Chiekasaws, a part of the Choctaws, and, eventually, the whole of them, to aid the arms of the United .States, in the total destruction of that nation. The. destruction of the Creeks, by the aid of these three nations, could be effected, not only much cheaper than by an army of citizens, but it would, to a certainty, prevent a combination of the Southern tribes at a future day, against the United States. If the citizens of the United States do not destroy the Creeks, the Creeks will kill the citizens of the United States; the alternative is, to kill or be killed. . Under the impression that the prospects of peace with the Cherokees is such as may be relied upon, from a certain knowledge that the people in general are more unanimous, anil better disposed to support peace and order, than for two years past, and with the hope that no change will take place in my absence, I solicit permission to visit Philadelphia, in the latter part of January, or early in Februarj. I'have .the honor to be, &e. &c. \VM. BLOUNT. At a conference held on the 7 th and 8th November, 1794, at Telico block house, upon thenorth bank of the Tennessee, between William Blomit, Governor in and over the territory of the United States of America south of the river Ohio, and Colonel John Watts, of Wit's town, (one of the Lower Cherokee towns) Scolacutta, or the Hanging Maw, and other chiefs of the Cherokee Nation: at which were present four hundred warriors and several citizens of the United States, nam ely, Colonel Abishu Thomas, Major Sevier, Major David Craig, Ensign Samuel Jt. Davidson, of the Federal troops, commanding at this post, and others.—James Carey, interpreter. Governor Bi.ouxt: (addressing himself to Colonel Wafts.) Upon being informed by Mr. McKee that you were here, and wished to see me about the affairs of your nation, 1 hastened to meet you. 1 am happy in this interview, because your presence here is an evidence of the wish of the Lower towns for peace, whose principal chief I have ever considered you, and in Scolacutta I behold the (rue head of your whole nation. Having opened the conference, 1 shall sit down, and first expect the talk of Colonel Watts. Colonel Watts.—This meeting appears to me ordered by the Great Spirit, and affords me great pleasure. There is Scolacutta; he is old enough to be my father, and from my infancy he was a great man, and is now the great chief of the nation. In the spring of the year he sent a talk to the Lower towns, tellin«;themheand the Upper towns had taken the United States by the hand, with a determination to hold them-fast during'life, and inviting the Lower towns to do the same. With tears in my eyes have I thought of this talk, and beheld the folly of the Lower towns, who at first refused to hear it. But, just before the destruction of the Running Water and Nickajack. by Major Ore, I went to them as well as the Look-out Mountain town, and exerted myself for the restoration of peace, anil I verily believe those towns had heard my talks, and were determined to be at peace with the United States. I do not say Running Water and Nickajack did not deserve the chastisement they received : nevertheless, it so exasperated those who escaped from the ruins, that, for a time. I was compelled to be silent myself: but the Glass went to the Running Water people, and they told the Glass that, notwithstanding the injury they had sustained, they had not forgot my good talks, but still held them fast, and desired me to take measures for the recovery of their prisoners. When this answer was reported to me by the Glass, I had my doubts, and could not act upon it: for they had told me so many lies, I was afraid to trust them. I then sent the Bloody Fellow to the Running Water, and he returned with the same report, which induced me to come forward to you. knowing you were the man the United States had authorized to transact such business. 1 deliver you this (presenting a string of white beads) as a true talk, and a public talk from the Lower towns to you. Seolacutta, the head of the nation, is sitting by me: the Lower towns instructed me to request him not to throw them away, but to come with me to you, and present tins talk in their behalf. By a prisoner taken by Major Ore. and sent back by General Robertson. I received la letter from him. requiring me to deliver up a white prisoner, and a certain number of negroes, and that the prisoners taken by Major Ore should all be restored to their nation. In this letter the General invited me to come in to him with a flag: but as the woman was pursued by some bad white people, and obliged to quit her horse, and save herself in the cane, although I know General Robertson to be a good man. I thought it imprudent to go to him; besides. I know that an exchange of prisoners could only be negotiated with you. As to the prisoners in my town. WilPs town, there are none; and when the people of my town once took a man of great worth (Captain Handy) they restored him without price. Scolacutta, or the Hanging Maw. I too have a talk from the Lower towns; they were once my people, but not now; yet I cannot but think much about the talk I have now received by Watts. Before any thing happened to these towns, I had sent them many peace talks, which they would not hear; but now. since the attack made upon them by Major Ore, tliev send to me to make peace for them, in conjunction with Watts. I am the head-man of my nation, as Governor Blount is of the white people; it was not the fault of either that those towns were destroyed, but their own conduct brought destruction upon them; the trail of murderers and thieves was followed to those towns. Nevertheless, I cannot neglect the request they have made to me, to make peace for them: as I hope they have seen their folly, and will desist from murdering and robbing the people of the United States, and live in peace. I shall then hope to live much longer: for their bad conduct drew the white people on me. who injured me nearly unto death. This talk I deliver on the part of the Lower towns; and if they do not now desist from war, and live at peace, I will give them up to the United States, to deal with as they shall judge proper. All last winter I was compelled to live in the woods, by the bad conduct of my own people drawing war upon me. In the spring of the year, a communication was opened with you; you invited me to meet your deputy, John McKee, in nine days, which I did. John McKee assured me of the peaceful disposition of the United States, and told me and my party to return to our houses and fields: this I also did. 1 could hear from several parts of the nation threats against my life, to be effected by killing the white people in my neighborhood, and thereby draw them on me and my friendly party. I then solicited that this block house or fort should be erected, as serving to protect me and my friendly party, as well as the frontier inhabitants, and open a communication between the white and red people. 1 still heard muroumngs from several parts of my nation, with threats that they would have no intercourse with it. or with John McKee;, but I see. now standing round me. many of those very people who are glad to come to it, and to be in friendship with John McKee, and at peace with the United States. They need not find fault with John McKee: I have found him to be an honest man, and never heard any thing from him but the truth. Hoi'ember Slh. Governor Blount.—It i.- with pleasure I receive from you the information that the Lower Chernkees wish peace with the United States. When you. (addressing himself to Watts) the Bloody Fellow, and the Glass, the three greatest chiefs of the Lower towns, come forward with such assurances. I can no longer doubt the sincerity with which they are made. Peace with the whole Cherokee nation has ever been the wish of the United States, and it is yet their wish: so that the Lower towns have only to keep peace on their part, and it will be peace. By saying the Lower towns requested you to take measures for die recovery of the prisoners. I understand that they wish an exchange of prisoners: to this I agree, and propose that a general exchange shall take place at this post, on the lsth of December. All negroes in your hands, whether captured, or absconded from their masters, are to be considered as prisoners in your liand>. and are to be delivered up. My letter to the chiefs of the Lower towns, of the 1st instant. has informed you of the threatened invasion of those towns by General Logan, with a large party of men from Kentucky, unauthorized by Government. I have now to add. as my advice to vott and your people, that in case Logan should carry his intended invasion of your country into execution, and should he kill many or few of your people, or destroy little or much of your property, that it shall not prevent the meeting at this place on the lSth of December, and the proposed exchange of prisoners, when we will endeavor to heal all matters of difference that can at that time exist between the Lower towns and the United States: and in the mean time let the injuries received by your nation, from General Logan, be what they may. you will consult the happiness of your nation, and ensure the blessings of returning peace, by restraining the warriors from turning out and taking satisfaction. Peace must take place at some time, and the less blood is sited, the sooner and more easily will it be effected. I assure you. in case t ou tio not oppose General Logan, nortake satisfaction for such injuries as he may do you. that the United States will nay you for the loss of such houses and corn as he may destroy; your other property you can move out of his way. The United States are very tender of their citizens, anti love peace, and would prefer paying you for your houses and corn to having them killed in satisfaction for your injuries, or to being forced into a war with your nation. It is essential to the happiness of your nation that I should speak plainly to yon about the Creeks, by whose hands you are sensible the trontier inhabitants of this country have bled at every pare: they are without the pretext for such conduct—that these people have taken their lands: for is it not a fact. that, in the division of lands among the red people, that the ridge that divides the waters of Mobile and Tennessee bounds them on the north? Then they pass quite through the Cherokee or Chickasaw lands to arrive at our frontiers, and there kill our men at their ploughs, or our women and children in their houses. If you would secure a continuance of peace with the United States, it will be a duty you owe to yourselves, as well as the United States, not to permit the Creeks to pass through your country; or, if any should slip through, and your people should discover them, on their return, with hair or horses, to seize them, and bring them to this place, as the Upper towns served one last summer. I have now to tell you what I believe to be the general will of the United States, with respect to the Creeks: which is. if they tlo not immediately desist from murdering the frontier citizens, and also cease to rob them of their property, that, next, spring or summer, they will see a strong and powerful army in their country: and it is well known that the Chickasaws. and part of the Choctaws, are great Iriends of the United States, and enemies of the Creeks, and it is recently proved that the upper part of your nation are determined no longer to submit to their insolence and injuries. You are at liberty to teli to the Creeks what I say. not so much as a threat, but as an information to them, to enable them to judge how best to seek their own happiness. Colonel Watts.—I wish the time proposed for the exchange of prisoners had been sooner: but. as I suppose you put it oil’ to so distant a day to afford time to collect them, I agree to it. I fear the damage General Logan will do my people will be very great, but. as you ad\ ise, I shall instructall my people, and whatever he may do. shall not prevent the proposed meeting and exchange of prisoners. What you say about the boundary of the Creeks' lands is right; but, they are a great and powerful nation, and the Cherokee-, are but few. and cannot prevent their passing througn their lands, when they please, to war; and on their passage they kill our hogs and cattle, and steal our horses, which we dare not resent. The Upper Cherokees were right in seizing one last summer, and delivering him up to you, and in killing two others. They live far from the Creek country, and have the white people to support them; but the Lower towns are but few, live near the Creeks, and too distant from the white people to be supported by them. I know the Chickasaws, and five of the Choctaw towns, are friends of the United States, and will fight against their enemies. Scolaciitta, or Hanging Maw.—I ordered the Creek seized, I ordered the two Creeks killed, I will kill my own people, if they kill white people. Here is some tobacco, sent by the Long Warrior, just delivered to me by a runner; you must smoke some otit. [Here a pipe was handed, and Scolacutta, Watts, the Governor, and others, smoked.] He speaks peace for his part of the nation; he has been long a head-man, and loves peace. Governor Blount.—I have omitted to give you the particulars of General Wayne’s victory over the Northern Indians, (addressing himself to Watts) but if you wish to hear them, 1 will now give them. Colonel Watts.—I do not; some of my people were in the action, who have already informed me. Governor Blount.—Then I have nothing to add, except to repeat to you, and your nation, that peace is the wish of the United States. Copy of a letter from John McKee to Governor Blount, dated Tellico Block-house, October 28th, 1794. Sm: On the 24th instant, James Davidson, a distinguished chief from the valleys, with about four hundred and fifty of his people, arrived at this place. On the twenty-fifth he met me, with the chiefs and warriors of his quarter, and, in council, delivered me a talk, which you will receive herewith enclosed, and a string of beads, mixed black and white; the white beads, he said, were emblematic of his friendship towards the United States, and the black of his enmity to the Creeks. I told him that it was undoubtedly his duty, both as a friend to his own nation, and the United States, to apprehend and bring to this post, or put to death, any Creeks that he might see or hear of, passing through his'nation, to injure the citizens of the United States; and if, on account of this conduct, he should be involved in a war with the Creeks, he would, undoubtedly, gain, the confidence and friendship of the United States, who could riot suffer their friends to be injured on their account. Considering the interest of Davidson and his party of consequence to the United States, I made considerable presents, out of the public goods in my possession, agreeably to your order, and supplied them with provisions. They staid here until this morning, when they took their leave, apparently much pleased w ith their treatment at this place, and declaring their promptness to lend all the assistance in their power to .support the arms of the United States. 1 have the honor to be, &c. JOHN McKEE. Copy of a letter from John McKee to his Excellency Governor Blount, dated Tellico Block house, November 4, 1794. Sir: On the 29th ultimo, Tickagiskee, one of the chiefs who accompanied Double-head to Philadelphia, arrived at this place, with about three hundred Indians, from Hiwasee. Chestue, Tellico, and some from the valleys. They requested provisions, which I conceived it my duty to give. Tickagiskee confirmed a report which I had before heard from the Turkey’s son, who was here a runner from Double-head, with the letter I sent you from Miller, that the Deer’s-head, the mate of Double-head, and Dick Justice’s brother, of the Look-out Mountain town, immediately after the breaking up of the conference at Seneca, had stolen eight horses from Connoross, a branch of Tugelo, and that a man had been shot there, supposed to have been done by the same party. This day Colonel Watts arrived here from Will’s town; his object, lie says, is to negotiate for an exchange of prisoners. He expresses a great desire to see your Excellency, and I think your presence here will promote the interests of the United States much. Watts says it is a fact, that, one or two days before the destruction of Nickajack, and the Running Water, two scalps were brought into the former, one by a Cherokee, a nephew of the Fool Warrior, and the other by a Creek fellow. I have the honor to be. &c. JOHN McKEE. A Talk delivered at 'Tellico block house, on the 25th day of October, 1794, by James Davidson, a distinguished chief of the Valley and Overhill Towns, of the Cherokees, to John McKee, agent to the said Cherokees, resident at that post. I have been raised in the valleys; and because I not only avoided killing white people, and stealing their property myself, but have endeavored to restrain my young fellows from doing so, I was compared bv the Lower towns to an old woman, and not much noticed by the white people. I have long sought a place where I might hold good talks, and now I am glad I have it in my power to take you, my oldest brother, by the hand', and hear your talk. I wish every body to hear my talk; I am a man, and will do what I say. The Creeks, and perhaps some of my own people, intend to strike the United States. 1 am the man who will throw down Creeks, and take their hair, and, with my part of the nation, will support the arms of the United States, though it should draw on me the vengeance even of my own people of the Lower towns. I know it is common with too many of the head-men of this nation, particularly of the Lower towns, to make great promises of friendship, which they nave no notion of performing; but you shall soon have greater proofs than words of my sincerity. Note.—James Davidson arrived at Tellico block-house on the 24 th ol October, with four hundred and fifty warriors from the Valley towns, and in their presence, and in.the presence of Scolacutta, or the Hanging Maw, and many warriors of the Upper and Lower Cherokees, delivered the above talk. Copy of a letter from Governor Blount to the Secretary of War, dated Knoxville, November 16, 1794. Snt: I cannot better inform you of the state of this district, than by forwarding copies of several letters I last night received, a list of which is subjoined, and an original letter from the Baron of Carondelet, Governor of Louisiana, to the chiefs of the Cherokee nation, taken by a suldier under the command of Major Ore, at the destruction ot Nickajack. 1 hope the recent murders committed in that district will prove, as General Robertson supposes, to have been perpetrated by Creeks. I consider war with the Creeks unavoidable, and my hope of peace with the Cherokees is not abated, but increased, since it is certain that General Logan has been disappointed in his intended invasion of their country. No. 1. Copy of a letter from General Robertson to Governor Blount, 7th and 8th November. 1794. 2. Colonel Winchester do. to do. 9th and 10th. 3. Major Doyle to General Robertson, October. 4. William M’Cleish, Chickasaw interpreter, to Governor Blount, 7th November. 5. Baron of Carondelet. Governor of Louisiana, to the Cherokee nation, July 4th, 1794. General Robertson to Governor Blount. Nashville, Mero District, November 7th, 1794. Sir: I have the misfortune to inform your Excellency that the people of this district have been much alarmed m my absence, as well as before I left home. Signs of indians were discovered on all quarters, making to the frontiers; a sergeant’s command of mounted infantry were ordered out of every regiment in the district, to range in front of their respective settlements, and, to this end, Captain Evans and his command performed good service; to their exertions are attributed the saving of many lives, as companies of Indians, with every warlike appearance, were discovered approaching our settlements, but they contented themselves with stealing some horses, and made off with precipitation. At this time we have no reason to believe that any enemy Indians are in or about our settlements; they have carried off a number of horses; among them, two valuable mares belonging to my son, Jonathan Robertson, which were taken from my cornfield on the 24th ultimo. Watkins was killed and scalped at the corner of Colonel Winchester’s fence, near his mill. On the 06th, Cornet Evans’ detachment was fired on by Indians (three guns) after dark, between Colonel Winchester’s and Bledsoe’s Lick, as he was returning from a scout; he received no injury. Much credit is due to that officer, for his exertions in protecting that frontier, which has been more alarmed of late, than since the country was first settled. The widow Bledsoe, is actually about to remove, as are many other families. We are informed by the Chickasaws, that the Indians lately on our borders have been altogether Creeks; they, the Chickasaws, saw several families ofCherokees moving to L’ance la Grace, as well as six canoes of men and corn going down the Tennessee, to settle there; all agreed that they were tired of wrar, and were going there to live, peaceably, and that their nation, generally, wished peace; but doubted whether the Creeks would not delude some of their silly young men, and gave that as their reason for moving. A few days before the said canoes arrived at Occochappo, where a lar°;e party of the Chickasaw's were waiting the arrival of the Mountain Leader, with the goods from Philadelphia, the Creeks reported that the Cherokees had killed him and his party, which so exasperated them, that William and George Colbert formed a party of Chickasaws on each side of the Tennessee, to cut off the Cherokees who wrere expected in the canoes, but Levi Colbert, and some others, prevailed on them to desist, until certain intelligence could be obtained. Shortly after the passing of these canoes, another was going dowm with corn, one man. two women, and two children. William Colbert hailed, and ordered them to come on shore, but they bore away, which, he alleged, proved their guilt, and gave chace. The Cherokees took to land, the man hid, the others kept on, were taken, and brought back; the man was found, whom Colbert tomahawed and scalped. The death of this fellow' is related to me as a secret; no person here, besides McCleish and myself, are informed of it. William Colbert declares, if the Cherokees retaliate, that he will cry havoc ! and let loose the dogs of tear through their whole nation, alleging them to be the first aggressors. Levi Colbert, and one other Chickasaw, left my house yesterday; their business was to inquire after the Mountain Leader and his party. I have enclosed, to your Excellency, Major Doyle’s letter, and have permitted him to keep Ensign Bird, and his detachment, till further orders, or, as long as he may judge their service essential to the United States. November 8. Last night, about 12 o’clock, an express arrived, informing me that Colonel Isaac Fitzworth, and his brother, John Fitzworth’s families were murdered on the waters of Red river; seven persons were killed and scalped on the spot, and their property taken; these families were moving, and encamped in the woods, but not more than four miles from the settlement. The Indians were followed, and three prisoners retaken, all scalped; one has since died, the others are so wounded, their heads being altogether skinned, that their lives are despaired of; the property was likewise retaken, together with a considerable quantity of Indian property. It is supposed there were at least fifty Indians, who, by keeping a good look out in their rear, discovered their pursuers, and thought proper not to risk an engagement; one negro likewise escaped, badly wounded. On the 24th ultimo, John Leiper, and another man, were fired on by Indians, near Leiper’s house; this proves the information given us by the Chickasaws, that the Creeks had declared publicly their intentions of distressing this district, or, if able, to extirpate it altogether, to be just. Is it possible that this Congress will not take measures to check the Creeks? Nothing less will do than putting to death some of the aggressors, or making a campaign against the towns. Levi Colbert tells me. that his two brothers bid him inform, that, if the United States will send an army against the Creeks, they, the Chickasaws, will keep them from running away on the other side, and that they had been notified that the Tuckaubatchees had sent to the Chickasaws, that, if they should lose a man, they may know what has become of him, as that town had missed the Mad Dog’s brother. So, it appears, they expect war, for they declare they will take no insult from the Creeks or Cherokees. I will wnte your Excellency, more particularly, an account of Colonel Fitzworth’s defeat, by Captain Evans. Colonel JVinehester to Governor Blount. Crag Fort, November 9, 1794. Sir: The Indians continue their depredations as usual: on Friday the 24th ultimo, Evan Watkins was killed and scalped, within one hundred yards ot my mill; he was shot with nine balls, and a tomahawk left sticking in his skull. Though I was with his body in a few minutes after the guns were fired, the murderers had fled, and were out of sight; I found it impossible to track them with the best woodsmen, and I can assure your Excellency, that no pains or vigilance were spared on this occasion. The day following, Cornet Evans discovered recent signs of about 12 fellows, who had crossed the road between Bledsoe’s lick and Shaver’s cabins; the dryness of the season, the falling of the leaves, together with the quantity of stock ranging here, rendered it out of our power to trace them any distance. The next day, Sunday evening, Cornet Evans was fired on bv three or four fellows, between Mrs. Bledsoe’s and this place. On the following Wednesday the spies discovered twelve Indians crossing Cumberland river, at the mouth of Buffalo Run, about five miles from this place. These several parties of Indians, appearing in arid about the settlement at and near the same time, have alarmed the inhabitants unusually; every body in this neighborhood has for some time remained shut up in stations, like besieged garrisons, no intercourse or communication Lept up amongst them, except by strong parties of armed men. I have visited the most exposed places on the frontier of this county, and I hear nothing but clamoring for more effectual protection. They say, if Congress knew their deplorable situation, and have the feelings of men, they would not suffer a banditti of merciless savages to murder the citizens of the United States continually, with impunity. They will not believe that a faithful account of their situation ever reached the ears of the President of the United States. Permit me to repeat, that I have not'the least doubt but the Chickasaws, Choctaws, and Cherokees, will readily aid the arms of the United States, in chastising and humbling this blood thirsty nation, who, for upwards of ten years, without the least provocation, have killed the citizens of this territory, and robbed them of their property, with an almost unremitting hand. The killing and scalping the Cherokee, by the Chickasaws, at the mouth of Bear Creek, is a thing not to be wished, since the Cherokees appear so sincerely to desire peace with the United States: but I have no doubt hut this breach can be healed, if it should be judged necessary to unite them against the Creeks. It will be observed, that I have written in positive terms, that the Chickasaws, Choctaws, and Cherokees, will aid the arms of the United States against the Creeks, but it is to be understood with a proviso: which is, that ! must have the earliest instructions, as to the wish of the United States, on that head, to the end that I may be enabled to speak to them in decided terms, which, as yet, I have forborne to do. The districts of Washington and Hamilton enjoy an entire peace. The friendly'Cherokees serve as a guard against the hostile Creeks. [enclosures.] No. 1. Copy of a letter from Brigadier General Robertson to Governor Blount. Nashville, November 15, 1794. Sir: Your Excellency will have a view of the sufferings and apprehensions of the people of.this district, when you cast your eye over the enclosed letters of Mr. John Eastcn, and Mr. Anthony Crutcher, last night delivered to me by Mr. James, express. 1 have ordered Captain Evans, with that part of his command which was near this place, to Clarksville, augmented with a sergeant’s command, to scout on the frontiers of Tennessee county, for fifteen days, and to return to this place: from thence, on the south of Cumberland; which will, I trust, prevent the settlement about Clarksville from breaking, and afford a temporary relief. The detachment of militia that pursued the Indians, who killed the families of Colonel Fitsworth, and his brother, have not yet returned. 1 believe that a large party of Creeks are encamped, low down on the Tennessee river, for the purpose of annoying the frontiers of this district: and I have no doubt, but it is the Creeks who killed Colonel Fitsworth’s and Colonel Sevier’s families. The information of the Chickasaws, warrants this belief and opinion. Should not Congress, this session, take measures for chastising the Creeks, it is impossible to say to what extremities the people of this district will be driven. Five Chickasaws and .lour Choctaws nave been at my house for several days; they brought me-the Cherokee scalp, taken by. the former, on the Tennessee, at (he mouth of Bear creek, and offered, if encouraged by the United States, to scout in the Cherokee hunting grounds, and kill all they could. I thought it best to keep the United States clear of blame, on that head, and left them to their own opinions. They were particular in their inquiries, how much lunger the murders and thefts of the Creeks would be borne, and when an army would march against them, expressing their desire to lend a hand. 1 understood a party of the Choctaw chiefs intend, next spring, to visit the President. A small part of the Kentucky volunteers of General Logan arrived in this district, but readily obeyed your orders to desist from invading the Cherokees, and received, with pleasure, the news of the overtures of peace from the Lower towns. Besides its being essential that you should be acquainted with the alarms that prevail in this district, resulting from the late murders, it has appeared to me of importance that you should receive the earliest information, to the end that it may be immediately transmitted to Congress, in the early part of the session. Therefore, I have, forwarded this letter to you, express, by Samson Williams, who leaves this place to-morrow morning. Heretofore, the Creeks generally afforded us a respite for murder and. thefts, during the session of Congress, as if they had been guided by some directing hand; but at present, they have been more bold, or less cautious, and I hope their punishment will be more certain. P. S. Since writing the above, I am informed that, on the 12th instant, the Indians killed John Covington, on his way from the Red Bank to Muddy river, in Kentucky. No. 2. From Anthony Crutcher to William Crutcher, dated } , Clarksvile, November 12, 1794, Dear Brother: Yesterday I was a spectator to the most tragical scene that ever I saw in my life. The Indians made an attack on Colonel. Sevier’s station, killed Snyder, his wife, and child, one of Colonel Sevier’s children, and another wounded and scalped, which must die. On hearing the guns, four or five of us ran over; we found the poor old Colonel defending his house with his wife. It is impossible to describe tins scene to you. Mr. James, who goes to you, and was an eye witness, can give you the particulars. The crying of women and children in town, the bustle and consternation of the people, being all women and children, but the few that went out to Sevier’s, was a scene which cannot be described. This is a stroke we have long expected, and from every intelligence, we hourly expect, this place to be assailed by the enemy. Colonel Sevier is now moving, and the town will not stay longer than Mr. Janies’ return. My wife now lies on her bed, so ill that it -would be death to move her; thus are we situated This place will, without doubt, be evacuated in a day or two, unless succor is given by the people from the interior part. Pray ask the influence of Major Tatum, Douglass, and all our friends, with General Robertson, to guard us, or at least help us away. No. 3. From John Fasten to Brigadier General Robertson, dated Dear Sir: Clarksville, November 12, 1794. I flatter myself that the contents of this letter will be as seriously considered as the premises demand. Yesterday, about eleven o’clock in the morning, a heavy firing commenced at Colonel Sevier’s, by a party-of about twelve or fifteen Indians. The Colonel bravely defended his own house, and kept the savage band from entering; hut they cruelly slaughtered ail around him; three of his own children fell dead; Charles Snyder, and two small children, also fell. Unfortunately for us, in this place, we were not prepared to go to their assistance, for the want of men; however, I was on the ground tne first man, and was the first spectator to behold the horrid sight—some scalped and barbarously cut to pieces; some tomahawked very inhumanly, and the poor helpless infants committed to the torturing flames. However, without entering farther into the horrors oT this barbarous massacre, suffice it to say, that we consider ourselves in imminent danger. Indian signs almost in every quarter, which lead us to think, wc stand in great need ot protection. This is the object of this letter, favored by Mr. Daniel James, who comes mostly on this particular business, and I hope his journey, or the cause of his journey, will he attended to; if not, 1 am confident Clarksville will be evacuated; but. I flatter myself, a protection will be willingly and speedily granted. Note.—Clarksville is distant from Knoxville, west, two hundred and twenty miles. The courts of Tennessee county arc held at Clarksville. 3d Congress.] 
