NO. 161 TREATY WITH THE KICKAPOOS OF THE VERMILION. [A treaty made and concluded by Benjamin Parke, a commissioner on the part of the United States of America, of the one part, and the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the tribe of Kickapoos of the Vermilion, of the other part. ARTICLE 1. The chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the said tribe agree to cede, and hereby relinquish, to the United States, all the lands which the said tribe have heretofore possessed, or which they may rightfully claim, on the Wabash river, or any of its waters. ART. 2. And, to the end that the United States may be enabled to fix with the other Indian tribes a boundary between their respective claims, the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the said tribe do hereby declare that their rightful claim is as follows, viz: Beginning at the northwest corner of the Vincennes tract; thence, westwardly, by the boundary established by a treaty with the Piankeshaws on the thirtieth day of December, eighteen hundred and five, to the dividing ridge between the waters of the Embarras and the Little Wabash; thence, by the said ridge, to the source of the Vermilion river; thence, by the same ridge, to the head of Pine creek; thence, by the said creek, to the Wabash river; thence, by the said river, to the mouth of the Vermilion river; and thence, by the Vermilion, and the boundary heretofore established, to the place of beginning. ART. 3. The said chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the said tribe agree to relinquish, and they do hereby exonerate and discharge the United States from, the annuity of one thousand dollars to which they are now entitled. In consideration whereof, and of the cession hereby made, the United States agree to pay the said tribe two thousand dollars, annually, in specie, for ten years; which, together with three thousand dollars now delivered, is to be considered a full compensation for the cession hereby made, as also of all annuities, or other claims, of the said tribe against the United States, by virtue of any treaty with the said United States. ART. 4. As the said tribe contemplate removing from the country they now occupy, the annuity herein provided for shall be paid at such place as may be hereafter agreed upon between the United States and said tribe. ART. 5. This treaty, after the same shall be ratified by the President and Senate of the United States, shall be binding on the contracting parties. In testimony whereof, the said Benjamin Parke, commissioner as aforesaid, and the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the said tribe, have hereunto set their hands, at Fort Harrison, the thirtieth day of August, in the year one thousand eight hundred and nineteen. , B. PARKE. [Signed, also, by the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the said tribe.] TREATY WITH THE KICKAPOOS. A treaty made and concluded at Edwardsville, in the State of Illinois, between Auguste Chouteau and Benjamin Stephenson, commissioners on the part and behalf of the United States of America, of the one part, and the undersigned principal chiefs and warriors of the Kickapoo tribe of Indians, on the part and behalf of said tribe, of the other part. ARTICLE 1. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their said tribe, for and in consideration of the promises and stipulations hereinafter made, do hereby cede and relinquish to the United States, forever, ail their right, interest, and title of, in, and to the following tracts of land, viz: All their land on the southeast side of the Wabash river, including the principal village in which their ancestors formerly resided, consisting of a large tract, to which they have had, from time immemorial, and now have, a just right, that they have never heretofore ceded, or otherwise disposed of, in any manner whatever. Also, all the land within the following boundaries, viz: Beginning on the Wabash river, at the upper point of their cession, made by the second article of their treaty at Vincennes, on the ninth of December, one thousand eight hundred and nine; running thence, northwestwardly, to the dividing line between the States of Illinois and Indiana; thence, along said line, to the Kankakee river; thence, with said river, to the Illinois river; thence, down the latter, to its mouth; thence, with a direct line, to the northwest corner of the Vincennes tract, as recognised in the treaty with the Piankeshaw tribe of Indians, at Vincennes, on the thirtieth of December, one thousand eight hundred and five; and thence, with the western and northern boundaries of the cessions heretofore made by the said Kickapoo tribe of Indians, to the beginning. Of which last described tract of land, the said Kickapoo tribe claim a large portion by descent from their ancestors, and the balance by conquest from the Illinois nation, and uninterrupted possession for more than half a century. ART. 2. The said tribe hereby confirm all their former treaties with the United States, and relinquish to them all claim to every portion of their lands which may have been ceded by any other tribe or tribes, and all and every demand which they might have had in consequence of the second article of the treaty made with the Paltawatamie nation of Indians, at St. Mary’s, on the second of October, one thousand eight hundred and eighteen. ART. 3. The said tribe acknowledge themselves now to be, and promise to continue, under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign whatever. ART. 4. The said tribe release the United States from all obligations imposed by any treaties heretofore made with them. ART. 5. The United States, in lieu of all former stipulations, and in consideration of cessions of land heretofore made by the said tribe, promise to pay them, at their town on the waters of the Osage river, two thousand dollars in silver, annually, for fifteen successive years. ART. 6. In consideration of the cession made by the aforesaid tribe in the first article of this treaty, the United States, in addition to three thousand dollars worth of merchandise this day paid to the said tribe, hereby cede to them and their heirs, forever, a certain tract of land lying in the Territory of Missouri, and included within the following boundaries, viz: Beginning at the confluence of the rivers Pomme de Terre and Osage; thence, up said river Pomme de Terre, to the dividing ridge which separates the waters of Osage and White rivers; thence, with said ridge, and westwardly, to the Osage line; thence, due north with said line, to Nerve creek; thence, down the same, to a point due south of the mouth of White Clay or Richard creek; thence, north, to the Osage river; thence, down said river, to the beginning: Provided, nevertheless, That the said tribe shall never sell the said land without the consent of the President of the United States.	. ART. 7. The United States promise tu guaranty to the said tribe the peaceable possession of the tract of land hereby ceded to them, and to restrain and prevent all white persons from hunting, settling, or otherwise intruding upon it. But any citizen or citizens of the United States, being lawfully authorized for that purpose, shall be per mitted to pass and repass through the said tract, and to navigate the waters thereof, without any hindrance, toll, or exaction from the said tribe. ART. 8. For the purpose of facilitating the removal of the said tribe to the tract of land hereby ceded to them, the United States will furnish them with two boats, well manned, to transport their property from any point they may designate on the Illinois river; and some judicious citizen shall be selected to accompany them in their passage through the white settlements to their intended residence. ART. 9. The United States will take the said Kickapoo tribe under their care and patronage, and will afford them protection against all persons whatever, provided they conform to the laws of the United States, and refrain from making war, or giving any insult or offence to any other Indian tribe, or to any foreign nation, without first obtaining the approbation and consent of the United States. ART. 10. The said tribe, in addition to their above-described cessions, do hereby cede and relinquish to the United States, generally, and without reservation, all other tracts of land to which they have any right or title on the left side of the Illinois and Mississippi rivers. In testimony whereof, the commissioners aforesaid, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors as aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals. Done at Edwardsville, in the State of Illinois, . this thirtieth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and nineteen, and of the independence of the United States the forty-fourth. AUG. CHOUTEAU, BEN. STEPHENSON. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Kickapoo tribe.] SIR:	VINCENNES, April 15, 1819. Understanding, from a communication made to me by Judge Parke some short time since, that it was desirable that the Indian title to the country inhabited by the Vermilion Kickapoos should be extinguished, 1 have lately paid them a visit to ascertain the probable success, should a proposition of the kind be made to them; and, from every thing I have been able to discover, I think there is but little doubt of a successful negotiation being made with them in the course of this summer. 1 have, in order to secure this object, expended, in a few horses and other presents to the most influential men of the Kickapoo tribe of Indians, between two and three hundred dollars, and which is included in the account of James B. McCall of the 11th instant. I have also had in the employ of the Indian department a half-blood for two months past, at $1 per day. My object in employing this man has been to discover the situation of some copper and lead mines upon the Vermilion river and Pine creek; the former is found in great abundance, and of good quality; the latter is to be found, but in what quantity is not ascertained. Some time since, three Indians of the Delawares killed a Mr. McCall, a resident of the State of Illinois. The Indians are now in confinement, and will be tried in two or three weeks; and, from all the circumstances which I have been enabled to collect, I fear there is but little chance of their acquittal—at least two of them. One of their principal chiefs is now with me, and will attend their trial. Your favors of the 19th and 25th ult. were brought me by the last mail. It appears that from General Wayne’s treaty of 1795, the Kickapoos are entitled to an annuity of $500; by General Harrison’s treaty at Fort Wayne, 30th September, 1809, it was stipulated that they should be entitled to a further sum of $400 when that article in the treaty which related to the Kickapoos, for a portion of the Vermilion country, should bo acceded to; and by the accession of said treaty, on the 9th December, 1809, an additional sum of $100 was allowed them, making a sum total of $1,000; and as I am authorized to draw upon you for $500 only, and as in the late treaty of St. Mary’s there is no stipulation that their annuity should be paid in silver, I shall make up the $1,000 out of the United States goods at Fort Harrison, and, at the time I shall deliver the Wea annuity of $3,000 to them, will also obtain the Kickapoos’ receipt for their annuity of $1,000. With respect to the issues to the Indian department at Fort Harrison for the years 1816,1817, and for part of 1818, I am not yet prepared to make a report; I shall complete that investigation in a few days. I, however, risk nothing when I say that perhaps not more than one-half the provisions contained on the abstracts (of that quantity) were really issued. I shall use all the economy possible, as well in the distribution of the Indian annuities, as at other times, in this agency; but, from the extravagance of this agency heretofore, it will require some little time to bring it to a proper medium. I have the honor, &c. WILLIAM PRINCE. SIR:	EDWARDSVILLE, ILLINOIS, June 7, 1819. In compliance with your instructions, we have held a council at this place with the Kickapoo tribe of Indians, upon whose minds impressions very favorable to the propositions we were authorized to make to them, had been produced by the artful, insidious representations of certain traders, who were amongst them last winter, and whose object evidently was, from interested motives, to prevent their removal to the west side of the Mississippi. We, however, have been so fortunate in remuving those impressions, as to render them not only willing but anxious to make the proposed exchange. And, for the purpose of consummating the arrangement, they have promised to meet us at this place in eight or ten weeks. But we feel it our duty to apprize you of a difficulty that probably will occur, which will be much more within your than our control, and which may, indeed, require efficient interposition on the part of the Government. The Pattawatamies, who are neighbors to the Kickapoos, instigated, no doubt, by white men, and unwilling to see our settlements approximate to theirs, (as they think they will soon do if the latter cede their land,) have, by every kind of menace, endeavored to deter the Kickapoos from entering into any agreement with us; and they openly declare that, the moment the Kickapoos commence their removal to the west side of the Mississippi, they will waylay, attack, plunder, and murder them; and we are not without some apprehensions that they may attempt to carry their threat into execution. We shall, however, endeavor to conciliate them, and earnestly warn them of the danger of opposing the views of our Government in this particular. But if all this should prove insufficient, what next is to be done is for you to decide. We are, <fcc.	AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU, 'Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War.	BENJAMIN STEPHENSON. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, July 16,1819. I have received your letter of the 7th ult. It is gratifying that you have so far succeeded in accomplishing the object of your commission as to obtain the consent of the Kickapoos to remove west of the Mississippi. It is to be. hoped that the Pattawatamies will not be so indiscreet as to attempt to execute their threats upon the Kickapoos, on their removal across the Mississippi. Should they, however, oppose the’movement in that way, it will be considered an act highly unfriendly to the United States, and will be noticed accordingly. I have the honor to be, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU and ) Commissi * St. Louis. BENJAMIN STEPHENSON, j	’ SIR:	VINCENNES, August 10, 1819. There is now every reason to believe that the Vermilion Kickapoos will accede to the Pattawaiamie cession of the 2d of October last, and also cede all the lands to which they have any claim in this and the adjoining State. Our Governor has had a surfeit of Indian treaties, and Governor Cass is too distant for him to attend without great inconvenience. I shall, therefore, enter upon the negotiation myself, and meet the Indians at or near Fort Harrison on the 27th instant. I have seen a copy of the depositions procured in justification of Major Chunn and thë issuing commissary at Fort Harrison. Browellet may have acted improperly; but the misconduct imputed to him affords no justification to Chunn and Lambert and Dixon. The major’s correspondence with me in 1816 and 1818 overturns the whole fabric, a copy of which I shall furnish Captain Prince, to be forwarded to you. It seems this was forgotten; and, what is more extraordinary, the major threw the provision orders into the fire when he signed the abstracts. Emison, too, burnt his accounts. I have, &c. B. PARKE. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	VINCENNES, August 12, 1819. The Vermilion Kickapoos have determined to cede to the United States their country west of the Wabash river, without reserve; and Judge Parke has appointed the 27th instant to meet them in the neighborhood of Fort Harrison. A few pounds of meat and bread will necessarily be wanted at that point; and I have contracted for its delivery at the fort—flour at seven dollars and fifty cents per barrel, and meat at five dollars per hundredweight. This was the best contract which could be made at this season of the year. Such an understanding has been had with the Indians, that but few days will be necessary to complete the negotiation; and, consequently, the expenses attendant but trifling. I have no doubt but that an advantageous contract will be made with them. The reluctance of those persons who have had an opportunity of knowing the probable issues made the Indians at Fort Harrison, in the years 1817 and 1818, in coming forward and giving the information wanted, has prevented me from completing the report directed by you; it will, however, be shortly done, and forwarded, together with some letters written by Major Chunn to the agent, during those periods, which will show that the issues were made by his orders alone. I have understood that depositions have been taken, (secretly,) tending to show the innocence of the commanding officer at that post, and attaching the blame entirely to the late General Posey and his interpreter. Had I a copy of them, I have no doubt but that such rebutting testimony could be procured as would destroy their credibility entirely; indeed, all acknowledge that a gross fraud has been practised. Should it be desirable with the Government to give to the Weas a sum in hand for their perpetual annuity, such an arrangement might be made with them more advantageous than the one which now exists; and they, as well as the Kickapoos, induced to migrate to the country west of the Mississippi; and such arrangement would supersede the necessity of keeping up this agency. I have, &c. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War.	WILLIAM PRINCE. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, September 28, 1819. Your communication of the 20th ultimo was received by the Secretary of War the day before he left the seat of Government for South Carolina; and, by his direction, I have the honor to acknowledge its receipt, and to express to you his approbation of your proceedings, and of the treaty which you have concluded with the Kickapoos. I am, &c., bv order, SAM. S. HAMILTON. Messrs. A. CHOUTEAU, and » Commissi	S(. Lotlis. •B. STEPHENSON, )	» •? > SIR:	•	11 DETROIT, September 11, 1819. I shall leave here on Monday next to meet the Indians at Saginaw, and to endeavor, agreeably to your instructions, to procure a cession of that valuable country. I had the honor some time since to communicate to you the circumstances respecting the protest of the draft transmitted for the payment of the Indian annuities. I had hoped that, before leaving here, I should have received from you further instructions upon this subject.	• It would be hopeless to expect a favorable, result to the proposed treaty, unless the annuities previously due are discharged. Under these circumstances, I have felt myself embarrassed, and no course has been left me but to procure the amount of the Chippewa annuity upon my own private responsibility. By the liberal conduct of the directors of the bank at this place, I have succeeded in procuring that annuity in silver, and shall thus be able to comply with past engagements before I call upon the Indians to form others. I trust the receipt of a draft will soon relieve me from the situation in which I am placed, and enable me to perform my promise to the bank. Very respectfully, &c. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	DETROIT,. September 30, 1819. Accompanying this, I have the honor to transmit to you a treaty concluded by me, on the part of the United States, with the Chippewa Indians, for the cession of a considerable portion of their country within this Territory. 1 trust the general provisions of the treaty will meet with your approbation. The boundaries of the tract ceded may be easily traced upon any good map of the United States; but, owing to our ignorance of the topography of the interior of this Territory, it may be eventually found, when the lines are run, that the southeastern corner of the tract ceded is in the possession of the Grand River Indians. If so, there will be no difficulty, and very little expense, in quieting their claims. That portion of the Chippewa Indians which owned this land have not made the necessary advances in civilization to appreciate the importance of education for their youth. It was, therefore, hopeless to expect from them any reservations for this object, or to offer it as an inducement for a cession of their country. Some consideration more obvious in its effects, and more congenial to their habits, was necessary to insure a successful termination to the negotiation. In acceding to the propositions which they made upon this subject, I endeavored to give such form to the stipulations on the part of the United States, for the payment of annuities, as would be permanently useful, and, at the same time, satisfactory to them. Their own wishes unquestionably were, that the whole sum stipulated to be annually paid to them should be paid in specie. With the habitual improvidence of savages, they were anxious to receive what they could speedily dissipate in childish and useless purchases, at the expense of stipulations which would be permanently useful to them. The opinions advanced in your letter of instructions of March 27, 1819, respecting the injurious tendency of large annuities'to the Indians, are correct; and the effect of these annuities upon the Indians is stated with as much precision as they could be were they the result of daily intercourse with these unfortunate people. Viewing the subject in this manner, I finally concluded to admit a stipulation, conformably to their wishes, for an annuity of one thousand dollars, but to secure the payment of whatever additional sum the Government of the United States might think they ought to receive, in such a manner as would be most useful to them. A stipulation, therefore, was inserted that the United States should provide and support a blacksmith for them, and should furnish them with cattle, farming utensils, and persons to aid them in their agriculture. The amount which shall be expended for these objects by the United States, the term during which this expense shall continue, and the mode in which it shall be applied, are left discretionary with the President. In taking this course, I was influenced by the consideration that the negotiator of an Indian treaty is not always the best judge of the value of the purchase, or of the amount which should be paid for it. Sometimes too much has been allowed, and at other times too little. He is not sent upon such a negotiation to ascertain the lowest possible sum for which the miserable remnant of those who once occupied our country are willing to treat, and to seize with avidity the occasion to purchase. Certain I am that both you and the President would censure me, (and justly, too,) were I governed in my intercourse with the Indians by such principles. The great moral debt which we owe them can only be discharged by patient forbearance, and by a rigid adherence to that system of improvement which we have adopted, and the effects of which are already felt in this quarter. It is due to the Indians and to myself to say, that the sum which it was expected by us would be expended for the objects which I have mentioned is from fifteen hundred to two thousand five hundred dollars annually. But they distinctly understand that the amount of this expenditure is entirely discretionary with the President. Of course, the Government can now apply such a sum to these objects, as the value of the cession and the wants and population of the Indians may justify. Although I am firmly persuaded that it would be better for us and for these Indians that they should migrate to the country west of the Mississippi, or, at any rate, west of Lake Michigan, yet it was impossible to give effect to that part of your instructions which relates to this subject, without hazarding the success of the negotiation. An indisposition to abandon the country so long occupied by their tribe, an hereditary enmity to many of the western Indians, and a suspicion of our motives, are the prominent causes which, for the present, defeat this plan. When they are surrounded by our settlements, and brought into contact with our people, they will be more disposed to migrate.	. In the mean time, we may teach them those useful arts which are connected with agriculture, and which will prepare them, by gradual progress, for the reception of such institutions as may be fitted for their character, customs, and situation. Reservations have been made for them to occupy; and I indulge the hope that they will appreciate the advantages which are now offered to them, and will aid, by their own efforts, the plans of improvement which have been adopted by the Government. Reservations have also been made for a few half-breeds. It was absolutely necessary to our success that these should be admitted into the treaty. Being only reservations, and the fee of the land remaining in the United States, I trust it will not be thought improper that I admitted them. In a supplemental article several provisions are inserted, which were urged by the Indians, but which I did not feel authorized to accede to in the body of the treaty. The first is a grant of three sections of land to Dr. Brown, of this place, for the professional services which he has rendered, and the medicine he has furnished them during a period of more than twenty years. This claim to remunerate Dr. Brown has been urged by the Indians with great zeal at every treaty which I have attended. Its rejection has always been difficult, and I am satisfied it is a dear object with them. His attention and services to them have been unremitting and gratuitous, and of the most exemplary character. I cannot but hope that it may be deemed proper to admit this grant, either in this manner, or by special legislative provision. Of the five grants, in the same article, to white persons, it is only necessary to say they were admitted at the particular request of the Indians, and their confirmation would be gratifying to them. Had I not been a resident of the country affected by it, I should have admitted an unconditional stipulation respecting the' land appropriated for the making of roads. But the principle being new in Indian treaties, I thought it most advisable to leave the stipulation upon this subject discretionary with the President and Senate. I do not perceive, however, that the admission of this principle generally, or that its application in this particular ease, can be injurious to the United States. The private debts conditionally assumed are bona fide due by the Indians, and they appeared solicitous to discharge them. Two worthy men are interested in the result. It was my object to insert in the supplementary article every provision which was demanded by the Indians respecting the principle of which I felt doubtful, so that the President and Senate might avoid the establishment of a precedent, the effect of which may be dangerous. A large portion of the country ceded is of the first character for soil and situation; it will vie with any land I have seen north of the Ohio river. The cession probably contains more than six millions of acres. I shall be anxious to learn that you approve the result of this negotiation. Very respectfully, <fcc.	LEWIS CASS. Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of JFar, Washington City. SIR:	DETROIT, October 1, 1819. I have the satisfaction to state that the expense of the treaty recently concluded with the Chippewa Indian- for the Saginaw country will be defrayed from the sum appropriated for Indian expenditures within my superintendency. I required of the commissioners at this place twenty-five thousand rations of fresh beef, salt provisions being unfit for the Indians. Little more than half of this has been issued. The residue will be issued to the troops here. I presume the bills drawn by the commissary for these provisions, together with the amount of the flour and other articles received from the public store here, will be charged to the sum of forty-five thousand dollars assigned to the agencies upon this frontier. Whatever has net been issued will, I trust, be credited to the same appropriation. I am perfectly aware ef the necessity of economy in Indian expenditures, and I claim no merit, except for an earnest wish strictly to carry into effect all your instructions. Very respectfully, &c. Hen. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War.	. LEWIS CASS. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OP WAR, October 21, 1819. Your letters of the 30th ultimo and of the 1st and 2d instant, accompanied by the treaty with the Chippewa Indians, have been received. The President and Secretary for the Department of War are absent from the seat ef Government. So soon as they return, the treaty and yeur communications will be laid before them; and I have no doubt you will then be made acquainted with the satisfaction they will have derived from the result of your negotiations, as well as with their entire approbation of the measures you have pursued to obtain that result. I have the honor to be, &c. C. VANDEVENTER, Chief Clerk. LEWIS CASS, Governor, fyc., Detroit. 16th CONGRESS.]	
