No. 96. : :. [1st Session. THE CHOCTAWS. Gentlemen of the Senate: COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, MARCH 10,. 1802. I now submit,.for. the ratification of" the Senate, a treaty entered into by tiie commissiqners of the United States, with the Choctaw nation of Indians; and I transmit therewith, so much of the instructionsto the commissioners as related to the Choctaws; with the minutes of their proceedings,and the letter accompanying them. TH: JEFFERSON. . March 10; 1802.   ' . A Treaty of friendship, limits,.and accommodation, between the United States of America and the Choctaw.nation of Indians. Thomas Jefferson, President of the United States of America, by James Wilkinson, of the State of Maryland, Brigadier General-in the army of . the United States, Benjamin Hawkins; of North Carolina, and Andrew Pickens, of South .Carolina, commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States on the one part, andthe Mingoes, principal men, and warriors, of the Choctaw nation, representing the said nation in council assembledon the other part, have entered into the following articles and conditions, viz,: Article 1. Whereas the United States in Congress assembled,'did, .by their commissioners plenipotentiary, Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, and Joseph Martin, at .a treaty held with the chiefs and head.men of the Choctaw nation, at Hopewell,'on the'Keowee, the. third day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-six, give' peace to the-said nation, and receive it into the favor and protection, of the United Slates of America; it isagreed by the parties to these presents, respectively, that the Choctaw nation, or such part of it as may reside within the limits of the United States, shall be and continue under the care and protection of the said States; and that the mutual confidence and friendship which are hereby acknowledged to subsist between the contracting parties. Shall be maintained and perpetuated.   ;     ■ .. :'Art. 2. The Mingoes, principal men, and. warriors, of the Choctaw nation, of Indians, do-hereby give their free consent, that a convenient and durable wagon way may be explored, marked, opened, and made, under the orders and instructions of the President of the United States, through their lands; to commence at the northern extremity of the settlements of the Mississippi territory, and to be extended from thence, by such route as may be selected and surveyed, under the authority of the President of the United States, until it shall strike the lands claimed by the Chickasaw nation; and the same shall be and continue, for ever, a highway for the citizens,of the United States and the Choctaws; and the said Choctaws shall nominate two discreet men from their nation, who may be employed as assistants, guides, or pilots, during the time of laying out and opening the said highway, or so long as may be deemed expedient, under the direction of the officer charged with this duty, who shall receive a reasonable compensation for their services. . ' ' ’.   ' ’ Art. 3. The two contracting parties covenant and agree, that the old line of demarcation, heretofore established by and between the officers of Ins Britannic Majesty and the Choctaw nation, which runs in a parallel direction with the Mississippi river, and eastward thereof, shall be retraced and plainly marked, in such way and manner as the President may direct, in the presence of two persons to be appointed by the said nation; and that the said line shall be the boundary between the settlements of the Mississippi territory and the Choctaw nation. And the said nation does, by these presents, relinquish to the United States, and'quit claim forever, all their right, title, and pretensions, to the land lying between the said line and the Mississippi river, bounded south by the thirty-first degree of north latitude, and north by the Yazoo river, where the said line shall strike the same;-and on the part of the commissioners it is agreed, that all persons who may be settled beyond this line shall be removed within it, on the side towards the Mississippi, together with their slaves, household furniture, tools, materials, and stock,.and that the cabins or houses erected by such-persons shall be demolished. ' . ' . Art. 4. The President of the United States may, at his discretion, proceed to execute the second article, of this treaty.; aiid the third article shall be. carried into effect as soon as may be' convenient' to the-Government of the United States, and without unnecessary delay on the one part or the other, of which the President shall be the judge; the Choctaws to be.seasonably advised, by order of the President of the United States,'of the time when,' and.the place where, the re-survey and re-marking of the old line, referred to in the preceding article, will be commenced. Art. 5. The commissioners of the United' States, for and in consideration of the foregoing concessions on the part of the Choctaw nation, and in.full satisfaction for the same, do give and deliver to the Mingoes, chiefs, and warriors, of the said nation, at the signing of these presents, the value of two thousand dollars in goods and merchandise, nett cost of Philadelphia, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, and they, further engage to give three sets, of blacksmith’s tools to the said nation. ' ,   ' ; . Art. G. This treaty shall take effect and'be obligatory on the contracting parties, so soon as the same shall b'e ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof.'■ In testimony'whereof, the commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States, and the Mingoes, principal men, and warriors, of the Choctaw nation, have hereto subscribed their names and affixed their seals, ' at fort Adams, on the Mississippi, this seventeenth day of December, in the yeUr of our Lord orifc thousand eight hundred and one, and of the independence of the United.States the twenty-sixth. JAMES WILKINSON, . . ' .   BENJAMIN HAWKINS, ... ANDREW PICKENS. [Signed by the Mingoes, principal men, and warriors, of the Choctaw nation of Indians.] Loftus’ Heights, Fort Adams, on the Mississippi, December \Sth, 1801. , Sir:   'After some unexpected’delay on the part of the Choctaws, we opened our conference with a respectable representation from the Upper and Lower towns, which comprehend the mass of the nation', and a partial deputation from the six towns, which continue their attachment to Spain, and are now at New Orleans^ on the invitation of the Governor, as we are informed. ' '   . .' 'This humble, friendly, tranquil, pacific people, opposed but few obstacles to our Views; and we yesterday concluded a treaty with them, which we now. transmit you for the consideration of the President and the Senate. Our minutes, which we. herewith forward to you, will explain,' in detail, the course of the conference held on this occasion, and may, We hope, give satisfaction. We forbore to press for the establishment of houses.of entertainment on the road, from respect to the objections of the chiefs, and from the conviction (founded on minute inquiry) that it would be extremely difficult, if not impracticable, to, give protection to such solitary, sequestered settlements, (when made by citizens of the United States) against the rapacity and abuse of vicious, mischievous individuals, to be found in every community, civil and savage. The obvious expediency of the thing suggested to us the proposition for opening a road to tiie settlements of the Tombigby and Mobile.'and we have no.doubt we should have succeeded, if the six towns, through which the preseni trace passes, had been fully represented. Having received no instructions on this subject, we did not consider ourselves authorized to reply to the objections of the council, but connected with it. We will begleave to submit to the consideration of the Executive the policy and propriety, not to say necessity, of devising some plan by which the extinguished claims of the natives on the Mobile, Tombigby, and Alabama rivers, may be ascertained and fixed. Unlicensed settlements have been made on those waters; they have been formed into a county by the late Governor of the Mississippi territory, and are progressing; they are now thinly scattered, along, the western banks of the Mobile and Tonibigby, for more than seventy miles, and extend nearly twenty-five miles upon the'eastern borders of the Mobile and Alabama. ' The whole population may be estimated at five hundred whites, and two hundred and fifty blacks,, of all ages and sexes. The land east of the Mobile and Alabama rivers is claimed by (lie Creeks; that  which lies west of those rivers, by the Choctaws. These nations view with jealousy and inquietude the progression of the above settlements; individuals among them acknowledge that concessions of soil were made to the British Government long since, and the whole appear anxious to have the lines fairly defined, and their limits established. We believe this to be reasonable,' and we are persuaded it is necessary to avert mischief. The recognition of the old line to bouiid our right of .settlement on the east in this quarter; and the stipulations which have .been- founded thereon, we consider yf some moment, because it appears to be a questionable point whether that line was ever extended further south than the Homoehitto river, which would leave a considerable portion of the population of the territory on the lands of the Indians; and, therefore, to obviate eventual difficulties, we embraced the occasion to obtain from the nation a formal relinquishment of their claims, under specific limits. The equivalent we have given, to legitimate the contract into which we have entered, has been taken from the residue of the invoice for two thousand six hundred and ninety-six dollars’ worth of goods,out of which we paid the Chickasaws seven hundred dollars, and we trust this allowance may not be deemed profuse. The Choctaw nation, in point of physical powers, is at least on a level with its neighbors, and its dispositions, in relation to the whites, are more tractable, anil less sanguinary, than those of its kind; yet, it has been long buried in sloth and ignorance. But the destruction of game has diminished the resorts of their ancestors, and the chase has become a precarious resource for the support of life. Goaded by penury, and pressed by the keenest wants ty which animal nature is exposed, their sufferings seem to have roused their dormant faculties, and the rising generation, urged by these powerful motives, and encouraged by the examples of the Creeks on one side, and the Chickasaws oh the other, have rent the shackles of prejudice, and, in spite of the repugnance of their old chiefs, are now casting their eyes to the earth for sustenance and for comforts. A very few families have commenced the culture of cotton, and it is not manufactured by more than twelve.in the whole nation, whose population exceeds fifteen thousand. At this conference, for the first time, the bounty of the United States has been implored, and we were supplicated for materials, tools, implements, and instructors, to aid their exertions, and to direct their labors. These circumstances induce us to cnerish the hope, that, by the liberal and well directed attention of Government, these people may be made happy.and useful; and that the United States may be saved the pain and expense of expelling.or destroying them. It is a singular fact, perhaps it is without example, anil therefore it is worthy of record, that this council should not only reject a quantity of whiskey intended as a present to them, but should have requested that none might be issued before, during, or after, the conference. We have deemed it expedient to recommend, that an interpreter should attend the two deputies of the nation who are to accompany the .troops to be engaged on the road, and we beg leave to offer the suggestion, that travellers who pass through the Indian country should be confined to this route, so soon as it is opened. , With great consideration and respect, we are, sir, your most obedient servants, ■   ' JAMES WILKINSON. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. ' . . . ANDREW PICKENS. . The Hon. Henry Dearbokx,' Secretary of War. Extracts from instructions, given to James I fitkinson, Benjamin Hawkins, and Andrew Pickens, Esquires, who leere appointed commissioners,' on the part of the United Stales, to hold a treaty or treaties with the several nations of Indians, on the east side of the river Mississippi, south of the Ohio, and tvithin the territory of the UnitciI States, dated June 24, 1801. '“ After completing your negotiation with the Chickasaws, you will proceed to Natchez, to hold a treaty with the Choctaws. The Choctaws may be considered one of thy most powerful nations of Indians within the limits of the United States; and a pacific anil friendly disposition in, and towards them, should be cultivated, as well from principles of policy as of humanity. “ All fair and proper means should be exerted to evince to them a really friendly disposition on the part of the Government of the I nited States, and to fortify their minds against the artful and mischievous insinuations and practices of adventurers, who, too frequently, obtrude themselves into their and other nations. " It is of importance that the Indian nations, generally, within, the United States, should be convinced of the certainty in which they may, at all times, rely upon the friendship of the United States; and that the President will never abandon them, or their children, whilst their conduct, towards the citizens of the United States, and their Indian neighbors, shall be peaceably honest and fair. “ It must be observed, that the Choctaws received, in the course of the last year, from the Government of the United States, presents to the amount.of twti thousand dollars, and, that an appropriation of the like stun has been made, for the same purpose, for the present year; although that nation have no claim to such a grant, founded on any treaty or authorized agreement. It was understood that they had taken some expression of'Mr. Ellicot’s for a promise to this effect; and it may be proper aiid politic to continue making them an annual grant, perhaps of the same sum; but, it must be impressed on their minds, that they have given not only no equivalent, but, actually, nothing.at all lor it; that they are indebted for what they have, received to the generosity of the United States, and not to their justice; that the grants must be viewed as presents, and not as compensation; thatth'ey may be continued or discontinued,' at the pleasure'of the United States, without giving the Choctaws a right to claim the one, or complain of the other; and that it might be proper for them to grant a something, though an equivalent be not- asked in return. ... It is stated, that the citizens of the Mississippi territory have been subjected to some vexations by the great number of Indians encamped among them, at the distributions of these presents. You will inquire into the propriety of having all future distributions made within' the Indian boundary. ‘‘ In addition to the explanation and enforcement of the conciliatory disposition and friendly intentions of the United States, you will endeavor to obtain the consent of the Choctaws, with reference to the above mentioned views of the presents, which they have received, to our opening a road from the point, where the road, from the reserved circle, shall strike their land, through their country, to the Natchez, and permission for three or four white families to settle on the said road, within their country, for the accommodation of travellers and our post riders, on such reasonable ‘conditions as you may deem proper. “ On Dunbar’s map, a line is run northward from the 31st degree of north latitude, near the 91st degree of west longitude from Greenwich, the lands between which and Mississippi were, heretofore, ceded to the British Government; although no doubt exists of this fact, it may be impolitic to require from the Choctaws a direct acknowledgment of it; you will, however, consider and speak of it as indubitable, and endeavor, indirectly, to draw from them an acknowledgment of its authenticity. This they will not refuse, unless they believe a doubt of it to exist in our minds. “To confirm a pacific and friendly disposition in the Indian tribes, generally, towards the United States, should, at all times, be considered an important object; and is recommended as such to your best exertions; and the result of the inquiries into the present state of society among thein, made with the advantages which you‘will possess whilst in their countries, with a view of ascertaining the effects of the measures pursued by our Government towards them, will be highly useful. . . . “In all your negotiations, under these instructions, you will.pay the strictest attention to the disposition manifested by the Indians on the several points to which you are to draw their.assent. The ill humor, which propositions for further cessions sometimes awaken in them, may be, in a greater or lesser degree, excited by those, which you are herein charged with making. It will, therefore, be incumbent on you, .to introduce the desires of the Government, in such a manner, as will permit you to drop them, as you may find them illy received.with out'giving the Indians an opportunity to reply with a decided negative, or raising in them unfriendly and inimical dispositions. You will state none of them, in the tone of demands, but, in the.first instance, merely mention them, as .propositions which you are authorized to make, and their assent to which the Government would consider as new testimonials of their friendship. From the mariner in which they shall aeceiye your first overtures, you will be enabled to'judge with what prospect of success you may press the respective points committed to you. “Measures have been taken for furnishing, at the several times and pjaces, at which conferences are to be held, provisions for yourselves and your attendants, as well as 'the necessary quantities of goods for the Indians, with whom the several above mentioned negotiations are to be entered into, and for supplying with rations such of them as may attend: the distribution of all these wilt be-made under your directions; and additional quantities of goods,' in the event of your success, may be had from the factory at Tellico. The contractor for those districts, Alexander D. Orr, Esquire, is directed to furnish you, on your requisitions, with such other articles aS you may need for your-s elves and attendants, or additional quantities of rations for the Indians.” ■ .’ Minutes of a conference between Brigadier General James TTilkinson, Benjamin Hawkins, and Andrew Pickens, Esquires, commissioners of the United State's, and the principal-chiefs of the Choctaw nation of Indians, held at fort Adams, on the Mississippi, the l-2th day of December. 1801, The conference commenced.—The interpreters being called forth, and warned to correct each other, and after having gone through the ceremonies of the pipe, General Wilkinson addressed them, in the name of the’ commission-  ers, as follows: : ■ . Mingocs, Chiefs, and Principal Men, of the Choctaw nation: 'You have all heard of the death of your father, the great Washington, and you have,'no doubt, wept for the loss. Since we experienced that-heavy mistortune, the people of the Sixteen Fires, assembled in their great national council house, have thought proper to select our beloved chief, Thomas Jefferson, to be President of the United States. ' ■ - . Brothers: Openyourears, and listen well. Your new father, Jefferson, who is the friend of all the red people, and of humanity, finding himself at the head of the white people of the Sixteen Fires, immediately turned his thoughts to the condition of his red-children, who stand most in need of his care, and whom lie regards with the affection of a good father. . Brothers : Your father the President of the United States, being far removed from you. by the intervention of deep rivers, high mountains, and wide forests, finds it impossible to look upon you with his own eyes, or to speak to you from his own lips. He has, therefore, appointed two of his beloved,men, Colonel Hawkins, and,General. Pickens, with myself, to meet you in council, and to confer with you oil several subjects interesting to yourselves, and to your white brethren of the Sixteen Fires. We are'happy to see you. We, on his behalf, and in his name, take you by the hand, and we congratulate you ort your safe arrival here. . Brothers: The President-of the United States invites you to look up to him as your friend and father, to rely in full confidence on his unvarying disposition to lead and protect you in the,paths of peace and prosperity, and to preserve concord between you and, your neighbers. In his name, we promise you, that you may.at all times rely upon the friendship of the United States, and that, he will never abandon you or your children, while, your-conduct towards the citizens of the'United States, arid your Indian neighbors, shall be peaceable, holiest, and fair. Brothers: We invite you to state to us freely, the situation of your nation, and what you wish, on the part of your father the President, to better your condition in trade, in hunting, agriculture, manufactures, and stock-raising; that we may represent the same for his consideration.   We wish you to open your minds freely to us, and to set forth all your wishes and all your wants, that we may learn the true state of yourcondition, and be.able to assist you with our advice, our attentions, and our friendship, ! ■ Brothers: On the part of your white brethren, we have to state'to you, that the path from the settlement of Natchez through your nation..towards Cumberland, is an uncomfortable one, and very, inconvenient to them, in its present unimproved condition; and we are directed to stipulate with you,'to make it suitable to the accommodation of those who may use it. and at the same tiriie, beneficial to yourselves. Your brethren, the Chickasaws, have heard our request on this subject, and they have consented that we should open a road througli their lands to those of your nation, and we now ask your consent, that we may continue the same road through your'lands, to the settlements of this territory. We propose, for the accomodation of travellers, and for your own interests, that houses of entertainment and ferries, should be established on the road, and that they may.be rented by you to such persons as your father the President may appoint to keep them. The ground, the houses, arid the money, arising from the rents, to oe for the use of your nation, and subject to its disposal; and that not nmre than one family be suffered to live at the same place. ' 'Brothers: Since the King of Spain has given up this district to the United States, a necessity has arisen for frequent communications between your white brethren, who-live in the neighborhood of the Mississippi, and those who have settled'on the Tombigbv; and it follows, that people are constantly travelling across your country", from one place to the other. Under such circumstances, to prevent disagreement and mischief, we recommend to your cou-rideration the expediency of having but one road of communication between these, settlements, to be opened and improved after the same manner, and on the same terms, as that proposed from the settlements of this territory to the Chickasaw natiori.   ' . ■__ Brothers: We come not to ask lands from you, nor shall we even ask for any. unless you are disposed to sell; and your father null assist and protect you in the enjoyment of those you claim; but. to prevent future misunderstandings, and to confine the settlers of this territory within the line long since run between you and them, we recommend it should be traced up. and marked anew, while men can be found, who were present at;the survey, and assisted in making it: for. if all those, witnesses should die before this is done, then disputes may arise between you and your white brethren, respecting this boundary,’and mischiefs may ensue. Brothers: For several years past, your father, the President of the United States, has sent you a present of goods, as a token of his friendship, which will be continued the present year. But you must recollect thatyouhave never given any equivalent tor this strong evidence of his paternal regard; and you must bear in mind, that you are indebted for it to his generosity more, than to his justice. Should this bounty be continued to you in future, you ought to be grateful for it; and should it be discontinued, you will have no cause to complain, as you have never given any thing to the United States in return. ' , . Brothers: W.e wish you to let this -talk sink deep into your hearts; we wish you to take time, and reflect seriously on it: and when you have made up your minds, we shall listen to you with pleasure, in the hope that you may enable u> to make an agreeable report to our common father, the President of the United States, and in the mean time, we shall be happy to contribute to your accommodation, and the good of your nation. December 13. Tuskoxahopoi a, a chief of die Lower towns, informed the commissioners that there were seven chiefs from different towns, and requested, in their behalf, that they might be heard separately, that each might speak for his own town: and that, after they had spoken, the young warriors might be heard, and the same attention paid to their talks that would be to those of the old chiefs. Tuskoxahopia then spoke: To-day I meet the commissioners here, who have delivered to us die talks from the President, and I am well pleased with his talks, that I have received from my beloved brothers the commissioners, for the welfare of my nation. I take you three beloved men by the hand, and hold you fast. You three commissioners. who have visited the Cherokees and Chickasaw.-, one request which you ask of my nation, the cutting of a road. I grant. I grant it as a white road, as a path of peace, and not as a path of war: one which is never to be stained. I understood yesterday, diat my father the President allowed me an annual present, aud it never should be taken from me. It must have been a mistake of his officers, as I never have received any annual allowance. He must have given it to some other of my red brediren. 1 deny having received any annual gift. It has been told to the chiefs of the nation, through the interpreters, that their father allowed them an annual present for their nation. I forgot something when I spoke of presents, which I will now mention. We have received presents front our father the President: part at the Walnut Hills, and part at Natchez. I. myself, and a lew other chief-, and a few warriors, went to the Walnut Hills, and the presents were but very small. I do not know whether these presents were concealed from us or not: but I know we got but few. not worth going after. A company of the war chiefs and warriors received, the last spring past, a few presents at the Bluff-: that is all: if there have been any other given, it must have been to idle Indians, who are straggling about, and do not attend to the talks of the chiefs of the nation. There is an old boundary line between the white people and my nation, which was run before I was a chief of the nation. This line was run by the permission of the chiefs of the nation, who were chiefs at that time: they understood. when that line was run. that they weie to receive pay for those lands: hut they never have received pay tor those lands. These chiefs, here present, acknowledge the lands to be the white people's land: they hold no claim on it. although they never received any pay for it: they wish the lands to be marked anew, and that it be done l>y some of both parties, as both should be present; (meaning red and white people.) Too-te-hoo-muh, from the same district, then spoke. I thank, the President, my father, for sending you three beloved men here, to speak to me. I take you by the band, hold you last, and am going to speak to you. 1 grant this road to he cut, which the chief who spoke before me granted. I grant the road only: you may make it as firm, as good, and as strong. as you will: there are no big water courses on it. and there is no occasion for canoes or ferries. 1 speak now concerning an old line, which was run when I was a boy: I wish lor this line to be traced and marked anew; I do not know where the line is: I have been informed, by some of the young men of my nation, that there are w hite people and stock over it. We. chiefs of the nation, wish, it any are over our lines, that they may be moved back again by our brothers, the officers of the United States, and that they would move them back, w ith their stock. Mi xgo-poos-eoos. of Chickasaw half town. I am an old acquaintance here: I came here wiili other chief; of the nation, not to differ with them, but to join them in whatever they do. I understand this business plainly: you three,  fitting here, were-ent by our father, the President, to speak to our nation. My talk- are not long, i am here, before you three beloved men. I am a matt of but few words in my town: it is tlie lowest but one in my nation. My talks are not long: I hope this will be con-idered a- if I had -rid a great deal. The first time I ever saw my friend, the General. ( Wilkinson) he appeared a- if lie wi-heil to say a great deal: I objected. I was but one: I am a well wisher; the day will come when we head men will see each other. The road through our land to Tombeckbe, it is not in my power to grant: there are other chiefs who hold claims on those land;: my claim is but short. The white people travel the line of limits: they are free to U:e that, and any of the small paths. Oak-chime. of the Upper tow n, ;poke tliu -: I ;ee you to day. in the shade of your own house. 1 am a poor distressed red man; I know not how to make any thing: I am in the place here trom the Upper towns: my uncle was the great chief of the nation: lie kept all paths clean and .-wept out: long poles of peace, a number of officers and chiels in his arms: he is gone, he is dead, he has left us behind. You three beloved men in my presence. I am glad to ;ee you; you may be my lather for what I know : the Great Spirit above is over us all. I hold my five fingers. and. with them. I hold yours: mine are black, but I whiten them for the occasion. I understood your great father, Washington, was dead, and that the great council got together and appointed another in hi; stead, who has not forgot us, and who love; us a; our father Washington did: and I am glad to hear our father, the President, wishes that the sun may shine bright over his red children. The Chickasaws are my old brothers: you visited them, and talked to them, before I saw you here. 1 under;tood you a;ked them for a big path to be cut. a white path, a path of peace, and that they granted it to you. as far as their claim; extend. I grant it likewise. There are no big water-courses, there are no big rivers, not-creeks, and, therefore, no occasion for canoes, nor is there any occasion for horse boat;. It is not our wish that there should beany houses built: the rea-on I give i;. that therei» a number of warriors who might spoil something belonging to the occupier- of those house*, and the complaints would become rroub!e;ome to me. and to the chief; of iny nation. 1 speak next of the old line: I wish it in be traced up. and marked over again; I claim part in it: those people who are over it. I w ish back again, for fear they may destroy the line, and it be lo;t. I have done. PrcK-siiuM-t'BBEE. front the Upper towns, then ;poke: The old line that the other chiefs repeated, as far as I understood from my forefathers. I will name its course. and the water-courses it crosses. beginning at the Homo-cthitto. running thence nearly a northwest course, until it strikes the Standing-pines creek: thence, crosses the Bayou Pierre, high up. and Big Black; from thence, strikes the Mi.-si;sippi at the mouth of Tallauhatche. (Yaw-zoo.) That line I wish may be renewed, that both parties may know their own. There are people over, or on the line: it is my wi-h they maybe removed immediately. Where the line runs, along the Bayou Pierre, some white; are settled on this line, and some over it; those over, 1 wish may be removed; if there are none over, there is nothing spoiled. From the information I have received from my forefathers, this Natchez country belonged to red people: the w hole of it. which is now settled by white people. But you Americans were not the first people w ho got this country from the red people. We ;old our lands, but never got any value for it: this 1 -peak from the information of old men. We did not sell them to you. and. as we never received any thing for it. I wish you. our friends, to think of it. and make u; .-ome compensation for it. M e are red people, and you are white people: we did not come here to beg; we brought no property with us to purchase any tiling: we came to do the bu-iness of our nation and return. The other chiefs have granted you this road. We do not wish the white people to go alone to make the road: we wish a few of the red people, and an interpreter, to go with them. W e. of the Upper town.-district, a large-district. I ;peak for them now: there is but one interpreter in our nation: he is a long distance from u.-: when we have business to do. we wi-h to have our interpreter near. It is the wish to have, for the Upper tow ns, an interpreter from among the white people who live with ii>. that we may do our business w ith more -ati.-faction with the chiefs of the district. I have another request to ask of you. for the distre-se- of our nation: a black-iniih. w ho can do our work well, for the Upper towns district. Another thing I have to reque-t. for our young women, and half breeds; we want spinning wheels, and somebody to be sent among them to teach them to spin. I have nothing more to say: 1 have complied with the request of the commissioners; I have done. Further I have to ask. concerning the blacksmith and tools: if the man leaves us. let him leave his tool*, and that they may remain with u-. as the property of the Upper towns district. 84 E-i.au-tau-lau-hoo-muh spoke thus: 1 ant a stranger; this is the first time I ever saw the Americans. I came here, I am sorry that it appeared cloudy, but it lias cleared oft', (alluding to the cloudy weather, which cleared off just as he began to speak.) I understood, by what I have heard, that you are authorized by our father to come and talk to us. I am glad to take you by the hand, which I do, kindly, and am glad our father, the President, thinks of his red children. It is my wish, with the rest of the old chiefs, that the line may be marked anew. There is a number of water courses in our land, and I wish the white people to keep no stock on them, or to build houses. I am done; my talk is short, and I will shake hands with you. The interpreter then stated, that the chiefs directed him to inform the commissioners, the young warriors wished to be indulged with making their talks on paper, at their encampment, if that would do, and to be supplied, for that purpose, with paper. It was ordered accordingly, and the commissioners adjourned. 77te communications made from the deputation from the Choctaws, in their eamp, to the commissioners of the United States, through their agent, Colonel John M'Kee, on the 15th December, 1801. IIuc-shun- aube. 1 am a factor, and have been so for a long time; my merchant is in Mobile; I have traded for him till I am become old. I am a man of one heart, and of one mind. White people, make a number of fine things; my mind is not to be changed for these fine things; and, if the people at Mobile are not able to supply us, I do not wish to look to other people to supply us. Wo are old; we cannot take all the supplies that may be offered to us; the trade of the Choctaw nation is my object; 1 do not look for any trade from this quarter. Wo wish that no people may, from this quarter, cross the road we have granted, with trade to us; we receive our supplies from another quarter, and must make our remittances there. There are a number of people wanting to trade, from this quarter. We do not wish the people of Bayou Pierre, and Big Black, and ’Walnut hills, to purchase skins from the red people. We do not apply for that trade; ’tis a trade interfering with ours, and stealing our property, who trade from other places. These people may introduce a trade of liquor amongst us, that may cause the death of red people, which has happened lately, at Natchez, for which we are sorry. I want our father to send us iron w'edges, and hand-saws, and augers. Mingo Hom-massatubley. I understand our great father. General Washington, is dead, and that there is another beloved man appointed in his place, and that he is a well w isher and lover of us four standing nations of red people. Our old brothers, the Chickasaws, have granted a road from Cumberland, as far south as their boundary; I grant a continuance of that road, which may be straightened; but. the old path is not to be thrown away entirely, and a new one made. We have been informed, by the three beloved men, that our father, the President, has sent us on a yearly present, we know nothing of. There are three other nations; perhaps some of them have received it. Another thing our father, the President, has promised us, without being asked, that he would send people among us, to learn our women to spin and weave; he has made us these promises; I will notask for men. I ask for women, to learn our women. These women may first go amongst our half breeds, and learn them, and the thing will then extend itself; one will learn another, and the white women may return to their own people again. I want people qualified well to teach our women, not people that know nothing. I understand that such things are to be furnished us; I wish, therefore, as we have half breeds, and others accustomed to work, that ploughs may be sent us, weeding hoes, grubbing hoes, axes, band-saws, augers, iron wedges, and a man to make wheels, and a small set of blacksmith’s tools, tor a red man. Father (the President of the United States;) We have a number of warriors who use their guns fora living; I understand your goods are cheap; I wish you to send us on a supply trade; I do not want this trade here; this is a strange land: I want the store at fort Stoddart. or fort St. Stephens. Father: I hold your talks strong, I hope you will hold ours fast, also; (i. e. grant what we ask.) I wish the old marks of the line of separation between us and the whites, to be marked over: and as our father has said he will send us on something every year, I hope it will be continued, although we have never received it. I hope our father will comply with my request, as we have been informed by his beloved men, that he is disposed to afford us aid. We came here sober, to do business, and wish to return so, and request, therefore, that the liquor which we are informed our friends had provided for us, may be retained in store, as it might be productive of evil. Hoche Homo. This is the talks of the chiefs and warriors; I am one of the children of the President, who have seen him in his own house; 1 saw my father in the great beloved council house in Philadelphia: he is now dead, and I am informed there is another father to the red people appointed, to keep up the great council house. 1 have taken by the hand, these three beloved men, sent by my father, the President, to meet the Choctaws; I have received his talk by them, and put it in my heart, and send this mine in return. With the other chiefs, I have granted permission to the commissioners to open the white road of peace asked for. Father, when you receive this, I hope you will hold it fast; the chain of friendship, like an iron chain, should never be broken. 1 have but a short talk, and hope it will be remembered. Shappa Homo. I was present when my father, the President, talked with the Choctaws, Creeks, Cherokees, and Chickasaws, and four Northern nations, and heard his good advice to his children. When I was in the beloved house, all talks and all paths were whitened with every nation; I am well pleased that they are kept white yet; I am glad there are some people alive yet. who, belonging to that white house, wish to take care of the red people. We give up this road; it is not to be settled by white people. Edmond Fulsome. Mingo Hom-Massa-tubba’s talk is mine, except, that he has forgot to ask for cotton cards; my people already make cloth; I know the advantage of it, and request that good cotton cards may be sent us. Robert McClure. A gin is a thing I asked for long ago; it was once offered to my nation, and refused by our chiefs; I asked for it last July, but have received no answer; I now ask for it again; if this will be granted, f wish to know, soon. I am glad to hear it is the wish of our father, the President, to teach us to do such things as the whites can do. The sooner those things are supplied, the better, for. by long delay, they may grow out of our young people's minds. We, half-breeds and young men, wish to go to work, and the sooner we receive those things, "the sooner we will begin to learn. I want a blacksmith sent to the Lower town district, with a good set of tools, which may not be at the disposal of the smith, but remain with us, should he go away. Some of our young people may learn to use these tools, and we wish them to remain for the use of the district. My reason for asking this, is, that our interpreter may die, and our agent be recalled by his superior, and another sent us, who may not live at the same place, and may wish to remove the tools; we wish them to remain to us and our children. We red people do not know how to make iron and steel; we wish our father to send us these, with the smith, &c. And when presents are sent on, we wish a true inventory of all the presents, that we may know when we are cheated, and that the invoice may be lodged with one of our chiefs. 17th December. The chiefs met the commissioners of the United States in the council chamber, and were addressed by the latter. Mingof.s, Chiefs, and Principal Men of the Choctaw nation: We have heard the talks you delivered to us the 13th, and we have since received your written address of the 15th. Those talks and this address have sunk deep into our hearts; they give us great pleasure, and must prove highly satisfactory to your father, the President of the United States, to whom we shall faithfully transmit them, because he will perceive therefrom, that his red children of the Choctaw nation are wise, just, dutiful, and affectionate. Brothers: We are sorry to be informed, that the goods heretofore forwarded to you by your father, the President of the United States, have been delivered to improper characters, and have not reached your hands. We will take care that those which his bounty may hereafter dispense to you. shall be faithfully delivered. But, to prevent misunderstandings, we think proper to repeat to you. that, although this bounty will be extended to you this present year, and may be hereafter continued at the discretion of your father, the President, yet. you must not look upon it as a right, or to claim it as a debt: because you have never given any thing for it. Brothers: We shall faithfully report to your father, the President, your wants and your wishes, as set forth in your written address to us. and we have no doubt, he will give attention to them, and will endeavor to ameliorate your condition. On our own parts, we promise you every attention to your true interests, and that we will use our best exertions to promote all your laudable pursuits, and to advance your solid happiness. Brothers: Your father, the President, knows as well how to reward his good children, as he does to punish the bad. He has, therefore, authorized us to give to you, at this time, some arms and ammunition for your hunters, and some goods for your old men and women, as a proof of his friendship, and as an equivalent for your dutiful attentions to his request, respecting the roads and the old line of demarcation. Brothers: To avoid future misunderstandings, we, the commissioners of ihe United States, have deemed it expedient to commit to record, the agreement entered into with you. the mingoes. chiefs, and warriors, of the Choctaw nation, at this time. By this measure, we propose,to prevent wicked men from encroachingupon the rights of either party, to inform those who may come after us, and to keep a line forever, of the good work of this council. We will now read and interpret this record to you. and we shall be ready to explain any doubts or difficulties which may arise, and a fair copy shall he lodged with your nation, to be appealed to. should occasion ever render it necessary. The treaty being then deliberately read by General Wilkinson, and interpreted, paragraph by paragraph, was signed and sealed, and a duplicate delivered to the head chief of the Choctaw nation. The treaty is in the following words: [Vide the original. ] I8//1 December. In conformity with the directions of the commissioners, the whole deputation of the Choctaw nation attended at the council chamber, and received from the commissioners, the goods promised, being the value of $2,038, exclusive of tobacco, with which the Indians appeared to be well pleased, and they parted with the commissioners with apparent good humor. In addition to the provisions they had received, the commissioners ordered them to be furnished with twelve rations each, for the path home. 1 certify this to be a true copy from the original. ALEX. MACOMB, Ji n. Secretary to the commission. 7th Congress.] 
