NO. 186 CIVILIZATION OF THE INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, MARCH 1, 1822. [To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, February 23, 1822. In compliance with a resolution of the Senate of the 14th instant, requesting the President of the United States “ to make known to the Senate the annual disposition which has been made of the sum of $15,000, appropriated by an act of Congress of the year 1802, to promote civilization among friendly Indian tribes; showing to what tribes that evidence of the national bounty has been extended; the names of the agents who have been intrusted with the application of the money; the several amounts by them received; and the manner in which they have severally applied it to accomplish the objects of the act,” I herewith transmit a report from the Secretary of War, furnishing all the information upon this subject in the possession of that Department. JAMES MONROE. DEPARTMENT OP WAR, February 21, 1822. The Secretary of War, to whom was referred the resolution of the Senate of the 14th instant, requesting the President of the United States “to make known to the Senate the annual disposition which has been made of the sum of $15,000, appropriated by an act of Congress of the year 1802, to promote civilization among friendly Indian tribes; showing to what tribes that evidence of the national bounty has been extended; the names of the agents who have been intrusted with the application of the money; the several amounts by them received; and the manner in which they have severally applied it to accomplish the objects of the act,” has the honor to transmit to the President the enclosed report of the Second Auditor, and to state that no additional information in relation to the several points embraced by the resolution can be furnished by this Department. It is believed, however, that the principal expenditure authorized by the act has been made through the Cherokee, Creek, Chickasaw, and Choctaw agents, for spinning-wheels, looms, implements of husbandry, domestic animals, &c.; but the particular amount annually cannot be stated, as no distinct account of it has been kept in the offices of the Treasury Department. All which is respectfully submitted: J. C. CALHOUN. To the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. SIR:	TREASURY DEPARTMENT, SECOND AUDITOR’S OFFICE, February 19, 1822. In obedience to the resolution of the Senate of the United States of the 14th instant, referred to this office, “ requesting the President of the United States to make known to them the annual disposition which has been made of the sum of $15,000, appropriated by an’act of Congress of the year 1802, to promote civilization among friendly Indian tribes; showing to what tribes that evidence of the national bounty has been extended; the names of the agents who have been intrusted with the application of the money; and the manner in which they have severally applied it to accomplish the objects of the act,” I have the honor to state that no separate account appears ever to have been kept by the accounting officers of the War Department of presents made to the Indians, or salaries granted to Indian agents under the act of 30th March, 1802; which arose, I presume, from its having been considered rather as an act limiting the extent of the expenditure than as making an appropriation, as I find no special appropriations (under which heads, only, accounts are kept in the books of this office) were ever made for those objects. In relation to presents, they are so interwoven with the expenses of holding treaties, visiting the seat of Government, and other purposes, that it would be impracticable to distinguish them apart, except by dissecting all the files of accounts settled for years back, many of which were destroyed in the conflagration by the enemy in 1814. In the exhibit furnished last year by the Treasury Department, in obedience to the resolution of the Senate of the 3d April, 1820, (printed in the 11th volume of congressional documents,) will be found a statement (No. 15) showing the amount of presents made to the Indians in money and goods, from the formation of the Government, as full and particular as can be ascertained from the books of the Treasury Department. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, WILLIAM LEE. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. 17th CONGRESS.]	
