No. 79. [2d Session THE CHEROKEE BOUNDARY. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 5, 1795. In obedience to a resolution of the House of Representatives, dated the 28th of December. 1797, directing the Secretary of War to lay before them such information as lie maybe possessed of relative to the running of a line of experiment, from Clinch river to Chilhowee mountain, by order of the Governor of the territory of the United States, south of the Ohio, the Secretary reports: 1 2 1. That William Blount, Governor of Ihe territory of the United States south of the Ohio, in a letter to the Secretary of War, dated July 2d, 1791, informs that lie had, with much difficulty, concluded a treat!', on the part ot the United States, with the Cherokee Indians, which lie should forward, in a few days,_ by express; that he had not been able to obtain a cession of as much land as his instructions allowed; but, lhat it included all the settlers, except those south of the ridge dividing the waters of Little river from those of Tennessee. 2. That Governor Blount, ina letter to the Secretary of War, dated July 15, 1791, writes as follows: ‘‘In forming the treaty, the greatest difficulty was the agreeing on the boundary, and the one agreed to, I am sensible, will appear singularly described. This is owing to the Indians insisting on beginning on the part where they were most tenacious of the land, in preference of the mouth of Duck river, where the Hopewell line began. The more ready way to understand it will be to reverse it. 1 have said the land, lying to the right of the line, should belong to the United States, because there was no given point of the compass would clearly describe it. According to my instructions, 1 proposed that theridge, dividing the waters of Tennessee from those of Little river, should form a part of the boundary: and the Indians would not agree to it, but insisted on a straight line, which should cross the Holston where that ridge should strike it: and were so firmly fixed on their determination that I could not prevail on them to agree to any other. This line is not so limited, as to the point at which it shall leave the north line, or at which it shall strike the Clinch, but that it may be so run as either to include or leave out the settlers south of the ridge; the only stipulations respecting it are. that it shall cross Holston at the ridge, and shall be run by commissioners appointed by the respective parties. “ The Indians have named theirs, as will appear by the minutes, and the sooner it is run, after the treaty is ratified, the better: for many whites are now settled near it. and others are making ready to move down, this autumn. “ The Indians expect it will be run in November or December. The boundary is not extended as far as I wished aud hoped it would be, but it includes all the settlers on the North Carolina grants; and since I am certain more land could not be obtained. I am very happy so much is obtained.” 3. That the Secretary of War, iii a letter to Governor Blount, of the 19th November, 1791, writes as follows: The treaty with the Cherokees has been ratified "by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and you will receive, herewith, by Judge Campbell, fifty printed copies of the same, together with the proclamation of the President of the United States, enjoining an observance thereof. You will, undoubtedly, cause these papers to be duly circulated and published. The time of running the lines, mentioned in tne treaty, and the parts of the lines to be first run and marked, the President of the United States confides to your judgment. He is of opinion, from information, that the following gentlemen would be proper characters as commissioners on our part, and, if you know of no solid objection, he desires you to appoint them accordingly, to wit: Judge Campbell, Daniel Smith, secretary of the territory, and Colonel London Carter. The President of the United States would not, perhaps, have pointed out any characters to you for this business, but to save you the trouble of solicitations: and he is highly desirous that the lines should be run by gentlemen who can have no inducement to infringe, in any degree, upon the boundary truly meant and intended. As soon as you shall notify me of the time the line is to be run, the President of the United States will appoint a surveyor to attend that duty.” 4. That Governor Blount replied, in a letter dated the 26th of December, 1791, that “ the first of May is thetime that, I think, will be the most convenient to commence the running the lines between the United States and the Cherokees; that the persons named by the Secretary as commissioners were capable, and well qualified in every respect; but. as one of them would be engaged in judicial duties, on the first Monday in May, he recommended another person, which he names, to be appointed in his stead.” 5. That it would seem probable that Andrew Ellicot, who was appointed July, 1791, surveyor to runthe be un-dary lines described in the Creek treat}', concluded at New York, the 7th of August, 1790, might have been the person intended to survey the Cherokee line, but of this intention the Secretary has not found any record. 6. That the Secretary of War. in his letter to Governor Blount, dated the 31st January, 1790, in which the receipt of the foregoing letter is acknow ledged, writes as follows: “ It is important that the line should be run, buL--perhaps, as there may be some misconceptions on that head, although I know of none, yet, as we may want the assistance of the Cherokees, in our military operations, perhaps there may be a greater degree of delicacy in having the lines ascertained previously, than subsequent to the campaign. ” I am impressed with the importance of having'some of all the Southern tribes with our troops, in the field, because I am apprehensive that their passion for war will constrain them to join the other side, if they do not ours. However, both the point of time, and the characters you propose for running the line, will be left to your discretion. “ We have been surprised with a visit of the following Cherokees: Nenetooyah, or Bloody Fellow: Chutloh, or King Fisher; Nontuaka. or the Northward; Teesteeke. or the Disturber: Kuthngusta. or the Prince; Schucwegee, or George Miller: the squaw, Jean Dougherty; and James Carey, the interpreter. They have stated the following objects as their business, the most material of which w ill be complied with, especially the addi tional annuity. “ First. To obtain a higher compensation for the lands they relinquished by the treaty with Governor Blount, on the 2d July, 1791. " Second. That the white people, who are settled southward of the ridge which divides the waters of the Tennessee from those of Little river, should be removed, and that the said ridge should be the barrier.” 7. That Governor Blount, in a letter to the Secretary of War, dated March 2, 1792, writes as follows: “You could hardly have been more surprised with the arrival of the Cherokees than I was when I heard of it, which was several days after Mr. Allison's departure for Philadelphia. If I had been in this country, they would not have visited you: for, by letters since received. I find they wrote to me, and informed me, in case I had any objections, they would not go. With respect to the second object, which they assign for coming, namely: 'that the white people, who are settled to the southward of the ridge which divides the waters of Tennessee from those of Little river, should be removed, and that the saiil ridge should be the line.’ I can't help remarking, that I proposed, at the treaty, that that ridge should be the line. You w ill recollect I was so instructed, and the chiefs were, unanimously, opposed to it, saying it should be a straight line, and that it was an evidence that my heart was not straight, that I wanted a crooked line. The difficulty in running the line will he, to ascertain where the ridge, that divides the waters of Little river and Tennessee, will strike the Holston: for, itseems, the white people can’t agree unit, a circumstance unknown to me at the time the Indians proposed it: but, from the best information I can obtain, I am induced to believe it will prove to be lower down than they expected: and, in that case, it is my opinion, that the words of the treaty ought not to be so strictly adhered to as to give them any great degree of dissatisfaction. I have hopes, and scarcely doubt, but, by taking the chiefs when in a good humor, 1 can have it extended to the satisfaction of both parties, and it is a business, the completion of which, I have much at heart.” S. That the Secretary of War, in his answer to the foregoing letter, dated April 22, 1792, writes, “ 1 am commanded by the President of the United States, to w hom your letters are constantly submitted, to say, with respect to your remarks upon the line at Little l iver, that you w ill be pleased to make a liberal construction of that article, so as to render it entirely satisfactory to the Indians, and. at the same time, as consistently as maybe with the treaty; and to observ e, that he is satisfied w ith your sentiments on that subject.” 9. That it appears, numerous hostile aggressions and acts of the Cherokee Indians, and a desire to soothe them into peace, and engage them as auxiliaries against the Northern Indians, rendered it proper to postpone the running of the line. 10. That, iti a letter from Governor Blount to the Little Turkey, dated Knoxville, February 12, 1792, inviting him and the principal chiefs to meet him at Major Craig’s, on Nine-mile, on the first day of May then next, there is nothing said respecting the running of the line. 11. That, at a conference, at Coyatee, with the chiefs and warriors, in May, 1792, at which were present about two thousand Cherokees, Governor Blount, in his speech, said to them,speaking of frontiers: “ it may occur to you, that it is proper I should say something on the subject of extending and marking the line agreeably to the treaty. I shall write you on that head, so that you shall have my letter before you in council, at Estanaula.” 12. Hanging Maw gave notice that this council was to meet at Estanaula, the 23d of June, and for all the chiefs to attend there, and not to be absent on any pretence whatever. 13. That the letter from Governor Blount to the Little Turkey, and other chiefs of the Cherokees, at Estanaula, dated June 4, 1792, is as follows: “Brothers: The running of the line is a thing I know you want done, and so do I; hut I can’t attend to it before I have finished my business with the Chickasaws and Choctaws at Nashville, and rested myself a little after my return home, which will not be before some time in August. I propose to you that the commissioners to run the line, shall meet at Major Craig’s, on Nine-mile, the second Monday in October. The commissioners, on the part of the United States, are people of high characters and distinction, namely, Brigadier General Smith, Colonel Landon Carter, and Judge Campbell; and I beg you that three of your principal chiefs may be appointed on your part. The running a line between two nations is a great business, and none but head-men are proper to do it. James Carey being appointed interpreter, it will be his duty to attend, and interpret what shall be said on both sides. I keep in remembrance, that no persons are to be with the commissioners when they run the line, except a few people to mark it; but, if a few of your principal chiefs, besides those three appointed to run the line, should wish to attend, I shall be glad to see them: for head-men to see and know each other, ever contributes to the happiness of both parties.” 14. That the Little Turkey, as appears from the journal of the Cherokee council at Estanaula, convened on the 26th of June, 1792, expressed himself highly dissatisfied with the treaty lines, and that James Carey reminded the council to consider the request made to them, to name the commissioners to run the line, and the time and place of their meeting. 15. That the Broom, the Standing Turkey, Half Breed, and Dreadful Water, in a letter dated Estanaula, Not ember 15. 1792, addressed to Governor Blount, inform him, that, ‘“as they were using their best endeavors for the benefit of both parties, they hoped he would stop his hand with regard to building a fort on their land, and that they further hoped, that, by the spring of the year, every thing will be settled according to the treaty, to each other’s satisfaction, and the line shall be run.” 16. That it appears the frontiers, at this time, were threatened with Indian invasion. That the 27th of September, 1792, Governor Blount informed the Secretary of War, “ he had determined to call into the field, tor the protection and defence of the territory, as quick as possible, in addition to the militia then in service, fourteen companies of infantry, and the Greene troop of cavalry, to be commanded by Brigadier General Sevier.” 17. That Governor Blount addressed a letter of instructions, and an extract of a letter front the Secretary of War, of the 22d of April, 1792, to David Campbell, Charles McClung, and John McKee, in the following words: “ Knoxville, October 7, 1792. “ Gentlemen: “ By the enclosed extract from my letter of the 4th of June last, to the Little Turkey, and other chiefs of the Cherokees, von will be informed that to-morrow' is the day I proposed to them, to meet the commissioners on the part of the United States, at Major Craig’s, on Nine-mile, in order to extend the line between the said nation and the United States, as stipulated by the treaty, made and concluded between the said nation and the United States, on the 2d of July, 1791, a copy of which you have herewith. You have also enclosed an extract of a letter of the Secretary of War to me, of the 22d of April last, to which you will please attend, as your instructions, in case commissioners, on the part of the Indians, should appear, and proceed to running the line; but, in case none do appear, you will please examine where the ridge, which divides the waters running into Little river, from those running into the Tennessee, strikes the Holston, and extend the line from thence to Clinch, and again from that ridge to the Chilhowee mountain, paying strict regard to the treaty, and report your proceedings to me. I am aware that the five \ Lower towns of the Cherokees have declared war against the United States, and that war dissolves all treaties; \nevertheless, I think it essential that so much of the line should be examined and reported upon, that it may appear whether there are any citizens of the United States residing on the Indian lands or not. I have the honor to be, &c. WILLIAM BLOUNT. “David Campbell, “Charles McClung, “John Mckee, “ Commissioners ior extending the line between the United States and the Cherokee nation, accoiding to the treaty of Holston.” 18. That David Campbell, Charles McClung, and John McKee, reported to Governor Blount as follows: “ Knoxville, 30//; November, 1792. “ Sir: “ In pursuance of your instructions, we attended at Major Craig's, on Nine-mile, on the second Monday in October, and waited until Tuesday for commissioners on the part of the Cherokees; but none arrived. We then proceeded to examine, with great attention, for the ridge which divides the waters of the Tennessee from those of Little river, and, tracing it, iound it a plain leading ridge, and that it struck the Holston at the mouth; but, having heard it suggested, that the Indians hail in contemplation, at the time the treaty was made, a ridge, which they supposed would strike the Holston higher tip, we did not content ourselves, but re-traced the ridge, and examined well the south bank of the Holston, and the result was, that we were perfectly convinced that the ridge, which divides the waters of Tennessee and Little river, strikes the Holston at the mouth, and at no other part. We then proceeded to run, but not mark, aline of experiment, from the point of the ridge, in a south-east direction to Chilhowee mountain, distance seventeen and one half miles, and again from thence to the Clinch, in a northwest direction, distance nine miles, and found that line, continued to the southeast, would intersect the Tennessee, shortly after it crossed the Chilhowee mountain, consequently take away all the Indian towns lying along the south side of Tennessee. This shewed the necessity of turning the direction more to the east and west,and, it is our opinion, that a line extended from the point of the ridge aforesaid, south, sixty degrees, east to Chilhowee mountain, again from the point, north, sixty degrees west, will form the true line from Chilhowee mountain to Clinch, between the United States and the Cherokees, according to the treaty of Holston. The more fully to elucidate this report, we present you with a map, which we believe is nearly correct, on which both the lines are laid down. “ Supposing we are right in the direction of the true line as aforesaid, it will be found that the following settlements were on the Cherokee lands, namely: Matthew Wallace, Samuel Henry, --------Martin, ------ Sloane, ------Wilson, and a few others, whose names are unknown to us, all of whom, except Samuel Henry, have lately removed from their plantations. “ We have the honor to be, &c. DAVID CAMPBELL, CHARLES McCLUNG, JOHN McKEE. “ William Blount, Esqr. Governor of the Southwestern Territory.” 19. That Governor Blount transmitted this report to the Secretary of War, with the following letter: “Knoxville, December 16, 1792. “Sir: “I havethe honor to enclose you the report of Judge Campbell, Charles McClung, and John McKee, the gentlemen I appointed commissioners, on the part of the United Stales, to meet the commissioners on the part ot the Cherokees, at Major Craig’s, on Nine-mile, on the second Monday in October, to run the line between the United States and that nation, agreeably to the treaty of Holston, and a map which they presented me therewith, together with a copy of my instructions, and of their commissions of appointment. McKee and McClung were appointed in the places, and instead of General Smith and Colonel Carter, who did not attend. McKee is a young man, who does not claim a foot of land in this territory. McClung possesses land: but. I believe, none that the extending the line could affect him in: both of fair characters, and well qualified for the business. The part of the country through which they have extended (not marked) the line, and reported its course and operation on the settlements on Nine-mile, is the only part of which I ever heard any complaints on the part of the Indians, (except that contained in the speech of the Little Turkey, in council, at Estanaula, in June last, which, to me, appears too utterly void of foundation to deserve any notice;*) hence, I have conceived that it will be satisfactory and acceptable to Government to be made fully acquainted of the geography of it from actual measurement, ami of the operation of the line on the Nine-mile settlers, and especially so, as a part of the nation had declared war against the United States, to the end that a better judgment might be formed as to the propriety or impropriety of their conduct. It is to be observed, that the Lower towns, where the heads and leaders, and the greater part of the war party reside, are least affected with this line, run as it will, as they live most distant from it: and that these Nine-mile settlers have received no injuries, (except a few horses stolen) neither before the treaty of Holston. for several years, nor since, from Indians of any part. As the geography of the country, generally, cannot be well known to you, there being no correct map of it, I think it necessary to inform you, that the country to the east, or rather to the southeast of Chilhowee mountain, through which the line reported upon, if continued beyond it, will pass, for fifty or sixty miles, is an entire bed, or ledge alter ledge, of mountains, that is, until it intersects the line which is to be extended south from the north boundary of North Carolina, near which no settlements can be formed: hence, I conclude, it will not shortly be essential to extend it. Believing observations respecting the other parts of the line will be proper and acceptable, 1 shall make them. That which the line reported on will intersect, if continued, meaning that which runs south from the north boundary of North Carolina, I caused to be run and marked about sixty miles from the month of McNamee’s Creek to Rutherford’s War-trace, by Mr. Joseph Hardin, in the course of last winter. I was induced to this from an instruction that I should take care that no encroachments were made on the Indian lands, and I had been taught to believe that the settlements at Swannauo were very near, if not on them, and about to be extended--' The result was, that it was found these settlements were not within less than twelve miles of the Indian lands. It will be observed, that this north line is the same that run south for the same distance, according to the treaty of Hopewell, which was never ascertained, and being also through a bed of mountains for a great part, conjectures as to its course and operation were very different. Hardin did not run north, as required by the treaty of Holston. but south, according to the treaty of Hopewell. The reason for this was, lie could not find the beginning ol it at the north boundary of North Carolina, without first running the line through South Carolina: and the beginning in a north direction was easily found by beginning at the mouth of McNamee’s Creek on Nolaehucky. That which passes through South Carolina, I am informed, has been partly run—I believe, prior to the treaty of Hopewell; perhaps, immediately after that of Duet’s Corner, made by commissioners from South Carolina and Georgia; but General Pickens has informed me, that he has reasons to suspect encroachments are making on the part which has not been run: hence, it xvould seem essential, that it should shortly be run: but no complaints have been made by the Indians respecting them, unless they should be included in the general charge of the Bloody Fellow, in his letter of the 10th September. That which passes from the mouth of Duck, through the Cumberland country, I should suppose, need not be run for years: for the Cumberland settlers are now so distant from where it will pass, and the danger in that quarter is so great, that encroachments on it are not to be feared. For information respecting these settlers, I enclose you a inap of the Cumberland countiy, by which you will see that there are but very few south of that river, none more than five miles, and all of them near Nashville. The reason I have considered the claim of the Little Turkey as too ill founded to deserve notice, is, that he requires the line to be extended so far north as to include, not only all the settled part of Cumberland, but the county of Shelby, in Kentucky, both of which had been fairly ceded (o the United States, by the treaties ol Hopewell and Holston. “ I have the honor to be, with very great respect, your obedient servant. ‘ M M. BLOUNT. “ Henry Knox, Esq. Secretary of I far.-'20. That the Secretary of War acknowledged the receipt of this letter on the 25th of January. 179;;, in which he observed, “ Yesterday I received your two favors, dated the ICth and 28th ultimo. The first, being relatively to the boundary, will be duly considered, and you informed of the result.” 21. That the Secretary of War does not find any further communications to Governor Blount on this subject. All which is respectfully submitted to the House of Representatives. JAMES McHENIlY, Secretary of War. W ar Office, January 5, 179-i. * I 5th Congress.] 
