No. 13. [2d Session. THE CHEROKEES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, AUGUST 11, 1790. Gentlemen of the Senate: Although the treaty with the Creeks may be regarded as the main foundation of the future peace and pros perity of the southwestern frontier of the United States, yet, in order fully to effect so desirable an object, the treaties which ha\ e been entered into with the other-tribes in that quarter, must be faithfully performed on our parts. During the last year, I laid before the Senate a particular statement of the case of the Cherokees. By a reference to that paper, it will appear that the United States formed a treaty with the Cherokees in November, 1785: That the said Cherokees thereby placed themselves under the protection of the United States, and had a boundary assigned them: That the white people settled on the frontiers had openly violated the said boundary by intruding on the Indian lands: That the United States, in Congress assembled, did, on the first day of September, 1788, issue their proclamation, forbidding all such unwarrantable intrusions, and enjoining all those who hail settled upon the hunting grounds of the Cherokees, to depart with their families and effects without loss of time, as they would answer their disobedience to the injunctions and prohibitions expressed, at their peril. But information has been received, that, notwithstanding the said treaty and proclamation, upwards of five hundred families have settled on the Cherokee lands, exclusively of those settled between the fork of French Broad and Ilolston livers, mentioned in the said treaty. As the obstructions to a proper conduct on this matter have been removed since it was mentioned to the Senate on the 22d of August, 1789. by the accession of North Carolina to the present Union, and the cessions of the land in question, 1 shall concei\ e myself bound to exert the powers entrusted to me by the constitution, in order to carry into faithful execution the treaty of Hopewell, unless it shall be thought proper to attempt to arrange a new boundary with the Cherokees, embracing the settlements, and compensating the Cherokees for the cessions they shall make on the occasion. On this point, therefore, 1 state the following questions, and request the advice of the Senate thereon: 1st. Is it the judgment of the Senate that overtures shall be made to the Cherokees to arrange a new boundary, so as to embrace the settlements made by the white people since the treaty of Hopewell, in November, 1785? 2d. If so, shall compensation, to the amount of —— dollars, annually, or of-dollars, in gross, be made to the Cherokees for the land they shall relinquish, holding the occupiers of the land accountable to the United States for its value? 3d. Shall the United States stipulate solemnly to guaranty the new boundary which maybe arranged? GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, August 11, 1790. The Senate thereupon adopted the following resolutions: Resolved, That the Senate do advise and consent, that the President of the United States do, at his discretion, cause the treaty concluded at Hopewell, with the Cherokee Indians, to be carried into execution according to the terms thereof, or to enter into arrangements for such further cession of territory, from the said Cherokee Indians, as the tranquillity and interest of the United States may require: Provided, The sum which maybe stipulated to be paid to the said Cherokee Indians, do not exceed one thousand dollars annually,; and Provided farther, That no person who shall have taken possession of any lands within the territory assigned to the said Cherokee Indians, by the said treaty of Hopewell, shall be confirmed in any such possessions, but by compliance with such terms as Congress may hereafter prescribe. Resolved, In ca.-,e a new. tir other boundary than that stipulated by the. treaty of Hopewell, shall be concluded with the Cherokee Indians, that the Senate do advise and consent solemnly to guaranty the same. 1st Congress.]
