NO. 214 TREATIES WITH THE IÔWAY, SAC, AND FOX TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 15, 1824. [To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, December 13, 1824. I transmit to the Senate, for its advice and consent as to the ratification, the treaties concluded and'signed on the 4th day of August last, between the United States and the loway and Sac and Fox tribes of Indians. JAMES MONROE. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 8, 1824. I have the honor to lay before you the enclosed treaties, concluded since the last session of Congress, with the loway and the Sac and Fox tribes of Indians. I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, To the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. TREATY WITH THE I0WAYS. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at the city of Washington, on the 4th day of August, 1824, between William Clark, Superintendent of Indian Affairs, being specially authorized by the President of the United States thereto, and the undersigned chiefs and headmen of the loway tribe or nation, duly authorized and empowered by the said nation. ARTICLE 1. The loway tribe or nation of Indians, by their deputies, Man-hos-kah, (or White Cloud,) and Mah-ne-hab-nah, (or Great Walker,) in council assembled, do hereby agree, in consideration of a certain sum of money, &c. to be paid tu the said loway tribe by the Government of the United States, as hereinafter stipulated, to cede and forever quit claim, and do, in behalf of their said tribe, hereby cede, relinquish, and forever quit claim, unto the United States, all right, title, interest, and claim to the lands which the said loway tribe have or claim within the State of Missouri, and situated between the Mississippi and Missouri rivers, and a line running from the Missouri, at the mouth or entrance of Kanzas river, north one hundred miles, to the northwest corner of the limits of the State of Missouri, and from thence east to the Mississippi. ART. 2. It is hereby stipulated and agreed, on the part of the United States, as a full compensation for the claims and lands ceded by the loway tribe in the preceding article, there shall be paid to the said loway tribe, within the present year, in cash or merchandise, the amount of five hundred dollars; and the United States do further agree td pay to the said loway tribe five hundred dollars annually, for the term of ten succeeding years. ART. 3. The chiefs and headmen, who sign this treaty, for themselves, and in behalf of their tribe, do acknowledge the lands east and south of the lines described in the first article, (which have been run and marked by Colonel Sullivan,) so far as the Indians claimed the same, to belong to the United States; and that none of their tribe shall be permitted to settle or hunt upon any part of it, after the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, without special permission from the superintendent of Indian affairs. ART. 4. The undersigned chiefs, for themselves, and all parts of the loway tribe, do acknowledge themselves and the said loway tribe to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other sovereign whatsoever; and they also stipulate that the said loway tribe will not bold any treaty with any foreign Powers, individual State, or with individuals of any State. ART. 5. The United States engage to provide and support a blacksmith for the loway tribe, so long as the President of the United States may think proper, and to furnish the said tribe with such farming utensils and cattle, and to employ such persons to aid them in their agriculture, as the President may deem expedient. ART. 6. The annuities stipulated to be paid by the second article, to be paid either in money, merchandise, provisions, or domestic animals, at the option of the aforesaid tribe; and when the said annuities, or any part thereof, is paid in merchandise, it is to be delivered to them at the-first cost of the goods at St. Louis, free from cost of transportation. ART. 7. This treaty shall take effect, and be obligatory on the contracting parties, so soon as the same shall be ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof. In testimony whereof, the said William Clark, commissioner as aforesaid, and the chiefs and headmen of the loway tribe of Indians, as aforesaid, have hereunto set their hands, the day and year first before written. WM. CLARK. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headtpen of the loway tribe.] TREATY WITH THE SACS AND FOXES. Treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded between William Clark, Superintendent of Indian Affairs and sole commissioner on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and headmen of the Sac and Fox tribes of Indians. To perpetuate peace and friendship between the United States and the Sac and Fox tribes or nations of Indians, and to remove all future cause of dissensions which may arise from undefined territorial boundaries, the President of the United States of America, by William Clark, superintendent of Indian affairs, and sole commissioner specially appointed for that purpose, of the one part; and the undersigned chiefs and headmen of the Sac and Fox tribes or nations, fully deputized to act for and in behalf of their said nations, of the other part; have entered into the following articles and conditions, viz: ARTICLE 1. The Sac and Fox tribes or nations of Indians, by their deputations in council assembled, do hereby agree, in consideration of certain sums of money, &c. to be paid to the said Sac and Fox tribes, by the Government of the United States, as hereinafter stipulated, to cede and forever quit claim, and do, in behalf of their said tribes or nations, hereby cede, relinquish, and forever quit claim, unto the United States, all right, title, interest, and claim to the lands which the said Sac and Fox tribes have or claim within the limits of the State of Missouri, which are situated, lying, and being between the Mississippi and Missouri rivers, and a line running from the Missouri at the entrance of Kanzas river, north one hundred miles, to the northwest corner of the State of Missouri, and from thence east to the Mississippi. It being understood that the small tract of land lying between the rivers Des Moines and the Mississippi, and the section of the above line between the Mississippi and the Des Moines, is intended for the use of the half-breeds belonging to the Sac and Fox nations; they holding it, however, by the same title, and in the same manner that other Indian titles are held. ■ ART. 2. The chiefs and headmen who sign this convention, for themselves, and in behalf of their tribes, do acknowledge the lands east and south of the. lines described in the first article, so far as the Indians claim the same, to belong to the United States; and that none of their tribes shall be permitted to settle or hunt upon any part of it, after the first day of January, one. thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, without special permission from the superintendent of Indian affairs. ART. 3. It is hereby stipulated and agreed, on the part of the United States, as a full consideration for the claims and lands ceded by the Sac and Fox tribes in the first article, there shall be paid to the Sac and Fox nations, within the present year, one thousand dollars in cash, or merchandise; and, in addition to the annuities stipulated to be paid to the Sac and Fox tribes by a former treaty, the United States do agree to pay to the said Sac tribe five hundred dollars, and to the Fox tribe five hundred dollars, annually, for the term of ten succeeding years. And, at the request of the chiefs of the said Sac and Fox nations, the commissioner agrees to pay to Maurice Blondeau, a half Indian of the Fox tribe, the sum of five hundred dollars, it being a debt due by the said nation to the aforesaid Blondeau, for property taken from him during the late war. ART. 4. The United States engage to provide and support a blacksmilh for the Sac and Fox nations, so long as the President of the United States may think proper, and to furnish the said nations with such farming utensils and cattle, and to employ such persons to aid them in their agriculture, as the President may deem expedient. 4RT. 5. The annuities stipulated to be paid by the third article are to be paid either in money, merchandise, provisions, or domestic animals, at the option of the aforesaid tribes; and when the said annuities, or any part thereof, is paid in merchandise, it is to be delivered to them at the firlst cost of the goods at St. Louis, free from cost of trans ART. 6. This treaty shall take effect and be obligatory on the contracting parties so soon as the same shall be ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof. In testimony whereof, the said William Clark, commissioner as aforesaid, and the chiefs and headmen of the Sac and Fox tribes of Indians as aforesaid, have hereunto set their hands, at Washington City, this fourth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-four. WM. CLARK. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headmen of the Sac and Fox tribes.] 18th CONGRESS.]	
