NO. 160.	[2d SESSION. Unicoy turnpike road; thence, by a straight line, to the nearest main source of the Chestatee; thence, along its main channel, to the Cbatahoochee; and thence to the Creek boundary: it being understood that al) the islands in the Chestatee, and the parts of the Tennessee and Hiwassee (with the exception of Jolly’s island, in the Tennessee, near the mouth of the Hiwassee,) which constitute a portion of the present boundary, belong to the Cherokee nation: and it is also understood that the reservations contained in the second article of the treaty of Tellico, signed the twenty-fifth day of October, eighteen hundred and five, and a tract equal to twelve miles square, to be located by commencing at the point formed by the intersection of the boundary line of Madison county already mentioned, and the north bank of the Tennessee river; thence, along the said line, and up the said river twelve miles, are ceded to the United States in trust for the Cherokee nation as a school fund; to be sold by the United States, and the proceeds vested as is hereafter provided in the fourth article of this treaty; and, also, that the rights vested in the Unicoy turnpike company by the Cherokee nation, according to certified copies of the instruments securing the rights, and herewith annexed, are not to be affected by this treaty. And it is further understood and agreed by the said parties that the lands hereby ceded by the Cherokee nation, are in full satisfaction of all claims which the United States have on them, on account of the cession to a part of their nation who have or may hereafter emigrate to the Arkansas; and this treaty is a final adjustment of that of the eighth of July, eighteen hundred and seventeen. ART. 2. The United States agree to pay, according to the stipulations contained in the treaty of the eighth of July, eighteen hundred and seventeen, for all improvements on land lying within the country ceded by the Cherokees which add real value to the land; and do agree to allow a reservation of six hundred and forty acres to each head of any Indian family residing within the ceded territory (those enrolled for the Arkansas excepted) who choose to become citizens of the United States in the manner stipulated in said treaty. ART. 3. It is also understood and agreed by the contracting parties, that a reservation, in fee-simple, of six hundred and forty acres square, (with the exception of Major Walker’s, which is to be located as is hereafter provided,) to include their improvements, and which are to be as near the centre thereof as possible, shall bo made to each of the persons whose names are inscribed on the certified list annexed to this treaty, all of whom are believed to be persons of industry, and capable of managing their property with discretion, and have, with few exceptions, made considerable improvements on the tracts reserved. The reservations are made on the condition that those for whom they are intended shall notify, in writing, to the agent for the Cherokee nation, within six months after the ratification of this treaty, that it is their intention to continue to reside permanently on the land reserved. The reservation for Lewis Ross so to be laid off as to include his house, and out-buildings, and ferry adjoining the Cherokee agency, reserving to the United States all the public property there, and the continuance of the said agency where it now is, during the pleasure of the Government; and Major Walker’s, so as to include his dwelling-house and ferry: for Major Walker an additional reservation is made of six hundred and forty acres square, to include his grist and saw-mill: the land is poor, and principally valuable for its timber. In addition to the above reservations, the following are made, in fee-simple; the persons for whom they are intended not residing on the same: To Cabbin Smith, six hundred and forty acres, to be laid off in equal parts, on both sides of his ferry on Tellico, commonly called Blair’s ferry; to John Ross, six hundred and forty acres, to be laid off so as to include the Big island, in Tennessee river, being the first below Tellico—which tracts of land were given, many years since, by the Cherokee nation to them; to Mrs. Eliza Ross, step-daughter of Major Walker, six hundred and forty acres square, to be located on the river below and adjoining Major Walker’s; to Margaret Morgan, six hundred and forty acres square, to be located on the west of, and adjoining, James Riley’s reservation; to George Harlin, six hundred and forty acres square, to be located west of, and adjoining, the reservation of Margaret Morgan; to James Lowry, six hundred and forty acres square, to be located at Crow Mocker’s old place, at the fool of Cumberland mountain; to Susannah Lowry, six hundred and forty acres, to be located at the toll bridge on Battle creek; to Nicholas Byers, six hundred and forty acres, including the Toqua island, to be located on the north bank of the Tennessee, opposite to said island. ART. 4. The United States stipulate that the reservations, and the tract reserved for a school fund, in the firs.t article of this treaty, shall be surveyed and sold in the same manner, and on the same terms, with the public lands of the United States, and the proceeds vested, under the direction of the President of the United States, in the stock of the United States, or such other stock as he may deem most advantageous to the Cherokee nation. The interest or dividend on said stock shall be applied, under his direction, in the manner which he shall judge best calculated to diffuse the benefits of education among the Cherokee nation on this side of the Mississippi. ART. 5. It is agreed that such boundary lines as may be necessary to designate the lands ceded by the first article of this treaty may be run by a commissioner or commissioners, to be appointed by the President of the United States, who shall be accompanied by such commissioners as the Cherokees may appoint, due notice thereof to be given to the nation; and that the leases which have been made under the treaty of the eighth of July, eighteen hundred and seventeen, of land lying within the portion of country reserved to the Cherokees, to be void; and that all white people who have intruded, or may hereafter intrude, on the lands reserved for the Cherokees, shall be removed by the United States, and proceeded against according to the provisions of the act passed thirtieth of March, eighteen hundred and two, entitled “ An act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, and to preserve peace on the frontiers.” ART. 6. The contracting parties agree that the annuity to the Cherokee nation shall be paid, two-thirds to the Cherokees east of the Mississippi, and one-third to the Cherokees west of that river, as it is estimated that those who have emigrated, and who have enrolled for emigration, constitute one-third of the whole nation; but, if the Cherokees west of the Mississippi object to this distribution, of which due notice shall be given them before the expiration of one year after the ratification of this treaty, then the census, solely for distributing the annuity, shall be taken at such times and in such manner as the President of the United States may designate. ART. 7. The United States, in order to afford the Cherokees who reside on the lands ceded by this treaty time to cultivate, their crop next summer, and for those who do not choose to take reservations to remove, bind themselves to prevent the intrusion of their citizens on the ceded land before the first of January next. ART. 8. This treaty to be binding on the contracting parties so soon as it is ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Done at the place and on the day and year above written. J. C. CALHOUN. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headmen of the Cherokee nation.] List of persons referred to in the third article of the foregoing treaty. I hereby certify that I am, either personally, or by information on which I can rely, acquainted with.the persons before named, all of whom I believb to be persons of industry, and capable of managing their property with discretion; and who have, with few exceptions, long resided on the tracts reserved, and made considerable improvements thereon. RETURN J. MEIGS, Agent in the Cherokee Nation. CHEROKEE AGENCY, HIWASSEE GARRtsoN. We, the undersigned chiefs and councillors of the Cherokees, in full council assembled, do hereby give, grant, and make over, unto Nicholas Byers and David Russell, who are agents in behalf of the States of Tennessee and Georgia, full power and authority to establish a turnpike company, to be composed of them, the said Nicholas and David, Arthur Henly, John Lowry, attorney, and one other person, by them to be hereafter named, in behalf of the State of Georgia; and the above-named persons are authorized to nominate five proper and fit persons, natives of the Cherokees, who, together with the white men aforesaid, are to constitute the company; which said company, when thus established, are hereby fully authorized by us to lay out and open a road from the most suitable point on the Tennessee river, to be directed the nearest and best way to the highest point of navigation on the Tcgaloo river; which said road, when opened and established, shall continue and remain a free and public highway, unmolested by us, to the interest and benefit of the said company, and their successors, for the full term of twenty years yet to come, after the same may be open and complete; after which time, said road, with all its advantages, shall be surrendered up, and reverted in the said Cherokee nation. And the said company shall have leave, and are hereby authorized, to erect their public stands or houses of entertainment on said road; that is to say, one at each end, and one in the middle, or as nearly so as a good situation will permit; with leave, also, to cultivate one hundred acres of land at each end of the road, and fifty acres at the middle stand, with the privilege of a sufficiency of timber for the use and consumption of said stands. And the said turnpike company do hereby agree to pay the sum of one hundred and sixty dollars yearly to the Cherokee nation for the aforesaid privilege, to commence after said road is opened and in complete operation. The said company are to have the benefit of one ferry on Tennessee river, and such other ferry or ferries as are necessary on said road; and, likewise, said company shall have the exclusive privilege of trading on said road during the aforesaid term of time. In testimony of our full consent to all and singular the above-named privileges and advantages, we have hereunto set our hands and affixed our seals, this eighth day of March, eighteen hundred and thirteen. [Signed by the chiefs and councillors of the Cherokees.] The foregoing agreement and erant was amicably negotiated and concluded in my presence. RETURN J. MEIGS. '	WASHINGTON CITY, March 1, 1819. I certify I believe the within to be a correct copy of the original. CHARLES HICKS. •	CHEROKEE AGENCY, January 6, 1817. We, the undersigned chiefs of the Cherokee nation, do hereby grant unto Nicholas Byers, Arthur H. Henly, and David Russell, proprietors of the Unicoy road to Georgia, the liberty of cultivating all the ground contained in the bend on the north side of Tennessee river, opposite and below Chota Old Town, together with the liberty to erect a grist-mill on Four Mile cree.k, for the use and benefit of said road, and the Cherokees in the neighborhood thereof; for them, the said Byers, Henly, and Russell, to have and to hold the above privileges during the term of lease of the Unicoy road, also obtained from the Cherokees, and sanctioned by the President of the United States. In witness whereof, we hereunto affix our hands and seals. JOHN McINTOSH, and others. CHEROKEE AGENCY, July 8, 1817. The above instrument was executed in open Cherokee council, in my office, in January, 1817.	, RETURN J. MEIGS. The use of the Unicoy road, so called, was for twenty years. RETURN J. MEIGS. WASHINGTON CITY, March 1, 1819. I certify I believe the within to be a correct copy of the original. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 11, 1819. In order to avoid mistakes, and to present my views more fully on some of the points which were touched on at our last interview, I have judged it proper to make the following written communication. The Cherokees to make a cession in proportion to the estimated number of their nation on the Arkansas and the emigrants who are enrolled to go there. The United States prefer the cession to be made in the States of Tennessee and Georgia; and, in the latter State, it would be desirable that it should be made as near and convenient to the present settlements in Georgia as possible. The reservation which the Cherokees wish to make of a portion of their land for a school fund, must be in the Alabama Territory, as the cession which will be made in Georgia will belong to that State, and that which may be made in Tennessee will be subject to the location of the warrants granted by the State of North Carolina. It is also understood that the reservation so to be made is not to constitute any part of that portion of land which the Cherokees may cede in conformity to the principle which is contained in the preceding paragraph, but is to be made in addition to such cession, as it will be wholly for the benefit of the Cherokee nation. The United States will extend its kindness and protection to both branches of the Cherokee nation—to that which is west as well as that which may choose to continue to the east of the Mississippi; but as the Cherokees on the Arkansas are unrepresented, no particular stipulation in regard to them can be binding, and therefore müst be waived. The land which has been granted to them on the Arkansas they will hold in the same manner, and by the same title, by which the Cherokees now hold theirs. It is understood that the delegation, in behalf of their nation, wish to strengthen the guaranty of that portion of the land which may be left to them after making the proposed cessions, so that it may be to them a permanent - and lasting home, without further cessions. To secure such great benefits, it is indispensable that the cessions which they may make should be ample, and the part reserved to themselves should not be larger than is necessary for their wants anfl convenience. Should a larger quantity be retained, it will not be possible, by any stipulation in the treaty, to prevent future cessions. So long as you may retain more land than what is necessary or convenient to yourselves, you will feel inclined to sell, and the United States to purchase. The truth of what I say you know cannot be doubted, as your own experience, and that of all Indian nations, proves it to be true. If, on the contrary, you only retain a suitable quantity, no more cessions will be asked for or made, and they will be settled down permanently. You are now becoming like the white people; you can no longer live by hunting, but must work for your subsistence. In your new condition, far less land is necessary for you. Your great object ought to be to hold your land separate among yourselves, as your white neighbors; and to live and bring up your children in the same way as they do, and gradually to adopt their laws and manners. It is thus only that you can be prosperous and happy. Without this, you will find you will have to emigrate, or become extinct as a people. You see that the Great Spirit has made our form of society stronger than yours, and you must submit to adopt ours, if you wish to be happy by pleasing him. I believe you know what is right, and feel disposed to do it; and it is our wish that you should be happy and prosperous. Wc take an interest in your fate, as you were the first proprietors of this happy country, and are our near neighbors; but it is proper you should put confidence in our Government, and take the advice which is offered sincerely for your good. I am, respectfully, &c. To the CHEROKEE DELEGATION.	< J. C. CALHOUN. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 22, 1819. I transmit you propositions on which I am willing to close the treaty of the 8th July, 1817. The session of Congress is drawing to a close, and it is desirable that the treaty should be formed as soon as practicable, so as to have it ratified by the Senate before the adjournment of Congress. If you are willing to adopt the terms proposed, they can be reduced to form immediately, and the treaty be signed to-morrow or next day. I am, &.c. The CHEROKEE DELEGATION.	J. C. CALHOUN. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 6, 1819. I have the pleasure to inform you that a treaty has been concluded with the Cherokee delegation, which it is hoped will be satisfactory to all parties; and you are requested, as no further encouragement will be given to the emigrations to the Arkansas, to take immediate measures to wind up the business in which you have been engaged under the former treaty, in the most economical manner. Your communications, which were intended to be here before the delegation, did not reach the Department until after the arrangement was made; but it is believed that it has been made on the best terms that could be effected. So soon as the treaty is printed, you will be furnished with a copy. I will thank you to furnish a statement of your expenditures, in order that I may know the state of the appropriation to carry into effect the Cherokee treaty; and you will also furnish an estimate of the sums necessary to close the business. I have the honor to be, &c. Governor JOSEPH MCMINN.	J. C. CALHOUN. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 9, 1819. I enclose a copy of a letter written by Captain Hicks, of the Cherokee nation on the Tennessee, to Colonel Meigs, their agent, who has submitted it to this Department. It is not the wish of the Department to interfere with the Cherokees on the east and west of the Mississippi, on the subject to which this communication refers; but as it is probable the former will make a representation to the latter, with a view to procure an arrangement on this point, I have to request that you will use your endeavors to induce them to make such a one as may be just and equitable. A treaty has been concluded with the Cherokee delegation at the seat of Government, and I enclose you a copy of the sixth article, which relates to a division of the annuity, of which you are requested to give them notice; and, if objections are made, to enter into such explanations on the subject as you may think necessary to satisfy them as to the justice of the distribution; and inform this Department of their decision. A copy of the treaty will be sent to you after it is published. • I have the honor to be, &c. REUBEN LEWIS, Indian Agent on the Arkansas. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 11, 1819. The President has thought it best to suspend the running of the. line between East Florida and the State of Georgia, of which you were informed on the 2d instant; and I now enclose a copy of a letter to the Governor of that Slate, which details the reasons for this order. A treaty has been made with the Cherokee nation, which requires tho lines necessary to designate the lands thereby ceded to be run by a commissioner; and for the purpose of running that part of said line which is within the State of Georgia, commencing at the point where the Unicoy turnpike road crosses the Blue Ridge, to the nearest main source of the Chestatee, and to lay off the reservations which are within the limits of that State, you are hereby vested with the same power and authority as were given to you by your commission and instructions of the 4th of August last to ruq the lines under the treaty with the Creek nation. You will be allowed at the rate of eight dollars a day, while engaged in running the line; and, as a compensation in full for your services in locating the reservations, an allowance equal to the usual surveying fees will be made. With respect to the reservations, you will correspond with Colonel Meigs, the Cherokee agent, as it will be necessary to lay off those only which are accepted by the persons for whom they are intended. Should it be inconvenient for you to attend to this part of the duty assigned you, you are authorized to employ a surveyor to locate the réservations, who will be allowed the customary fees of surveyors. I enclose a National Intelligencer, containing the treaty, which more particularly designates the duties required of you. The sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000) will be remitted to you, on account, by the Treasurer. The usual accounts and vouchers must be rendered for settlement. I have the honor to be, &c. WILSON LUMPKIN, Commissioner, Sçc.	J. C. CALHOUN. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 12, 1819. I have the honor to enclose you a commission from the President of the United States, appointing you a commissioner “ to run that part of the line described in the first article of the treaty concluded with the Cherokee nation on the 27th ultimo which is within the State of Tennessee, commencing on the Hiwassee, about two miles above Hiwassee Old Town; thence, to the Tennessee, and from between the forks of the Nantagulee, to the top of the Blue Ridge; and to lay off the tracts reserved within the limits of that State.” It is thought unnecessary to make the line along the Blue Ridge. In addition to the duties required of you by the commission, you are requested to lay off, also, the tracts reserved in North Carolina and the Alabama Territory.	, You will be allowed at the rate of eight dollars a day, while engaged in running the line; and, as a full compensation for your services in locating the reservations, an allowance equal to the usual surveying fees will be made. On the subject of the reservations, you are requested to correspond with Colonel Meigs, the Cherokee agent, as it will be necessary to lay off those only which are accepted by the persons for whom they are intended. Should it be inconvenient for you to attend to this part of the duty assigned you, you are authorized to employ a surveyor to locate the reservations as well within the limits of the Alabama Territory and North Carolina, as within those of Tennessee, whu will be allowed the customary fees of surveyors. I enclose a National Intelligencer, containing the treaty, which more particularly designates the duties required of you. The sum of $1,000 will be remitted to you, on account, by the Treasurer. The usual accounts and vouchers will be rendered for settlement. I have the honor to be, &c. JOHN C. CALHOUN. P. S. Should the assistance of a surveyor in running the line be necessary, you are authorized to employ one, and as many chain and axemen as may be required, at a rate of compensation not exceeding five dollars a day for the former, and two dollars a day for each of the latter, in full for their services. ROBERT HOUSTON, Commissioner, fyc., Knoxville, Tennessee. SIR:	KNOXVILLE, May 4, 1819. I am appointed by the President of the United States to run part of the lines described in the late treaty made with the Cherokee nation, to wit: From the first hill which closes in on Hiwassee river, about two miles above Hiwassee Old Town; thence, along the ridge which divides the waters of the Hiwassee and Little Tellico, to the Tennessee river at Tallassee; and from the junction of the Cowee and Nantagulee, along the ridge in the fork of said river, to the top of the Blue Ridge. I am very desirous that the nation appoint commissioners, agreeably to the terms of said treaty, on their part, to accompany me in the running and designating those lines above mentioned; which appointment I hope you will cause to be made immediately—the sooner the better, so that we may proceed before the weather grows too warm. I would name the 25th of this instant as a proper time to meet at some point as near the place of beginning (Hiwassee Old Town) as would be convenient. You will appoint some good pilot, well acquainted with the ridges, hills, mountains, watercourses, &c. You will also furnish two good packhorses, to carry provisions and baggage, and a packhorse man to attend the commissioners. The bearer of this letter (Colonel John McNair) is employed as an express, and will wait for your answer. I hupe that he will not be detained, but his business despatched as soon as possible, so that he can return with your letter to me on this subject in time to fix for the trip. All expenses will be paid by the United States. I am, respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, R. HOUSTON. Captain CHARLES HICKS, Cherokee Council. SIR:	NEAR FORTVILLE, CHEROKEE NATION, May 10, 1819. Your letter by Colonel McNair, notifying me that you have been appointed by the President to run part of the lines described in the late treaty, I have received. Agreeably to your request, the chiefs in council have appointed commissioners on the part of the nation to accompany you in running the lines, also two packhorses and a packhorse man, together with pilots. James McIntosh and Tesguice are the commissioners appointed to accompany you from the place of beginning, on Hiwassee, to Tallassee. The Crow is appointed as a pilot for that line, and Tallasscasee as a packhorse man. Tesguice and the pilot will return from Tallassee, and McIntosh and the packhorse man will continue with you the balance of the road. On your arrival at the fork of the Cowee and Nantagulee, Willie and Cboonstoolee, will join you—the former as a commissioner, and the latter as a pilot. The 25th of this month (the time chosen by yourself) the commissioners will meet you at Hiwassee. Old Town, in readiness for the expedition. I am, sir, your very obedient servant, CHARLES HICKS. PATH KILLER, his X mark. ROBERT HOUSTON, Esq., Knox County, Tennessee. It appears from the statement of James McIntosh, the commissioner, that, after Colonel McNair had left the council with the foregoing letter, a new arrangement was made, to wit: Crow appointed commissioner from Hiwassee to the forks of the river at Cowee, who acted as such to that place. Tesguice, alias Squire, for the same. James McIntosh interpreter as well as commissioner. Choonstoolee as a pilot from the place of beginning to the top of the Blue Ridge, who acted as such for the whole line. Seterwaher assistant pilot, who acted as such from near the Tellico plains to the said forks of the river. Willie, alias William Jones, from the forks of the river aforesaid to the top of the Blue Ridge. I gave to each of them a certificate of their performance of duty, naming the capacity that they acted in, with the number of days they were'employed, and the number of days necessary for their travel home, stating in said certificate that the usual allowance would be paid to them for their services. We, the undersigned, commissioners duly authorized on behalf of the United States and the Cherokee nation torun part of the lines described in the late treaty concluded at Washington City with said nation upon the 27th day of February, 1819, have, pursuant to our authority, and conformably to the terms of said treaty, designated the line from the first hill which closes on Hiwassee river, about two miles and one-half above Hiwassee Old Town, to Tennessee river at Tallassee, as was practicable, (there being no ridge or mountain to be found dividing the waters of Tellico from those of Hiwassee to Tennessee river at Tallassee, as mentioned in said treaty,) in the following manner, measuring the distance, notching the sight trees with two notches fore and aft, side lines well blazed, and the mile trees marked in progressive order: Beginning at a large white oak on the river bank, about two and one-half miles above Hiwassee Old Town, where the first hill closes in on Hiwassee river, north, four degrees west, from the upper point of a small island in said river, marked on the northwest side U. S., on the southeast C. N., dated on both sides of said “May 28th, 1819,” red oak, maple, and a sour wood, marked as pointers; thence, north, eighteen degrees west, with said ridge, one hundred and sixty poles, to a Spanish oak; thence, north, ten degrees east, with said ridge, fifty-four poles, to a white oak; thence, north, forty degrees east, with said ridge, forty poles, to a rock; thence, north, fifty-five degrees east, direct course to the but of Hiwassee mountain, sixty-six poles, to a hickory tree marked 1 M.; thence, north, fifty-four degrees east, sixty poles, to the but of said mountain; same course continued, two hundred and thirty poles, to the top of said mountain, to a black jack tree, and pointers near an old Indian path; thence, along the extreme height of said mountain, north, thirty-five degrees east, thirty poles, to a pine tree marked 2 M.; thence continued along the extreme height of said mountain, as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a pine tree marked 3 M.; thence continued, as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a pine tree marked 4 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a Spanish oak marked 5 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a pine tree marked 6 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a chestnut oak on the top of said mountain, opposite Caleb Starr’s plantation, marked 7 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a pine tree marked 8 M.; thence, north, sixty-seven degrees east, crossing the spurs of said mountain, three hundred and twenty poles, to a white oak marked 9 M.; same course continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a large black oak marked 10 M.; same course continued as aforesaid, one hundred and seventy-four poles, to a pine tree on the top of a very steep rocky spur or but of Hiwassee mountain aforesaid; thence, south, seventy-five degrees east, one hundred and forty-six poles, to a pine tree marked 11 M.; same course continued, three hundred and twenty poles, to a small pine tree marked 12 M.; same course continued as aforesaid, leading through a gap called Starr’s gap, leaving Connesauga town-house to the left, three hundred and twenty poles, to a poplar tree marked 13 M.; same course continued, three hundred and twenty poles, to a chestnut tree on the south side of a large ridge, marked 14 M.; thence, north, fifty degrees east, with the said ridge, three hundred and twenty poles, to a red oak marked 15 M.; thence, continued with said ridge as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a pine tree marked 16 M.;’same course continued as aforesaid, forty poles, to a ridge that divides the waters of Tellico from those of Hiwassee; thence, south, fourteen degrees east, with said ridge, to a stake at fifty-six poles; thence, continued with said ridge, south, ten degrees west, one hundred poles, to a chestnut tree; thence, south, thirty degrees east, forty poles, to a pine tree; thence, north, fifty degrees east, along the top of said ridge, sixty poles, to a red oak; thence, south, thirty degrees east, with the said ridge, twenty-four poles, to a pine tree marked 17 M.; thence, south, fifteen degrees east, with said ridge, eighty poles, to a chestnut tree; thence, continued with said ridge, south, eighty degrees east, twenty poles, to a stake; thence, continued with said ridge, south, seventy-five degrees east, twenty-eight poles, to a pine tree; thence, south, forty degrees east, with said ridge, fifty-two poles, to a chestnut tree; thence, south, forty-five degrees east, with said ridge, sixty poles, to a black oak; thence, north, forty degrees east, with said ridge, eighty poles, to a large chestnut oak marked 18 M.; thence, north, thirty-eight degrees east, with said ridge, two hundred and sixty poles, to three chestnut trees and a hickory; thence, south, fortyseven degrees east, with said ridge, sixty poles, to a red oak marked 19 M.; thence, south, thirty-five degrees east, with said ridge, eighty poles, to a white oak; thence, south, twenty degrees west, with said ridge,one hundred and sixty poles, to a large pine tree, on the west side of the Unicoy turnpike road, marked 19^ M., U. S., G. N.; thence, sooth, seventy-five degrees east, crossing said road, eighty poles, to a chestnut tree marked 20 M.; thence, same course continued, as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a pine tree marked 21 M.; thence, same course continued, as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a pine tree on the top of a very high ridge, leading towards Tallassee, marked 22 M.; thence, north, forty degrees east, along the extreme height of said ridge, one hundred poles; thence, north, thirty degrees east, with the height of said ridge, one hundred poles; thence, north, forty degrees east, one hundred and twenty poles, to a small maple tree marked 23 M.; thence, same course continued, as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a white oak marked 24 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a white oak marked 25 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a large spruce pine, on the top of a high ridge, marked 26 M.; thence, north, twenty-five degrees east, with the extreme height of said ridge, three hundred and twenty poles, to a pine tree marked 27 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a black oak marked 28 M.; thence, north,thirty-eight degrees east, three hundred and twenty poles, to a pine tree marked 29 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a red oak marked 30 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles,,to a pine tree marked 31 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a blackjack tree marked 32 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a pine tree marked 33 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, with the extreme heights of a very high ridge, and along an Indian path leading to Tallassee, three hundred and twenty poles, to a pine tree marked 34M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, toa black oak marked 35 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a pine tree marked 36 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a chestnut oak marked 37 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a chestnut tree marked 38 M., near to Sittico creek; thence, continued as aforesaid, to said creek, and down said creek, three hundred and twenty poles, to a stake in the creek; thence, continued as aforesaid, down said creek, three hundred and twenty poles, to the but of a hill, on the east side of said creek, near a branch; thence, up the branch, three hundred and twenty poles, to a white oak marked 41 M.; thence, along an old Indian path, three hundred and twenty poles, to a black gom marked 42 M.; thence, continued, along the ridge with the said path, three hundred and twenty poles, to a black oak marked 43 M.; thence, continued, along the ridge and with the path aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a red oak marked 44 M.; thence,south, eighty degrees east, up a point of a large ridge, one hundred poles, to the top thereof; thence, north, fifty degrees east, with the extreme height of said ridge, two hundred and twenty poles, to a red oak marked 45 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a chestnut tree, in view of Tallassee, marked 46 M.; thence, due east, down the mountain, three hundred poles, to the mouth of the first creek that puts in on the south side of Tennessee river, opposite Tallassee, and below the town-house. Given under our hands and seals at the forks of the Nantagulee and Cowee, this 12th day of June, 1819. R. HOUSTON, JAMES MclNTOSH, SQUIRE, bis X mark. Attest:	JOHN WEBB,	CROW, his X mark. DRURY P. ARMSTRONG. We, the undersigned commissioners, duly authorized on behalf of the United States and the Cherokee nation to run part of the lines described in the late treaty, concluded at Washington city with the said nation, upon the 27th day of February, 1819, have, pursuant to our authority, and conformably to the terms of said treaty, designated the line from the junction of the Cowee and Nantagulee, along the ridge in the fork of said rivers, (which ridge divides the waters of the Cowee from those of the Nantagulee,) to the top of the Blue Ridge, in the following manner: By pursuing the extreme height of said ridge, with the various meanders thereof, measuring the distance, notching the sight trees with two notches fore and aft, side lines well blazed, and the mile trees marked on the north side U. S., and on the south C. N., dated on both sides “ Jone 12,1819;” which tree stands about seventy poles up the Cowee fork from its junction with the Nantagulee, and at the commencement of the said ridge; thence, sooth, sixty-five degrees east, forty poles, to the top of said ridge; thence, same course continued, along the extreme height thereof, two hundred and eighty poles, to a black oak marked 1 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a post oak marked 2 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a white oak marked 3 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a black oak marked 4 M., in a low gap of said ridge, near an old Indian path leading to Cowee town, and near the head of a branch that falls into the Nantagulee; thence, sooth, forty-five degrees west, with said ridge, as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a black oak marked 5 M.; thence, south, thirty degrees east, with said ridge as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a black oak marked 6 M., in view of the Nantagulee fork; thence, south, twenty degrees east, with said ridge as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a black oak marked 7 M.; thence, south, with said ridge, as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a black oak marked 8 M., upon a very high part of said ridge; thence, south, twenty degrees east, with said ridge as aforestfid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a black oak marked 9. M., in view of Cowee town; thence, due south, along the ridge as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a chestnut tree marked 10 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a post oak marked 11 M.; thence, sooth, twenty degrees east, along the ridge as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a post oak in a gap of said ridge, on an Indian path that leads from Cowee to Nantagulee town, marked 12 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, along the ridge aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a chestnut oak marked 13 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a red oak bush, on a very high part of said ridge, in view of the Blue Ridge, marked 14 M.; (the general course of the ridge was then taken to the top of the Blue Ridge, and found to be south, twenty degrees east, the course then running;) thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a rock upon a bald place marked 15 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a red oak marked 16 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a post oak marked 17 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a post oak marked 18 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a bald knob, 19 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a red oak marked 20 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a post oak marked 21 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a post oak marked 22 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a post oak marked 23 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a post oak marked 24 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a black oak marked 25 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a post oak marked 26 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a white 25 E oak marked 27 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a chestnut tree marked 28 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to awhile oak marked 29 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a red oak marked 30 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a red oak marked 31 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a post oak marked 32 M.; thence, continued'as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a chestnut tree marked 33 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a post oak marked 34 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a white oak bush marked 35 M.; thence, continued as aforesaid, three hundred and twenty poles, to a red oak, upon the top of the Blue Ridge, marked 36 M.; and on the north side of said tree U. S.; on the south C. N.; also several scrubby oaks marked as points. Given under our hands and seals, at Cowee Gap, this 18th day of June, 1819. R. HOUSTON, JAMES MCINTOSH, In the presence of JOHN WEBB,	WILLIAM JONES, his X mark. DRURY P. ARMSTRONG. SIR:	KNOXVILLE, July 30, 1819. Herewith you will find enclosed to you a map of the late Cherokee treaty, as run from Hiwassee to Tennessee river, at Tallassee, and from the junction of the Cowee and Nantagulee to the top of the Blue Ridge, with a description of each line; also, an abstract and vouchers of the expenses incurred. The lines are accurately laid down as run and designated. We travelled from Tallassee up the Tennessee river, took the general bearings of said river to the forks, (where the upper line commences,) computed the distance by the time it took us to travel the same, which I presume is nearly correct. The other parts of the map are drawn from our own knowledge of the country, and the best information we could get from the natives. The lands, exclusive of the mountains within the State of Tennessee, and between the Hiwassee and Tennessee rivers, are represented to be about second quality. The lands north of the line dividing the Cowee and Nantagulee waters, and within the chartered limits of North Carolina, are considered poor, and almost a perfect bed of mountains. It is supposed that there are now residing on those lands nearly two thousand Indians, great and small. Upon the settlement of my account there will be due to the United States $23 67, which sum may be placed to my debit on account of outstanding claims against the quartermaster’s department in East Tennessee, or otherwise. There being no quartermaster’s store at this place to deposite our camp equipage, what must be done with it? I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, R. HOUSTON. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War, Washington. TREÀTIES WITH THE KICKAPOOS AND CHIPPEWAS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 4, 1820. To the Senate of the United States;	WASHINGTON, December 31, 1819. 1 transmit to the Senate, for its advice and consent as to the ratification, three treaties which have been concluded in the course of the present year with the Kickapoos, the Chippewas, and the Kickapoos of the Vermilion, by commissioners who were duly authorized for the purpose. With the Chippewas, there is a supplementary article stipulating certain advantages in their favor, on condition that the same shall be ratified by the Executive, with the advice and consent of the Senate; which I likewise submit to your consideration. JAMES MONROE. TREATY WITH THE CHIPPEWAS. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at Saginaw, in the Territory of Michigan, between the United States of America, by their commissioner, Lewis Cass, and the Chippewa nation of Indians. ARTICLE 1. The Chippewa nation of Indians, in consideration of the stipulations herein made on the part of the United States, do hereby forever cede to the United States the land comprehended within the following lines and boundaries: Beginning at a point in the present Indian boundary line, which runs due north of the mouth of the Great Au Glaize river, six miles south of the place where the base line (so called) intersects the same; thence, west, sixty miles; thence, in a direct line, to the head of Thunder Bay river; thence, down the same, following the courses thereof, to the mouth; thence, northeast, to the boundary line between the United States and the British Province of Upper Canada; thence, with the same, to the line established by the treaty of Detroit, in the year one thousand eight hundred and seven; thence, with the said line, to the place of beginning. ART. 2. From the cession aforesaid the following tracts uf land shall be reserved, for the use of the Chippewa nation of Indians: One tract of eight thousand acres on the east side of the river Au Sable, near where the Indians now live. One tract of two thousand acres on the river Mesagwisk. One tract of six thousand acres on the north side of the river Kawkawling, at the Indian village. One tract of five thousand seven hundred and sixty acres upon the Flint river, to include Reaum’s village and a place called Kishkawbawee. One tract of eight thousand acres, on the head of the river Huron, which empties into the Saginaw river, at the village of Otusson. One island in the Saginaw hay. One tract of two thousand acres, where Nabobask formerly lived. One tract of one thousand acres, near the island in the Saginaw river. One tract of six hundred and forty acres, at the bend of the river Huron, which empties into the Saginaw river. One tract of two thousand acres, at the mouth of Point Augrais river. One tract of one thousand acres, on the river Huron, at Menoequet’s village. One tract of ten thousand acres, on the Shawassee river, at a place called the Big Rock. One tract of three thousand acres, on the Shawassee river, at Ketchewaundaugenink. One tract of six thousand acres, at the Little Forks on the Tetabawasiuk river. One tract of six thousand acres, at the Black Bird’s town, on the Tetabawaynk river. One tract of forty thousand acres, on the west side of the Saginaw river, to be hereafter located. ART. 3. There shall be reserved, for the use of each of the persons hereinafter mentioned, and their heirs, which persons are all Indians by descent, the following tracts ofdand: For the use of John Riley, the son of Menawcumegoqua, a Chippewa woman, six hundred and forty acres of land, beginning at the head of the first marsh above the mouth of the Saginaw river, on the east side thereof. For the use of Peter Riley, the son of Menawcumegoqua, a Chippewa woman, six hundred and forty acres of land, beginning above and adjoining the apple trees on the west side of the Saginaw river, and running up the same, for quantity. • For the use of James Riley, the son of Menawcumegoqua, a Chippewa woman, six hundred and forty acres, beginning on the east side of the Saginaw river, nearly opposite to Campeau’s trading-house, and running up the river, for quantity. For the use of Kawkawiskou, or the Crow, a Chippewa chief, six hundred and forty acres of land, on the east side of the Saginaw river, at a place called Menitegow, and to include in the said six hundred and forty acres the island opposite to the said place. For the use of Nowokeshik, Metawanene, Mokitchenoqua, Nondashemau, Petabonaqua, Messawwakut, Chec- balk, Kitchegeequa, Sagosequa, Annoketoqua, and Tawcumegoqtta, each, six hundred and forty acres of land, to be located at and near the. grand traverse of the Flint river, in such manner as the President of the United States may direct. For the use of the children of Bowkowtonden, six hundred and forty acres, on the Kawkawling river. ART. 4. In consideration of the cession aforesaid, the United States agree to pay to the Chippewa nation of Indians, annually, forever, the sum of one thousand dollars in silver; and do also agree that al) annuities due by any former treaty to the said tribe shall be hereafter paid in silver. ART. 5. The stipulation contained in the treaty of Greenville, relative to the right of the Indians to hunt upon the land ceded, while it continues the property of the United States, shall apply to this treaty; and the Indians shall for the same term enjoy the privilege of making sugar upon the same land, committing no unnecessary waste upon the trees. ART. 6. The United States agree to pay to the Indians the value of any improvements which they may be obliged to abandon in consequence of the lines established by this treaty, and which improvements add real value to the land. ART. 7. The United States reserve to the proper authority the right to make roads through any part of the land reserved by this treaty. ART. 8. The United States engage to provide and support a blacksmith for the Indians at Saginaw, so long as the President of the United States may think proper, and to furnish the Chippewa Indians with such farming utensils and cattle, and to employ such persons to aid them in their agriculture, as the President may deem expedient. ART. 9. This treaty shall take effect, and be obligatory on the contracting parties, so soon as the same shall be ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof. In testimony whereof, the said Lewis Cass, commissioner as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors of the Chippewa nation of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at Saginaw, in the Territory of Michigan, this twenty-fourth day of September, in the year of our Lord une thousand eight hundred and nineteen. LEWIS CASS. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Chippewa nation.] SUPPLEMENTAL ARTICLE. The Chippewa Indians, being desirous to reward Dr. William Brown, of Detroit, for the professional services which be has rendered to them for twenty years past, request that three sections of land may be granted to him and his heirs in the tract of country hereby ceded. The same request was urged at the treaty of Detroit, in the year 1307; at the treaty concluded at the foot of the Rapids of the Miami, in the year 1817; and at the treaty of St. Mary’s, in the year 1818; and is now renewed by them, in the confident hope that the land herein granted will be confirmed to him. The	Chippewa Indians do also grant to Henry Conner and to James Conner, who were taken prisoners	by	them in early	life, and lived with them many years, and to their	heirs, twelve hundred and eighty acres of land. The	said Indians do also grant to Peter W. Knaggs,	George Knaggs, and Jacques Godfroy, who have	been adopted	by them, and to their heirs, six hundred and forty	acres of land, each. The said Indians have further requested that twelve sections of land be sold in the same manner and upon the same terms as the lands of the United States are sold, and the proceeds appropriated, under the direction of the President of the United States, for the purpose of making roads to and through their reservations. The said Indians have also requested that the sum of $1,600 be paid, in five equal annual instalments, to Barnabas Campeau, out of the annuities which may hereafter be due to them. The Chippewa Indians have also requested that the sum of $1,298 20 be paid to Conrad Ten Eyck, as a compensation for property taken by them at Saginaw, in the year 1812. The commissioner of the United States has admitted these grants and requests into this article; but, not being authorized to accede to them on the part of the United States, he refers the same to the President of the United States, and to the Senate thereof, for their decision. But it is hereby expressly understood and declared, that the ratification or rejection of this article, ur any part thereof, is not to affect any other article of this treaty. LEWIS CASS. CONGRESS.] 
