NO. 232.	[1st SESSION. CONDITION OF THE FLORIDA INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, ON THE 1ST MARCH, 1826. To the Senate ancl House of Representatives of the United States:	WASHINGTON, March 1, 1826. I communicate to Congress a letter from the Secretary of War, together with a representation from Colonel Brooke, relating to the present condition of the Indians in Florida, and which I recommend to the favorable consideration of Congress. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 14, 1826. I have the honor to enclose herewith an extract of a letter from Colonel Brooke, of Florida, to Colonel Gibson, of this city, on the present suffering condition of the Florida Indians. The correspondence with the Department for some time past confirms the truth of Colonel Brooke’s statement; and it was in consequence of those representations that partial relief was authorized by you from the contingencies of the Indian Department. Being convinced that the country to which those Indians have emigrated is not suited, either in soil or salubrity, to their preservation, instructions were, some weeks ago, forwarded to Governor Duval to ascertain their dispositions in regard to a removal to lands west of the Mississippi. It is hoped they may accede to the proposition. Meanwhile, however, humanity demands that they should be kept from starving. They are where they are by our seeking, and their country was exchanged, as is usually the case, by treaty; doubtless, with an ignorance on their part of the nature of that to which they consented to emigrate, and erroneous information on ours as to its fitness. I respectfully recommend that the subject of the sufferings of these people be referred to the Congress, that * such relief may be afforded as in the wisdom of that body may seem proper. Connecting the object of the removal of those Indians with that of their immediate relief, I would suggest that the sum of fifty thousand dollars be appropriated, with a view to both. I have the honor to be vour most obedient servant, JAMES BARBOUR. To the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. Extract of a letter from Colonel George M. Brooke to Colonel George Gibson, dated CANTONMENT BROOKE, December 20, 1825. You will perceive by the ration returns for this month that more rations have been issued to the Indians than usual. This has been occasioned by a number of Indians (say from six to seven hundred) who were obliged to come to the sub-ageocy, near the cantonment, for the purpose of receiving their presents from the Government, agreeably to the treaty; most of them had travelled from eighty to one hundred miles, and were entirely without subsistence. The issuing of rations to the Indians under the treaty expired on the 10th of October. The major part of the nation are, and have been, suffering for some time in extreme want. Some have died from starvation, and many have lived upon the roots of the sweet-briar, as a substitute for bread. This is owing to several causes: 1st. The continued droughts, for two months, whilst their corn was tasseling. 2d. Those who removed within the new boundary line had to cultivate new lands, which will not produce the first year of planting; and, 3d. Many did not come in till it was too late to plant. I can assure you they are in the most miserable situation; and, unless the Government assists them, many of them must starve, and others will depredate on the property of the whites in the Alachua and St. John’s settlements. It is impossible for me, or any other officer who possesses the smallest feelings of humanity, to resist affording some relief to men, women, and children, who are actually dying from the want of something to eat. I therefore wish that an additional allowance of rations may be made for the post; and I trust that, on your representation to the Secretary of War, partial rations may be given generally, through the Indian agent. G. M. BROOKE, Lieut. Colonel. 19th CONGRESS.]	
