No. 12. [2d Session. THE CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, AUGUST 7, 1790. Gentlemen of the Senate: I lay before you a treaty between the United States and the chiefs of the Creek nation now in this city, in behalf of themselves and the whole Creek nation, subject to the ratification of the President of the United .States, Avith the advice and consent of the Senate. While I flatter myself that this treaty will be productive of present peace and prosperity to our southern frontier, it is to be expected that it will also, in its consequences, be the means of firmly attaching the Creeks and the neighboring tribes to the interests of the United States. At the same time it is to be hoped, that it will afford solid grounds of satisfaction to the State of Georgia, as it contains a regular, full, and definitive relinquishment, on the part of the Creek nation, of the Oconee land, in the utmost extent in which it has been claimed by that State, and thus extinguishes the principal cause of those hostilities, from which it lias, more than once, experienced such severe calamities. liut, although the most valuable of the disputed land is included, yet there is a certain claim of Georgia, arising out of the treaty made by that State at Galplunton, in November, 1785, of land to the eastward of a neAv temporary line, from the forks of the Oconee and Oakmulgec, in a southwest direction to the St Mary’s river,-which tract of land the Creeks in this city absolutely refuse to yield. This land is reported to be generally barren, sunken, and unfit for cultivation, except in some instances on the margin of the ii\'ers, on which, by improvement, rice might be cultivated; its chief value depending on the timber fit for the building of ships, with which it is represented as abounding. While it is thus circumstanced on the one hand, it is stated by the Creeks, on the other, to be of the highest importance to them, as constituting some of their most valuable winter hunting ground. I have directed the commissioners, to whom the charge of adjusting this t reaty has been committed, to lay before you such papers and documents, and to communicate to you such information relatively to it, as you may require. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, August 7. 1790. [N ote. The papers that may have been communicated, were returned; but are believed to be substantially the same with those of No. 9 of this series.] A Treaty of peace awl friendship, made and concluded between the President of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, and the undersigned Icings, chiefs, and warriors, of the Greek nation of Indians, on the part and beludf of the said nation. The parties being desirous of establishing permanent peace and friendship betAveen the United States and the said Creek nation, and the citizens and members thereof, and to remove the causes of war by ascertaining their limits, and making other necessary, just, and friendly arrangements, the President of the United States, by Henry Knox, Secretary tor the Department of War, whom lie hath constituted with full powers for these purposes, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States, and the Creek nation, by the undersigned kiugs. chiefs, and Avarriors, representing the said nation, have agreed to the following articles: Article 1.- There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America, and all the individuals, towns, and tribes, of the Upper, Middle, and Lower Creeks and Scminoles, composing the Creek nation of Indians. Art. 2. The undersigned kings, chiefs, and Avarriors, for themselves, and all parts of the Creek nation Avithin the limits of the United States, do acknowledge themselves, and the said parts of the Creek nation, to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other sovereign whosoever; and they also stipulate, that the said Creek nation Avill not hold any treaty with an individual State, or Avith individuals of any State. Art. 3. The Creek nation shall deliver, as soon as practicable, to the commanding officer of the troops of the United States, stationed at the Rock Landing on the Oconee river, all citizens of the United States, white inhabitants or negroes, who are now prisoners in any part of the said nation. And if any such prisoners or negroes should not be so delivered, on or belore the first day of June ensuing, the Governor of Georgia may empoAver three persons to repair.to the said nation, in order to claim and receive such prisoners and negroes. Art. 4. The boundary between the citizens of the United States and the Creek nation, is, and shall be, from Avhcre the old line strikes the river Savannah; thence, up the said river, to a place oil the most northern branch of the same, commonly called the Keowee, where a northeast line, to be draAvn Irom the top of the Occunna mountain shall intersect; thence, along the said line, in a southwest direction to Tugelo river; thence, to the top of the Cur-rahee mountain; thence to the head or source of the main south branch of the Oconee river, called the Appalachee: thence, down the middle of the said main south branch and river Oconee, to its confluence with the Oakmujgee, which form the river Altamaha; and thence, down the middle of the said Altamaha, to the old line on the saidriver; and thence, along the said old line, to the river St. Mary’s. And in order to preclude forever all disputes relatively to.the head or'source of the main south branch of the river Oconee, at the place where it shall be intersected by the line aforesaid, from the Currahee mountain, the same shall be ascertained by an able surveyor, on the part of the United States, who shall be assisted by three old citizens of Georgia, who may be appointed by the Governor of the said State, and three old Creek chiefs, to be appointed by the said nation; and the said surveyor, citizens, and chiefs, shall assemble for this purpose on the first day of October, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, at the Rock Landing on the said nver Oconee, and thence proceed to ascertain the said head or source of the. main south branch of the said river, at the place where it shall be intersected by the line aforesaid, to be drawn from the Currahee mountain. And in order that the said boundary shall be rendered distinct and well known, it shall be marked by a line of felled trees at least twenty feet wide, and the trees chopped on each side, from the said Currahee mountain to the head or source of the said main south branch of the Oconee river; and thence, down the margin of the said main south branch and river Oconee, for the distance of twenty miles, or as much farther as may be necessary to mark distinctly the said boundary. And in order to extinguish forever all claims of the Creek nation, or any part thereof, to any of the land lying to the northward and eastward of the boundary herein described, it is hereby agreed, in addition to the considerations heretofore made for the said land, that the United States will cause certain valuable Indian goods, now in the State of Georgia, to be delivered to the said Creek.nation; and the said United States will also cause the sum of one thousand and five hundred dollars to be paid annually to the said Creek nation. And the undersigned kings, chiefs, and warriors,-do hereby, for themselves and the whole Creek nation, their heirs, and descendants, for the considerations above-mentioned, release, quit claim, relinquish, and cede, all the land to the northward and eastward of the boundary herein described. Art. 5. The United States solemnly guaranty to the Creek nation, all their lands within the limits of the United States, to the westward and southward of the boundary described by the preceding article. Art. '6. If any citizen of the United States, or other person, not being an Indian, shall attempt to settle on any of the Creeks’ lands, such person shall forfeit the protection of tire United States, and the Creeks may punish him or not, as they please. Art. 7. No citizen or inhabitant of the United States shall attempt to hunt or destroy the game on the Creek lands; nor shall any such citizen or inhabitant go into the Creek country, without a passport first obtained from the Governor of some one of the United States, or the officer of the troops of the United States commanding at the nearest military post on the frontiers, or such other person as the President of the United States may, from time to time, authorize to grant the same. Art. 8. If any Creek Indian or Indians, or person residing among them, or who shall take refuge in their nation, shall commit a robbery or murder, or other capital crime, on any of the citizens or inhabitants of the United States, the Creek nation, or town, or tribe, to which such offender or offenders may belong,' shall be bound to deliver him or them up, to be punished according to the laws of the United States. Art. 9. If any citizen or inhabitant of the United States, or of either of the territorial districts of the United States, shall go into any town, settlement, or territory, belonging to the Creek nation of Indians, and shall there commit any crime upon, or trespass against, the person .or property of any peaceable and friendly Indian or Indians, which, if committed within the jurisdiction of any State, or within the jurisdiction of either of the said districts, against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof, would be punishable'by the laws of such State or district, such offender or offenders shall be subject to the same punishment, and shall be proceeded against in the same manner, as if the offence had been committed widiin.the jurisdiction of the State or district to which he or they may belong, against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof. Art. 10. In cases of violence on the persons or property of the individuals of either party, neither retaliation nor reprisal shall be committed by the other, until satisfaction shall have been demanded of the party of w hich the aggressor is, and shall have been refused. Art. 11. The Creeks shall give notice to the citizens of the United States, of any designs which they may know or suspect to be formed in any neighboring tribe, or by any person whatever, against the peace and interests of the United States. Art. 12. That the Creek nation may be Jed to a greater degree of civilization, and to become herdsmen and cultivators, instead of remaining in a state of hunters, the United States will, from time to time, furnish gratuitously the said nation with useful domestic animals, and implements of husbandry. And further, to assist the said, nation in so desirable a pursuit, and at the same time to establish a certain mode of communication, the United States will send such, and so many persons, to reside in said nation, as they may judge proper, and not exceeding four in number, who shall qualify themselves to act as interpreters. These persons snail have lands assigned them by the Creeks for cultivation, for themselves and their successors in office; but they shall' be precluded exercising any kind of traffic. Art. 13. All animosities for past grievances shall henceforth cease; and the contracting parties will carry the foregoing treaty into full execution, with all good faith and sincerity. Art. 14. This treaty shall.take effect, and be obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as the'same shall have been ratified by President of the the United States, with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. _ In witness of all and every thing herein determined, between the United States of America and the whole Creek nation, the parties have hereunto set their hands and seals, in the city of New- York, within the United States, this 7th day of August, 1790. In behalf of the United States: H. KNOX, Secretary of War, and sole Commissioner for treating ivith the Creek nation of Indians. ALEX. McGILLIVRAY, And twenty-three chiefs and warriors, in behalf of themselves and the ivhole Creek nation of Indians. 1st Congress.]
