NO. 198.	[1st SESSION. TREATY WITH THE FLORIDA INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 15, 1823. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, December 15, 1823. I transmit to the Senate, for its advice and consent as to the ratification, a treaty lately concluded with the Seminole Indians in Florida, whereby a cession of territory is made to the United States. JAMES MONROE. ARTICLE 1. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their tribes, have appealed to the humanity, and thrown themselves on, and have promised to continue under, the protection of the United States, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign; and, in consideration of the promises and stipulations hereinafter made, do cede and relinquish all claim or title which they may have to the whole territory of Florida, with the exception of such district of country as shall herein be allotted to them. ART. 2. The Florida tribes of Indians will hereafter be concentrated and confined to the following metes and boundaries: commencing five miles north of Okehumke, running in a direct line to a point five miles west of Setarky’s settlement, on the waters of Amazura, (or Withlachuche river,) leaving said settlement two miles south of the line; from thence, in a direct line, to the south end of the Big Hammock, to include Chickuchate, continuing in the same direction for five miles beyond the said Hammock, provided said point does not approach nearer than fifteen miles the seacoast of the Gulf of Mexico: if it does, the said line will terminate at that distance from the seacoast; thence south, twelve miles; thence in a south thirty degrees east direction, until the same shall strike within five miles of the main branch of Charlotte river; thence, in a doe east direction, to within twenty miles of the Atlantic coast; thence north, fifteen degrees west, for fifty miles; and from this last to the beginning point. ART. 3. The United States will take the Florida Indians under their care and patronage, and will afford them protection against all persons whatsoever, provided they conform to the laws of the United States, and refrain from making war or giving any insult to any foreign nation without having first obtained the permission and consent of the United States. And in consideration of the appeal and cession made in the first article of this treaty by the aforesaid chiefs and warriors, the United States promise to distribute among the tribes, as soon as concentrated, under the direction of their agent, implements of husbandry, and stock of cattle and hogs, to the amount of six thousand dollars, and an annual sum of five thousand dollars a year for twenty successive years, to be distributed as the President of the United States shall direct, through the Secretary of War, or his superintendents and agent of Indian affairs. ART. 4. The United States promise to guaranty to the said tribes the peaceable possession of the district of country herein assigned them, reserving the right of opening through it ?uch roads as may from time to time be deemed necessary; and to restrain and prevent all white persons from hunting, settling, or otherwise intruding upon it. But any citizen of the United States, being lawfully authorized for that purpose, shall be permitted to pass and repass through the said district, and to navigate the waters thereof, without any hindrance, toll, or exaction from said tribes. ART. 5. For the purpose of facilitating the removal of the said tribes to the district of country allotted them, and as a compensation for the losses sustained, or the inconveniences to which they may be exposed by said removal, the United States will furnish them with rations of corn, meat, and salt for twelve month?, commencing on the first day of February next; and they further agree to compensate those individuals who have been compelled to abandon improvements on lands not embraced within the limits allotted, to the amount of four thousand five hundred dollars, to be distributed among the sufferers in a ratio to each proportional to the value of the improvements abandoned. The United States further agree to furnish a sum, not exceeding two thousand dollars, to be expended by their agent, to facilitate the transportation of the different tribes to the point of concentration designated. ART. 6. An agent, sub-agent, and interpreter shall be appointed, to reside in the Indian boundary aforesaid, to watch over the interests of said tribes; and the United States further stipulate, as an evidence of their humane policy towards said tribes, who have appealed to their liberality, to allow, for the establishment of a school at the agency, one thousand dollars per year for twenty successive years; and one thousand dollars per year, for the same period, for the support of a gun and blacksmith, with the expenses incidental to his shop. ART. 7. The chiefs and warriors aforesaid, for themselves and tribes, stipulate to be active and vigilant in the preventing the retreating to, or passing through, of the district of country assigned them, of any absconding slaves or fugitives from justice; and further agree to use all necessary exertions to apprehend and deliver the same to the agent, who shall receive orders to compensate them agreeably to the trouble and expense incurred. ART. 8. A commissioner or commissioners, with a surveyor, shall be appointed by the President of the United States to run and mark (blazing fore and aft the trees) the line as defined in the second article of this treaty, who shall be attended by a chief or warrior, to be designated by a council of their own tribes, and who shall receive, while so employed, a daily compensation of three dollars.	. ART. 9. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and tribes, having.objected to their concentration within the limits described in the second article of this treaty, under the impression that the said limits did not contain a sufficient quantity of good land to subsist them, and for no other reason, it is therefore expressly understood between the United States and the aforesaid chiefs and warriors, that, should the country embraced in the said limits, upon examination by the Indian agent and the commissioner or commissioners to be appointed under the eighth article of this treaty, be by them considered insufficient for the support of the said Indian tribes, then the north line, as defined in the second article of this treaty, shall be removed so far north as to embrace a sufficient quantity of good tillable land. ART. 10. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and tribes, have expressed to the commissioners their unlimitéd confidence in their agent, Colonel Gad Humphreys, and their interpreter, Stephen Richards; and, as evidence of their gratitude for their services and humane treatment and brotherly attentions to their wants, request that one mile square, embracing the improvements of Neamothla at Tallahassee, (said improvements to be considered as the centre,) be conveyed in fee simple as a present to Colonel Gad Humphreys. And they further request that one mile square at the Ochesee Bluffs, embracing Stephen Richards’s field on said bluffs, be conveyed in fee simple as a present to said Stephen Richards. The commissioners accord in sentiment with the undersigned chiefs and warriors, and recommend a compliance with their wishes to the President and Senate of the United States; but the disapproval on the part of the said authorities of this article shall in nowise affect the other articles and stipulations concluded on in this treaty. In testimony whereof, the commissioners, William P. Duval, James Gadsden, and Bernardo Segui, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals. Done at camp on Moultrie creek, in the Territory of Florida, this eighteenth day of September, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-three, and of the independence of the United States the forty-eighth. WILLIAM P. DUVAL, JAMES GADSDEN, BERNARDO SEGUI. [Signed, also, by certain chiefs and warriors of the Florida tribes of Indians. ADDITIONAL ARTICLE.	* Whereas Neamothla, John Blount, Tuski-Hajo, Mulatto King, Emathlochee, and Econchatimico, six of the principal chiefs of the Florida Indians, and parties to the treaty to which this article has been annexed, have warmly appealed to the commissioners for permission to remain in the district of country now inhabited by them; and in consideration of their friendly disposition and past services to the United States, it is therefore stipulated between the United States and the aforesaid chiefs that the following reservations shall be surveyed and marked by the commissioner or commissioners to be appointed under the eighth article of this treaty: For the use of Neamothla and his connexions, two miles square, embracing the Tuphulga village, on the waters of Rocky Comfort creek. For Blount and Tuski-Hajo, a reservation, commencing on the Appalachicola, one mile below Tuski-Hajo’s improvements, running up said river four miles; thence west, two miles; thence southerly, to a point two miles due west of the beginning; thence east, to the beginning point. For Mulatto King and Emathlochee, a reservation, commencing on the Appalachicola, at a point to include Yellow Hair’s improvements; thence up said river, for four miles; thence west, one mile; thence southerly, to a point one mile west of the beginning; and thence east, to the beginning point. For Econchatimico, a reservation, commencing on the Chattahoochee, one mile below Econchatimico’s house; thence up said river, for four miles; thence one mile west; thence southerly, to a point one mile west of the beginning; thence east, to the beginning point. The United States promise to guaranty the peaceable possession of the said reservations, as defined, to the aforesaid chiefs and their descendants, only so long as they shall continue to occupy, improve, or cultivate the same; but, in the event of the abandonment of all or either of the reservations by the chief or chiefs to whom they have been allotted, the reservation or reservations so abandoned shall revert to the United .States, as included in the cession made in the first article of this treaty. It is further understood that the names of the individuals remaining on the reservations aforesaid shall be furnished by the chiefs, in whose favor the reservations have been made, to the superintendent or agent of Indian affairs in the Territory of Florida; and that no other individuals shall be received or permitted to remain within said reservations without the previous consent of the superintendent or agent aforesaid. And as the aforesaid chiefs are authorized to select the individuals remaining with them, so they shall each be separately held responsible for the peaceable conduct of their towns, or the individuals residing on the reservations allotted them. It is further understood between the parties that this agreement is not intended to prohibit the voluntary removal, at any future period, of all or either of the aforesaid chiefs and their connexions to the district of country south, allotted to the Florida Indians by the second article of this treaty, whenever either or all may think proper to make such an election; the United States reserving the right of ordering, for any outrage or misconduct, the aforesaid chiefs, or either of them, with their connexions, within the district of country south, aforesaid. It is further stipulated by the United States that, of the six thousand dollars appropriated for implements of husbandry, stock, tec. in the third article of this treaty, eight hundred dollars shall be distributed in the same manner among the aforesaid chiefs and their towns; and it is understood that, of the annual sum of five thousand dollars, to be distributed by the President of the United States, they will receive their proportion. It is further stipulated that, of the four thousand five hundred dollars, and two thousand dollars, provided for by the fifth article of this treaty, for the payment for improvements and transportation, five hundred dollars shall be awarded to Neamothla, as a.compensation for the improvements abandoned by him, as well as to meet the expenses he will unavoidably be exposed to by his own removal and that of his connexions. In testimony whereof, the commissioners, William P. Duval, James Gadsden, and Bernardo Segui, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals. Done at camp on Moultrie creek, in the Territory of Florida, this eighteenth day of September, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-three, and of the independence of the United States the forty-eighth. WILLIAM P. DUVAL, JAMES GADSDEN, BERNARDO SEGUI. [Signed, also, by certain chiefs and warriors of the Florida tribes of Indians.] The following statement shows the number of men retained by the chiefs who have reservations made them at ir respective villages: Number of men. • Blount, -	-	-	-	-	-	-43 Cochran, -	-	-	-	-	.4.5 Mulatto King,	-	-	-	-	-	-	30 Emathlochee,	-	-	-	-	-	-	28 Econçhatimico,	-	-	-	-	-	-	38 Neamothla,	-	-	-	-	-	-	30 Total, 214 Minutes of proceedings of James Gadsden and Bernardo Segui, appointed by the President of the United States to hold a treaty with the Florida Indians. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, April 7, 1823. I have the honor to enclose you a commission from the President of the United States, appointing you commissioners to hold a treaty with the Florida Indians. The object to be accomplished by the proposed treaty is the concentration of all the Florida Indians at some suitable point within that Territory; and the country south of Charlotte harbor, and the river of that name which empties into it, has been designated for the purpose. Your efforts, therefore, will be directed to the attainment of this object. Should there not be a sufficiency of good lands for the accommodation of the Indians in that part of the peninsula designated, you are authorized to fix the boundary north of Charlotte harbor and river, so as to take in as much of the country' between them and Tampa Bay as, in your judgment, may be necessary to give the Indians enough of good lands, and sufficient space, considering their habits of life; leaving the conditions to your sound discretion. As it is desirable that the treaty should be held as soon as practicable, you will, as early as convenient, make your arrangements for that purpose. Confiding in your prudence that the treaty will be held with the least possible expense, it is deemed unnecessary to give you any particular instructions on that point. The principal article of expense will probably be the issue of provisions to the Indians while treating with them. To avoid the delay which a correspondence between the commissioners for the purpose would occasion, Mr. Segui, being most convenient to the Indians, will fix on the time and place of holding the treaty, after consulting Mr. Hernandez, the delegate from the Territory, and notify Colonel Gadsden, the other commissioner, thereof. Mr. Segui will also ascertain the quantity of provisions that will probably be required, and issue his requisitions for the same on the commissary of subsistence at St. Mark’s, if the treaty should be held at that place, or contiguous to it; or on the commissary at St. Augustine, if the treaty should be held there, or near it; who will be ordered to obey such requisitions, and charge the amount to the Indian Department. The enclosed circular will be complied with in issuing the provisions, to which (as there has, in some instances, been great irregularity) 1 particularly call your attention.	I The Indian agent, Colonel Gad Humphreys, who is stationed for the present at St. Mark’s, is instructed to obey your orders on all points connected with the proposed treaty, and to prepare the Indians to meet the commissioners at the time and place which may be fixed upon for holding it. For the funds which you may find necessary to defray the expenses attending the negotiation, you will draw on this Department. Your compensation will be at the rate of eight dollars, ($8,) and that of the secretary to the commission (whom you are authorized to appoint) at the rate of five dollars ($5) per diem for the time actually engaged. The payment will be made on your certificate of honor, specifying the time that you and the secretary have been actually engaged. Your certificate, in like manner, will .be a necessary voucher for the presents, should there be any distributed under your authority. The treaty, when made, will be forwarded to this Department. I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, Col. JAMES GADSDEN,	J. C. CALHOUN. BERNARDO SEGUI, Commissioners to hold a treaty with the Florida Indians. Copy of a circular to commissioners to hold Indian treaties. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, September 11, 1818. The number and importance of the treaties to be held this year, and the great amount of rations which must necessarily be issued to the Indians while attending at the treaties, render it necessary that some system should be adopted to govern such large disbursements. I have therefore to request that you will designate the Indian agent, if he should be present, (or, incase he is not, some suitable person,) who shall ascertain the number and component parts of rations daily issued. The manner of issuing and certifying to conform, as near as may be, to the mode which prevails in issuing the rations to soldiers, and at the conclusion of the treaty to be presented to you for your approval. Where the rations have not been issued by the contractor for the district, (now commissary,) the contract, and the conditions on which the rations were furnished, must be certified to this Department. I have, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. SIR:	DEPARTMENT'OF WAR, April 8,1823. Colonel James Gadsden, of Charleston, South Carolina, and yourself, have been appointed by the President commissioners to hold a treaty with the Indians; and I herewith enclose your instructions. Since writing the instructions, Colonel Gadsden has arrived in Washington, and a copy of them, with the commission, has been delivered to him. He will write to you, and inform you where you may address him. I have, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. BERNARDO SEGUI, Esq. Commissioner, <ÿc. St. Augustine, Florida. SIR:	WASHINGTON, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, April 9, 1823. I have this day accepted of an appointment as commissioner, associated with you, to negotiate with the ’ Florida Indians. I shall leave this in a few days for Charleston, South Carolina, where I shall await your notification as to the time and place fixed for holding the treaty contemplated. I take the liberty of expressing a preference fur St. Augustine, should that place, in your opinion, be considered equally eligible for the objects to be accomplished with the other points suggested. At all events, I should be in favor of assembling in the vicinity of a military post, as die expenses of the mission, to say nothing of convenience otherwise, would necessarily be less, from the supplies being on the spot, than they would be at an interior position. Yours, <fcc. BERNARDO SEGUI, Esq., St. Augustine.	J. GADSDEN, Commissioner, fyc. DEAR SIR:	ST. AUGUSTINE, EAST FLORIDA, May 1, 1823. I have received your favor of the 9th ultimo, informing me that you have accepted the appointment, in conjunction with me, respecting a treaty to be made with the Indians of this Territory. I have also accepted the appointment; and, as you desire to know the time and place when we ought to meet, I think that, at this time, it would be most convenient to meet in this city, where I expect to see you shortly, for the purpose of making the necessary arrangements. I remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant, BERNARDO SEGUI. Colonel JAMES GADSDEN, Charleston, South Carolina. MAY 17.—James Gadsden and Bernardo Segui met, agreeably to appointment, when it was determined that it would be necessary to consult with some of the chiefs of the Florida tribes of Indians, before the time and place of meeting could be judiciously designated. Expresses were despatched to Miconope and others, inviting them to an interview with the commissioners in St. Augustine as early as practicable. [EXTRACT.] ST. AUGUSTINE, May 26, 1823. I arrived here a few days since, and have consulted with Mr. Segui as to the preliminary measures necessary to accomplish the objects of our mission. The absence of the Indian agent, who is in Pensacola, and the difficulty of communicating speedily with him, have necessarily compelled the commissioners to open a direct intercourse with the chiefs and warriors of the Florida Indians. We have, therefore, despatched a messenger for Miconope, one of the chiefs of the Seminole tribe, and on his arrival will determine the proper time and place of assembling the Indians. I apprehend it will be inconvenient for them to meet us in council before their crops, indispensable to their subsistence, are gathered; and the delay, if necessary, cannot result in any inconvenience to the country at .large, as, at all events, the objects of the mission maybe accomplished before the meeting, and in full time to obtain the ratification, of the Senate. I will thank you, however, to transmit me, from the records of the War Department, a copy of Genera] Jackson’s communication on the views of the Indians, as derived from their talk held at Pensacola; and particularly the document containing his report of the Indian population in the Territory: these may be important to us. Yours, &c. J. GADSDEN, Commissioner, Sfc. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN. JUNE 4.—Miconope and some of the chiefs and warriors of the Florida tribe of Indians met the commissioners, J. Gadsden and B. Segui, at the Governor’s office in St. Augustine, at which meeting the views of the National Government, with regard to the Indians of Florida, were generally explained, and the chiefs present were requested to designate the most convenient spot and the earliest period when they could meet the commissioners in council, to listen to the talk from the President of the United States, as to the disposition to be made of their nation. The 5th September, and the crossing place on Moultrie creek, in the vicinity of St. Augustine, were concluded on; and the chiefs present obligated themselves to meet with the other chiefs and warriors of their nation at the time and place appointed. ST. AUGUSTINE, June 4, 1823. We, the undersigned, chiefs and warriors of the Seminole tribe of Indians, obligate ourselves, with our tribes, and as many chiefs and warriors as the Seminole tribe may delegate, to meet James Gadsden and Bernardo Segui, commissioners appointed on the part of the United States, to listen to a talk from the President of the United States, on the 5th day of September next, with a view to the establishing perpetual peace between the white and red men of Florida. In witness whereof, we have subscribed our names and affixed our marks. MICONOPE, or POND GOVERNOR, his x mark. ONSELMATCHE, or JUMPER, his X mark. Witnesses:	HORATIO S. DEXTER, SAMUEL FRY. SIR:	ST. AUGUSTINE, June 6, 1823. Bernardo Segui and myself, commissioners for holding a treaty with the Florida Indians, have, after consultation with some of the principal chiefs of the Seminole tribe, fixed on the vicinity of St. Augustine, and the 5th day of September next, as the time and place for the proposed meeting. The Seminole tribe will be advised of this determination by the commissioners, direct; and, in obedience to instructions transmitted to you from the War Department, we have to request that you will make the necessary arrangements, and prepare the Indians living in Florida, west of the Suwanee river, to meet the commissioners at the time and place before mentioned. The assistant commissary of subsistence at St. Mark’s will.issue, on your requisition, such quantity of provisions as may be necessary to supply the Indians on their journey to this place. Yours, &c. Colonel G. HUMPHREYS, Indian Agent, St. Mark's. SIR:	ST. AUGUSTINE, June 7, 1823. B. Segni and myself, commissioners for holding a treaty with the Florida Indians, have been instructed by the Department of War to make requisitions upon yourself, or the assistant commissary at this place, for such provisions as may be wanted on the occasion. We have designated the vicinity of St. Augustine as the place, and the 5th of September next as the time of meeting. The Indians in the vicinity of St. Mark’s, and west of the Appalachicola river, may, therefore, need previsions on their journey to this place, which you will be good enough to issue upon the requisition of the agent, Colonel Humphreys; or, in his absence at the time, on that of the interpreter, Mr. Richards. A supply merely sufficient to subsist the Indians to St. Augustine will alone be necessary; they will be provided for otherwise from the subsistence department at this place. Will you be good enough to supply the expresses with rations sufficient to subsist them on their return to St. Augustine? Yours, &c. J. GADSDEN, Commissioner, Spc. The ASSISTANT COMMISSARY OF SUBSISTENCE, St. Mark's. SIR: •	ST. AUGUSTINE, June 7, 1823. Enclosed is a copy of a communication addressed to Colonel Humphreys at St. Mark’s. Should lie be absent from that post or the nation, you will be good enough to attend to its contents. The commissioners will depend upon Colonel Humphreys and yourself for having the Indians west of the Suwanee river assembled at the time and place concluded on. You will acknowledge, by the bearer, the receipt of this letter. Yours, &c. J. GADSDEN, Commissioner, Syc. S. RICHARDS, Indian Interpreter, Appalachicola. SIR:	ST. AUGUSTINE, June 8, 1823. Enclosed are letters to Colonel Humphreys, the assistant commissary of subsistence at St. Mark’s, and Mr. Richards, Indian interpreter. You will oblige me by having that addressed to Mr. Richards sent to the place of his residence on the Appalachicola, or in the nation, as it relates to public business of considerable interest to this country. The express, with his companion, could not be engaged to go beyond St. Mark’s; you will, therefore, dismiss them with a receipt for the despatches delivered, and will confer a favor on me by any facilities afforded them on their return. The letters addressed to Pensacola I will thank you to have transmitted by the first opportunity which may offer. Yours, &c. .	J. GADSDEN, Commissioner, fyc. The COMMANDING OFFICER, St. Mark’s. . SIR:.	ST. AUGUSTINE, June 9, 1823. Enclosed are copies of communications from Governor Duval, Colonel Walton, and myself, to Colonel Humphreys, Indian agent, which you will be good enough to have transmitted to him at St. Mark’s. Should Colonel Humphreys be absent from that post, you will open the letters addressed to him, and be governed by the instructions they contain. I send you, likewise, copies of letters addressed to you direct from Governor Duval and Colonel Walton, the originals of which have been transmitted through a different channel. The commissioners appointed to treat with the Florida Indians depend upon Colonel Humphreys and yourself assembling those residing west of the Suwanee river at the time and place appointed, and expect every assistance will be afforded by both of yon to accomplish the objects of the mission. Yours, &c. J. GADSDEN, Commissioner, cÿe. STEPHEN RICHARDS, Esq., Indian Interpreter, Appalachicola. SIR;	ST. AUGUSTINE, June 10, 1823. Mr. Segui and myself have been commissioned to treat with the Florida Indians as to their future location in this Territory. Understanding that the agent, Colonel Humphreys, is absent from St. Mark’s, we are somewhat apprehensive that he will not receive the instructions from the War Department in time to assemble the Indians at the period and place designated. Doubting in some degree, likewise, the certainty of the conveyance to St. Mark’s, by the only express we could employ in this place, we have taken the liberty, as a precautionary measure, of enclosing a communication through you to Mr. Richards, with a request that it may be transmitted to him as early as possible by some Indian runner. Mr. Richards resides on the Appalachicola river, and I believe at the Ochesee Bluffs. You will excuse the imposition on your goodness; but we feel assured it will afford you pleasure in attending to a request, the accomplishment of which is so intimately connected with business of no ordinary interest.	, Yours, &c. J. GADSDEN, Commissioner, «ÿc. JOHN CROWELL, Esq., Indian Agent, Creek Agency. Sm:	ST. AUGUSTINE, June 11, 1823. Since writing you on the 26th ultimo, Mr. Segui and myself have had a consultation with several of the principal chiefs of the Seminole tribe, and have fixed on the vicinity of St. Augustine, and the 5th of September next, as the place and time of holding the treaty. An earlier period could not have been selected, without serious injury to the Indians, by trespassing on the harvest season, and without precluding the possibility of a general attendance, from the dispersed condition of the Florida Indians, occupying a territory of more than five hundred miles in extent.	. The absence of the agent from St. Mark’s, and the uncertainty of letters addressed to Pensacola being received by him in time to accomplish the views of the commissioners, have necessarily forced ns to communicate direct 55 E with the different tribes, notifying them to attend at the time and place designated. Expresses have been despatched in every direction, and the Indians generally have been distinctly impressed with the idea that a treaty of amity, settlement, and limits, conformable to the views of the American Government, would be concluded; and that those tribes who neglect the invitation, or obstinately refuse to attend, will be considered as embraced within the compact formed, and forced to comply with its provisions. You have probably been advised, or may collect from the various reports made to the War Department on Indian affairs in Florida, that there is not the most friendly disposition prevailing between the different tribes, and that there is quite a division of opinion among them as to their concentration and location. The Indians occupying the peninsfila, it is believed, are pleased with the selection (south) made by the Executive; while those west of the Suwanee river, and particularly within the Appalachicola district, are most attached to their own country, and would prefer, it is said, even an emigration west of the Mississippi to a concentration south of Tampa Bay, as contemplated. At the head of the discontented is Encomatta, an enterprising, daring savage, and, if not the only, among the principal instigators of the Seminole war. These conflicting interests and opinions will be the chief difficulties the commissioners will have to encounter in effecting a treaty. And, although there is no doubt as to the ability of the National Government of dictating and enforcing the terms desired, a resort to that alternative as a matter of policy may be questionable, when the views of the Executive may be effected otherwise amicably. Magnanimity would dictate the latter course, however necessary an exercise of power may be in extreme cases. It has been thought proper to present these facts to your consideration, suggesting the policy of additional instructions to the commissioners, conditionally authorizing them to provide for those tribes that may be disposed to emigrate west. It is possible that all the Florida Indians might be induced to remove, and, if so, an object so vitally important in a national or territorial point of view will be gained. Florida, as a maritime district of the American Union, is peculiarly exposed, possessing more than nine hundred miles of seacoast, with capacious bays or estuaries easy of access, and her good to her inferior lands bearing but a small proportion, and consequently unsusceptible of a dense population. She must ever be as internally weak as she is externally assailable. An Indian population, under these circumstances, connected with another class of population, which will inevitably predominate in Florida, must necessarily add to her natural weakness, and endanger the security of one of the most exposed but most important sections of the Union. It is useless to enlarge on the policy of removing a class of savages from where they may prove dangerous to where they would be comparatively harmless. Should the Executive approve of the view taken on this subject, it will be necessary for the guidance of the commissioners minutely to designate the district of country west which may be offered in exchange for the territory abandoned. In connexion with the concentration of the Indians south of Tampa Bay, there are many subjects to which your early attention may with propriety be invited. The Indians, hitherto, have been formidable in Florida, and the change of flags has not removed from the citizens all apprehensions or all recollections of former impressions. The location (south) is thought by some injudicious; and, though a large majority concur with the Executive in the views taken on the subject, all agree that a military post within or near the limits of the nation will be indispensable. The Indians have long been in the habit of keeping up an intercourse and active trade with the Cuba fishermen; and to this cause, principally, have been ascribed the encouragement hitherto given to absconding negroes, and the savage depredations committed on cattle, estates, <fcc. There is no difficulty in correcting the evil hereafter; but the presence of a military force will be necessary to the result; and the sooner the position is selected and occupied, the sooner will the incitements to an illicit traffic be removed. The first impressions are, with the savage, the most permanent; and a judicious location of an adequate force, simultaneous with the concentration of the Indians, cannot but have the happy effect of obtaining such an entire control, as to render them perfectly subservient to the views of Government. From conversations held with many who have explored partially the western coast of Florida, I am inclined to think that the Bay of Tampa presents the most eligible site for a military post, and offers many favorable and healthful positions. More ample information on the subject, however, shall be collected previous to the accomplishment of the object of our mission, and furnished the War Department in time to be acted on, should the occupation of the position suggested be approved. Will you be good enough to issue orders to the commanding officer at St. Augustine to furnish the commissioners a military guard, issue lead and powder, and afford such other facilities as may be thought calculated to promote the objects of the mission? As the want of appropriations for holding a treaty must necessarily limit the presents, (always expected on such occasions,) the propriety of sending eight or ten rifles, to be distributed as a particular mark of distinction to some of the principal chiefs, is suggested to your consideration. Yours, &c. J. GADSDEN. The Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	ST. AUGUSTINE, June 14, 1823. I embrace the earliest opportunity of informing you that the commissioners appointed to conclude a treaty with the Florida tribes of Indians have fixed on the crossing place on Moultrie creek, about three or four miles from St. Augustine, and on the 5th of September next, as the place and time of holding the meeting. It is impossible, for the^want of estimates of population to be confided on, to state with certainty the number of individuals who may assemble. Should you, however, have in deposite thirty days’ rations for fifteen hundred persons, you will be amply prepared, in my opinion, to meet all contingencies. I am informed that the Indians generally prefer the fresh to the salt meats usually issued; it would, therefore, be desirable to have as large a proportion of the former as would, under your instructions, be admissible. Moultrie creek is navigable for boats to a Mr. Garey’s, where the provisions may be deposited, being within half a mile of the encamping ground selected. I will at any day, however, previous to that appointed for our meeting, (should you be so disposed,) accompany you to the spot, and with pleasure afford you any facilities in my power to the accomplishment of the duties of furnishing the Indians devolving on you. Your obedient, <fcc. ■	J. GADSDEN, Commissioner. Lieut. H. BROWN, Assistant Commissary of Subsistence United States Army. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 30, 1823. Your letter of the 11th instant has beén received. I agree with you as to the importance to the Territory of Florida of removing the Indians west of the Mississippi; but there are no lands which the Government can assign to them in lieu of those they may abandon, as all the public lands in that direction, that could be so disposed of, are occupied by the Choctaws or Cherokees. The Government is, however, willing to encourage the removal of the Florida Indians, as far as it can; and if all or any part of them should be disposed to emigrate, and join the Cherokees or Choctaws, or any other tribes farther west that may be willing to receive them, you are authorized to include a stipulation in the proposed treaty on the subject; allowing them, in the event of their emigration, what may be deemed by the commissioners a fair consideration for the lands relinquished by them in Florida, and agreeing, on the part of the United States, to pay the expenses attending their removal. Your suggestions relative to the establishment of a military post will receive due attention. Orders will be given, agreeably to your request, through the adjutant general, to the commanding officer at St. Augustine, to furnish the commissioners with a military guard. The rifles required for presents at the treaty will be furnished through the Ordnance Department. The President has directed that the Governor of the Territory, as is usual, be associated with the commissioners at the proposed treaty; and be will join you accordingly, and aid in the negotiation. He was not put upon the commission originally, on account of his absence from the Territory. The Indian agent has been ordered to repair to St. Augustine, where he will be stationed until further orders, which will enable the commissioners to avail themselves of his services. I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, J. C. CALHOUN. Colonel JAMES GADSDEN, Commissioner, fyc. SIR:	FORT ST. MARK’S, July 2,1823. The express with letters for Col. Humphreys, Indian agent, the assistant commissary of subsistence, and Mr. Richards, Indian interpreter, has arrived. Col. Humphreys is here, and immediately took his letter. I gave him also Mr. Richards’s, which he sent off this morning by express. The letters for Pensacola will be forwarded to-morrow morning. Respectfully, your obedient servant, GEO. C. HUTTER, Lieutenant Commanding. Colonel JAMES GADSDEN, Commissioner, St. Augustine, E. F. SIR:	FORT ST. MARK’S, FLORIDA, July 3, 1823. Your letter of the 6th ultimo, notifying me of the time and place appointed for holding the treaty with the Florida Indians, reached me by express on the 1st instant. I have called upon the chiefs west of the Suwanee to assemble here on the 15th, at which time I shall communicate to them this information, and make the necessary arrangements for their meeting the commissioners at the .time and place you have mentioned. Your obedient servant, G. HUMPHREYS, Indian Agent. Colonel JAMES GADSDEN, Commissioner, fyc. SIR:	ST. AUGUSTINE, July 29, 1823. Your letters of the 14th and 30th June, with the accompanying public documents, have been received. Our express to the western part of the Territory of Florida has just returned. He communicates to the commissioners the intelligence of the arrival of the Indian agent, Colonel Humphreys, at St Mark’s, who will use all exertions to assemble the Indians at the time and place designated. No efforts will be wanting on our part to promote the views of the Executive as to the concentration of the Florida Indians. Your obedient servant, J. GADSDEN, Commissioner. The Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. Continuation of proceedings of TFrn. P. Duval, James Gadsden, and Bernardo Segui, appointed by the President of the United States to hold a treaty with the Florida Indians. J ULY 15.—Wm. P. Duval, as Governor of the Territory of Florida, associated, by order of the President of the United States, with J. Gadsden and Bernardo Segui, to hold a treaty with the Indians, accepts of his appointment, and takes his seat as presiding commissioner. JULY 29.—Commissioners met at the Governor’s office, when George Murray was proposed as secretary to the commission, and elected accordingly. The presiding commissioner was requested to notify him of his appointment. SIR:	ST. AUGUSTINE, July 29, 1823. The commissioners appointed to treat with the Seminole Indians have directed me to inform you that they have appointed you their secretary, and that they expect you will attend not only to the duties, as such, connected with the contemplated treaty to be held near this city on the 5th September next, but that you will go to the place selected for the Indians to assemble, and mark out the spot for the commissioners, and attend to the necessary arrangements for the convenience of transacting their business, &c. &c. Your compensation will be five dollars per day, until the business of the commission shall be completed. Yours, with high respect, WM. P. DUVAL, President of the Board of Commissioners. GEORGE MURRAY, Esq. SIR:	ST. AUGUSTINE, July 31, 1823. As the component parts of the soldier’s ration would not be altogether acceptable to the Indians, it is the opinion of the commissioners that the smaller parts, such as soap, candles, whiskey, <fcc., may, in a degree, be dispensed with; and that corn and rice, in the proportion of one-fourth of the former to the latter, may be advantageously substituted for fifty barrels of the flour contained in your estimate. One-fourth of the meat part of the ration ought to be in good salt pork; and a barrel of prime pork, a barrel of beef, thirty good hams, and one hundred pounds of good lard, will be wanted for the use of the commissioners. The bean part of the ration, on reconsideration, we would prefer retaining. The salt to be increased to fifty bushels, and the other items of yoor estimate reduced thus: five hundred gallons of whiskey, two hundred pounds of soap, one hundred pounds of candles, ten gallons of vinegar, and the value of the balance of the vinegar (290 gallons) to be appropriated to the purchase of molasses. The commissioners will require five officers’ tents, with flies and poles complete, six camp kettles, and as many tin pans, which you will be good enough to procure, if not to be had from the depot at St. Augustine. With respect, your servant, WM. P. DUVAL, Commissioner, Sfc. Lieutenant BROWN, United States Army. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, July 31, 1823. I have received a letter from General Jackson, in which he states that there will prebably be some difficulty in concentrating the Indians south, as contemplated by your instructions; and suggests that they may be advantageously located “ on both sides of the Appalachicola, extending west ten miles, east to Ochlochne river, and south within five miles of the Ochesee Bluffs, so as to leave a free communication between East and West Florida, crossing the Appalachicola at the Ochesee Bluffs.” The position suggested by General Jackson(is believed to be the next most advantageous to the one selected; and if the Indians cannot be concentrated on the latter, rather than the treaty should fail, it would be advisable to concentrate them on the point suggested by the general; and you are accordingly authorized to do so, if it should be found impossible to carry the first instructions into effect. The general also suggests the propriety of a movement of troops to Tampa Bay. It is possible such a movement would have a favorable influence on the negotiation; but, as it is now too late to make it with that view, I hope you will experience no inconvenience from it. I have the honor to be your obedient servant, Colonel JAMES GADSDEN,	' J. C. CALHOUN. BERNARDO SEGUI, Esq., His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL, Commissioners to treat with the Florida Indians. AUGUST 26.—The commissioners met at the Governor’s quarters, when the following letter was addressed to Captain John Erwing, commanding the troops of the United States at this post: SIR:	,	ST. AUGUSTINE, August 26, 1823. The commissioners appointed to treat with the Indians in this Territory have been authorized by the Secretary of War to make requisitions upon the commanding officer at St. Augustine for a military guard, and any other facilities that they may require from the command. I have therefore to request that a guard, to be composed of an officer and twenty-five men, furnished with the necessary camp equipage for themselves, may be ordered to proceed on Friday next to the situation selected for holding the treaty on Moultrie creek. It is desirable that two of the men detailed fur this service should be carpenters. You are also requested to furnish the following articles, if in your power to do so, viz: one boat, with oars and awning; four spades; four axes; one inch and a quarter; one one inch, and one half-inch auger; two hatchets; two handsaws; one cross-cut saw; one jackplane; two hammers; five wall tents, poles and pins; two common tents, poles and pins. These articles you will please to deliver to the officer detailed fur this service, who will be requested to communicate with the president of the board before he proceeds to the encampment. Yours, respectfully, WM. P. DUVAL, President of Commissioners. Captain JOHN ERWING, Commanding officer, St. Francis Barracks, St. Augustine. SIR:	ST. FRANCIS BARRACKS, August 27, 1823. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 26th instant. On reference to the annexed copy of my instructions from the general commanding the army, you will perceive that I am only directed to furnish, upon the requisition of the commissioners, a guard to attend them at the place of meeting. In obedience to that order, and in compliance with your requisition, so far as the strength of this garrison will permit, a subaltern, with one sergeant, one corporal, and twelve privates, will be ordered to proceed on Friday next to the situation selected on Moultrie creek. I regret, sir, that the number of men under my command fit for duty is so small as to prevent me from furnishing the complement you require. With regard to the tools, &c. mentioned in your communication, I beg leave to state that those belonging to the post are under the immediate charge of the quartermaster, (Lieutenant Brown,) who has received instructions from the chief of his department to answer the requisitions of the commissioners. I am, sir, with great respect, &c. ,	J. ERWING, Captain, $c. To His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL, Governor of Florida, and President of the Commissioners. AUGUST 27.—The commissioners met at the Governor’s quarters, when the following letter was addressed to Captain Erwing, and his reply received: SIR:	ST. AUGUSTINE, August 27, 1823. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of [this] date. In the requisitions made on you in my letter of the 26th, the commissioners were guided by what they deemed necessary “ facilities to their operations,’ and did not apprehend that the liberal construction of your orders could, at this late period, throw any obstacles in the way of a compliance with their wishes. As the proper judges of what was necessary, they have mentioned to you the most reduced guard which would answer their purposes; and they have again, through me, to repeat their request that the number of men, including carpenters, &c., may be furnished. The requisition for tents, boats, tools, &c., was made on you in consequence of an intimation from Lieutenant Brown, as understood at the time, that those articles were in your possession, and that to you most application be made. I have to request, as the period of meeting is approaching, that you will inform me as early as possible this evening whether our requisition, as contained in my letter of the 26th, can be complied with. Respectfully, WM. P. DUVAL, President of Commissioners. Captain J. ERWING, Commanding officer, St. Francis Barracks, St. Augustine. SIR:	ST. FRANCIS BARRACKS, August 27, 1823. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of yoor letter of this date. It was far from my intention, in the letter I addressed to you this moroing, to throw any unnecessary “ obstacle in the way of a compliance with the commissioners’ wishes,” or to pot any other than a liberal constroction on the orders I have received. Taking into consideration the sitoation of the post committed to my charge, the nomber and disposition of its garrison, and the expected assemblage of a large body of Indians in its neighborhood, I stated to you the largest nomber of men that in my honest opinion could be spared from this command, in accordance with the spirit of my orders. In order, however, to prevent any delay in the operations of the commissioners, and to convince them of my desire to afford them all the facilities required by the most liberal construction of my orders, the guard, including carpenters, mentioned in your letter of the 26th, will be sent to its destination at the time appointed. I send with this, for your information, a morning report of the garrison, with an explanatory statement. All the camp equipage, tools, and quartermaster’s stores at the post, are under charge of the quartermaster, and reported by him to the chief of his department. It did notoccur to me, when I last wrote, that my order would be necessary to authorize their delivery on your requisition. I shall therefore give an order to Lieutenant Brown early in the morning to furnish, out of the public stores at this post, the articles required in your letter of the 26th instant, and, in the event of any being deficient, to report the same to you. I am, sir, very respectfully, &c. . J. ERWING, Captain, commanding fourth artillery. To His Excellency W. P. DUVAL, President Board Commissioners. AUGUST 28.—Colonel Humphreys, the Indian agent, arrived in St. Augustine, and reported to the commissioners that the western chiefs and warriors, to the number of three hundred and fifty, with Neamothla at their head, would arrive at the encamping ground on Moultrie creek in the course of the next day. In consequence of which, the following letter was addressed to Lieutenant H. Brown, assistant commissary of subsistence: SIR:	ST. AUGUSTINE, August 28,1823. T have the honor of informing you that Colonel Humphreys, the Indian agent of this Territory, has arrived in St. Augustine, and brings intelligence that the Indians from the west will arrive at the camping ground tomorrow evening. The board of commissioners appointed to treat with the Indians, therefore, wish you to forward the provisions to the camp as early as possible in the morning; and issue such rations as Colonel Humphreys may direct. With respect, W. P. DUVAL, President Board Commissioners. Lieutenant BROWN, United States Army. On Saturday, the 30th of August, Colonel Gadsden repaired to the encampment on Moultrie creek, where the guard required had previously arrived. Neamothla, with the western tribes, had arrived the day before. On the 2d of September, Miconope and Jumper, with the southern tribes, reached the encampment. Friday, the 5th, the commissioners all present; but as the Indians had some preliminary matters to settle among themselves, the talk was postponed until the 6th. Saturday, 6th.—At 11 o’clock the chiefs Neamothla, John Blount, Tuski-Hajo, Econchatimico, Hicks, Mulatto King, and other chiefs and warriors to the number of more .than seventy, met the commissioners in council; when, after Neamothla had been declared by Jumper to be the head of the Florida Indians, which was assented to by the Indians present, Colonel Gadsden delivered the following talk: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: General Jackson told Enehemothla, two years ago, that the Americans had purchased Florida from Spain, and that the President of the United States would send commissioners to speak his mind to the Seminoles. The President has now appointed Governor Duval, Mr. Segui, and myself, these commissioners; listen, then, to the talk of your great father the President of the United States. Listen to what he has commanded us to say to you. Many years ago, false prophets and evil-disposed men from across the water deluded the Creek nation. The young warriors became mad, and the old men forgetful. They raised the Red Sticks in war, and inhumanly massacred women and children. General Jackson with his warriors marched into the nation, subdued the deluded, and made friends with those who buried the tomahawk and sued for peace. Your father the President of the United States, like a kind parent, forgot their disobedience, and, placing his Creek brothers by themselves, they are now a rich, happy, and friendly people. Some of the Red Sticks, however, fled into Florida, and, uniting with absconding negroes, built a fort on Appalachicola. The fort was destroyed by the Americans, and with it hundreds of red men and negroes were slain. Four years ago, these same Red Sticks, with the false prophets, McQueen and Francis, and bad men from across the water, poisoned the minds of some of your warriors. Fort Hughes, on the Flint river, was attacked; and a boat with sick men, women, and infants, taken on the Appalachicola, and their scalps borne away in triumph. General Jackson was again ordered to march into your country, and you all know that he burnt your towns, destroyed your crops, and at Mickasuky and Suwanee punished the madness of your men. He could have pursued the fugitives this side of the Suwanee, and have driven you into the ocean; but, having taken the prophets and white men who deluded you, he punished the guilty and spared the innocent. Friends and brothers: Your father the President is willing to forget all that has passed. He is willing to bury the tomakawk, and extend to you the arm of friendship. He would that his red and white children should live in peace. To secure this, he will do for you what he has done for the Creeks; he will not permit you to be scattered all over Florida; he will place you by yourselves, mark your boundaries, protect your property, prevent his white men and the Creeks from disturbing you, separate you from false prophets and bad men from across the water, place an agent among you to let him know your wants, educate your children, and give you those articles of clothing, iron, lead, powder, &c. of which you stand in need. We hear that there are among you some of the old Red Sticks that belong to the Creek nation. They have lands given them above, and must return to their nation, unless you who were born in and belong to Florida will receive them. If so, they must live on the same lands with the Florida Indians. You will think on this subject, and when you next meet the commissioners let them know your wishes. You must likewise come prepared to give us the names of the different chiefs, the names and numbers of the differept towns, where those towns are situated, and the population of each; that your father the President may know how much land you may require, and the quantity of merchandise that will be necessary for you. Friends and brothers: More than three hundred years ago the white men Jived across the'great deep east. The Seminoles, then a tribe of the Creek nation, hunted a long way to the west, across the great water where the sun sets. The Yemassees then inhabited Florida. Some two hundred years ago, more than one hundred years before the Seminoles ever saw Florida, the Spaniards conquered and made peace with the Yemassees. They divided the country between them, and lived like friends and brothers. The Spaniards then had forts, towns, and cultivated fields at St. Augustine, Suwanee, St. Pedro, or Chattahoochee, Tallahassee, and St. Mark’s. Ferdinand de Soto, a Spanish chief, long before the Seminoles ever saw Florida, landed at the Bay of Tampa, and marched through and conquered all that land where now stand Hikhi-puck, Sasychienchaty, Pelaklekaha, and Okihuidky. Some one hundred years ago you (the Seminoles) left the Creek nation, where you had lands enough, and where the game was plenty. You were then strong; the Spaniards and Yemassees were weak. You drove the Spaniards into St. Augustine; you burnt their forts, destroyed their fields, and exterminated the Yemassee nation. You made slaves of their women, and killed and scalped their warriors. The white men are now strong, and the Seminoles are weak. The white men are like the fruit and leaves on the trees, which blossom and increase annually; the Seminoles, like the deer of the forest, that might be hunted to their destruction. The whites might take vengeance for what you did the Spaniards and Yemassees, but we will not; we will forget what has passed. Like a kind father, the President says to you, there are lands enough for both his white and red children. His whites are strong, and might exterminate his red, but he will not permit them. He will protect his red children. He will place them by themselves, and mark their boundaries, so that there shall be no more disputes between his children—no more wars, but all live like friends and brothers. Friends and brothers: The hatchet is buried; the muskets, the white men’s arms, are stacked in peace. Do you wish them to remain so? Listen, then, to the talk of your father the President. He wishes the red stick eternally buried; he drinks with you the black drink; he exchanges with you the white feather; he unites with you in the feather dance and eagle tail song. He smokes with you the pipe of eternal peace. Return to your camp. Think well on what your father, through us, has said to you. Meet the commissioners in council again on Monday next, and let ns know where you are now settled, the names of your chiefs and towns, your population, and then listen to another talk from your father the President of the United States. At the conclusion of this talk the council broke up, the chiefs promising to reply to it on Monday. MONDAY, 8th.—In consequence of bad weather, there was no business done this day. TUESDAY, 9th.—The chiefs and warriors met the commissioners at 10 o’clock. Neamothla replied to the talk delivered un Saturday, and stated that the Florida Indians had determined to incorporate with their tribes the fugitive Creeks and the Red Sticks who were among them.	• WEDNESDAY, 10th.—This morning the chiefs and warriors met the commissioners at 8 o’clock, and Colonel Gadsden delivered the talk which follows: FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: We are happy you have received as brothers those of the Creek nation among you. We are glad to learn that the red men are united. May they long continue so! We repeat to you what was said at onr first meeting: that it is the will of your father, the President of the United States, that his white and red children should live like friends and brothers. To secure this, he will do for you what he has done for the Creeks. He will place you by yourselves, protect your property, and supply your wants. He wishes you to go south, where you can have lands enough to plant, and for the grazing of cattle. You are now scattered all over Florida—some north, some south. At the north his white men have already come into the country; and already he hears complaints from both his white and red men. To prevent any disturbances, he must remove his red children from that quarter, and unite them with those at the south. At the north, he cannot separate them without driving white men away. He cannot guard you against the Creeks, who live too near, and may trespass on your lands and property before we know it. At the south, where lands.are plenty and good, and where your hunting grounds are, your father can do for you all that he promises. Friends and brothers: The game is scarce, if not destroyed. The buffalo, the deer, and the bear have disappeared; you have hunted them from the face of the earth. The same Great Spirit, however, who gave and has taken away the buffalo, the bear, and the deer, has likewise given you the cow, the sheep, and the hog. He has pointed to the land which will yield the corn, the potato, the sugar cane, and the. cotton; he commands you to follow the example of your white brethren, to live at peace with them, to cultivate the earth, and teach your squaws to spin. You will then have food enough, clothing enough. Your great father will enable you to do these things. He will give you good lands enough to the south to cultivate; he will furnish you with cattle to stock your farms, and ploughs, hoes, and such articles as you may require. Think well on what has been said to you. Friends and brothers: Beware of false prophets; listen not to those who pretend to be your friends, who speak with forked tongues. Like the bad men from across the water, they' will delude you to your ruin. Are you not tired of wars? have yon not suffered enough, innocent victims of the folly of others? Brave warriors, though they despise death, do not madly contend with the strong. Your nation stands alone; if the peace and friendship now offered is refused, the poison of bad men will ruin you. Follow, then, the advice of your great father. He is your friend, and will do all in his power to make you happy'. Go, then, to the south, where he directs; live in peace and friendship with the white men, and you will become a rich and a happy people. THURSDAY, 11th.—This day, at 11 o’clock, the chiefs and warriors met the commissioners, and Neamothla replied at length to the talk delivered yesterday by Colonel Gadsden. He “ objected to the location of the Indians south, be cause the soil was poor, and not capable of supporting them. The sea, too, being on each side of them, bad men from over the big water would see his young men, and give them bad advice, without his having power to prevent it. We are (he said) poor and needy; we do not come here to murmur or complain; we want advice and assistance; we rely upon your justice and.humanity; we hope that you will not send us south, to a country where neither the hickorynut, the acorn, nor the persimmon grows; we depend much upon these productions of the forest for food: in the south they are not to be found. For me, (he said,) I am old and poor; ton poor to move from my village to the south. My cabins have been built with my own hands; my fields cultivated by only myself. I am attached to the spot improved by my own labor, and cannot believe that my friends will drive me from it.” The commissioners advised the chiefs to return to their camp, and take time to consider upon what they had heard. MONDAY, 15th.—This day the outlines of a treaty were read by the commissioners to the chiefs and warriors. They asked leave for time to consider on it. THURSDAY, 18th.—The chiefs and warriors, having had under consideration the treaty read to them on Monday last, met the commissioners in council; and, without hesitation, signed the treaty of this date. The number of chiefs who signed was thirty-one. FRIDAY, 19th.—An additional article was added to the treaty, and signed by the chiefs whose names are now mentioned in it. SATURDAY, 20th.—Presents of homespun, calicoes, lead, powder, &c., were distributed to the Indians; and on Sunday, the 21st, they departed for their homes, perfectly satisfied. TUESDAY, September 16.—Neamothla, with the other headmen and chiefs, met the commissioners in council. A return of the Indian population in Florida was handed in, from which it appears that the total amount is 4,883 souls. Neamothla objected to stating the number of negroes in the nation. The chiefs then, at the request of the commissioners, gave* in the names of the different towns, their situations, and the names of chiefs who rule them; which are as follows: Towns. Chiefs. Situations. Cohowofooche, Neamothla, Chefixico Hajo, 23 miles north by west from St. Mark’s. Tallahassa, 20 miles north by west from St. Mark’s. Okehumpkee, Taphulga, Miconope, 60 miles southwest from Volusia. Ehe-mathlochee, 30 miles east of Appalachicola, and 1 mile north of Forbes’s purchase. Totoawathla, Eheconhafamico, West side of Chattahoochee, 10 miles above the forks. Chokonckla, Mulatto King, - West side of Appalachicola, 4 miles below the' fork. lolee, ... Blount, 60 miles above the mouth of Appalachicola, on the west bank. Spanawalka, Cochrane, 2 miles below Inlee, on the same side. Oscillee, Latafixico, At the mouth of Oscillee river, on the east bank. Ohathlokhouchy, - Woxaholahta, - On Little river, 40 miles east of Appalachicola. Yumersee, Alac Hajo, Head of Sutnulga Hatchee river, 20 miles north of St. Mark’s. Lochchiocha, Okoska-amathla, 60 miles east of Appalachicola. and near Ochlochne. East side of Sutnulga Hatchee river, and 20 miles north of St. Mark’s. Alouko, - Tukchuslu Hajo, Hiamonee, Chowastic, 5 miles from the Georgia line, on the east bank of Ochlochne river. Tuckagulga, Ben Burgess, - On the east bank of Ochlochne river, between that and Hiamonee. Wasupa, Toshatehismico, 2 miles east of Sutnulga Hatchee river, and 18 miles from St. Mark’s. Hatchcalamocha, - Amathla Hajo, Near Drum Swamp, 18 miles west of New Mickasuky town. Etotulga, Mickcooche, 10 miles east of the old Mickasuky town. Topananaulka, Obiakee, 3 miles west of New Mickasuky. Seleuxa, Koamathla, Head of Oscillee river. Ahosulga, Hockoknakola, 5 miles south of New Mickasuky town. Mickasuky, (New,) Tuskameha, 30 miles west of Suwanee river. Sampala, Ehe-maltho-chee, 26 miles above the forks of the Appalachicola, on the west bank. Oktahatku, Menohomaltha Hajo, 7 miles east of west from Sampala. Chohalaboohhulka, Yahola Hajo, - West side of Su wanee,above its junction with Alapaha. Welika, Lathwamaltha, - 4 miles east of Tallahassee towns. Wachitokha, Ho-lahta-mico, East side of Suwanee, between that and Santa Fe. Talakhacha, Tullis Hajo, West side of Cape Florida, on the seacoast. Sohopikaliga, Cho-ke-hip-kalana, East of the last town, 30 miles. Loksachumpa, Lok-po-ka, Sakoosa Hajo, Head of St.John’s river. Ahapapka, Ocheesetustanuka, Head of Okelawaha. Apukasasocha, Enehe-mathlochee, 20 miles west from the head of St. John’s. Yulaka, Philip, or Emathla, On the west side of St. John’s river, 35 miles from Volusia or Dexter. Talahassee, or Spring Gardens. Uchee Tustehuka, or Billy, 10 miles from Volusia. Etanie, -	-	- Checota Hajo, - West of St. John’s, east of Black creek. 10 miles west of Walalecooche. Tuslalahockaka, - Alac Hajo, Yalacasooche, Yelathaloke, - Mouth of Okelawaha. SIR:	Z	CAMP, MOULTRIE CREEK, September 21, 1823. We have to inform you that on the 18th we concluded a treaty with the Florida tribes of Indians, and on terms, as we believe, calculated to promote their future comfort and welfare, as well as the ioterests of the Territory in which they reside. The Florida Indians will be concentrated south. The location an interior one, not approaching the seacoast at any one point nearer than fifteen miles. Some few reservations on the Appalachicola, of limited extent, have been made in favor of Blount, Tuski-Hajo, Econchatimico, and others, men of industrious habits, and who have made some advances in cultivation. Blount and Tuski-Hajo have been long friendly to the Americans, and rendered essential services to General Jackson during the military operations in Florida. The treaty, with other documents, will be forwarded you by Colonel Humphreys, who leaves this in a few days WM. P. DUVAL, JAMES GADSDEN, B. SEGUI. SIR:	.	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 30, 1823. By a letter, recently received from one of the commissioners, it appears that the Florida Indians cannot, from their dispersed situation, and without injury to them, be assembled earlier than the 5th September next, which will enable the President to avail himself of your services at the proposed treaty; and, for which purpose, lie has directed that you be associated with the commissioners in the negotiation. You will, accordingly, join them, and unite your efforts with theirs to accomplish the object intended to be effected by it. A copy of the instructions to the commissioners, and that of a letter of this date to Colonel Gadsden, are enclosed for your information. The same allowance will be made to you, while actually engaged in this business, as is made to the commissioners, which will be paid on a similar certificate from you as is required of them. The continued severity of the sickness of the sub-agent, from whom I have lately heard, will prevent him from resuming his duties before, perhaps, late in the fall. You will make the best arrangement you can for the management of the Indian Department at St. Augustine in the mean time; it is presumed, however, that the presence of the Indian agent there, in pursuance of the order which has been given to him, will supersede the necessity of any arrangement on the subject. A copy of the order is enclosed. I have the honor to be, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL, St. Augustine, Florida. SIR: '	ST. AUGUSTINE, July 15, 1823. I have the honor to acknowledge your letter of the 30th of June last, together with a letter of instructions, dated the 7th of April last, directed to Colonel James Gadsden and Bernardo Segui, Esq., commissioners appointed to hold a treaty with the Florida Indians; also, copies of two letters from your Department, dated the 30th of June last: one addressed to Colonel Gadsden, and the other to Colonel Humphreys, Indian agent. I accept, with pleasure, the appointment which the President has conferred on me as commissioner, to be associated with Colonel Gadsden and Mr. Segui, for the purpose of holding a treaty with the Florida Indians, and I beg you will assure the President that every effort on my part shall be made to accomplish this desirable object. With respect, I remain, <fcc. &c. WM. P. DUVAL. Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	ST. AUGUSTINE, September 26, 1823. On the 21st instant, you were advised by mail of our having concluded a treaty with the Florida tribes of Indians. The second article of the treaty, accompanying this, will inform you of the boundaries assigned them, which, with the other articles agreed on, will be found, in our opinion, to correspond with the spirit of our instructions, as well as with the humane policy of our Government. The want ofa knowledge of the country south of Charlotte harbor, and the impossibility of inducing competent individuals to explore, or obtaining any satisfactory information relative to that region, necessarily prohibited the commissioners from confining the Indians to that quarter, agreeably to the views of the Executive, as first expressed in our instructions. A northern location, though desired by a majority of the Indians, was violently opposed, within the limits recommended by General Jackson; to have extended beyond those limits would have been injurious to the best interests of Florida. A southern location was objected to by the Indians, on the ground that the country snuth of Tampa did not contain a sufficient quantity of good land to furnish the subsistence of life; that force only could drive them into those limits; and that they were well convinced that the Americans possessed the power, and they not the ability to resist. The Indians, therefore, threw themselves on the protection of the United States, and appealed feelingly to the humanity of the commissionersnot to locate them in a country in which they must inevitably starve. We know nothing of the country but from vague, and contradictory representations; the appeal, therefore, was listened to, so far as to embrace within the limits assigned the Indians a small tract of country, about thirty miles north of Tampa Bay, containing within its boundaries many of the settlements of the southern chiefs. Even this extension north was not considered as removing the objections urged; to satisfy, therefore, all parties, and convince even the Indians of the humane disposition of the American Government towards them, an article was inserted, that if, on examination by the commissioners, &c. appointed to run the line, it should appear that there was not a sufficient quantity of good land within the limits allotted them, then the north line should be extended so as to give satisfaction on this point. The reservations made on the Appalachicola district were in favor of six influential chiefs, whose assent to the treaty would not have been obtained without this equitable provision for them and their connexions. They are all represented to be men of industrious habits, and who have made some advances in civilization. Blount and Tuski-Hajo have been long friendly to the Americans, and rendered essential services to General Jackson during the operations in Florida; on the termination of which they were permitted to reside where they now do, under the protection of the United States; with a promise that, when the Indians in Florida were disposed of, the provisions now made for them should be taken into consideration. We view these reservations as among the most favorable terms of the treaty. The lands allotted each chief and. his connexions are so limited as to force the occupants into civil habits and pursuits; while so large a subtraction is made from the Indian population to be concentrated, as to render that population more easily manageable. The treaty, however, was the best we could effect; and we are inclined to the opinion that the boundaries to which the Indians have been limited will be found, on reflection, io be the most judicious, in a national as well as territorial point of view. Justice has been done to the Indians, by assigning to them a sufficient quantity of tillable land, with the addition of an extent of territory alike favorable as hunting grounds and for grazing cattle; while the position is so central as to admit of being encircled by a white population, capable of overawing and controlling their uncivilized propensities. We deem it our duty, before closing our mission, to invite your attention to some important subjects, as intimately connected with the accomplishment of the views which have dictated the policy pursued by the United States towards the Indians. It was a misfortune to Florida, as a frontier Territory, and with her maritime exposure, to have any tribes of Indians within her boundaries. It would have been a national benefit to have removed them to a more interior position; but, as this seems to have been impracticable, the only course left was that which has been adopted— theconfining the Indians within certain limits, and in that part of the Territory least objectionable. This being accomplished, it is indispensable, for the benefit of the Indians as well as the future security of Florida, that all intercourse with foreign countries or individuals exercising an influence over them be cut off, and that an exclusive control be obtained and maintained by the American Government. This is only to be effected by the immediate establishment of military posts at the Bay of Tampa, Charlotte Harbor, and at some other point near Cape Florida, on the eastern coast; with such other salutary laws regulating the trade with them as your own sound judgment may dictate. It is scarcely necessary to state to you, that a majority of the Indians now inhabiting the Territory of Florida, and included as parties to the treaty just effected, are warriors, if not refugees from the southern Indians. Many of them are of the old Red Stick party, whose feelings of hostility have only been suppressed, not eradicated; and even the native Seminoles have ever been of a most erratic disposition. These Indians are now scattered over the whole face of Florida; but a small portion of them having any settled residence, a majority wandering about for such a precarious subsistence as the esculent roots of the woods, or the misfortunes of our navigators on the Florida Keys, may afford. To bring together these discordant and fermenting materials, to embody such a population within prescribed limits, and to conquer their erratic habits, will require, in some degree, the exercise of authority, with the presence of a military establishment adequate to enforce it. These posts, therefore, in our opinion, should be established before the boundary line is run and marked. Such a military disposition, if an adequate force, would produce an impression upon the Indians most favorable to an immediate concentration within the limits allotted. The military establishments recommended, from the protection they would afford, will further induce an early settlement of the country, now open to the enterprise of emigrants, the presence of which population will assist materially in forcing the Indians within the limits allotted them, and in obtaining that control so much desired. As an act of justice to Lieutenant Ripley, whu commanded the detachment of troops on the treaty ground, and to Lieutenant H. Brown, the assistant commissary of subsistence, we most cheerfully testify to the zealous, active, and faithful discharge of the various duties assigned them. Colonel Humphreys, Indian agent, and Mr. Richards, the interpreter, likewise rendered us essential services during the complicated difficulties we had to encounter. In assembling and marching the western Indians, through a wilderness of two hundred and fifty miles in extent, to the treaty ground, they have been exposed to privations and expenses, giving them strong claims on the Department of War for extra compensation; the equitable adjustment of which is submitted to your consideration by Your most obedient servants, W. P. DUVAL, JAMES GADSDEN, The Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War.	BERNARDO SEGUI. SEPTEMBER 26.—The commissioners met this day at the quarters of Governor Duval; and, having signed the abstracts of provisions and vouchers for expenditures, they adjourned sine die. Test:	GEORGE MURRAY, Secretary to the Commission. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, October 29, 1823. The President not having returned to the city, as I expected, I have transmitted to him the treaty with the Florida Indians, and all the papers which accompanied it, with the letter of Governor Duval, requesting that you may be immediately appointed the commissioner, and that Lieutenant Ripley be associated with you, to run the lines of the land assigned to the Indians by the treaty. 1 have recommended that the request of the Governor be acceded to, and, as soon as I hear from the President, will inform you of his decision. By a provision of the treaty, it appears that rations of bread and meat are to be furnished for the* Indians, whose numbers, by an estimate which accompanied the treaty, is represented to be about 4,800. The views of the commissioners in making the provision are not stated sufficiently distinct to understand whether it was their intention that the rations of bread and meat are to be furnished indiscriminately for the whole number, or to those merely who may move on the lands assigned to them by the treaty, and in such quantities only as may be absolutely necessary for their subsistence. If the former be the intention of the commissioners, it will involve a very considerable expense, which may present some impediment to the ratification of the treaty. But, as I am not aware of any reason why rations should be furnished to so great an extent, I am inclined to think that the latter was their intention, and I am confirmed in this impression by the opinion of Colonel Humphreys. It is desirable, however, to have distinctly the views of the commissioners on the subject, and I will thank you for as full an explanation of them as you may be able to give, accompanied by an estimate of the probable number of Indians for which, in your opinion, rations will be required.	* I have the hnnor to be, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. Colonel JAMES GADSDEN, Charleston, S. C. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, November 4, 1823. I have to inform you that the President has acceded to the request of Governor Duval, for your immediate appointment as the commissioner to run the lines of the land assigned to the Florida Indians by the late treaty with them, and for Lieut. Ripley to be associated with you in the performance of that duty. You are accordingly authorized to make your arrangements to commence the survey as soon as practicable, associating Lieutenant Ripley with you as your assistant. As the immediate survey of the individual reservations is not material, and it is important that all information that can be obtained in relation to the tract assigned to the Indians should accompany the treaty, when it is submitted to the Senate for ratification, I would, for this reason, prefer that this survey should first claim your attention. The reservations, if confirmed by the Senate, can be surveyed at any time thereafter. 56 E If in making the survey of the tract assigned to the Indians, you should find that the northern line, as defined in the’treaty, does not embrace a sufficiency of good land for the accommodation of the Indians, you are authorized to exercise a’sound discretion, and remove it farther north, so as to include the necessary quantity. The commanding officer at St. Augustine will be directed to afford you every facility in his power, in accomplishing the object of your commission. You will be allowed at the rate of eight dollars per day, while actually engaged in the duties of your commission, with your necessary expenses; and Lieutenant Ripley will be allowed the same additional compensation to his pay in the line as is allowed to topographical engineers while engaged on surveys, (which is one dollar and fifty cents a day,) with his necessary expenses. The payment will be made on your certificates of honor as'to the time actually engaged. The President has also acceded to the proposition for the establishment of a military post near Tampa Bay, and immediate measures will be taken, through the proper officer, to that effect. In the mean time, the commanding officer of the post to be established will be directed to correspond with you, in relation to a proper site for such post. I have the honor to be, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. Colonel JAMES GADSDEN, Commissioner tyc., Charleston, S. C. ■ GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, November 12, 1823. Your letter of the 23d ultimo was duly received. I enclose for your information an extract from the treaty recently concluded with the Florida Indians, which contains the metes and boundaries of the land assigned to them by said treaty. ' Colonel Gadsden is appointed the commissioner to run out the Indian tract as soon as practicable, so as to have his report on the subject before the treaty is submitted to the Senate for ratification. It is hoped the line, when properly ascertained, will not include the lands in which you are interested. I have the honor to be, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. D. T. OGDEN, JOSEPH DELESPINE, ENOCH WISWALL, JAMES B. MURREY, and PERSEUS NICKOLLS, Esqs., New York. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 9, 1823. Your letter of the 20th ultimo has beemreceived. Confiding in your sound discretion that the survey would be made on the most economical terms, nothing was said about compensation to surveyors, chainmen, &c. Should these duties be discharged, as you propose, by details from the army, the persons employed may be allowed a reasonable extra compensation. Your recommendation in relation to the compensation of Lieutenant Ripley will receive attention when your report of the survey is received. I have the honor to be, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. Colonel JAMES GADSDEN, Commissioner, fyc., St. Augustine. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 23, 1823. Your letters of the 26th and 29th ultimo and the 1st instant have been received. The order for the movement of the troops detailed for the occupation of Tampa. Bay was given immediately after the receipt of yoùr first letter on the subject; and it is hoped they will arrive at their destination in time to afford you any aid that may be necessary to facilitate the performance of your duty. The letter which you enclosed for Colonel Humphreys has been delivered to him. The treaty has been ratified by the Senate, and Colonel Humphreys has been ordered to repair forthwith to his post, to attend to its execution. A copy of the order is enclosed for your information. It is impossible to give specific instructions here for the execution of the treaty; and the agent is, therefore, directed to consult with the Governor and yourself on the measures to be taken for that purpose. You will accordingly afford your advice, and take the course which may, in your judgment, be necessary and proper, having the most rigid regard to economy. Your request “ that some of the smaller armed vessels on the West India station may be directed to enter occasionally the Bay of Tampa and Charlotte Harbor,” has been submitted to the Secretary of the Navy, who has replied that he would order commanders to comply with your wish. The bill which you have drawn on this Department for $125 will be paid when presented, and charged as requested. Lieutenant Ripley and yourself will proceed to run out the reservations, after you have completed the survey of the principal tract assigned to the Indians. It is desirable that the whole should be completed as soon as practicable. In a former letter I stated that the additional compensation which you propose should be allowed to Lieutenant Ripley would be fixed after your report of the survey is received. I have the honor to be, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. Colonel JAMES GADSDEN, Commissioner, fyc., St. Augustine. [NOTE.—For additional documents, see No. 229.] CONGRESS.] 
