No. 74. [2d Sessioo. TIIE- C11E R 0 K E E S A N D C 11E BKS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 17. 1797. Mr. Andrew Jackson, from thb committee to whom were re-contmitted the petition of Hugh Dawson White, and the report of the Secretary of "War thereon, reported: That it appears by Governor HlounUs letters to the Secretary of War, prior to the 7th day of June, 1793, (the day he set out from Knoxville to Philadelphia) the Cherokee and Upper Creek Indians had killed many men, women, and children, upon different parts of the frontiers of the territory south of Ohio, and, that such was the state of hostility. at that time, that he, previous to his departure from Knoxville, issued an order to Brigadier General Sevier, to hold one third part of his brigade in readiness, to march at the shortest notice, to the frontiers, for the protection thereof. Upon Governor Blount's leaving the territory, the government thereof devolved upon Secretary Smith, who, in his letter to the Secretary of War, of the 17th of June, uses these words: “ I can see no person who does not appear convinced, that a general war from the Cherokee nation will ensue. Such are the opinions of Major King and Mr. Ore, whose names are mentioned, because they ought to have weight.*’ In his letter of the 22d of June, to the Secretary; lie gives information, that (he Indians had committed depredations in Wear’s Cove, on the 19th. In his letter of the 19th of July, he informs the Secretary. “ that, on the 29th of June, a small party of Indians came to one Lloyd's house, more than sixty miles above Knoxville, and about eleven from Greene court , house, upon the south side of Nollichuckcy river, and killed his wife and two children, and badly wounded a third, and plundered the house of every thing of value; that, on the 2d instant, they tired tit a man on Pistol creek, burnt the house of Mr. Hog, on Nine-mile creek, with his crop of flax, and cut up part of his crop of corn, and shortly after, they stole seven horses from Bird's station, twelve miles below Knoxville, and the clothes of four families which were in the wash."The following is an extract of a letter from Secretary Smith to the Secretary of "War, dated at Knoxville, August 31st, 1793: “The expectations that the Indians would invade this district, in great force, seem as though they would be verified. At the appearance of day light, on the 29th instant, a numerous party of Indians made an attack ou Henry's station. Their real number cannot he known, and opinions differ on that head, from one hundred to three hundred. Lieutenant Ted ford, and another man. had gone out to a corn field, when the firing commenced, at which they attempted to run to the station, hut got among the Indians, unexpectedly; the lieutenant was took prisoner, 79 * carried about one hundred and fifty yards and put to death, his body mangled in a most inhuman manner. The other man fortunately made his escape, and ran to a neighboring station, from whence all the adjacent frontiers were alarmed; one other man, who happened to be out, was all they killed, besides the lieutenant. The upper county militia have not yet come down, but are to be expected in a few days._ Had they been on the frontier, I tinnk these Indians might have been intercepted. I have proposed to General Sevier to come down and take the command; his name carries terror to the Indians. Although the number of men on duty here may not be such as would demand an officer of his rank, I have thought it would be most expedient to call for him. “ I have heard nothing of Major Beard since he left Southwest Point; but, ere this, he must'have arrived at Nashville. “ Enclosed are extracts of two letters froin General Robertson,'and an account of Indian depredations, since my former account. . ‘‘ ’Tis expected that General Sevier, with the third of the militia of the three upper counties, will be on his way to the frontiers, in a few days. His force, except a few to protect exposed places, I mean to continue in a body, that they may be in readiness to intercept or repel any numerous party of Indians that may invade the country.” Secretary Smith, again, in his letter of the 27th of September, dated at Knoxville, to the Secretary of War, expresses himself as follows: “ 1 have to inform youi that, besides other previous depredations of the Cherokees, of a less nature, they made an invasion into this district, on Wednesday, the 25th instant, in force, as is generally believed, not less than one thousand. In many places they marched in twenty-eight files abreast, each oi which, as supposed, was composed of forty men. Besides, they appeared to have about one hundred horse. They crossed the Tennessee, below the mouth of Holston, on Thursday evening, marched all night towards this place, (Knoxville) and about suhrise, or a little after, attacked and carried the. house of Alexander Caveat, about seven miles from this place. His whole family, thirteen in number, fell a sacrifice. As a man of common delicacy would want language to convey to another the horrid manner in which the poor women and children were treated, so do I, to make you sensible of the sufferings of the frontier inhabitants, pent up in their small huts. General Sevier lay, at that time, upon the lower frontier, upon the south bank of Holston, about eight miles from the Tennessee, at one Ish’s, with about four hundred men. 1 speak in round numbers: for I have received no return. He had encamped at Ish’s but a few days before. I am now endeavoring to augment his numbers, to enable him to ptirsue the enemy. The Indians crossed Clinch the same day they killed Caveat’s family. Lieutenant M’Clellan is now out with a party of Horse, reconoi-tring their movements. General Sevier told me that every night of his stay at Ish’s, the Indians were reconoi tring his camp, till his sentinels one night killed one of them; since which, they have been more cautious. This large party ot Indians passed up on the north side of Holston, within three miles of the General’s camp; and, I suppose, would have marched to this place, but for fear of his intercepting them, as they did not know his numbers. The frontiers are infested with these Indians, from opposite Greene court house, round by Ish’s, and up Clinch, upon the Northwestern frontier, a distance of at least two hundred,miles, You can better conceive, than I describe, tne many sufferings of the frontier inhabitants.” Here follows a copy of a letter from Secretary Smith, to General Sevier, dated “ Knoxville, September 30th, 1793. “In answer to yours of the 07th instant, which I acknowledge to have received, I hold it would be proper to-follow the trail of that large party of Indians who massacred Caveat’s family, on the 25th instant; and, if possible, inflict due punishment on them. The country is to be defended in the best manner we can, comporting with my general instructions to you, of the 17th instant.” The committee remark, that Secretary Smith’s general instructions, alluded to in the above order, are not to be found in the War Office; but they consider that his letter to the Secretary of War, of the 1st of October, 1795, which has been printed tor the use of the members, with the report of the Secretary of War, fully shews that there was nothing in that instruction which Secretary Smith himself understood as opposed to Sevier’s pursuing the Indians into their nation; but, on the contrary, in that letter, he informs the Secretary, that he did give, the order to General Sevier to pursue the Indians into their nation. The committee think it proper to add the report of General Sevier to Governor Blount, of the 25th of October, 1793, from his camp at Ish’s mill. “ In obedience to an order from Secretary Smith, I marched in pursuit of the large body of Indians, w ho, on the 25th of last month, did the mischief in Knox county, near the Grassy Valley. For the safety and security of our army, I crossed at one of the upper fords on the Tennessee river, below the mountains. We then bent our course for Hiwasee, with expectations of striking the trail; and, before we reached that river, we discovered four large ones, making directly into the mountains. We proceeded across the Hiwasee, and directed our march for Estanaula, on’ the Coosa river, at which place we arrived on the 14th instant, discovering, on our way,several other trails leading to the aforesaid place. We there made some Cherokee prisoners, who informed us that John Watts headed the army lately out on our frontiers; that the same was composed of Indians, morg or less from every town in the Cherokee nation; that, from the Turkey’s town, Sallyquoah, Coosawaytah, and several other principal ones, almost to a man was out, joined by a large number of the Upper Creeks, who had passed that place, on their return, oidy a few days since, and had made for a tow n at the'mouth of Hightower river. We, after refreshing the troops, marched for that place, taking the path that leads to that town, along which the Creeks had marched, in five large trails. On the 17th instant, in the afternoon, we arrived at the forks of Coosa and Hightower rivers. Colonel Kelly was ordered, with a part of the Knox regiment, to endeavor to cross the Hightower. The Creeks, and a number of CheYokees, had entrenched themselves to obstruct the passage. Colonel Kelly and his party passed down the river, half a mile below the ford—began to cross at a private place, where there wras no ford. Himself and a few others swam over the river. The Indians, discovering his movements, immediately left their entrenchments, and ran down the river to oppose their passage, expecting, as I suppose, the w hole intended crossing at the lower place. Captain Evans immediately, with his company of mounted infantry, strained their horses back to the upper lord, and began to cross the river. Very few had got to the south bank before the Indians, who had discovered their mistake, returned,.and received them furiously at the rising of the bank. An engagement instantly took place, and became very warm; and, notwithstanding the enemy were at least four to one in number, besides the advantage of situation, Captain Evans, with his heroic company, put them, in a short time, entirely to flight. They left several dead on the ground, and were seen to carry others oil', both on foot and horseback; and trails of blood, from the wounded, were to be seen in every quarter. Their encampment tell into our hands, with a number of their guns, many of which were of the Spanish sort, w ith their budgets, blankets, and matchcoats, together with some horses. Yve lost three men in this engagement, which is all that have fell during the time of our route, although this last attack was the fourth the enemy had made upon us; but, in the others, repulsed without loss. After the last engagement, we crossed the main Coosa, where they had thrown up some works, and evacuated. They suffered us to pass unmolested. We then proceeded on our way down the main river, near the Turnip mountain, destroying in our way several Creek and Cherokee towns, which they had settled together, on each side of the river, and from which they have all fled, with apparent precipitation, leaving almost every thing behind them. Neither did they, after the last engagement, attempt to annoy or interrupt us on our march, in any manner whatever. I have great reason to believe their ardor and spirits were well checked. The party flogged at Hightower were those who had been out with Watts. There are three of our men wounded, and two or three horses killed; but the Indians did not, as I have heard of, get a single horse from us the time we were out. We took and destroyed near three hundred beeves, many of which were of the best and largest kind. Of course, their losing so much provision must distress them very much. Many women aud children might have been taken; but, from motives of humanity. INDIAN LANDS IN NORTH CAROLINA. 623 I did not encourage it to be done; and several taken were mi He red to make their escape. Your Excellency know* the disposition of' many that were'out on the expedition, and can readily account for this conduct.” By a recurrence to'the laws of the United States for the protection of the frontiers, a new view of this subject will be presented. The fifth section'of-an act, passed September 29th, 1789, entitled “An act. to recognise and adapt to the constitution of the United States, the establishment of the troops, raised under (lie resolves of the United States in Congress assembled, and for other purposes therein mentioned,” provides, “that, for the purpose of protecting the inhabitants of the United States’, from the hostile incursions of the Indians, the President is hereby authorised to call into service, from time to time, such part of the militia of the States, respectively, as he may judge necessary for the purpose aforesaid.” On the 30th of April, 1790, an act was passed " for regulating the military establishment of the United States,” by the fifteenth section of which, it is provided, “ that, for the purpose of aiding the troops now in service, or to lie raised by this act. in protecting the inhabitants of the frontiers of the United States, the President is hereby authorized to call into service, from time to time, such part of the militia of the States, respectively, as he may judge necessary for that purpose." And by the thirteenth section of the act “for making further provision for the protection of the frontiers,” passed March 5th. 1792, it is enacted,“that the President be authorized, from time to time, to call into service, and for such periods as lie may deem requisite, such number of cavalry as he may judge'necessary for the protection of the frontiers."These are all the acts of Congress on this subject. It seems worthy of remark, that they give the President power, and furnish him with force, to protect the frontiers, generally, without declaring of what nature that protection shall be. Hence may result, for the consideration of the House, a question, whether,those laws do not invest the President with authority to act offensively against (he Indian-, in case he should judge it the inost'eftectual, or the only effectual method of protecting the frontiers? The committee, indeed, find, that, on the 8th of December, 1792, the House of Representatives having before them sundry documents respecting Indian depredations, rejected amotion for authorizing the President to carry on offensive operations against some of the Southern tribes. This, however, was long before the expedition in question. and at a time when the incursions of the Indians were far less violent and destructive. The rejection of this motion may also haVe been occasioned by an opinion, that the existing laws already gave sufficient definition on that head. The next point, for the consideration of the House, relates to the instructions from the War Department to the  Governor of the Southwestern territory. Admitting the President to have possessed the power of ordering such an expedition, had he given this power to the government of that territory? For an answer to this question, the committee refer the House to the instructions themselves, as contained in the printed report from the War Department. They will add, however, one clause of the original instructions, which is omitted in that report. It is contained in the letter of May 14th, 1793, from the War Department, and i's in these words: “ Dr. Williamson has repeatedly spoken of the danger of the communication between Washington and Mem districts, and that it would be obviated, in a degree, by a small post at the crossing.of Cumberland river. This, however, and all other points of defence, must be referred to your judgment.” The committee, also, deem it worthy of the consideration of the House, how far the government of the Southwestern territory, independently of instructions or authority from the General Government, was justified in this measure, by the principles of genera! defence, as recognised by the constitution. In the tenth section of the first article, it is provided, "that no State shall engage in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of delay.” How far is the present case to be considered as a case of invasion or imminent danger? These Re questions, which it is not the province of the committee to discuss, but they have thought them important enough to be presented to the view of the House. There is, moreover? a timer view of the subject, which the committee think ought not to be omitted. It is clear, that the Governor of the Southwestern territory was invested with the command of the militia, and with power to call them into service, as well as to direct their operadions, while in the field. As to the mode of exercising these powers, he had particular instructions; but, could the militia look farther than to him? Could they refuse to obey an order from him, under the pretence of its being contrary to his instructions? Will not the government, in fine, having authorized him to act in this matter, be bound by his acts, however improper and unjustifiable? If so, it will result that, although the Secretary, in this instance, may have acted improperly, wjliout necessity, or contrary to instructions, the militia who performed service, in obedience to his orders, ought to be paid. The committee find, by an estimate of the expense, from the office of the accountant of the War Department, that the whole amount of the pay ol General Sevier's brigade, in service on this occasion, is S29,42(> 31, of which §41,009 39, including the pay of that part which did not cross the line, has been already paid: the sum, therefore, remaining due, is $22,810 95, which will be affected by the decision in this case. The whole amount for forage, provisions, &c. has already been paid. 'The committee would not consider themselves as having fully discharged their duty, did they not remark, what they have found supported by undeniable testimony, that, since tfie date of this expedition, no hostile incur,sions have been made on that ren t of the fronjler; and, that there is much reason to believe, (hat the peace, since established, has been a fruit of tne measure. To this point, the following letter from Governor Blount, dated Knoxville, November 21st, 1793, is important; it is to the Secretary of War, in these words: “ We still continue to enjoy an unexpected cessation of hostilities; the Indians, as yet, not having committed a single murder since the visit General Sevier paid the nation, by order of Secretary Smith. 1 am unable to offer any probable reason for this cessation, as all friendly communication between the Indians and the citizens of the United States, js cut off; but, my opinion is, that it is fear of a second visit, that, for the moment, restrains them." The committee find reason to believe, that this opinion was well founded, and to attribute the subsequent quiet of that quarter, and the final peace, in a great degree, to this measure. Upon the whole of the subject, the committee beg leave to recommend the following resolution: Resolved, That provision, by law, ought to be made for the payment of the balance due to General Sevier, and the troops under bis command, in the expedition undertaken in the summer and fall of 1793, by orders from the Secretary of the territory of the United States south of the river Ohio. 4th Congress.] 
