No. 124. [2d Session. TRADING HOUSES. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEBRUARY 17, 1800. Office of Indian Trade, January 16t/i, 1609. Sir: By instructions from the Secretary of War, to communjcate to you such information, as may have been acquired in this office, as to the operation of the act for establishing trading bouses with the Indian tribes, I take the liberty to address you. By that act, it is not permitted to export furs or peltries; experience has proven, that the home demand for peltries, particularly deer skins, (of which great numbers are of necessity taken from the Indians) is by no means equal to the quantity furnished; of course, if restricted to be sold here, great sacrifices will often be made. For furs, commonly used by hatters in the manufactory of hats, it is believed the demand in this country is sufficient to afford reasonable competition anil sales, but the existing restrictions operate much against the fund, by narrowing the choice, even among our own markets. It appears to have been contemplated by the present law, to pay from the treasury the salaries requisite to conduct the establishment; and. by not taxing the fund therewith, to give the Indians their supplies on better terms. The increase of the business, by adding to the number of trading houses, and spreading more extensively the benefits of the system among the various tribes, has, however, in part, compelled a departure from this plan, and occasioned heavy draughts on the trading fund. The law authorized the President to draw from the Treasury, annually, a sum not exceeding ten thousand dollars, tor the payment of the salaries of agents and their clerks, on the frontiers, and allows them to draw ralions from the public supplies. These (the rations) have been commuted into subsistence money, which is paid from the funds of this establishment. There are, at this time, located, and supplied on the frontiers, twelve trading houses, eleven of which are in full operation, and one will commence as soon as the spring opens. Of these, three have been established during the last year. The salaries now paid for conducting them, are, TO AGENTS. 8 at 1,000 dollar and 365 do 3 at 800 do and 365 do l at 750 do and 270 do I at o o dollar and 180 do I at 500 do and 180 do 5 at '500 do and 150 do subsistence money, per annum, subsistence money, per annum, subsistence money, TO ASSISTANT AGENTS, OR CLERKS. per annum, 7 subsistence money, 3 per annum, 7 subsistence money, 3 per annum, 7 subsistence money, 3 $10,920 00 3,495 00 1,020 00 780 00 CSO 00 3,250 00 $20,115 00 Interpreters are requisite at most of the posts; the average rate of salary is $400 per annum, say at eight posts, - - - - - - [3,200 00 It will be seen, by the statement above, that, of the twelve factories, seven only have assistant agents, or clerks; three additional will probably be wanting, at $650 per annum, 1,950 00 $25,295 00 The allowance for clerks for this office, payable from the treasury, is one thousand dollars per annum; fourteen hundred dollars are paid, of which, four hundred dollars from the fund of this establishment, as in the case of the agents at the trading houses. An additional accounting clerk is indispensably necessary, as the business of the office cannot be kept up with the present assistance. Should it, therefore, be thought right to appropriate, from the treasury, enough to cover the annual expense of employing agents, clerks, and assistants, twenty-five thousand three hundred dollars for the trading houses on the frontiers, and two thousand four hundred for this office, will be requisite. Whether it will be necessary to add to the general fund, for the purposes of trade with the Indian tribes, depending, in a great measure, on the policy of extending the system, it is not for me to give an opinion. It is, however, proper to remark, that the last has been an unfortunate year for the establishment, as well that the peltries depending for sale on foreign demand are a dead and perishing stock on hand, as that'most of the articles usually laid in for the supplies of the factories, have risen considerably in price. From the nature of the business of this oliice, you will readily see, sir, that the correspondence must be constant and extensive; and I beg to submit to you the propriety of extending the privilege of franking to it, as to other public offices. With very great respect. I have the honor to be, sir, your very obedient servant, J. MASON, The Hon. Thomas Newton, Superintendent of Indian Trade. Chairman of the Committee of Commerce and Manufactures. 10th Congress.] 
