No. 45. [1st Session. .SOU T H W E S T E R N T RIB E S. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, JANUARY 30. 1794. Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House of Representatives: Communications have been made to Congress, during the present session, with the intention of affording a full view of the posture of affairs on the Southwestern frontiers. By the information which has lately been laid before Congress, it appeared that the difficulties with the Creeks had been amicably and happily terminated. But it will be perceived with regret, by the papers herewith transmitted, (hat the tranquillity has, unfortunately, been of short duration, owing to (he murder of several friendly Indians, by some lawless'.white men. The condition of things, in that quarter, requires the serious and immediate consideration of Congress, and the adoption of such wise and vigorous laws as will be competent to the preservation of the national character, and of the|peace made under the authority of the United States with the several Indian tribes. Experience demonstrates that the existing legal provisions are entirely inadequate to those great objects. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, January 30th, 1794. Copy of a letter from Constant Freeman, agent for the Department of War, in Georgia, to the Secretary of War, ■ dated Fort Fidius, 1st, Junuary, 1794. Sir: I had the honor to write you yesterday, and to inform you of the flattering prospects there then was of all differences being amicably settled, between the inhabitants of this country and the Creeks. But an unfortunate event, which happened on the 28th of last month, may destroy our best hopes. The Bird-tail king and eight of his town were most treacherously attacked by a party of whites, about fifteen miles on the other side ot the Oconee, and two of their number killed. The Indians fled to this post for safety. They came in this morning. They demand, in the most peremptory terms, the reasons of such procedure; allege that they have solaced themselves under the protection of the United States, and were hunting on their own lands, under the assurance of safety pledged to them by Mr. Sea grove, the agent. The Bird-tail king particularly recapitulated the talks given out at New York, in 1790, and those since made to his nation, in the name of (he President of the United States, which he said he had always believed very true, and on which he had hitherto relied. We have made every exertion in our power to pacify them. It is a most unfortunate affair, and may destroy the friendship of this worthy chief, who has uniformly shewn himself a real friend of this country. I have written to the Governor, requesting him to take measures to bring the murderers to justice. Enclosed is a copy of my letter. _ I should send a duplicate of my last, did I not expect'that you would receive this by the same post. I have the honor to be, &c. 2d.—I now, sir, enclose you die duplicate of a declaration made by Bartlet Walker, relative to the murder of the Indians abovementioned. I am seriously alarmed for the safety of the Bird-tail king and his men, as I make no doubt but that there are several parties novv out on the watch for him. It seems to be the determination of some people in this country to prevent all reconciliation with the Creeks. [enclosures. ] Constant Freeman to the Governor of Georgia. Fort Fidius, Is/ January, 1794. Sir: It gives me pain to inform your Excellency of an unfortunate circumstance which lias taken place within a few clays, and which may interrupt the harmony between the inhabitants of Georgia and the Creek Indians, if measures should not be immediately adopted to prevent this calamity. On the 28th of last month, the White Bird-tail king and eight Cussetahs. encouraged by assurances of safety from Mr. Seagrove, were hunting on this side the Oakmulgee, when two of their number were most treacherously murdered by a party of whites, about midway between that river and the Oconee. Three men. who appeared to be hunters, came to their camp, without arms. The Indians received and entertained them in a friendly manner, gave them something to eat, and shewed them every attention in their power. After staying some time with the Indians, they left them, and returned, with their arms and the rest of their party, tired upon and killed two of them. The Bird-tail king and the other six immediately fled: and, this day. they came to this post, to demand the reasons why they had been thus attacked, while they were hunting under the protection of the United States. They were also induced to make us this visit, because they knew that Weatherford was at this time here, on business from Mr. Sea-grove. Every possible exertion has been made by the commanding officer to pacify them, and I have assured them that I would write to your Excellency, and solicit for them the justice which their case seems to require. 1 am induced to believe that it is directly contrary to your Excellency's wishes that any armed party should cross the river, especially while Mr. Seagrove is endeavoring to induce the Indians to peace, and is on the eve of this happy event. It will be impossible for the United States to keep the Indians quiet, if such atrocious acts should be permitted to go unpunished. I therefore request that your Excellency would be pleased to issue such orders as you may judge expedient for bringing the perpetrators to justice. The Bird-tail king and his party will re-cross the river to-morrow, and return to their nation. It is to be apprehended that some mischief may ensue. The Bird-tail king, how ever, has promised me that he will not retaliate, but wait until he can learn what measures may be adopted to do him justice. 1 am extremely sorry that, after the information I gave your Excellency yesterday, of the peaceable temper of the Indians, I should so soon have reason to complain against the whites. Mr. Newman, who will deliver your Excellency this letter, will return immediately to this post. He will receive your orders. 1 have the honor to be, &c. 2d January.—Since w riting the abo\ e. a young man, by the name of Walker, has made the enclosed declaration, which I have thought of sufficient consequence to transmit to your Excellency. I have further to add. that a Mr. Booth has this moment informed me that an express was sent last night to Captain Sand ford, from Major Adams, of Greene county, ordering him to collect as many men as possible, and meet him this morning at the Cedar Shoals, eight or ten miles above this post, in order to pursue the Indians. Captain Sand-ford is absent, therefore his men were not collected. The Indians crossed the river about half past twelve tins day. Burtlet Walker's declaration: Personally appeared Bartlct Walker, aged sixteen years, and declares, in presence of Almighty God, that he was at Chambers' mill, upon Shoulderbone creek, on the 31st of last month, and that he there heard Captain Jonathan Adams, of Greene county, in the State of Georgia, declare, that he, and three others, did, on last Saturday, fire upon, and kill, two Indians, on the other side of the Oconee; that he, the said Adams, did kill one of the said Indians himself, and the other was killed by the lire of two ol his party: that one ot his party did not fire; and that he, nor any of hi> party, did not go near the Indians whom they had killed, and farther saith not. BARTLET WALKER. Signed in the presence of us R. B. Rouf.rts. ( apt. 2d sub-legion I. S. Tn os. M arrin. Capt. \st sub-legion I. .V. Staats Morris, Lieut, of the O. S. .Artillery, Fred. Ualcho, S. M. Fort Fidius. Thursday. 2d January. 1794. Copy of a letter from Richard Brooke Roberts. Captain in the second sub-legion, in the army of the United States, to the Secretary of TUar, dated Fort Fidius, January 2d, 1794. Sir: Major Gaither being gone on a visit to the lower posts, and the command here devolving on me. I think it my duty to inform you of the most wanton and deliberate murder, committed, on the 28th ultimo, on a hunting party of Indians, friendly to the United States. This party were then hunting by leave of Mr. Seagrove, who is at present in tlie Creek nation. The perpetrators of this murder were out as spies on the other side of the Oconee, by what authority I know' not. Tuskatehee Mico. or the White-bird-tail king, with six warriors of the Cnssetah tow n, came into this post yesterday, at noon, to know' the meaning of such outrages: for, it seems, the Indians killed were from his town. He seemed greatly concerned, and wished for some redress. I made use ot every argument I was master of. to convince him the United States, far from authorizing such licentious acts, had ordered a peaceable conduct towards the friendly Indians, and wished for a peace, which they thought, with the A\ hite-bird-tai! king, was about to be established. I told them I should write to you and the Governor of the State, who would put an end to such bad behavior in future. That I requested they would neither retaliate on Air. Seagrove, nor any of the whites, until they heard from you. Such arguments, and supplying them with every thing they stood in need of, seemed at length to appease them. I have turn idled them with a passport to hunt, to come and go, to and from, this post, whenever they pleased. It is impossible to say, sir, whether this pass will be regarded by the Georgians or not, as some of them have been heard publicly to declare, the death of Mr. Seagrove is what they earnestly desired; and, 1 have not a doubt, this murder was done with a view ol' retaliating on the agent. Captain Freeman will forward to you the declaration of a young man, signed in the presence of the officers, informing who the perpetrators of the murder were. It has also gone on to the Governor, to whom I have written on this occasion, and requested a stop might be put to such outrageous acts, if he wished not to see his country involved in a war, shocking to humanity. A copy of the letter to the Governor is enclosed. Copy of a letter from Captain Richard B. Roberts to the Governor of Georgia, (enclosed in the foregoing.) Fort Fidius, January 2, 1794. Sir: It is with the greatest regret that the painful task is left me to inform your Excellency of the most perfidious and wanton murder, committed on the 28th ultimo, by some of the militia of this State, on a hunting party of friendly Indians; Tuskatchee Mico, or the White-bird-tail k:ing, with six warriors, arrived at this post yesterday, about noon, and informed me that, on the 28th ultimo, as they were quietly encamped some where on the little river, a party of about three white men came unarmed into their encampment, where they met with a friendly reception, and experienced acts of hospitality from the savages; such as eating with them; that they then went away; but, soon after, returned, with their arms, and fired on the helpless encampment, by which means two Indians were killed. The unfortunate fate of these two Indians is more peculiarly offensive, to the savages, as they were all of the Cussetah town. The White-bird-tail king wished to know front me, whether this party had gone out by authority, and proceeded to say he had met Mr. Seagrove at that town, and received him as a brother; that he went from thence into the Upper Creek towns, where he met the like reception. That the Creeks had supposed, from Mr. Seagrove, that a firm peace was established between the United States and them; that he had obtained leave from the agent to hunt; that the Cussctahs xvere always known to be friends to the whites; when any of their young men had committed depredations, and brought horses to their town, he invariably returned them; that, before he ever came into the settlements, he had been fired upon, and lost two of his townsmen; that it appeared to him to be a concerted matter, and that the declaration of peace was no more than a mask for their destruction. I urged every thing in iny power to convince him that the murder was perpetrated by some lawless people, contrary to the wish or inclination of the United States, or the authority of this State; that we all anxiously wished for a permanent peace; that I would inform vou of it, and I was very sure you would take such measures as to put an end to the like enormities in future. I take leave to represent to your Excellency, and my duty to the United States, as one of their officers, urges me to do so, that, Mr. Seagrove being among the savages at this-moment, he is, in some degree, a hostage for the due performance of peaceable acts; anil should a stop not be put to such unjustifiable proceedings, his life must pay the forfeit. Humanity is shocked at the dreadful thought, that one of our countrymen, in the very act of making peace, should fall a victim to the wanton barbarity of a set of unthinking lawless men. I have this moment received certain intelligence that Captain Adams, of Shoulderbone, was the commander of the party that killed the Indians. Bartlet Walker, the son of a citizen, about a mile from this post, is ready to swear he heard Adams say he shot one of them. I have the honor to be, &c. R. B. ROBERTS. Copy of a letter from Governor Blount to the Secretary of Thar, dated Knoxville, December 26th, 1793. Sir: I enclose you copies of three letters, received four days past, from John McKee; they contain all the information I have received from the Cherokees, since my return trom Philadelphia. On Monday, the 23d instant, a party of Indians, the number unknown, way-laid a path leading from Well’s Station, (blockhouses) and fired upon a party of citizens conveying a wagon load of corn, from a neighboring plantation to the station, for the subsistence of their families, killed Roger Oates and Nicholas Ball, captured a mulatto boy, and took the wagon horses—Well’s Blockhouses are twenty two miles from this place. A gun, of the description of those given by the Spaniards to the Creeks, was left on the ground by the Indians, which gives reason to suspect some of them were Creeks, and this suspicion is strengthened by the information of Charles Tucker to John McKee. I have not heard from Mero district since the_20th November, and on this part it is most probable the party of Creeks mentioned by Tucker will aim their blow. I have the honor, &c. John McKee to Governor Blount. Oconee Mountain, frontiers South Carolina, November 18, 1793. Sir: _ Under your instructions of the 17th ultimo, 1 proceeded to this place by way of Swannano and General Pickens’. At Swannano I did not go to the extreme frontier, as I learned from good authority that a communication with the Cherokee nation from that quarter* was impracticable, owing to the violent conduct of a Captain ^ Smith,--------Davidson, (son of Colonel William Davidson)------Foster, and two or three others, who way-laid the path leading from Davidson’s to the nation, and killed two Cherokee fellows, who had been peaceably trading in the settlement, and took a woman prisoner, whom they despatched in a day or two, with a letter from Major William Wilson, informing the Indians that the mischief was done by people from the territory, which so far pacified them that they have not yet killed any person on that frontier. 1 was detained by heavy rains, and consequent high waters, and General Pickens had .started to Philadelphia a few days previous to my arrival at his house. The communication from this place with the Indians is more difficult than I expected to find it, as the Georgians, it is said, are almost daily lying on the path leading to the nation, so that those who pass have to pass along some by-way in the mountain. Indeed, some people in this neighborhood, though they have been injured by the Cherokees less than any frontier adjacent to that nation, talk very rash, and denounce many threats. 1 have been advised by some traders, lately from the nation, that it would be extremely dangerous for me to go in at this time, and I have therefore declined it for the present; but, from the best information I can get, the chiefs, of the Upper towns are desirous of peace, though their young fellows are daily stealing horses from the frontiers of the territory, and that the Lower towns, with Watts and the Bloody Fellow, are for war. These two chiefs, with many others from different parts of the nation, were at the massacreing of Caret’s family, and I have been informed one of the family, a small boy, is yet alive, and a prisoner in the Creek nation; he was taken by Watts, who had no other way of saving him from the tury of the young fellows,but by giving him to the Creeks. There is also a prisoner, supposed from the Greasy Cove, of Lewis’s family, now in the Valley towns, the young fellows of which are daily in the habit of committing depredations on the frontiers of Washington and Hamilton districts, and two or three of them have lately been killed on Pigeon—so says Charles Tucker. I have despatched the letter of the Secretary of War, of the 27th of August last, anil by the bearer have requested the Maw to come to this place to see me: if he comes, I shall be enabled fully to inform you of the situation and disposition of the nation; if he should not come, I have instructed the bearer of the letter to go to the Lower towns, ana at his return to let me know their intentions. Tucker says that, about eight days ago, near three hundred Creeks had passed through the Cherokee nation, for war against the territory, anil that they intended to divide in small parties, and skulk along the frontiers. I have the, &c. On the frontiers of North Carolina- THE SOUTHWESTERN TRIBES. 475 Knoxville, December 26, 1793. The circumstances attending the killing the Indians at Swannano, on the frontier of North Carolina, mentioned by Mr. McKee, as they have been represented to me by various reporters, and I believe truly,are, “ that some Che-rokees, in the latter part of September, or the early part of October, went to the house of Colonel William Davidson, of Buncombe county, trading, and as they were peaceably returning home, Captain Smith, young Mr. Davidson, (son of the Colonel) Mr. Foster, and others, forelaid them on their path, fired on them, anti killed two fellows, and made a woman prisoner, and, after keeping her some days, sent her to the nation with a letter, giving information that the two fellows were killed by the people of the territory south of the Ohio. This false information was given the nation no doubt to the end that satisfaction might be taken upon the inhabitants of the territory south of Ohio, and not upon the guilty persons residing on the frontier of North Carolina. The citizens of North Carolina were without the color of justification tor this barbarous and treacherous murder: for it is a fact, that no citizen of that State has been killed by Indians since the treaties of New York and Holston. WILLIAM BLOUNT. John McKee to Governor Blount. Oconee Mountain, November 26, 1793. Sir: Since my last, of the 18th instant, I have seen no person from (lie nation, and I am afraid it will be some time before any Indians can be prevailed on to coine in: for, I am sorry to say, that even the conduct of Captain Beard is eclipsed by the conduct ol some men from Keowee, about eight miles from this place, on Tuesday last, the 19th instant, who, in number twelve, armed, set out for the nation, under pretence of recovering some horses they said they had lost, and they acknowledge that an Indian fellow, who had taken them from the thief, gave them up, gave them victuals, and piloted them through the most difficult part of their road home; after which, they met a peaceable young fellow, who had been in the settlements trading, and without any provocation, in cold blood, wantonly put him to death. If such flagitious acts are permitted to pass unpunished, it will be m vain to make any attempts towards the re-establishinent of peace. The proper officers have had notice of the murder, but what will be done I know not. 1 have, &c. John McKee to Governor Blount. Oconee Mountain, December 5, 1793. Slit: Two of the perpetrators of the murder, mentioned in my letter of the 26th ultimo, have been taken before a magistrate; but, as there was no proof, except their own previous acknowledgment, which they then retracted, they were not committed, and it may be, that they raised the report to alarm the frontiers, though I am afraid it is too true. Yesterday Mr. Edward Adair arrived from the nation, and informs me that the Little Turkey, John Watts, Eskaqua, and a number of the other chiefs, have gone to the Walnut Hills, where a deputation from the Cherokee, Creek, Chickasaw, and-Choctaw nations, and Ehawanese if any were in the Cherokee nation, are invited,.to a treaty or conference with the Spaniards, whose last talks to the Cherokees were expressive of a strong desire that they should lire at peace with their neighbors the citizens of the United States, unless invaded in their territory, and then to fight with all their force, and they should be supported; and that they have actually built a strong fort in Will’s town, in expectation that the Spaniards would man it. Mr. Adair also says that, the Glass, and some others of the chiefs, talk strongly for peace.'tlie attainment ol which desirable object, in my opinion, depends on the conference with the Spaniards, from which (1 will speak plainly) 1 anticipate but little good to the United States: for, though I hope and believe the Spanish Government is well affected towards the United States, yet I am afraid some influential character, under that Government, has been active in spurring on these infatuated people to persevere in their acts of hostility. 1 intend going to Will's town, and the other Lower towns, as soon as Watts returns, if I find I can do it with any prospect of safety. 3d Congress.] 
