No. 72. [2d Session. THE CREEKS AND SEVEN NATIONS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 4, 1797. Gentlemen of the Senate: I lay before you, for your consideration, a treaty which has been negotiated and concluded on, the twenty-ninth day of June last, by Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, and George Clymer, commissioners on behalf of the United States, with the Creek Indians, together with the instructions* which were given to the said commissioners, and the proceedings at the place of treaty. I submit, also, the proceedings and result of the treaty held at the city of New York, on behalf of the State of New York, with certain nations or tribes of Indians, denominating themselves the Seven Nations of Canada. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, January 4//t, 1797. A treaty of peace and friendship, made and concluded between the President of the United States of America, on the one part, and behalf of the said States, and the undersigned kings, chiefs, and warriors, of the Creek nation of Indiuns, on the part of the said nation. 'I'he parties being desirous of establishing permanent peace and friendship between the United States and the said Creek nation, and the citizens and members thereof, and to remove the causes of war, by ascertaining their limits, and making other necessary, just, and friendly arrangements, the President of the United States, by Benjamin Hawkins, George Clymer, and Andrew Pickens, commissioners, whom he hath constituted with powers for these purposes, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and the Creek nation of Indians, by the undersigned kings, chiefs, and warriors, representing the whole Creek nation, have agreed to the following articles: Article 1. The treaty entered into at New York, between the parties, on the 7th day of August, 1790, is, and shall remain, obligatory on the contracting parties, according to the terms of it, except as herein provided for. Article 2. The boundary line from the Currahee mountain to the head or source of the main south branch of the Oconee river, called by the white people Apalachy, and by the Indians, Tulapockal and down the middle of the same, shall be clearly ascertained and marked, at such time, and in such manner, as the President shall direct. And the Indians will, on being informed of the determination of the President, send as many of their old chiefs as he may require, to see the line ascertained and marked. * The instructions are not on file. Article 3. The President of the United States of America shall have full powers, whenever he mav deem it advisable, to establish a trading or military post on the south side of the Altamaha. on the bluff about one mile above Beard’s bluff, or any where from thence, down the said river, on the lands of the Indians, to garrison the same with any part of the military force of the United States, to protect the po$t. and to prevent the violation oi any of the provisions or regulations subsisting between the parties. An id the Indians, do hereby annex to the post aforesaid, a tract of land of five miles square, bordering, one side on the river, which post, and the lands annexed thereto, are hereby ceded to. and shall be to the use. and under the government of. the United States of America. Article 4. As soon as the President of the United States has determined on the time and manner of running the line from the Currahee mountain to the head or source of the main south branch of the Oconee, and notified the chiefs of the Creek land of the same, a suitable number of person*, on their part, shall attend to see the same completed. And if the President should deem it proper, then to fix on any place or places adjoining the river, and on the Indian lands, for military or trading po*ts, the Creeks who attend there will concur in fixing the same, according to the wishes of the President. And to each post, the Indians shall annex a tract of land, of five miles square, bordering, one side on the river. And the said lands shall be to the use. and under the government, of the United States of America. Provided, always, That, whenever any of the trading or military posts mentioned in this treaty, shall, in the opinion of the President of the United States of America, be no longer necessary, for the purposes intended by this cession, the same shall revert to. and become a part of. the Indian lands. Article 5. Whenever the President of the United States of America and the King of Spain may deem it advisable to mark the boundaries which separate their territories, the President shall give notice thereof to the Creek chiefs, who will furnish two principal chiefs and twenty hunters, to accompany the persons employed in this business, as hunters and guides, from the Choctaw country to the head of St. Mary's. The chiefs shall receive, each, half a dollar per day, and the hunters one quarter of a dollar each, per day. and ammunition, and a reasonable value for the meat delivered by them for the use of the persons on this service. Article G. The treaties of Hopewell, between the United States and the Choctaws and Chickasaws. and at Hols-ton. between the Cherokee* and the United States, mark the boundaries of those tribes of Indians. And the Creek nation do hereby relinquish all claims to any part of the territory inhabited or claimed by the citizens of the United States, in conformity with the said treaties. Article 7. The Creek nation shall deliver, as soon as practicable, to the Superintendent of Indian Affairs, at *11011 place as he may direct, all citizens of the United States, white inhabitants and negroes, who are nour prisoners in any part of the said nation, agreeable to the treaty at New York; and also, all citizens, w hite inhabitants, negroes, and property, taken since the signing of that treaty. And if any such prisoners, negroes, or property, should not be delivered on or before the first day of January next, the Governor of Georgia may empower three persons to repair to the said nation, in order to claim and receive such prisoners, negroes, and property, under the direction of the President of the United States. Article 8. In consideration of the friendly disposition of the Creek nation towards the Government of the United States, evidenced in the stipulations in the present treaty, and particularly the leaving it in the discretion of the President to establish trading or military posts on their lands: the commissioners of the United States, on behalf of the said States, give to the said nation, goods, to the value of six thousand dollars, and stipulate to send to the Indian nation, two blacksmiths, with strikers, to be employed for the Upper and Lower Creeks, with the necessary tools. Article 9. All animosities, for past grievances, shall henceforth cease, and the contracting parties will carry the foregoing treaty into full execution, with all good faith and sincerity: Provided, nevertheless. That persons now under arrest in tire State of Georgia, for a violation of the treaty at New York, are not to be included in this amnesty, but are to abide the decision of law. Article 10. This‘treaty shall take effect, and be obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as the same shall have been ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Done at Coleraine, the twentv-ninth of June, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-six. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. GEORGE CLYMER. ANDREW PICKENS. TUSTINCKE HAJO. Witness. J. Seagrove. Superintendent Indian Affairs. C. X. el al. And by a number of others. Coleraixe, I‘2th May, 177'G. Benjamin Hawkins, one of the commissioners for holding a treaty with the Creek nation of Indians, arrived: he came by land from Savannah. l3//i. Captain Eaton, the Captain commanding, being unable to give the requisite information relative to the supplies and preparations for the intended treaty; the assistants to the contractor, and the superintendent, being equally misinformed, a letter was w ritten and sent to Mr. Seagrove, at the town of St. Mary's, to inform him of the arrival of one of the commissioners. Coleraine, 13//i May, 1796. Sir: I arrived here last evening from Savannah. I left that place on Monday. I had heard of the arrival of Mr. Clymer, at Charleston, but had not heard any thing of General Pickens. The commissioners of Georgia expected to set out from Savannah to-morrow, and to be here by the 20th. They will come by water. 1 wish you would fur nish me with a copy of the law for regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, the treaty of New York with the Creeks, and your subsequent agreement with them. I hope for the pleasure of seeing you shortly. B. HAWKINS. James Seagrove, Superintendent of Indian Affairs. Mr. Price, the-factor, informed the commissioners, that the sloop William, Captain Simkins, had arrived at St. Mary’s, from Philadelphia, with stores for the commissioners of the United States; that Mr. Clymer had sailed in the vessel, and put into Charleston; that he had determined to come from thence by land: that the vessel or stores was addressed to the commissioners; in their absence, to him: and that she might be expected to arrive at this port in a day or two. Mr. Price was requested to take charge of the stores, to receipt for them, and to hold them till the further order of the commissioners. Uth. Received information, the first since the departure of the superintendent’s messenger, that some Indians were on the way from the nation, and may be expected to arrive in a day or two. I accompanied the officers to view the state of the garrison; every one industriously employed. Finding tfiat the accommodations for the commissioners were not in train of execution, owing to the want of some person whose immediate duty it was to superintend them, I requested Captain Eaton to use his endeavors to aid in the preparations, which he obligingly promised to do. The officers of the garrison all immediately offered their aid, also, and very politely made a tender of their furniture, apartments, &c. U>tn. Mr. Seagrove and Colonel Gaither arrived from St. Mary's. The Colonel visited me, gave assurances of his disposition to do every thing in his power to have the necessary accommodations prepared for the commissioners and Indians, and his readiness to execute any regulations that might be deemed advisable on the occasion. Mr. Sea- grove informed me, that his messenger had not returned from the nation, but that he momently expected him. That he received the letters from the War Office, to invite the Indians, only on the 6th of April; and that it was probable the Indians, if they came at all, would not be here till the 1st or 10th of June. Upon inquiry he further informed, that lie had despatched a single messenger, only, to the nation, and that he had not, as yet, any accounts of his arrival. That, on the 9th of April, he sent the letters he received from the War Office, to the Governor of the State, to notify' him of the intended treaty. 16th. The Indians which I had heard of being on their way, arrived, and informed ns, that the messenger had arrived in their nation, with the invitation from the War Office, to attend the proposed treaty, and that it was probable the Indians would be down by' the 1st of June. There were about twenty, mostly connected with traders, and they brought with them seventy or eighty cattle, for sale. I inquired, particularly, of them, how their nation received the invitation, and what, for a representation, we might expect would attend; they gave but an imperfect account; they said there were bad talks in the nation circulated, mostly by agents of Spain, sent from Panton. The purport of them were, that they would meet the Georgians here, in arms, who wanted their lands, and would find means to get them by fair or foul means. They appear, upon the whole, to be much in want of information. I recommended to Mr. Seagrove to send another messenger, to meet those who might be on the path, to inform them of my being here; and also, to direct that people might be sent back to the nation, with the requisite information. There being no prospect of seeing any Indians in the course of five or six days, and having paid all the attention I could, to the several objects that required it of me here, I determined to go down the river to St. Mary’s, with Mr. Seagrove. 1 leave this at five o’ clock in the afternoon, with Mr. Seagrove and Captain Atkinson, a gentleman in the service of Spain, and now a resident near Amelia Island; he came to St. Mary’s, and being informed of my being here, an old acquaintance of his, he came to visit me. He informed me that the Governor of East Florida, Colonel White, was daily expected to arrive; that they had not as yet received any information from their court, relative to the treaty with the United States; that the copy sent to them by Mr. Seagrove, had been forwarded to the Havana; that the merchants there were much dissatisfied with the privileges allowed, in the navigation of the Missisippi, to the citizens of the United States; that the establishment at New Orleans, or even the equivalent, would deprive them of an enormously valuable trade, which they had calculated upon engrossing. Town of St. Mary’s, 17th. Arrived this morning, at ten o’clock, at the town of St. Mary’s, being sixty miles by water, and only thirty by land. The river St. Mary’s is narrow, rarely more than eighty yards wide, very crooked, but deep, generaly twenty-live feet water the whole course from Coleraine; the bottom a limestone rock, the sides perpendicular, to which vessels can any where lie close to the banks; the flat swamp has every where a natural or artificial mound or dyke, to hinder the tide from inundating it; the river is very little increased by any rain, even in what is called the rainy season, and never so as to overflow its banks. The river being so crooked and narrow, vessels must tide it up and down, their sails being seldom of any use. 18th and 19th. Amused myself these days in visiting the garrison at this place, under the command of Lieutenant Cobb, and the fort at Point Peter. The post arriving with the northern mail, I availed myself of this conveyance to write to the Secretary of War. Town of St. Mary’s, 19th May, 1796. Si r : I acknowledged the receipt of your favor of the 14th ultimo, from Savannah, on the 10th of this month. I would, by this conveyance, send a duplicate, but I left my servant there with my baggage, to be sent round by water, and he has not yet arrived. 1 left Savannah oil the 10th, and travelled through the country to Coleraine, where I arrived on the 12th. Mr. Seagrove, has not as yet had any return from the Creeks, in answer to the invitation sent to them. There arrived at Coleraine on the 16th, twenty or thirty Indians, with some cattle; they informed u.s of the arrival of his messenger in the nation, and that it was probable the Indians would be down by the first of June. The officers have made great exertions to erect the necessary fortifications and houses for barracks, and the other accommodations, at Coleraine; a regular return of which, I presume, you will receive from Colonel Gaither. I have not heard any thing from Mr. Clymer. General Pickens, or the Georgia commissioners. I came to this place on the 17th, and shall return to-morrow. Mr. Seagrove is here; and the contractor, Mr. Johnson, is at Savannah; he is daily expected. 1 shall, immediately on his return, make such arrangements as the existing state of things may require. If there should be a necessity for it, before the arrival of the other commissioners, I shall look for, and appoint, the most suitable person I can find, to receive the provisions from the contractor, and issue them to the Indians; and I shall furnish him with the forms you have enclosed, for his government, and enjoin a compliance therewith. The vessel sent round with necessaries for the commissioners, is, by this, arrived at her destined port. The distance of this, by land, is estimated at thirty, and by water at sixty miles; the river narrow and crooked, very little wind, and that unfavorable, so that she has been only able to tide it up. Mr. Price had received his orders relative to her, before I left there. I request the favor of you to assure the President of my sincere wishes lor his happiness, and to believe me, with sincere regard. 'Your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. The Honorable James McHenry, Secretary of JVar. I was this day informed that Mr. Clymer was at Savannah lately, and might be daily expected to arrive here. 31 st. Mr. Moore, the messenger, sent with the invitation to the Creeks to attend the proposed treaty at Coleraine, arrived. He speaks rather doubtfully of the coming of the Creeks; yet seems to insinuate only, in my estimation, that we shall have a full meeting by the 10th of June. I asked him several questions; he answered readily, the result of which was, that sufficient pains had not been taken to induce the Indians to attend the invitation from tlie War Office. A solitary messenger, sent with the invitation to the agents in the nation, not pressed to promulgate it, were the means used to ensure a full representation. I requested Mr. Seagrove to give the earliest notice to the Governor, of the determination of some, or all, of the chiefs, to attend the invitation. lie immediately ordered the messenger to return to Coleraine, with a request to Colonel Gaither to despatch a messenger to the Governor, with the letter he wrote for the occasion. - 22(/. I had intended, this day, to return to Coleraine, but being informed, on the 20th, that Mr. Clymer might be momently expected, I determined to wait for him. He arrived last evening, and being much fatigued, I determined to wait for him a day or so, as the object of our mission could not receive any injury by the delay. The mail from this to Savannah being carried but once a fortnight, I, for various considerations, yesterday determined, and so wrote, to the contractor, requesting him, if he could conveniently, and at a reasonable price, cause the mail to be carried from Coleraine to Savannah once a week, that I, though not expressly authorized, would give him a draught on the proper office. The mail coming from Savannah passes within three miles of Coleraine, and it would be. quite as convenient to the rider to pass within one mile. An opportunity offering, I wrote this day to the Secretary of War: Town of St. Mary’s, 22d May, 1796. Sin: Being informed, on the 20th, that Mr. Clymer might be expected to arrive in a day or two, at furthest, from Savannah, I determined to wait for him, and the Georgia commissioners. He arrived late last evening. He saw two of the commissioners, but does not know when we may expect them to arrive at Coleraine. Mr. Seagrove has informed you of the return of his messenger from the Creeks: by him I find, that it is at least probable that we shall not have a full meeting of the Creeks till the tenth of June. The mail being carried from this to Savannah once a fortnight, and as it may be important that you should be advised weeklv of the transactions of the commissioners, during our negotiations with the Indians, and necessary that a correspondence should be kept up with the Governor of this State, as well as with some of the officers of Government at Savannah, 1 have taken upon myself to write to the contractor for carrying the mail, to cause it to be carried once a week, during the continuance of the negotiation only, if he could conveniently do it, and at a reasonable price. If he cannot, we shall avail ourselves of another resource, as often as a fit occasion shall offer. We shall set out for Coleraine to-morrow. I am, with sincere regard and esteem, sir, your obedient'servant. ' BENJAMIN HAWKINS. James McHenry, Esq. Secretary of War. Mr. Clymer being much fatigued with his inland passage, and there being no immediate call for us at Coleraine, we determined on going for that place on the 24th. . '    ' Coleraine, '2oth May'. We, yesterday, set out from the town of St. Mary's, and arrived here this morning. We, this day, informed Col. Gaither, that, being empowered to appoint a suitable person to receive from the contractor the provisions, and to issue them to the Indians, they would, in conformitv with an intimation from the Secretary of War, give a preference to an officer under his command, recommended by him. The Colonel recommended Ensign Samuel Allin-son, who was appointed accordingly. Mr. Allinson attended on the commissioners,-and was informed, that a commission would be made out for him in a day or two; in the mean time he would examine the forms which were sent for his government. . 2&th. The commissioners, after mature consideration, deemed it advisable to make the following regulations: Coleraine, on St. Mary's, 26//t May, 1796. . The commissioners for holding a treaty with the Creek nation of Indians, in order to prevent quarrels, improper behavior, or mal -practices, during the negotiation, have judged proper, in virtue of the powers and authorities vested in them, to make the following regulations: 1. The Indians are to encamp on the river bank, above the. garrison, convenient to the spring and the river. 2. The superintendent is to fix his residence within the Indian encampment. 3. No citizen of the United States is to be permitted to encamp with, or near to. the Indians, except such as are under the direction of the superintendent. 4. No citizen is to be permitted to enter the Indian camp in arms. _ _ 5. No citizen is to visit .the Indians, or hold conversation with them, except with a permit from the commissioners of the United States, or either of them. . 6. No citizen is to be in arms in the garrison, or neighborhood of it: and, on the arrival of any visiters, who may travel with arms, they are to be informed of this order, and required to conform thereto. 7. No citizen is to be permitted to furnish, by sale or gift, any spirituous liquors to the Indians, or to have any com- mercial traffic with them. ' _ '8. These regulations are to be posted up at the two gates of the garrison, and at the residence of the superintendent. BENJAMIN HAWKINS, GEORGE CLYMER. The foregoing regulations were sent to Colonel Gaither with this note: Coleraine, St. Mary’s, 26th May,, 1796. Sir: I enclose to you the regulations, which the commissioners for holding a treaty with the Creek nation of Indians  have judged proper to make, in virtue of the powers and authorities vested in them, in order to prevent quarrels, improper behavior, or mal-practices, during the negotiation. The commissioners request that you will take the necessary measures to cause the same to be observed. I am, with sincere regard, sir, your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Henry Gaither, Lt. Col. Commandant. The Colonel returns this answer: Fort Pickering, 26th May. 1796. Gentlemen: . * I have, with pleasure, received your regulations for my government, and that of the citizens who may think proper to attend the intended treaty at this place. Believe me, gentlemen, the line you have drawn, I will, as far as in my power, have strictly observed by all ranks of citizens, and the soldiers nnder my command; and shall be happy in receiving any other regulations that respect the business you have embarked in, should it be found necessary to offer them. HENRY GAITHER, Lt. Col. Commandant. The Hon. Commissioners of the United States. The commissioners finding that, from the manner of appointing a contractor for supplying the Indians, or some other cause, the superintendent of Indian affairs did not deem it his duty, expressly, to provide accommoda tions for them, and that it would be several days before those intended by .the commandant, would be in readiness, they requested Colonel Gaither to have'the tents, sent round from the War Office, pitched; and they requested the superintendent to give the necessary directions to an assistant of the contractor’s, to furnish such articles and supplies, as were necessary for their use. _ '   Friday, ‘21th ]\lay. A commission was made out, and delivered, with the papers referred to therein, to the agent for receiving and issuing the supplies, and it was directed that it should bear date'with the appointment.' It is as follows: 'Sir: Fort Pickering, 25th May, 1796. The Secretary of the Treasury having directed a contract to be made for supplying the Indians, at the intended treaty, with provisions, the undersigned commissioners’ for holding a treaty with the Creek nation of Indians do hereby, in virtue of the powers vested in them, for that purpose appoint you agent for receiving and issuing articles and supplies to Indians, under the direction of James Seagrove, superintendent. You are to give receipts to the contractor for all the articles you receive from him, to serve as vouchers in the settlement of his accounts, and you are enjoined to comply with the forms herewith delivered you, in order that your accounts may exhibit a perfect view of the supplies received and issued by you. BENJAMIN HAWKINS, GEORGE CLYMER- Lieut. Samuel Allinson. 75 The ageut informed the commissioners, that lie had reflected on the appointment' offered him; that he accepted the trust, expecting it to be difficult, and that it would afford him much employment and active exertions, which lie did not dislike. But, as it was new to him, he should rely on them , and the superintendent for their advice; and that, in case it should be found necessary to have one or more assistants, lie expected the commissioners would permit him to appoint one or more, as they might judge proper. To this they assented, and directed that he should be supplied with stationary from their stores. ‘ . ’ ‘ ( * Saturday, ,28th May.- c    /   . The schooner William, which brought round the stores for the commissioners, &c~ fell down with the tide this’ day. to sail for Philadelphia. , . ' - ■ ' " . We received .information that the Big Warrior and Mr. Cornell, with ‘ about two hundred Indians, would be within eight or ten miles'of us this evening, there to remain for a day or two, to rest. themselves.’ Provisions and necessaries were sent out for their support. '.  * > ’ . Monday, 30//i May. General Pickens and the commissioners .of Georgia, arrived. We wrote to the Secretary ot War, and sentour letter to the town of St. Mary’s, to be delivered to’ Captain Simkins. ' ’ i ‘ .   ' . Colerain, the 30th of May, 1796/ Sir: . - General Pickens and the commissioners of Georgia arrived here this'morning,'from Savannah, by water. The General did not receive the communications from the War Office till the 2d of May. We expect the arrival of a . considerable number of the Indians in the course, of this week. There are about two hundred in our neighborhood, who are nowr fed from the stores provided for the.treaty at this place. We have appointed, under the recommenda-/ tion of Colonel Gaither, Ensign Samuel Allinson, agent’for receiving and issuing tne supplies to the Indians. We', have given him the forms sent on for his government, and enjoined Ins compliance therewith. Wc did, on the 26th, establish regulations for the preservation of order during the negotiation. There is not at present any thing to be apprehendedj in this (juarter, as likely to disturb the desired harmony at the treaty. ,   , . . ; Some of the Spanish agents, as we are informed, have prevailed on some influential chiefs to go to Pensacola,’ and not to attend the invitation sent them to attend here. This, in the present state of things, was to be expected. We do not. yet know how far this influence M ill extend, but we hope not so far as materially to affect the negotiar tion. We shall explain the treaty with Spain to the Indians, as soon as it shall have been ratified on their part, and the Governors enjoined to observe it. The like, in future, will be prevented. We have the honor to be, with sincere regard, sir, your obedient servants, : M : BENJAMIN HAWKINS. . ' , GEORGE CLYMER, ANDREW PICKENS. The Hon. James' McHenry', Secretary of War. The commissioners of Georgia visited us; we requested them to dine in our hut; informed them of the accommodations in our power to. offer them; and requested that they wou|d accept of oue-half of the tents pitejied for the commissioners. They made no reply, but asked for pen, ink, arid paper, and at our table wrote this note, which they delivered themselves: ’ , , ’ '; - , ‘.. ■' ’   Colerain, May 30th, 1796. Gentlemen:   - . 1 Being on the ground appointed for the expected treaty, we have to request that your opinion be given on the following points: . We have brought with us a guard for the articles thought necessary on the part of the State.   We also expect several of our fellow-citizens, who have claims, from various parts of the State.' Are we to be considered as having the power of draYving rations' for them, daily | as w ell those now here, as those who may hereafter arrive, we.ourselves signing the returns? Or, what mode will be necessary for their supply?' ’ , Wcare, gentlemen, your most obedient servants, JAMES HENDRICKS,’ . ■ Chairman of the Board of Commissioners oh the part of the State of Georgia. Honorable Commissioners of the United States. ' . The commissioners of the United States were surprised to have an application of (his nature made to them, as the gentlemen from Georgia must have, been informed of their regulations, as Yvell as of the letters to their Governor from the War Office, of the last and present year. One of us had been informed, on the 4th of May, that an attempt. Yvould be made, under some pretext, to introduce some militia in arms. But it was not supposed, after their regulations were published, that any attempt would be made, or, if made, persisted in. They, alter consultation, returned this answer: '* . . . ’  , ■ Colerain, 30th May, 1796. Gentlemen: <, . ' , We have to ackriowledge the receipt of your favor of this day. The Secretary of War, in his letter of the ----of February, informed the Governor of the State of Georgia, that the troops at this place are in sufficient number to protect and give respectability to the negotiation; and Colonel Gaither'received orders to make, from time to time, such disposition of them as may tend to preserve order and tranquillity. We are in opinion with the war-officer, as to the competency of the protection; and we doubt not, on viewing the state of things here, but that it will.be yours, and that it will be a satisfaction to you to find that the gentlemen of the guard may be dismissed with safety to the object of their coming. In the meantime, Colonel Gaither will give directions for their accommodation. As to the other citizens of the description in your letter, it trill be our care to provide tor, without making an^ special arrangement forit. We have had sent round to us, front the War Office, some tents, for the accommo: dation of the commissioners. We requested Colonel Gaither to have them raised, and to set apart the half of them for you. :> v . ' . ■ W e are, with much esteem, &c. ■ B. HAWKINS, . ,   ■ ■ G. CLYMER, . . ; /A. PICKENS. The honorable Commissioners of Georgia. . 'Colonel Gaither, just after we had written this letter, delivered, us one he had received from General Jackson.:. , He requested our opinion on it. ’ We referred him'to the regulations of the 26th, as his guide. But, that he might be in possession of more light than he could, at first view, gather from the regulations, we shewed him the corres-'. pondence'between the commissioners anil us; and we assured him that the instructions to us .were the result of much deliberation; that our regulations were strictly in conformity, arid we could not consent to any deviation from them; that they were general, ’and intended to apply to every visiter, whatever his rank might be. We asked leave of the colonel to take a copy of the letter, winch he granted, and it is as'.follows: Colerain, May 30, 1796. Sir: , . In consequence of an order from the Governor of this State, I have furnished the State commissioners, appointed to attend the treaty, with a militia guard, barely sufficient to answer the. purpose of protecting the articles belonging to the State from robbery. They are orderly men, and forth a respectable corps. I nave no wish to interfere, or to permit the men to' interfere, with the discipline of your garrison. The commissioners, I ain certain, are of my opinion. .   . We wish to learn where we shall least incommode you, so as to be near our vessel, which we are compelled to make a store house of. 1 y . I have taken the liberty to trouble you, because I have been informed that a disagreeable and untrue report has been spread, respecting die occasion of the guard's being brought here; and the few men we have are anxious, having been so long cooped up in a small vessel, to get on shore.   ,, ' I am, sir, with respect, your obedient servant, JAMES JACKSON. . Lieutenant Colonel Gaither: Mr. Seagrove was pointing out a small spot above your garrison.   The State commissioners have seen this, and approve it. They request me to add, that, not thinking thqniselves authorized to call on you for a guard, and finding the goods at their risk, they were constrained to apply to the Governor for one. 31s/ May. Gentlemen: This day, in the afternoon, we received the follow ingjetter from the commissioners of Georgia: / * v Colerain, 3Jay 3 Is/, 1796. We have been favored.with your letter of yesterday, respecting the guard we have for the protection bf the articles thought necessary to be procured for the treaty, and respecting the citizens of the State who may have claims for property taken by the Indians, and attend here for the purpose of making them. As to the former, we are highly obliged to Colonel Gaither, for his offered protection of the State goods, by the Federal troops, but having to wait the event of the treaty, for the disposal of them, and needing assistance on our return, should the desired object fail, we cannot dismiss them. Colonel Gaither, in case that should happen, would not feel himself warranted in furnishing us with a guard, to accompany us from this place; and we should not feel ourselves discharged from responsibility for the goods, until they were deposited in Savannah, under the order of the Executive of the State, by whose command the guard was furnished for their protection. The commissioners had not, nor had the State, a right, to callon Colonel Gaither for a guard; and, if so, the state of his garrison could not have been known; incidents might arise to prevent one from being furnished; sickness, for instance, iis we are informed was lately the case. To give respectability to the negotiation, as you suppose, from the. observation in your letter, was not the object our few men were brought for.   K the State had ordered four or live hundred men to attend the treaty, jealousies might justly have arisen; hut surely fifteen or twenty meii ought not to create difficulty, either .with respect to numbers, or supplies. In some cases, and on some occasions, however, militia corps have been called on. as this very company (part of which wc have with us.) was called on last year, with the only volunteer Corps of Savannah, to attend the meeting of (he-superintendent and Indians, at Baird’s bluff, and Savannah. We have every wish to accommodate and harmonize; but a discharge of the guard, under the circumstances we have pointed out, we cannot submit to. We do not wish them to interfere with Colonel Gaither’s garrison, nor do we consider them within the purview of his command, or needing his supply; but under (he rule of citizens, attending us, as commissioners, for the protection of public property, belonging to the State of Georgia, .thought necessary to accomplish the wishes of the State, at die intended treaty. We do not know what private arrangements you may have made, or what private instructions you may have received, respecting the provisions for the treaty, and the accommodation of citizens attending it; but the President’s message to the Senate of the United States, and his letter to the Governor of Georgia respecting it. both declare that one half the expense shall be borne by the State oU' Georgia. If this be the case, assuredly the commissioners of the State ought to have equal latitude, as to drawing for any citizens attending with their claims, and so we construe the President's letter of the 90th February, that the number of citizens attending shall be regulated by the commissioners. We are commissioners, and the commissioners to whom those claims ought to be rendered, and whose province it.is. we conceive, to require a discharge of them. We cannot forbear adverting to the orders, signed by Messrs. Hawkins and Clymer, and stuck at the gates of the garrison yesterday, which we conceive exceptionable in many respects, and highly derogatory to the dignity of the State we represent. We, who came here to treat with the Creek nation of Indians, fora cession of land, are not to be.permitted to speak with an Indian, without the ticket or permit of one of the commissioners of the United States, or to enter the Indian camp, although the ground they encamp on, and the ground the treaty is to he held on, is within the limits, and under the actual jurisdiction of-the State of Georgia. Our fellow-citizens from the westward are not to come into the vicinity of the garrison with arms, although their arms are necessary to protect them hither, to lay in their claims; and how far this'neighborhood extends, is undefined: W c know of no power on earth, competent to hinder a citizen of Georgia, observing the laws of his country, from exercising (he locomotive faculty, within the limits of the State, in the most liberal extent. By the same rule,, our citizens can be deprived from using this most valuable privilege in the neighborhood of Coleraine; or from using or keeping arms, they may be debarred these privileges, acknowledged by the constitution, within the limits of a county, and how far it might be. carried, we leave to yourselves to determine, We even consider ourselves to have been in a degree insulted, and consequently the State which we belong to. A sentinel has been placed on the bank of the river, and his orders we are not unacquainted with; they are not to prevent armed men from any vessel, hut armed men from our schooner, naming the Fair Play, from landing in the garrison; whilst we have observed persons, who we suppose- not in the army, within the limits of the garrison, with fire arms in their hands. We learned at St. Mary's, that we.were to meet this treatment, but we could not believe it. We again assure you that we wish to accommodate and harmonize, all that lays in our power, without committing the dignity of the Sjate. The object we have in view, is a great one; hut, great as it is, we, conceive it to be as much the interest of the United States to accomplish it, as it is the interest of the people and State of Georg:a. W o'are, gentlemen, your most obedient servants, ' ; . JAMES HENDRICKS, ■   Chairman of the Board of CommUsioiwis, appointed toy (he State of Georgia, for attending a treat)- with the Creek Indian*. The honorable the commissioners of the United States, Coleraine. ' 1 Notwithstanding the extravagant and absurd contents of this letter, and the little regard paid thereinto truth, we determined to give it a decent reply. The sentinel, on the hanks of the river, had been placed there as early as the establishing the post,',aml not as intimated in their letter; and no such orders as those mentioned, had been given him; the orders were general. The guard was really intended by one of.the commissioners, at least, for show, and to put them, in some sort, as they have been known to Express themselves; on a looting with-the commissioners'of the United States, to prop the vanity and consequence of. self-created pride, at the expense of insulting the authority of the United States. June 1st.—The reply: Coleraine, 1st June, 1796. Gentlemen: - . . ' 'Your favor, of yesterday, was put into our l\ands in time to be answered on that day,-but we have to regret that our constant interruptions have not permitted us to give it a due consideration until this morning; but we now hope to obviate the objections you have made to some ot oiir proceedings, in the commission, since we came to this post. . ' ■ . ’ They respect the regulations we have thought it our duty to establish, in reference to the expected negotiations with the Indians, which, it seems, dissagreeably affects you in two points: the guard brought round from Savannah with the stores for the treaty, and the citizens of Georgia who may attend it. But we would previously remark, that these were made on the 26th of May, and before your arrival; that they were then committed to the commanding officer, to be by him carried into execution, and not thrown into your face for the first time, by us, but two days ago. , The guard is authorized by the Governor ot Georgia; but, however competent his authority to order them here, it must be superseded on this ground: militia, when put into service, are subject to the articles of war; and in the pesence of the commander of a military post, liable to his orders exclusively. If circumstances have made it necessary to deny admittance to this body, it is fortunate thaf. it is not necessary to retain them: Colonel Gaither feeling himself warranted to supply a guard to the stores, under the care of the militia, not only here, but even back to Savannah, if, by any failure in your negotiation with the Indians, it should be necessary to return them. F.qual protection will, in either case, be afforded to Ihe property, and your responsibility not the greater by the change. ■ The smallness of number seeming to strike you ash circumstance favorable, in. this case, to a dispensation from the rule, it is sufficient for us, that, the rule being made in exact conformity to instruction, we cannot think ourselves, from any such consideration, at liberty to dispense with it. It is not our part to defend'the instruction, but we can conceive it has been suggested by the experience of the past. It conforms, also, to our own sense of right, and though, in this instance, it has not an extensive operation, it is not the less useful as a principle, and as a precedent. You will permit us, indeed, to express our surprise, that you should not, yourselves, have discovered a special interest in the observance of some such rule, considering its tendency to obviate some of the difficulties lying in the way of your own object. You are aware of the jealousies of the Creeks in all things relating to your State. Alarms have gone forth that they were to encounter the Georgia militia at the intended treaty, and with some effect, too, in lessening the otherwise very numerous representation that might have been expected at it. ' _ Finding this, and in order to quiet all apprehension on that score, we have communicated the regulations.to some of the chiefs assembled, and from the satisfaction it has apparently given, wre have reason to hope good effects from it. In this view of the matter, we cannot admit that the honor of the State has been in anywise derogated from, in our rule; but, if it must be so, in the.eyes of the State, it is doubtless owing to the circumstances which it has itself produced. Neither is it wounded through the persons of its citizens individually, who may come armed to attend the treaty: for no compliance of the rule can be demanded of them, but at the moment when their arms shall have become unnecessary to them for their protection. Some citizens you have perceived with arms, within the area of the. fort.. YVe know of none; if it is so, our regulation has not been sufficiently regarded. ■>     'With regard to subsistence for attending citizens of the State, you seem to think it should be' under your orders; we do not well perceive how this can be. On recurring to your own papers, you will find that it is only a portion of the expense your State is to bear, of supplying the Indians, and consequently not any part of those of the household, as it may be termed, of the commissioners of the United States; in \vhich5 that for the entertaining of those gentlemen, we conceive, is included. This results also from another consideration, that your powders are pointed at, and limited to a single article, whilst ours are various as the objects of the treaty, and equal to all the circumstances arising out of it. And we wish you to recur to the several communications made, in the last and present year, to your State. These contain the. essential part’of your instructions, and will shew the relative situations of the two commissioners. These communications, from the absolute conditions of your appointment and mission, we doubt not, but that you are possessed of them. To have put them into your hands, must have been a virtual acquiescence on the part of your government, in the terms they prescribe; unless you have been instructed to neglect them, in which case you must allow us to question the foundation on which your commission stands.- We must request you will excuse the freedom observable in some parts of our reply, but, above all, that, if we have differed from you in some circumstances, it is with you only as commissioners; retaining for you all possible personal respect. ' \ " , V > BENJAMIN HAWKINS. . GEORGE CLYMER. AND’W PICKENS. 'Flie Hon. Commissioners of Georgia. June 2.—We hoped that our reply would have induced the gentlemen to acquiesce, and that an end would be put to the controversy; but we soon discovered that two of the gentlemen determined to evade the regulations, if possible, and, by some means or other, to land the militia. Colonel James Hendricks informed us, he was well satisfied with the answer we had given, and had so said to his colleagues; but that they were determined to send us. another letter. He expressed himself,well satisfied with the whole conduct of the commissioners of the United States, and, particularly, when they assured him that they had the mean?, were well disposed, and instructed to further the accomplishment of their mission. _ ' . , > We received from them this letter: ,. ; ■ Coleraine, June,2d, 1796. Gentlemen: ' ■ ■ > Your favor of yesterday has been attended to by us, with that respect that is due to the commissioners of the United States, and, although we differ from you essentially in some respects, which we shall notice. . A desire of harmony between the delegations, in order to obtain, if possible, the grand object we have in view, will induce us to accommodate our personal feelings to existing circumstances, where the dignity of the State will permit it. For this purpose, we shall have no objection, if agreeable to you. to a conference on the subjects of our disagreements.. We must, however, observe, on the two principal points; and first, as to the militia guard ordered by our Executive for the protection of our stores, that, admitting all that has been said, yet, a deficiency of protection for our goods must have taken place; Colonel Gaither had no guard for them at Savannah, to have conducted them hither, and it was thought necessary to protect them from the wharf they were taken from. This guard was placed in our hands for that purpose, and our responsibility is beconie the greater in consequence thereof. To part, with this guard, and receive another, would not lessen our responsibility, and would add to our risk, and make us censurable in the eyes of our country. We know the men we have with us, and, however strict the discipline of the garrison; we could not know the disposition or honesty of the guard we might receive, or their inducement for desertion, in case of inclination to behave dishonestly. It would be no excuse for us to say, should a loss happen, that we had changed our guard, even for the better. We should be answered, that’ the change was a work of our own, and that the loss, consequently, lay with us. One question will place this business in its.proper light. Will the commissioners of the United States, or the commanding officer of the garrison,-become responsible for the value of the articles with us? We presume not. We have already said, that we do not. consider the few men with us, as called into the service of the United States, and coming under the purview of Colonel Gaither’s command, and, consequently, liable to the articles of war; but as citizens ol the militia of Georgia, ordered by the Executive to protect certain articles, 'the property of the State, thought necessary for the accomplishment of the cession of land, desired by her from the Creek nation of Indians, avoiding the question of right, within the territory of the State, in time of peace. We have also informed you, that we do hot wish them to enter the garrison in arms. We here feel ourselves obliged to notice an allusion in your letter, which, we conceive, reflects on the character of the State we have the honor to belong to, and to represent, on the present occasion. The substance of your observation is, that, it* the honor of Georgia has been, in anywise, derogated from by your rule, in the eyes of the State itself, it is owing to the circumstances it has itselt produced. This is what we cannot admit: for, whatever individual citizens, or officers, without authority, may have done, is not properly chargeable to the State of Georgia. Harrison’s murders have not been sanctioned by the State of Georgia. General Clarke was removed from the Oconee by Georgians, and no excursions from the temporary boundary into the Indian hunting grounds, have been ordered since the federal constitution, by the authority of the State, except the unfortunate attempt of General Twiggs, unless in cases of actual pursuit of murderers or robbers. The case of General Twiggs was after repeated depredations, in different parts'of the State. \Ye are led to believe the conduct of the State to be as unexceptionable as that of any State, circumstanced as she has been. We, at the same time, do not pretend to say that irregularities have not been committed. By whom, or in what manner, the report was carried into the Creek nation, that they were to encounter the Georgia militia at this place, although we are at liberty to guess, we cannot assert. It is sufficient that you must be convinced, and the Creeks ought to be so, that the report is altogether unfounded; although you say, and we can conceive it has been, injurious to the. object of our mission, and which we arc pleased to view as our mutual wish to accomplish. The few men brought here could not have been the groundwork of a report of that nature in the nation; and the situation of Coleraine, the season of the year, the scarcity of provisions, and the want of accommodation on the roads, would equally operate to prevent the State, if she was so inclined, from ordering, and the militia from effecting a rendezvous at this place; the authors of it can be no friends to the United States or the State,of Georgia, and prove the occasion of much trouble and expense to both, should it excite disgust in the Indians to our proposals, and defeat the negotiation. The manner in which you construe the contingent expense of the treaty, or, what you deem the household of the United States’ commissioners, in some measure obviates our exception to the manner of supplying the attending citizens who have claims. We had construed the provisions necessary for the Indians, to have included, all contingent expenses; we are more satisfied, therefore, on this point, although we still think that the citizens attending with claims, ought to be considered within our peculiar province, and that we should have the power of providing for them; indeed, it would be no more than just, on your own grounds. You observe that our mission is only as toone point, but, that yours extends to every point, various as all the objects of the treaty, and equal to all the circumstances which can arise out of it. Of course, all but one point must concern the United States only, and not Georgia; and yet Georgia is to stipulate for half the expense. The Cumberland negotiation does not even affect Georgia. The citizens who may attend with their claims, and which is comprehended in our mission, will not balance the expense of the Indians by any distant calculation, the provision for our small citizen guard also included. Even as to the Indians, we cannot conceive but that the distance we are kept at, from them, by your regulations, is prejudicial to our object. It must be admitted by you, that fixed liberty, to conciliate their affections, is necessary for the completion of our mission; and, surely so much confidence may be placed in the Commissioners of the State, as to suppose that no improper conduct could take place. Whether we are, or are not included in the general regulation, it is so understood, and it is without exception. , , We have written thus fully, that a free and liberal understanding may take place. We have'every proper respect for the mission you bear, and for yourselves, personally, and we assure you that we have no instructions to neglect any proper conditions or communications. \V e arc, gentlemen, your obedient’servants. By order of the Commissioners of Georgia: JAMES HENDRICKS, Chairman. Tlic Hon. Commissioners of the United States. Jane 3(/, 17%. We were pleased to find, that the manner we had deemed the most eligible, in a controversy of this sort, had lessened the warmth manifested in their first reply. We determined to reply in the same strain. Coleraine, June 3d, 179C. Gentlemen: We have your favor of this day, respecting those articles of our regulations you before excepted to. Having already explained ourselves, we might reply, in short, that, to recede from them, would be inconsistent with our best judgment, nay, that it would not be within our power, considering ourselves but as the medium through which the sense of the United States is transmitted.'We shall, however, touch upon some of your points, which we think not conclusive in argument against us, or wherein it appears you have mistaken us. You were to judge of the utility of a guard for the Indian stores hither; we therefore have not controverted it: our objection lies only to its existence within the garrison, or its neighborhood. You say it ought to remain, on account of your responsibility for the articles, and ask us whether, in case the guard is changed, the commissioners of the United States, or the commanding officer, here, will assume vour responsibility. They will, we presume, in the sense in which responsibility is properly to be understood. That is, an accountability ior the fidelity and care with which the trust is to be discharged, not involving the consequence, of making good the amount of eventual loss. Your responsibility, we should suppose, to be of.this kind, and no other. Give us leave, gentlemen, to give the true construction of that-passage, in our last note to you, wherein you conceive an unlicensed reflection has been cast on the government of Georgia by the words, “ the circumstances it has itself produced;’’'' nothing was meant, but what was in relation to the guard in question. To have referred to the events you have disclosed, would have been unwarrantable, from the want of sufficient lights, with respect to the conduct of the State, as well as a breach of that decorum we ought constantly to maintain. Our regulations concerning the , manner of your intercourse with the Indians, you feel as not admitting of the freedom necessary to your negotiation with them. AYe can see no consequent inconvenience or injury. Be this a? it may, this act of ours is in literal conformity to order. It is deemed essential, in the words of our instructions, that, while every opportunity is offered the commissioner?, to obtain the land by fair negotiation, no conversation is to be permitted with the chiefs, save in your presence. This is in agreement,’,too, with the invitation given to the Indians. “ The talk (concerning the land) is to be open, fair, and honorable, and in the presence of the beloved men, whom the President will appoint to hold the treaty, and without whose approbation nothing is to be done.” And both these in pursuance of the directions of an act of Congress to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes. “ Sec. 8. Provided, nevertheless, That it shall be lawful for the agent, or agents, of any State, who shall be present at any treaty held with Indians, under the authority of the.United States, in the presence, and with the approbation, of the commissioner or commissioners of the United States, appointed to hold the same, to propose to, and adjust with, the Indians, the compensation to be made for their claims to lands within such State, which shall be extinguished by the treaty.” . But, you see it is enjoined upon us, within this limitation, to afford you every means for obtaining your end; and, accordingly, you will find us ever ready to attend your calls to the conferences; and, having informed ourselves of the time proper for beginning them, we shall then make immediate communication of it to you. A conference with us seeming to be desired by you, you will perceive the justness of the distinction we are going to make. Upon points of disagreement, when the parties would wish to preserve the evidences of the principles they have proceeded on, a conference seems the least expedient mode of interchanging .sentiments and opinions. Its greatest use is, where measures are to be concerted. In any such.case, we shall, with great satisfaction and cheerfulness, attend you. ‘ c B. H. - .   ■'   ' G. C. --   - - . H A. P. Honorable Commissioners State of Georgia. ' - . \ . * . * Colonel Hendricks assured us that he had reluctantly signed the last'note to us; that he was well satisfied with the line of conduct we were pursuing, as much good might be expected from it. The Indians would see, that any engagements entered into, under the approbation of thexommissioners of the United States, would be safe for them, anti would impress.a confidence in the conferences which might be necessary to obtain their desired object. He had assured his colleagues that he had signed the letter as chairman only, disapproving of the contents; and that, if they were determined to persist in measures that had an inevitable tendency to thwart the objects of their mission, he gave them notice that he would not sign any such letter, and the last, from the commissioners of the United States, should close the correspondence.       . 4th. We visited the Indian cainjj, had several little conferences with them, desired they would give us such information as they could obtain, of the chiefs expected; congratulated them on their arrival, and invited the princi pal chiefs to dine'with us to-morrow. We wrote a letter to tiie Secretary of War, and sent it to St. Mary’s, to Captain Simkins. >. j 5th. This being the day we could open a table for company, we requested the commissioners of Georgia to dine with us. They accepted the invitation, and sent ns, with it, the following note: Schooner Fair Play, June 5/^,1796. , . Gentlemen; ' ‘ Yours of the 3d, was handed to us yesterday: we are sorry that you should have reason to conclude, that we had either mistaken or misconstrued your communications. If this lias happened, it has not proceeded from intention or inclination. _ ■■ , . Whilst we are made happy at the explanation of that part of your former letter,' which we supposed reflected on the State, we cannot admit that the small guard brought with us, could have produced the jealousies of the Creeks, or the alarms which have gone forth in that nation, that they were to encounter the-Georgia militia at this-place. The order for this guard was not known to the men composing it, until the middle of May, the time .appointed by the President, for the meeting of the Indians; and the intelligence of such a guard could barely have reached the Creek nation at this period. We cannot, therefore, conceive that any of the evils pointed out could properly be imputed to this step. You have admitted us, in your last, to be the proper judges of the utility of a guard hither. We by no means blame you for executing positive instructions, however sensibly we may feel their operation. We shall conclude with a wish that they had been more delicate to the State of Georgia.   _ Situate as we are, we shall w ait the information from you, of the proper time to commence the conference! We are, with respect, your obedient servants, ■ 'JAMES JACKSON, .   ’ JAMES SIMMS. The letter wrote yesterday, to the Secretary of War, is as follows:. "i Colerain, Ath June, 1796. Sir: ' . We wrote to you the 30th ultimo, by Captain Simkins; he left this port on the 28th, and we sent our letter to meet him at St. Mary’s, expecting that he would sail immediately for Philadelphia. We are just informed that he is still at St. Mary’s, to sail to-morrow; we shall avail ourselves of an opportunity to that place, to make such further communications as have occurred, and the shortness pf the time to convey them to the captain will permit. The papers, numbered from l to —, inclusive, will shew the present state of the correspondence between us, and the commissioners on the part of Georgia, on an extravagant idea entertained by them. It had been intimated to one of us,-early in May, that an attempt w ould be made to have some militia here in arms, under'some colorable pretext; a like report had been circulated in the Indian nation, with views hostile to the treaty, and with effect in lessening the representation. The representation will, we expect, be pretty numerous, and from the most influential towns; and we. have reason to believe, that they come with unbounded confidence in the justice of the Federal Government, which it will be our care to preserve. ' .. .' .   < ,, v- The negotiation may be expected to.open publicly about the 10th. , . B. H. ' - - - - * G. c;, ' ' A. P. Honorable James McIIexry, Secretary of War. ' _. , , »» y m . June 6th. We asked Colonel Hendricks,.whether the commissioners had come to’any opinion oh the manner they w ould wish to live here; why it was not agreeable to them to be at the same table with us, as our accommodations were the best adapted to a liberal intercourse with the chiefs, lie said he .had refused, as we must'have seen, to subscribe their letter as chairman, it being, with the whole of their correspondence, disagreeable to him ; in his opinion, no.t strictly defensible, and likely to produce the reverse of what they aimed at. He said that he had freely spoken with his colleagues, and he had left them, against their wish, on board the schooner; it was uncertain whether they would come on shore at all, but he had} and should remain during the negotiation. We told him, we hoped he saw in us a disposition to accommodate him and his colleagues in every thingthoy could, consistently with the duty they owed the federal commission, ask of us. He said he was satisfied, and would harmonize with us in every thing. Wc visited the Indians, and had some conversation with them oh the objects of our mission; requested them to inform us, as soon as it could be known, what was the state of their representation. They told us that, in three or,four days, they could inform us, and that then they would give us a masquerade dance, and afterwards prepare to meet us with the ceremonies usual among them. 1th and 8th. Nothing-material occurred; some Indians arrived each day, and arranged their encampments. 9th. Mr. Clymer, with’the superintendent, went to the town of St. Mary’s, to return on the llth. We invited several of the chiefs to dine with us, who came, and brought with them ill all about fifty; they apologized for the number, by saying, they were anxious to see and be with the commissioners, who came from their great and beloved friend and father. General Washington. They on this, as on every other occasion, behaved decently. They informed us. that they expected some chiefs to arrive on the 11th, and among others, Chinabee, the great Natchez warrior. That they would on that day have a meeting of all the chiefs, and determine when they would meet the commissioners. . In the evening, some of the chiefs informed us, that there were some mischievous stories in camp, circulated by bad white men, and expressed a desire that such characters should be removed. They were told of the regulations: and if they were evaded, or not sufficient to guard against improper conduct, that others should be added, and measures taken for the certain execution oftheni. The. Rig Warrior requested that he might, on the next morning, have a private conversation with die commissioners, which should be put on their journal, and sent to the President of the United States. He was requested to breakfast with us, and bring his interpreter. \0th. Several chiefs of the Cowctas* attended, and requested a conference; they said that John Galphin had arrived at their camp, and they were desirous he should remain there, for a few days, under the protection of the commissioners. Thathe was a very bad, unprincipled man, had often misbehaved, and been several times pardoned; that they believed him incorrigible. That he had been informed the superintendent forbid his coming, and that he must go away, in which case, he should take some young men with him. They said, John had requested them to make this application, and they hoped we would grant him our protection, as the young men who would go with him, were mischievously inclined, and had some of their friends killed by Harrison, on the frontiers of Georgia; and while they were here, they could have an eye over them. The commissioners replied, that, as the chiefs had requested it, and for the reasons suggested by them, they consented, on the condition expressly, that he should remain at their camp, where he now was, until further orders, and not come near the garrison. That they should examine into hi< character, with the chiefs of their land, on a fit opportunity. That, whatever might be their final decision, he should be safe here, and return safe with them. They expressed themselves well pleased. The interpreter, Timothy Barnard, was ordered to go immediately to camp, and inform John Galphin of this permission, and the conditions of it. The Big Warrior attended breakfast w ith us. and afterwards entered on his business; he said his business was to complain of an act injurious and insul ting to him, and also to the United States, and was simply this: About three years past, the President sent a message to their land; that the chiefs met, and answered it, and sent his brother and some young lads, with the answer, accompanied by a white man, and with a white flag. That, within a few iniles of this no?t, a party of men met them, and killed his brother, and one .or two others; the white man had previously left them, and gone into the fort: he said this act was not like that of the wild and disorderly men on the frontiers, who were always ungovernable; but the deliberate act of soldiers, under the direction of an officer of the Government, upon a flag in their own land, having a letter to the garrison for the President of the United States. That, upon hearing of this, his sensations were such as he could not describe, but with difficulty he restrained his temper, and took the manly way of demanding satisfaction. He had sent three letters to the President; he had applied to his agent here, at his own house, and at Beard's Bluff; that he received some small talk from the superintendent, with assurance that his letters were sent to the President, and that the bones of his brother were buried. A few days past he discovered the falsity of the latter; the bones were now unburied, and he supposed the President had not j et seen his letters; he had, for some time, in consequence of this, been almost frantic; he could not speak to the commissioners without tears, and therefore, chose to be silent; he could not dine with them, and partake of their friendly attentions; he had yesterday taken his resolution to open his mind to them; lie understood they were now the supreme authority here. He must demand satisfaction, arid could wait no longer. He expected they would satisfy him in one point, by applying to the superintendent, to know what he had done, make him write it down, and have it translated to linn. He hoped this matter would be left with the commissioners and himself for the present, and that the whole would be sent to the President. We told him to open his mind freely on all points relative to himself personally, or his nation, and give us a little time to make up our minds on them; that we came,’ as he knew,.to settle all past differences, and to guard against a repetition in future, and we expected he and the other chiefs would aid us. W e would have the hones of his brother buried with the honors of war, if he would consent; he was silent, took us by the hand, and went out; then said his heart was too full to speak. In the course of the evening, three chiefs sent to the commissioners, that John Galphin had violated his permit, had been in the encampment in the store, with the factor, dined on board the vessel with one of the Georgia commissioners, was to dine there again the next day, was then drunk, had behaved ill, and was a very unfit character to be suffered to enter the,garrison. We examined into this statement, found it to be true, and replied, that measures would be taken the next day, to compel him to respect their decisions. . 11///. Several chiefs, who arrived yesterday, dined with fhc commissioners, among them, Chinabee, the great Natchez warrior. We entered into conversation with them, on the objects of our mission, found them disposed to be very friendly, and that they had unbounded confidence in the justice of the Government of the United States. They promised us to have a general meeting on the next dajr, arid determine on the ceremonies to be used, and the state of their representation, and inform us of it in the course of that, or the succeeding day. Mr. Clymer, and the superintendent, returned in the evening. Sex pay. 1 2th. The Indians held a council this day. .The commissioners finding that some improper characters had been in camp, intermeddling in the affairs of the Indians, they requested the superintendent to check it in future. We have observed that the Indians are equally dissatisfied with persons who mention any thing for. or against, the sale of their lands, and say it is an improper and rude interference: they know our disposition on this head, and are well pleased with it .. , , ’   Monday, 13///. The commissioners being informed that there was some public plank in the possession of the contractor, and that the carpenters were in want of four thousand feet to finish the block house, where thej' now reside, directed the contractor to furnish that quantity. ffe sent the following note to the Superintendent: The Commissioners of the United States request the Superintendent to inform them— 1st. How many Indians there are encamped. 2d. How many chiefs; their rank, and the towns they represent: their names. 3d. How many white men are here from the nation; their names, and places of abode; tlieir occupation in the nation, arid characters, as far as he has been able to form his opinion of them. 1th. How man}' interpreters are present; their names and characters. They wish that Mr. Burges be directed to attend thepi daily as an interpreter, and. if it would be an accommodation to him, that he would accept of one of their tents, notv pitched in the garrison, which shall be moved near their residence; he will, of course, breakfast and (line with them. W e are desirous, as soon as the number of chiefs can be ascertained, to make an arrangement for entertaining a given number oftheni every day. The notice of an intended answer. Indian Camp, near Coleraine, Monday morning, lith June, 1796. Gentlemen: I am this moment favored with your note, the contents of which shall have my immediate.attention, and. by to-morrow morning, shall have all matters stated as j'ou require. With due respect, I am, your devoted humble servant, ,   ' JAMES SEAGROVE, Superintendent Indian Affairs. Commissioners of the United States, Coleraine. Mth. Received from the Superintendent the answer promised, to our note of yesterday, as follows: . Indian Camp, near Coleraine, 14th June, 1796. Gentlemen: . ..   v . I find that, notwithstanding the very pointed orders you have.issued, and my utmost endeavors to prevent, vet the Indians are frequently drunk. Not a drop of liquor is given in camp, but Under my immediate inspection. The quantity so given being very small, I must conclude they are furnished in the garrison^ or from the vessels in the river, perhaps from the contractor for furnishing the troops, or Mr. Hampton, the sutler, through the medium of the soldiers, who, I believe, are not restricted getting liquor with money. And, as the Indians have'dollars among them, this appears the most likely source of the evil. Upwards of twenty Indians were drunk in camp last evening, all of whom came from the garrison in that state. I hope you will adopt some mode of putting a total stop to the Indians getting, liquor in or near the garrison of fort Pickering, during the treaty. The Indians having turned three men, of tlie name of Innes, out of their camps, as improper persons, I am of opinion they ought not to be allowed to remain in or near this garrison. Also, a certain Mr. McMurphey, who has been talking very improperly of Indian matters. I believe him to be sent, as a spy, to do  mischief. There are others in the garrison, who I shall point out to you. as dangerous persons. . Both the Galphins are forbid by the Indians to leave their camp on any account. Should they dare to act contrary to this order, I hope they will be prevented entering there, or from going on board any of the vessels opposite the fort. I herewith enclose a return of the Indian's now in camp with me, as also a list of traders, interpreters, and clerks, - 1, With due respect, I remain, your devoted servant, ‘ ' ' JS. SEAGROVE. , Honororable Commissioners of the United States.' ■ f ' .   .   < 1 r . Colerain, 15th June, 1796. . Sir:   '   , _ ._ . We send you an extract from a letter we yesterday received from the superintendent of Indian affairs, by which you will see that the 7th article of our regulations has not been duly observed. ‘‘I find that, notwistanding the very pointed orders you have issued, and my utmost endeavors to prevent, vet the Indians are frequently drunk. Not a drop of liquor is given in camp, but under my immediate inspection. -The quantity so given being very small, I must conclude that they are funished in tlie garrison, or from the vessels_ in'the liver, perhaps from the contractor for furnishing the troops, or Mr. Hampton, .the sutler, through the medium of the soldiers, who, I believe, are not restricted getting liquor with money. And, as the Indians have dollars among them, this appears the most likely source of the evil. Upwards of twenty Indians were drunk in camp last, evening, all of whom came from the garrison in that state.” ’ . We deem it necessary to make this communication to you, to the end that you may take the necessary measures to put a stop to the evil complained of, and to cause our regulations to be duly observed. '. We are, with due respect, sir, your obedient servants, &c. Henry Gaither, Lieut. Col. Commandant. Colerain, \5th June, 1796. Sir: . , . We have had your communication of yesterday under consideration, and wrote to Colonel Gaither on the inexecution'of the 7th article of our regulations, requiring that he-would take the necessary measures to cause them to be duly observed. The other objects mentioned by you, are under consideration. . As the complaints of the Big Warrior, for a murder committed in this neighborhood, on his brother, have not been satisfied,'* and we may be called on by him, or some of the relatives, to account for the sai'ne, in the course of the pending negotiation, we wish you would give us a narrative of the whole transaction, as far as you have been able to comprehend it, stating the murder, the complaint, and the measures taken by the Government in consequence., We are, with due respect, your obedient servants. James Seaorove, Superintendent. The commissioners directed the superintendent to make the necessary arrangements for the reception of the Indians; and that he inform them the commissioners will be ready to receive them to-morrow in the forenoon, on the old parade; that, after the ceremonies on their part are over, the commissioners will Welcome them in a short speech, introductory to their business, and end it with a salute from their cannon, a smoke of the pipe of friendship, and a glass of wine. * >   . 16th. Half after ten, all the kings, head-men, warriors, and others, to the number of near four hundred, marching.under the flag of the United States, came to the commissioners, who were seated, attended by the officers of the garrison. They danced the eagle tail dance from their camp, and the four dancers at the head of the chiefs waved six times the eagle tail over the heads of the commissioners. The six of the principal kings and head-men came up and took the commissioners by the hand. They then handed their pipes to the commissioners, and held them and the fire which they brought in their hands from the camps.   The commissioners lit them and smoked. There was a short, interval between each dance, and wave of the eagle tail, beginning always with the commissioners first named, the same interval in the shake of hands, and the lighting of the pipe. The commissioners then addressed them: Beloved men, chiefs and ivurriors of the Creek nation: 'Brothers: We are the beloved men chosen by the President of the United States, and his old counsellors, and sent to meet you here; to take you by the hand; to hear all your complaints; to settle all differences; to renew and firmly establish peace and friendship between your nation and the United States; and to form a plan of trade with you. We are glad to see you. ; These three gentlemen are the beloved men of Georgia. They are sent by the good people of Georgia to take you by the hand. Yon have been told, in the talk sent you by order of the President, of the business they meet you on. To-morrow- we will meet you in the square appointed for the purpose, and have the President’s talk interpreted to you, and the next day the beloved men of Georgia will open their minds to you. You will now all take a drink with us, and smoke a pipe of friendship. Our warriors will now welcome'you here in their way. - ' 5 " . A signal, at the end of this, being given, the salute of sixteen guns were discharged. 1 The commissioners then conducted the six chiefs to their apartments, smoked a pipe of friendship with them, and entertained them and their followers with wine and spirits. The followers then returned to their encampment, and the chiefs dined with the commissioners. The chiefs were informed that, prior to the commencement of business to-morrow, the commissioners would expect to be informed of the state of the representation. The chiefs said that they had, agreeable to our former request, had a council on this subject, and would be ready to answer us. That the nation was well-represented. It being certified, to the satisfaction of the commissioners, that some improper characters were in or about the garrison, they deemed itadvisable to make a regulation which would effectually check any attempts of them to meddle in the affairs under negotiation. The commissioners for holding: a treaty with the Creek nation of Indians have judged proper, in virtue of the powers and authorities vested in them, to make the following regulation, in addition to "those of the 26th ultimo, for the prevention of quarrels, improper behavior, or nial-practices, during the negotiation: If any citizen o! the United States shall visit the camp of the Indians, or come into the garrison, or neighborhood thereof, being a suspicious character, or capable of improper behavior, or mal-practices, he is to be reported to the commissioners of the United States. And the commandant, upon receiving notice thereof, will take necessary inea sures to notify every such citizen of his being suspected, and require of him to leave the garrison in twelve hours, and not to return within the patrols of the camp, or the Indian encampment, during the negotiation. Wrote the following letter to the Secretary of War, and forwarded it by the mail: Colerain, 16th June, 1796. Sir: We wrote you on the 1th instant, enclosing our correspondence with the commissioners of Georgia up to that date. The next, day we received the letter now sent, which closed our correspondence. The gentlemen then dined with us. and have since shown a disposition to harmonize'with us. Our negotiations with the Indians commenced this day. There were twenty-two kings, seventy-five principal chiefs, and one hundred and fifty-two warriors present. The whole number who are down, attending on the invitation sent to the nation, are four hundred and thirty-five. In conversation with the chiefs, they have informed us that their nation is fully represented. We have, not ■ withstanding, required of them to hold a council expressly to determine the question of representation, and to answer us to-morrow at a public conference. The chiefs appear to be well disposed, and to have a well grounded confidence in the justice of our Government. We have the honor to be, with sincere regard, sir, your obedient servants. James McHenry, Esq. Secretary of War. -The commissioners of the United States, agreeably with their notification of yesterday, met the repre-he whole Creek nation, in the square appointed for the place of negotiation. Present, the three 17th June.- sentatives of the wnoie t.reeK nation, in tne square apnointeu tor tne place oi negotiation. Present, the three commissioners of Georgia. James Hendricks, James Jackson, and James Simms, twenty-two kings, seventy-five principal chiefs, and one hundred and fifty-two warriors, the superintendent, Colonel Gaither, and the officers of the garrison. The commissioners appointed Captain William Eaton secretary to the commission, for the purpose of taking down minute details of their proceedings. Timothy Barnard, Alexander Cornell, James Burges, and Langley Bryant, were appointed interpreters during the negotiation, and were sworn faithfully to perform the duties of their appointment, according to their best skill and ability. The commissioners explained the ceremony of swearing the interpreters to the Indians. Mr. Hawkins then explained the return which had been made by the superintendent, stating the number of towns, ol kings, of principal chiefs, and warriors, and told them the commissioners must put a question to them, respecting their representation, which they were apprised of, some days past, and requested to hold a council on. This question was then put by the commissioners: Question 1st. Have you a full representation from your nation present? Miswcr, by Fusatchee Mico, White-bird king. Yes, we arc. This chief was then appointed, in full council, to be the chief speaker. Question 2cl. If we proceed to negotiate a treaty with you, will it be good and binding upon your whole nation? .‘Insurer, by the same. Yes. The talks of our father. General Washington, were scut into our nation: these talks are known, and we have a full representation of our nation now here, who are ready to enter upon the negotiation, which, if concluded, shall be binding on our nation. Commissioners. We will then commence the business, and. that you may have a clear insight into it, we will have the talks of the President translated to you. The interpreters were then ordered to attend particularly, and aid the one who spoke, and interpret the talk as delivered to him, sentence by sentence. This being finished, the supplementary instruction from the War Office, relative to the mode of educating the youths of the nation, was addressed to, and interpreted to, the Indians, and the object of it explained. The commissioners then informed the Indians, that they had finished what they had intended to say to them this day; that the three commissioners of Georgia would speak to them to-morrow; that their talk would be a long one, and it was hoped and expected, that die representatives of the Creek land would give it a patient hearing, and deliberate upon it well, before they came to a decision. Fusatchee Mico. We have heard what the beloved men from General Washington have said to us, and to-morrow we will hear what the commissioners of Georgia shall have to say. After we have heard the talks of the beloved men of both parties, we will consider well on it, and give our answer. The commissioners requested the Indians to remain in their seats, till they could give them each a glass of toddy. Adjourned till to-morrow. Saturday, iSth June. The commissioners of Georgia having requested of us to give them our opinion of (he representation on the part of the Creeks, we wrote them this note: 1 Sth June, 1796. Genti.emen: In answer to your request, to be informed of the state of the lepresenfation on the part ot the Creeks, we have to inform you, we deem it competent to all the objects under negotiation. We think it our duty, gentlemen, to inform you. that the letter to the Governor of Georgia, and the talk addressed to the beloved men. duel's, and warriors, ol the Creek nation, contain the objects and principles on which the negotiation is to be conducted, and are considered by us as essential parts of our instructions, and directing us to the execution of our trust. We have the honor to be, with due regard, gentlemen, your obedient servants, BENJAMIN IIAWKINS, GEORGE CLYMER, ANDREW PICKENS. Honorable Commissioners of Georgia- The commissioners of Georgia called on iis, just as we were about to proceed to the square of negotiation, and submitted to our inspection the speech they had prepared to address to the Indians. We entered into conversation with them, on some points which were objectionable, to which they replied, that we might see they had referred the Indians to us, and they supposed we would do what we deemed l ight and proper. The gentlemen were requested to retire for a few moments, and we would give them our determination. We had told the gentlemen, that one statement of theirs was inadmissible, as not being a fact. They said, ‘‘Georgia was not present at New York, when the treaty was made/’ The contrary was manifest; they were always represented in the Senate, where there were a competent number for business, but, on the present occasion, their two senators were present, and voted against the ratification. We, after consideration, agreed to return this answer: 76 Gentlemen: As you have deemed this address proper, we are unanimously of opinion you should, without exceptions, be left to deliver it. We had expressed ourselves frequently, as being desirous that the gentlemen of Georgia would enter upon the purchase of the lands, and leave the disagreeable task of demanding satisfaction for the losses sustained, on us. We were desirous of smoothing the way for this negotiation, butthey were of a different opinion, and, although we could have controlled them, we deemed it advisable, to let them commence in their own way. Colonel Hendricks informed us, he was sensible of our disposition to do every thing we could for them, and requested that we would not take exceptions at their folly, which he lamented exceedingly. The commissioners and Indians met in the square of negotiation, according to adjournment. Philip Scott was sworn as an interpreter, at the request of the commissioners of Georgia. Mr. Hawkins addressed the Creeks: Kings, Chiefs, and. Warriors, of Ike Creek nation: ' . i Brothers:   ‘ The three beloved men of Georgia are present, and are now about to address their talk to you. I request you will hear them patiently; their talks will be long; they will state all their complaints, aggrievances, and their claims, to you, which you will deliberate on, with coolness, as becomes olil men and chiefs.- And, if any difficulties arise in your minds, you will inform us, the beloved men of your great father, of them, who are sent here to assist our brethren of Georgia, and our brethren the red People, in obtaining their mutual rights. The interpreters being ordered to attend General Jackson, he delivered the speech he had shown to the commissioners, and dwelt with peculiar emphasis on the treaties of Augusta, of Galphiuton, and Shouhlerbone, heretofore concluded between the Creeks and Georgia, the violation of these treaties, the claims arising out of them, on the part of Georgia, and concluded with observing, that those claims, which respected certain tracts of land, and restoration of stolen property, were still valid, and ought to be observed, notwithstanding the outrage of bad men on both sides, which he sincerely regretted. The General exhibited two schedules of the property to be restored or accounted for, amounting to 110,000 dollars, and hoped that the negotiation Would terminate in mutual advantages and satisfaction of both the parties; expressed his confidence, that the beloved men, sent by our beloved great chief, the President, would use their endeavors to accomplish the desirable object. Mr. Hawkins: . ’> \ i Brothers: You have this day heard the talk of our brethren, the beloved men of Georgia. It is a long one, and contains many things; we request you will allow yourselves sufficient time to consider upon it; that you will think on the subject, with as much coolness and deliberation as if you were within your own square, at your own councils, in your nation; you are in perfect safety at this place; you may choose your ground for deliberation, and shall there be secured from all interruption; and, as I have before observed, whatever you may find in the talks delivered you this day, which requires explanation, or is dissatisfactory, we request you will refer your difficulties to us, the beloved men from the President, whose duty, and whose desire it is, arbitrating between the parties, to establish your rights. The chiefs were then requested to keep their seats, and they should be furnished with a glass of toddy. After consultation, they applied to Mr. Hawkins, and requested that he would have them furnished with a copy of the talk delivered them by the commissioners of Georgia, and all the papers referred to in it. They wished to have them in their own council, that they might understand every part, before they made up their minds to reply. Mr. Hawkins promised to apply for the papers, and to send them a copy; and he immediately did so, to Air. Simms and Colonel Hendricks, who promised them in half an hour. The Indian representation have observed great decency and decorum, for the two days past; they are remarkably attentive to every thing said to them. During the whole time the commissioners of the United States were talking to them, they showed a degree of confidence in, and an approbation of, all that was said to them. They gave an assent to every paragraph. While the commissioners of Georgia were talking, they rarely assented; remained generally silent; when the treaty of Galphmton was mentioned, they asked who signed it. The number of signers, on their part, were named. When the commissioners exhibited the long roll of claims against them, and the particulars were enumerated, they listened till the article hogs were numbered, when they all laughed. After they had separated, several principal chiefs dined with the commissioners, and talked to each other on parts of the speech, many of which, they said, they did not remember to have heard of before. The Big Warrior requested to know, if the commissioners could not furnish a roll of paper, somewhat longer than that exhibited by Georgia, as he could easily fill it up. Another of them asked, how their brethren of Georgia could distinguish between the loss occasioned among their hogs, whether it was by the bears or Indians. He said the Creeks hail lost many hogs, and their brethren of Georgia had done them much evil; but that lie had never charged them with the taking of hogs. Sunday, 19th June. This day the Indians applied for the papers promised them yesterday, and we wrote the following note: Gentlemen: Coleraine, 19th June, 1796. The Indians have requested us to furnish them with a copy of the talk you addressed to them yesterday, that they may be able to examine it leisurely in their councils. We have promised it to them; and wTe have to request of you to furnish us with an attested copy of the speech, together with the papers referred to therein, which were shown and explained to the Indians. , 'We are, with due respect, your obedient servants. Honorable Commissioners of Georgia. Mr. Robinson, the secretary to the commissioners, called on us and delivered the talk, certified to be a true copy, and extracts from some of the papers alluded to. He said the paper containing the claims against the Indians, was an original; that it would take three days to copy It; that the commissioners did not like to trust it in the camp: but they'would show it to us, if we were desirous of perusing it. We requested we might have the examination of it at our lodgings. ’ * i We sent this note to the superintendent: Coleraine, 19//t June. Sir: ■ ■ ■ . , v The commissioners of the United States enclose you a certified copy of the talk delivered yesterday, by the commissioners of Georgia to the Creeks, with extracts from the papers alluded to therein; you will deliver these to the Indians. We have applied for the amount of losses, as shewn by the commissioners to the Indians, and are promised the perusal of it, there being but one original; and the clerk of the commissioners supposes it will take three days to copy it. As soon as we have examined it, we shall determine what is proper to be done relative to it. The superintendent returned for answer: Indian Camp, near Coleraine, 19th June, 179G. Gentlemen: Tam honored with your note, enclosing tiie speech of the commissioners of Georgia, which I shall have explained to the Creek chiefs, this afternoon. I herewith send for yo.ur opinion, a copy of a letter which I have received from the Governor of Georgia. 1 wish you to inform me, whether you think it sufficient for the purpose intended. , , With respect, I remain, &c. The letter being an assumption, on the part of Georgia, to pay half of the expense for the supply of provisions to the Indians, during the negotiation. 20th.—The Indians spent this day in council, in a square which they prepared for that purpose, in their own encampment. They requested that three of the interpreters should attend them, and named Timothy Barnard, Alexander Cornell, and James Burges; they were ordered accordingly. The commissioners finding that there had been great inattention, in the person appointed to eater for them, or neglect on the part of the contractor? that their table was badly provided; at the same time, that the garrison abounded in good things, and other tables were supplied with them at the public expense, they determined to check this abuse, and to reprimand those who should appear to be the authors. They wrote to the contractor: Mr. Johnston: The man vou appointed to cater for the commissioners, is either above his business, or unacquainted with his duty. Their table lias been the worst provided for, of any in the garrison; the meats are generally bad, for some days past? and the vegetables, not one third enough lor the number entertained by them. You are required to make (lie necessary regulations, not only to'prevent a continuance of their treatment, but to provide every thing suitable for their table. Mr. Johnston attended, apologised for the past, and promised amendment in future. In the evening the commissioners received a paper from the Indians, which, they were informed, contained the answer they intended for the commissioners of Georgia. They, at the same time, received an invitation to visit the Indians the next morning at the square of negotiation, in the Indian camp. 2lst.—W'e this morning! early, attended the Indians; they were in the square with the three interpreters. W e understood they wished us to visit them, and hear them, unattended by any person, and we conformed to their desire. Fusatchee Mieo, or Bird king, informed ns lie was to reply to us. on the part of the Creek nation, and he began: Fathers, Brothers, and beloved men: I am going to speak my mind to-day, and hope vou will attend to me. I am glad I have the opportunity of seeing you, the three beloved men from our Great Father, General Washington. We have another placed here b\ him, Mr. Seagrove; we hope you will attend. I got a talk sent up to us in our land, sent from the President of the United States, to invite me here; here we are, a representation of the whole nation. I say, I understood that General Washington sent three of his beloved men to see us? we came to see them? had we been invited to meet the Georgians only, there would not have been one attending. It is very true, and we all know it, people who regard each other, will go great lengths at the call of each other? we were invited, and went a great way to see General Washington: and now, when I saw his talk in our land, we determined to come, although it is a great way, and we have had to encounter difficulties of hunger and fatigue; but we have eome, and are pleased to see, as we were told we should, his beloved men. It is true, General Washington sent for us? we went to see him; when we arrived, he told us he was glad to see us face to face, he wanted this, and sent, for us. You have come to the head, the main branch, and I hope our talks will be straight before you leave u?. G. W. told us, it is very good for you that I sent for you; I am the head of thirteen States. G. AY. told us, I sent for you, and you are come; I will have the talks sueli, and put them on such a foundation, as that there will be a great many breaths preserved by it. It is true, we were there? G. AY. told us he was glad to see us. The man we carried as our head man, was a half-breed. lie had more conversation with General Washington, and his great men, than we; but I beard, I will tell. AY e were told, it was well we were there, and he would, when we went into our own laud, provide for us; and have people whose business it should be, to provide for us there. General AA'ashington told us, he hoped, after our return, there would be a peace for everlasting, between the white people and us, notwithstanding he and we might die. lie told us, at the same time, when you go back into your land, and give my talks in to your people. 1 will, by that time, have an eye out and obtain a man, and send him to look after you, to see your affiiirs righted. G. A\’. told us, a father will speak to his children? it is natural lie should? that they should take care, and not imbrue their hands with blood, but keep peace and quietness in their land. He fnrlher said, if there should happen to be a cloudy day over us, we must .look about, and see how to dispel it, that we may have a clear day to live in. It is not me who speaks; ‘tis General AA'ashington; he said, I have seen many a cloudy day in my time, but now here I am, and you see me. General AA’ashington told me, at the same time, you see, and I see, the rivers; when they run dry, and die mountains disappear, we shall cease to talk of peace and quietness, and there will be an end of all tilings. He told me the lands on this side of the mountain, which are the back-bone of our country, we are now on, I mean nothing but peace and quietness as long as they shall last; but, if nature should destroy us, we must submit; lie should support peace, and expected they would have no other enemy to put f them to death, than the decay of nature. General AA'ashington told us, you will mind, you will come to me as I told you; I am the chief: you must come to me; I am told you have men who pretend to be great men, in your neighborhood, and who pretend to great things; you must not listen to them, but to me; I only have the right to speak to you as the chief of their land. General AA’ashington told us. those were those great people who would come to us after our lands, or something else, some of the Governor's perhaps, but you must not listen to any of them, but to me. This we have observed and followed? we have not listened to any. I will let you know what G. AY. told me, as well as my memory serves me. and I think I do not tell an untruth. General AA’ashington told us at that very time, I have talked to you, and told you, face to face, I look upon myself as your father, and I wish, if it were possible, that, when you go to your own laud, there was a chain riveted in my and your hearts, of friendship, so strong as never to be broken. General AA’ashington told us. you are going to your own land? any thing that disturbs you, or myjpeople, 1 will interpose to remedy? and will see. if any people trespass on your rights, and take possession of your lands, that they shall be removed quite away from you, even'to the sea shore. At that very time, it was told us, as M’Gillivray said, it was hard that that land on the Oconee should be taken from us; but as the people were settled on it, the river should be the boundary line. That is, that Oconee running up the same, and die north fork, being called the Little Oconee, to the source, and that the upper part should be marked six strides wide. General AA'ashington said, after the boundary was run and finished, if we ever saw a white man hunting with a gun, or a beaver trap, over the line? we might take the gun. strip him, and turn him over to his own side: but not to kill or hurt him. After our return home into our own land, we expected nothing further than to carry the treaty into effect, and to prepare to come down and mark the boundary agreed upon at New A’ork. Two days before we were to set out, one Bowles eaine into the nation, with a heap of lies. He told us the British king sent him: he came to bring trade to us. and to take care of our land. This brought contusion among us. and distinction in our land.-; we were perplexed, and did not know what to do. However, we, the chiefs, often think of doing what we had promised, and, as soon a.> Generali Washington invited us. you may see how readily we come. These obstructions prevented the running of the line, ana it remains unexecuted to this day ; but we know where the line should be run, and we see people come over 600 INDIAN AFFAIRS. [179 7. on our land, and build a fort, and trespass on our rights, at the fork of Tulapocka, near the high falls, and another up at the mountains. I stand to what General Washington told us, and I expect to abide by what he and Congress did at New York with us. And I hope, in running the line, if any of the white people should be on our side, that you will have them removed. We arc willing to agree with you three beloved men, to have the treaty of New York carried completely into effect, that is, every thing wc promised there. This I am now telling to you, was the result of a deliberation in our land, before we left thence, and our wish is to settle every thing, and preserve peace. I am now going to let you know my mind about the Georgians. 1 hope you saw what we did yesterday; it was intended for you. When I was a child, and long before, the old people met and did their businessdn a few words, but now things are changed, and it takes a great many words. I have said a good deal of what my white father, General Washington, told us, face to face. I look on it I am still speaking to him, when I address myself to you. I expect your advice and assistance, as I should expect his, if he were present. I cannot think of any thing more at present. I have put every thing before you, with the paper we sent you yesterday in answer to the Georgians. I shall wait until you can see into it, and give your advice. Our people are uneasy about the losses of horses, and bills, and property. We rely on the commissioners to despatch us as soon as they can. The commissioners told the chiefs that they would examine the contents of the answer sent for the three beloved men of Georgia, and meet them again to-morrow. June 22.—The commissioners of the United States being informed that the Indians were disturbed at some attempts made in their camps to obtain some land from them, by two or three white persons; and the superintendent informing them that Colonel John Jones, of Burk county, had written one or more deeds in the camp, and was in company with Philip Scott, Robert Tool, and John Galphin; that some of them were, endeavoring to prevail on the Indians to sign the deed, in favor of Robert Tool; the deed intended for Tool was handed to the commissioners; it was for six miles square, and in the hand writing of John Jones. The misdemeanor was so flagrant that they ordered immediate inquiry, and directed that the persons concerned should be brought before them in council with the Indians, to be examined. We issued the following direction: Coleraine, June 22, 1796. Sir: The commissioners of the United States have had information lodged with them against John Jones, Philip Scott, and Robert Tool, as being engaged in mal-practices, within the Indian encampment. They request that you will have the said persons brought before them, to be examined, touching the premises. B. H. G. C. Captain Eaton. A. P. The persons being arrested, and return made thereof, the commissioners repaired to the square of negotiation,.in the Indian encampment, and informed the Indians of what they had learned, and the steps taken by them to sift the matter in their presence. They showed the deed, and requested that the chief who sent it, should inform them how he came by it, and what he knew relative to it. i Coiocta leader replied: 1 heard' something of the talk yesterday, which gave some uneasiness in the camp, and I applied to Mr. Tool, who said there was nothing in it. Upon this, I went to my camp, where I was again informed of it, and the paper shown by you, being the deed for Tool, was put into my hand. I was informed that Philip Scott and John Jones went out on one side and wrote it; though John Galphin gave the paper to me, in my camp, and I  directly carried it to the superintendent. The same day Mr. Jones and Philip Scott came to my camp, and applied to Abacoo Tustamitca, of the Broken-arrow old field. He will tell what lie knows. Macoo Tustamitca.—Philip Scott asked me for some lands for his Indian children. 1 replied, he had gone now to live among the white people, and we could not give him any lands, on our side of the line. If his children wanted land, let them come and live in the nation', and they shall have some. Philip Scott came this morning and applied again by himself, Mr. Jones being in sight, but at some distance from him. I answered him, you have a great number of children, and chose to stay where you are; we will not, as you have thus determined, give you any thing. If your daughters, or children, want land, send them into the nation to us: they are our blood, and we will provide for them. I then ordered Scott to be silent, to say no more about it, and go his way. Scott said he would; that it was the women, my relations, that sent the application to me; that he did not make it of himself. Question to the chiefs, by the commissioners.—Did any of the chiefs make a promise of the lands, as expressed in the deed? This question must be answered, and it can do no injury to them, as it is not binding. Ansiver from the chiefs.—No; there are no chiefs who ever did promise any. What they heard yesterday, and the uneasiness occasioned from it, determined them to send the deed to the superintendent, for the commissioners. The 8th section of the act for regulating trade was then explained to the Indians; and the commissioners sent for Robert 'Pool, who, upon being examined, said, that John Jones and John Galphin came to the camp where he was; that John Galphin observed, there was land given to pay him and the traders, for many thousand pounds of leather, but that they never got any of it. The Georgians sold it: that he would get all the chiefs to sign a deed for him. Air. Jones said he would buy the land from him, if he could get it from the Indians, or if it-was Ins. He replied, it was not his land, and he could not get it. John Galphin said, he could get it for him, and all the chiefs should sign, the deed. ■" ' .   . .v The old man being of feeble mind, always intoxicated with strong drink', when he could get it; his narrative apparently candid, and corroborated by several of the chiefs, in conversation on the subject, lie was acquitted. The commissioners being informed that the Indians would hold him guilty, unless they acquitted him, and that, at sonie future time, they would punish him, they told the chiefs that Tool was innocent of any fraud intended against them, and had been imposed on; that they acquitted him, and the chiefs must look on him as innocent. The chiefs replied, they were satisfied the old man had been made a too! of, and that he was innocent. Colonel John Jones was then ordered to attend. The commissioners informed the colonel,’ that they had a very important trust delegated to them; that they were determined to execute it. That he saw the delicate situation they were placed in, by having a gentleman, who had been for some time as one of their family, and permitted to visit their camp daily, under the sanction of their name, brought before them, to answer for a misdemeanor, involving in it a breach of trust. That, for various reasons, they had determined to submit it to him, to make his own statement, on which they would rely, and form their decision. The colonel bursted into tears, and replied, he was sensible of what we had stated, and it affected him exceedingly. That he had committed a breach of trust, and a misdemeanor of the nature mentioned in the act stated to him; but declared on his honor it was without any knowledge of its being so at the time; that he was led to write the deed from a desire to be serviceable to some people who had been kind to him, without any recollection at the time, of there being the least impropriety in the act. He said he must inform the commissioners, that he had written one other deed, in favor of John Galphin, and that he had promised a like favor to Philip Scott. He was sorry it had caused uneasiness among the Indians, and been productive of any disagreeable sensation in the commissioners, to whose politeness he was much indebted since his arrival. The commissioners told Mr. Jones that they would take his statement, as he had made it, with his apology, and that he was at liberty to depart 1 .' ‘ Philip Scott vyas next called in, examined, and discharged. The commissioners then explained to the Indians the nature of the examination, who were greatly pleased, and expressed it, with particular allusion to the effect it had on those who were examined. This business occupying flic day, in the evening we gave flic gentlemen, commissioners of Georgia, the talk delivered to us for them, and showed them, at the same,time, our notes of yesterday's proceeding, which we permitted them to copy, except a part of the two last paragraphs. Upon calling in the evening on the gentlemen, we found t>v<> of them greatly enraged, at what they termed a violation of the rights of the citizens of Georgia, anil an insult to the dignity of the State, by our proceedings of this day. They said much of the civil magistrate, and civil authority; to which it was replied, that the authority here was civil, and competent to all the purposes entrusted to it, without the intervention of any other aid, than what they had already under their direction. That the regulations made by them to prevent improper behavior, or mal-practices, during the negotiation, were such as they deemed proper; that they were the sole judges, and that the regulations should be enforced, without respect of persons. in full council of all the chiefs, this application was made to the commissioners. Sohonoketchee of the. Cowetas.—1 have a cousin here, one John Gulphin; there is the Cussetah king, and several of his relations here. We want to speak a few words relative to him. When we first arrived, John came, but he kept out till we talked to the beloved men. John understood the beloved men wanted them to keep him out, till they would hat e a talk with the chiefs. He wants to come in, and be about, as another Indian. We, the chiefs, solicit, that he may be permitted to come in. If you see proper, I wish you would look upon him as another Indian. I will make it my duty, and I promise it here, before all the chiefs, to look after him in future, and see that he conduct himself properly; and I will be answerable for him. There is another talk we have to give, relative to George Gulphin j we gave a large tract of land to the brothers; George sent to John to meet him here about their lands; they intended to apply to the commissioners to see justice done them, if it can be. They did not come to disturb the harmony of the meeting. To the first point, the commissioners answer, that the President invited all the Creeks to attend ibis treaty; and they will not judge of improper characters among them; that the chiefs of the land, in council, must be the judges. That, although John has been represented to them as a very bad man, if the chiefs will introduce him to them, they will take him by the hand, especially, as.the chiefs solicit it, and the one speaking has promised for himself, and all the others, that, in future, they will attend to his conduct. If he behaves bad in future, they must remember they solicited us to restore him to favor. June 23.—The commissioners of the United States called this morning on the commissioners of Georgia, agreeably to a notification to them, to'take them to the Indian square of negotiation; but they scented undetermined what to do. They were asked whether they preferred going this morning, and having a conversation with the chiefs, or to-morrow; after some hesitation, General Jackson left us, with observing, that he could not be ready till to-morrow. We replied, we would inform the Indians of it. Colonel Hendricks informed us he would attend this morning, and perhaps Mr. Simms with hint. 'I’he council met at Muscogee hall, in the Indian encampment. The two gentlemen ab;>\e named, from Georgia, attended. The commissioners of the United States then addressed the Indians. fling's, Chiefs, and // arriors, of the whole Creek nation: Brothers: As we have had your talk to us in answer to the beloved men of Georgia, under consideration, and have delivered it to them, we expect you will hear from them again; therefore, we shall speak nothing to you on the objects between you and them, to-day. \Ve shall speak on the points more immediately relating to our mission. 1st. We shall speak of trade. This subject lias already, in conversation, been mentioned to you; we shall now go fully into it. This'trade is to be conducted according to the views of General Washington, in a mode different from that heretofore in practic'e in your country, on a plan entirely new; heretofore, it has been can ned on by individuals, solely for their own profit; these frequently abused and defrauded the Indians. It will now lie carried on by (lie United States, under the direction of your great and beloved father, the Prcsidentof the United States. And he is desirous it should be conducted in a manner perfectly conformable to your wants and wishes, and with as little expense to you as possible. Many of you know General W ashington; you have seen him face to face; and he has evidenced to you his intention to know all your wants, to Imyer over you as his children, and to watch over your rights. Tlic goods necessary to supply your wants come a great way. and must be brought in ships, and to save expense i,o you. must he suffered to be carried as far as possible into your country in boats. Long land carriage will be tedious and expensive. This, we have well explained to you before. We are directed by General W ashington to talk freely to you, on this subject. We have thought much on it, and suppose it will be difficult at once to fix on the place or places best suited to the establishment of trading posts. But we have come to an opinion, and will give, it to you. U is this: It would be best to submit to our father. General Washington, to fix on the places. He will do nothing but for your good. If one place is sufficient to supply your whole nation conleniently, he w ill choose but one; ii you find two necessary, lie will fix on two. We think the Stores anil post ol protection should lie over the line, and these are our reasons: You and your families w ill be on your own ground, your persons and your property will he sale. There will always be a garrison of federal troops stationed there, to preserve order and good government; they will of course protect you, as yon see they do here. The officers ot the United States will always command there, and your men and warriors, and hunters, may always solely come to them. . Hie place or places need lie but small, sufficient to raise bread for the traders, the garrison, and their red friends, who may visit them. They will want beef, bread, and milk, as your people will, wlm visit them. They will, oi course, want ground for stock arid for corn. But we do not wish the land should become ours. \Y honever the trade shall be removed, and it shall be no longer necessary for a trading, or military post, it shall return to the Indian people, and be as one of their old towns. 'Hie commissioners then explained the boundary lines of the United States, and of the Indians; explained the nature of the guarantee in the New York ireaty; introduced arguments to show the watchfulness ol the Government of the United States, to protect the red people in their rights; adverted again to trade. That, in the regulation of it. (he President would direct, that every article of goods should have a stipulated value. I he advance permitted to the traders, if such should be suHerod in the nation, on articles purchased at the trading house, to be fixed; weights and measures might be introduc' d in every town: the young warriors and hunters, can then bring their leather, throw it into the scales, and at once know its value, and the value of the goods they are to receive for it; every trader will sell at the same price when they are permitted, and the distance is the same from the trading lost. The commissioners then observed: \Ye hear that the nation lias been badly supplied with goods, and those have not been well assorted. When we agree on the place, and shall have had time to make the necessary arrangements, ihcre will always be a full and well assorted store, and at a reasonable price. I he United States are determined to make no profit, to themselves; they intend the trade to be carried on solely for the benefit of their red brethren. The President will appoint persons to procure ol the manufacturers at the cheapest rate. The goods will be brought to the trailing house, with the addition only of cost and charges, annexing (hereto only so much, as that the trade will support itself. The Indians who apply at the stoi c, will purchase at the first cost, covered as aforesaid, and as cheap as the traders. The trailers must have a small profit, where they are permitted, and in proportion to the distance from the trailing house. This advance will be stipulated, sufficient only to indemnify them lor their trouble; and the prices at which they must sell, shall be posted up in every town. We have spoken much on this subject, but we shall still have more to say. If we can agree on a proper place to carry on the business, we will do it; but we wish that our agreement may be temporary only, as, if it should be found to be improper by the President of the United States, he will alter it for the best. They then adverted to the high prices of many articles, particularly that of powder: explained fully the causes. They then adverted to the establishment of schools, which had been mentioned on a former occasion. They explained fully the advantages; among others, that the sons of those present, when they became old men, and chiefs, and warriors, they could transact the affairs of the nation like the'white people, without being subject to imposition from designing characters, or intepreters; that they might keep a record of their transactions in their own tongue, or in English. Cussetah Mico replied: That the Indians, when educated, turned out very worthless; became mischievous and troublesome, and involve the red and white people in difficulties. That they had many melancholy examples of this sort, without an exception. The commissioners replied: The President has heard that your young men educated in our towns turned out so: and the reason might be, that they associated too much with our bad people. They were furnished with money, out of the sight and correction of their parents, associated with the wicked who were intruders, and neglected the advice of sober good people. They associated with vicious young men, and from bad examples acquired bad habits; bad examples produce bad morals. So frequent do we experience this, that our laws are severe to correct it, and executed sometimes with rigor, even to the putting men to death for stealing their neighbors’ property. But your youths, educated in their towns, would be under the eye, and receive the. directions of their fathers and mothers. This subject was further enlarged upon, but received with such dislike by the Indians, that it was postponed. The commissioners then, adverting to the boundary line, said— Brothers of the Creek, land: We have examined the talk which you have given to us, and believe your statement true, except in one point-It is the boundary line. This line was established at New York in the treaty-there. It is the main south fork of the Oconee, called Apalachy. It was hoped that the treaty at New York would accommodate all differences; but you, it seems, wrere dissatisfied, as well as your brothers of Georgia, and mutual complaints have been made to the President. Georgia had given you something, and the United States gave you some valuable goods, and are to pay you fifteen hundred dollars a year. You have, complained to us of two forks; we have examined and find them to be on the right side of the line. If you had come and run the line according to treaty, no difficulty or difference would have happened. The embarrassment occasioned by Bowles, we haveheard of; but McGillivray carried some copies of the treaty with him to the nation, and he is to blame if he did not make you acquainted with their contents. The people of Georgia, who took possession of the lands, thought them theirs; and the President, on examining the treaty, and hearing their complaints, must have thought so too. The Georgians, who own this land,- have paid taxes for it; and perhaps some of the very money raised by them, is now expended in providing necessaries which support us here. Copies of the treaty' were, sent into the Creek land, and some to Georgia; then, if they had not believed that the land was theirs, they would never have attempted to settle it. This subject was much dwelton and explained, that the Georgians should be blameless. The commissioners then proceeded: The President being surprised that this part of the treaty-should be misunderstood, determined to put all his future talks on paper, and send them into the nation, previously to calling them together, that the Creeks might think of them beforehand, and know the business on which they were to meet. \Ye also were ordered to see that every thing was interpreted in a manner to answer its being understood. . "1 ou see we have five sworn interpreters. We have taken all the pains we can to ensure fairness in the negotiation; and we intend, when we have agreed on the outlines, to put it on paper, and explain the whole again. The treaty of New York was sent to your, nation in tin boxes, to ensure your getting it safe, and McGillivray was directed to promulgate it throughout all your land'. ’ Cussetah Mico answered: McGillivray never collected the nation, or shewed the treaty at all; nor did the nation ever hear of this part, of it till lately. The Superintendent said he was satisfied it was within three years, that the Indians were informed of this part of the treaty, and that he communicated it then to them; that the Hallowing king shed tears on hearing it. The commissioners then explained the boundary between Spain and the United States; took a comprehensive view of the late Indian war; its issue, and the present boundary of the United States with foreign Powers, and the boundary with the Indian tribes; pointed out the object of the United.States in running their southern boundary, and called on the Indians to aid them with guides and hunters. The commissioners then informed the Indians, that, on the next day. they would see their brothers of Georgia. < . - i Copy of it note sent this morning to the Commissioners of Georgia. Mr. Hawkins requests the commissioners of Georgia to return his notes as soon as they conveniently can,- as he has not as yet had time to copy them. The commissioners of the United States expect to see the Indians this morning, at the square in the Indian encampment, at the request of the Indians, and they will call on the commissioner., of Georgia to accompany them. June 23.—The notes here mentioned, were those of the talk received from the Indians on the twenty-second. Coleraine, June 23, 179G. Cr ENTI.E MEN: The last correspondence we had the honor of receiving from you, oh the disagreements on our first arrival between us, told us that yon would inform us of the proper time to commence the conferences between the Indians and ourselves, and that you would attend our calls. We gave our talk the next day after yours, and now call on you, agreeably to your promise, for a conference with the Greek nation, at which we may receive an answer to that talk. We arc. respectfully, your most obedient servants, JAS. JACKSON, JAS. SIMMS. By order of the Board of Commissioners: Thos. Robertson, Secretary. Honorable Commissioners United States. Received on the 21th, and answ ered. , Coleraine, 21 th June, 1796. Gentlemen: We did, oil the day we addressed the Indians in public council, inform you, that, in our opinion, you should commence your conference on the next day. The want of a copy of your communication, caused a short delay, among the Indians, in making their reply for you, which they sent to us.   , We attended them at their request,, and received the reply to our address, both of which we communicated to you. Yesterday wras the first day since we could meet them on business, and we called on you, in the morning, to know whether you would, on that day, meet the Indians, and being told that you would not .be ready till this morning, we did, in the presence of the commissioners, who attended our conferences with the Indians, inform them that you would meet them, this morning, on the object of your mission. The Indians have a square of negotiation in their encampment, to which they are attached, and, at their request, we shall meet them there. We have only to add that no time should now be lost in negotiating with them; that we shall meet them, every day, in council, and that your business shall be a primary object. B. H. G. C. A. P. Honorable Commissioners of Georgia. This morning the commissioners of the United States went to the Indian square of negotiation. One of the gentlemen requested Captain Eaton to call-on the commissioners of Georgia, and conduct them to the conference; this he attempted to do, and waited some time for them; but left them and came on. After waiting two hours, or more, the commissioners received this letter: Coleraine, June 24, 1796. Gentlemen: Among a variety of circumstances, which have happened since our arrival, highly grating to our feelings, one has just happened which we are sorry for, as Captain Tinsley has been so polite as to wait on us, to assure us it was contrary to orders, and we were on the way to meet you at the conference. We have been stopped by the picket, which refused the passage of our secretary : he had our papers, and we were compelled to return. Although we are of opinion with Captain Tinsley, and thank him for his attention, we cannot forbear to express how much we feel, that we should be at all liable to such interruptions, in the exercise of our duty to our country. We are, gentlemen, with great respect, your obedient servants, JAS. JACKSON, JAS. SIMMS. Honorable Commissioners of the United States. We immediately returned this answer, and requested Captain Eaton to deliver it to the gentlemen: . Muscogee, 24th June. 1796. Gentlemen: i We have to lament that any incident should have happened, during your being here, grating to your feelings. We have never intended any thing that should be capable of that construction. The apology of Captain Tinsley was proper. W e, ourselves, called on you, yesterday, to conduct you here, and, this day, Captain Eaton did the same. We have felt, on all occasions, a disposition to accommodate you, in obtaining the objects of your mission; and. it is to be regretted, that difficulties should obtrude themselves unnecessarily. The Indians are now in council, waiting your arrival; we have apprized them of your intention of seeing them. They appear well disposed; we have postponed entering on the business, more immediately connected with our mission, to give place to yours, as a primary object? and we shall wait one hour longer for you. We have the honor to be, with due respect, gentlemen, your obedient servants, B. II. G. C. A. P. Honorable Commissioners of Georgia. The commissioners of Georgia attended, and the council opened. 'The commissioners of the United States, by Mr. Hawkins: Representatives of the Creek Land: This paper, which I now show you, is the paper you sent us in answer to the beloved men of Georgia. We have showed it to them; you are now together, face to face. 1 shall read it to yon, that you may know, and say. whether it is your talk, and your determination. The talk being read, paragraph by paragraph, and interpreted, is as follows: The chiefs, here present, wish to inform the three gentlemen, commissioners, sent by the President of the United States, of what they have to say, respecting what they had told them, by the three gentlemen, commissioners from Georgia. The chiefs, here assembled, say, that the three treaties, mentioned by the commissioners of Georgia, at Augusta, at Galphinton, and at Shoulderbone, that there was not a lull representation of the nation at any of those treaties above mentioned. Therefore, the nation, in general, never looked upon any of them as binding. The chiefs, here present, say, that, at Shoulderbone treaty, there was a number of men present under arms, which frightened the Fat king of the Cussetahs, and the Tallassee king, into what was done respecting the relinquishment of any lands. That the other two treaties, at Augusta and Galphinton, were both carried on in like manner, and without a full representation of the nation. The chiefs, here assembled, say, that, in consequence of such management, they look upon no treaty binding on their nation, but the treaty held at New York, as those men that went on there, before the President of the L nited States, were invested with full power to make every thing that was done there binding on the whole Creek nation. The chiefs say, that they were told, by their beloved man, McGillivray, after they got into their own land, from Congress, that no property was demanded of them, but what was taken after the peace was concluded between Great Britain and the United States. Such property that has been taken since, we. the chiefs, have done our endeavors to return. Some negroes we have returned. The white persons we have given all up. Some horses we have returned; would have returned more horses, but, the great sickness that raged among the horses in our nation, put it out of our power. The negroes cause great disputes among us, in our land, with respect to returning them, as some are sold, and bartered, from one to another, and the property paid for them consumed, by those who got it, which makes it a difficult matter for us to obtain negroes under those circumstances; however, there is some still in our land that can be come at; and we, the chiefs, will do every thing we can to return them. The chiefs, here present, say, that, with respect to the line agreed upon, while they were at Congress, was as follows: That the line was, as they.,, understood it while at Congress, to begin at the head of the most northward branch of the Oconee river, known to the Indians by the name of little Oconee, which heads up near Tugclo, and to come down the said stream, till it intercepts the old line run by the British, and there to cross the Altamaha, according to the old British line, and, on said line, to St. Mary’s river. This is the line, the cliiefs say, that was to begin high upon the Oconee; men, according to their agreement at Congress, were appointed, and prepared to run it. But, the day before they were to start, one Bowles came into their land with a deal of talks. They were convinced, since, they were all lies. Nevertheless, his talks made a great deal of confusion in their land, and was a great obstruction to their performing their promise to the President of the United States. We, the chiefs, were told, at a general meeting of our whole nation, by our beloved man, Mr. McGillivray, that, as soon as this line, before mentioned, was mu. and completed, (hathe was assured, by the President of the United States, and bis Congress, that no more demand should be made for any Indian lands; and that he, the President, would suffer no future encroachments to be made on the Indians’ hunting ground. They say they were, likewise, told by Mi-. McGillivray, that it was, likewise, agreed on, at Congress, that after those lines were run, that if. they foumfany stock of any kind, whatsoever, on their grounds, that they were at liberty to make them their own, or, if they even met any w hite man hunting on their hunting grounds, that they'were at liberty to strip them of all they have, but spare their lives. The chiefs say. that the burning of houses, destroying hogs and cattle, are mentioned to them; such things are done on both sides; what was done, not long ago, at the Little Oakfnskees, and many other things of the like nature, we do not mention; which we could do, with propriety, if we were to look back. The chiefs answer, to this demand, respecting negroes, horses, hogs, cows, and other property, that the great body of land on the Altamaha, from that up the Oconee, and across over to Ogeehee, all which is now settled, or at least claimed by the citizens of Georgia; that this boundary includes a great body of land relinquished by the Indians; on the land, they say, there is a great deal of timber, pine and oak, which are of great use to the w hite people, which, they say, they send to foreign countries, and brings them a great deal of money: on this land, they say, there is a great deal of‘good grass for cattle and horses, and a great deal of good feed for hogs; on this land, they say, ihere is u great deal ol tobacco made, which, likewise, brings a great deal of goods into Georgia; all these things, they say, is productive of great advantages to their friends, the w hite people. This land,.the chiefs of the Creek nation say, they have had, no consideration for, any ways adequate to the value of it. The chiefs mention, that even the very streams of waiter are found valuable for mills to grind'the. wheat and corn that is made on those very lands; the pine trees, that are dead, are valuable for tar; all these things, they say, arc lasting profits; if they have had a little goods, in one or two seasons, they are rotten, and gone to nothing. . The chiefs say, they mention the profits that arise from those lands to the citizens of the United States; they do not mention it that they wish to be paid mere for it; they are, they say, poor people, and can remain so. The chiefs say that, notwithstanding all they have been told from the President of the United States and his officers, that no encroachments should he made, on their hunting grounds, that, oti the west side of the Oconee, high up, that is, from fort Fidius upward, that the woods is full of cattle, hogs, and horses, some of which range near the Oakmulgees. Besides that, those woods are constantly full of white men, hunters, even going about in the night, hunting deer with fire light. They say their hunters, in consequence of such proceedings, are frightened, and drove in from their hunting grounds; every cane swamp, where they go to look for a bear, which is part of their support, is near eat out with the stocks put over by the citizens of Georgia; none of those stocks they have as yet molested. The chiefs say, they are now asked for their land, as far as the Oakmulgee river, and across, from the fork of the Oconee, and Oakmulgee rivers, to the head of St. Man’s. Weare told thatthose lands are ol no service to us, hut still, we consider that, if we can hold our lands, there will always be a turkey or a deer, or, in the streams of water, a fish to be found, for our young generation, that will come after us. We are afraid that, if we part with any more of our lands, that at last the white people will not suffer us to keep as much as will be sufficient to bury our dead. The chiefs say that the white people, their friends, must, anil do know, themselves, that, if they part with any more of their lands, that they will bring ruin on their children; that they are increasing in numbers, as well as the whites, and that, before long, every fork of a creek, where there is a little good land, will be of use to them, and every stream of water, where there is a fish to be found. The chiefs say, that though there is Flint river, and the Oakmulgee river, and also that Oconee, that ought to he between the Indians’ territory and the whites; yet, just before they left their towns, to come down here, there was a party of their hunters frightened, and run into their towns, from over below the Oakmulgee and Oconee, by the white horsemen from the State of Georgia, near opposite Shoulderbone. They say, how much worse would tins be, if the whites had the land to the Oakmulgee bank; the stock then would be put over that fiver, and of course range to Flint river, which is to the borders of their nation. The chiefs say they are told by the commissioners of Georgia, that they have a large quantity of goods, aboard of a ship, to give to the Indians, for the land they want of them. These goods, they say, are theirs; the laud belongs in the Indians, and they wish to keep it, and hope the white people from these circumstances mentioned, will think they are right; and keep their goods for other purposes. 'The whole being interpreted, the commissioners enjoined ,it on all the interpreters to be particular, as they were on oath; and put a question to the chiefs: , 4 Is this the talk which you made in council, and sent to the beloved men, commissioners of Georgia? Answer.—Yes. it was the very words we spoke. Question, by the Commissioners of Georgia. Why did not you say this face to face to us, in the square, where we spoke to you? ■ The representatives of the nation directed that Alexander Cornell should be the principal speaker, to answer all questions which shall'be made to them. Cornell.—The chiefs could give no other reason, than that they choose first to sit together in council, with their interpreter, and reduce their talks to writing. But that they were ready to give it verbally, when digested, at any time. and. in the square, face to face, if the commissioners choose they should do so. Question, by the commissioners of Georgia.—Is this your usual custom, to carry in talks in writing, or do you always give them from the voice, in the public square? , Answer.—There is no rule reduced to system. When they talk among themselves, it is usual to talk face to face, and to send beads to assist the ’memory. But, as we had, in this instance, a talk to deliver to white people, and having our linguisters all present, we chose’to send our answer in writing. Question by Georgia commissioners.—Have the Indians any method, in their nation, of making tar out of dead pine trees? Answer.—The Indians all know these things well, and have seen if done. That, when the trees are dead, and nearly rotten, the white people take the light wood, cover, it with dirt, burn it, and the tar rims out, which they spread over the ships. Question by commissioners United States.—Have you any other talk, or any thing more to say, on these subjects, to the beloved men of Georgia?* Cornell said, lie would explain himself to his friends, his father, and brothers. The talk lie had given was the general voice of the whole nation, and spoken by him at their request; he does not wish to trouble or tire the commissioners with a long talk; lie had a little to say, and begged he might be heard. The talk you have got, is the talk of the whole nation; and, if they were all here, they would all say the same. As for talking any more about the land, it is needless to talk any more. If you are determined to take the land, to drive us off', and make us poor, it must be so. If the sharp weapons of defence are to be taken from us, and as our dependence is on the white people, we must be driven from our lands, and made poor. We must, we suppose, submit. We have been a great while sitting on public talks; we have, become impatient, and want to go home. We are , used to hunger, and want rest, in our own country. But we are tired, ami want to go home, anil wish the talks may be closed this day. Commissioners United States, by Mr. Hawkins:. Brothers of the Creek Land: In one of the answers which your speaker has given, it is insinuated that the people of Georgia are capable of taking your lands. The people of Georgia cannot take your lands from you. They are guarantied to you by the treaty of New York. Your brothers of Georgia came here to buy the land, aud to offer you a valuable consideration for it; so that, if you are willing to sell, they will bargain with you for it. If you do not choose to take what they have offered, or may offer, you can say what you would take. Cornell.—1 have a little more to say. There was a good deal of talk at New York, and disputing; but I found the right of it out yesterday. After the treaty at New York, and all the people got home, Mr. McGillivray called the nation together, shewed them the line which Congress had described, and the whole nation agreed that it should bet he line, and tbatt hey know nothing of any other agreement, and, if there were, it was not the act of the nation. On hearing of this line, they sent word,to General, Washington that it should be so, but they knew nothing of any other line, but found out yesterday that McGillivray had made a secret contract, and had kept it hidden from them. Upon a conference between Mr. Jackson and-Cornell, on the subject of certain treaties, the commissioners remarked that the Government of the United States did not acknowledge the validity of the treaties in question. Tlie treaty of New York was valid. That Georgia, upon the Declaration of Independence, and until the ratification* of the Confederation, possessed competent authority to make treaties. Butthen, that authority whs vested in Congress; of course, any act, purporting to be a treafy. while the authority was vested in the confederation of Cougress, the commissioners could not acknowledge to be valid. The commissioners told the chiefs they were done for this.day, but that they should meet them again to-morrow, early. ' _ In the evening we received despatches fron; the M ar Office, covering some copies of “ An act to regulate* trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, and to preserve peace upon the frontiers.” This is very important information tor us: it will enable *us to.do away a number of difficulties, suggested by*.the Indians, in their private'—-' conferences _ with us; as well as furnish arguments, to impress that confidence of which we have given them repeated assurances, in. the uprightness of federal measures! .. . ■ June 25th.—The Indians attended early this morning, and the conference opened with a description of the act v received last evening.' The Indians‘were* in formed that this was a law of the land, and calculated to carry into effect smfii of the promises made at New York. That the treaty, there made, wasl the basis of the promises on the part of the President, and that this act is.made, and contains the provision necessary, to carry those promises into etfect. ;The commissioners explained the boundary line in the first section, stated its extent,- and that the- act was a remedy, through the whole extent of it, for the abuses committed by the whites and Indians."They then explained* the whole act, and promised, at die request of die Indians, to give them two copies for their nation. In the course of the explanation, it was deemed necessary to give a narrative of some difficulties, vliich existed between the United States and their neighbors: and the delay, in consequence, in making effectual arrangements to carry all the stipulations of the Government into effect. They then said, you see that the’wliite people have had their difficulties, and that it required "time to set matters to rights. They have now-adopted measures which are likely to put all their affairs.to rights, and carry all their promises into effect. You now see, our great council have done uifich to bring about a happy conciliation. We now must also .do something. It now remains but to come to a good understanding with your brefliren of Georgia, and to adjust some other matters with us for your benefit. The Georgians have claims-for negroes and property taken, which they call upon you to restore to them. General Washington has sent this law to us, which' we have explained; it shows that lie means to take care of your rights, and.those of his w.liite children. He will place his warriors on_ your lands, near the line, if you consent thereto, to take care of you. He will cause justice to be done to you, and lie expects you will do justice to the white people. As soon as you and the Georgians have settled'your differences,--we will say to the citizens of Georgia, you shall do justice to your red .brothers, 'flic President is like a father: lie knows that his white, and red children of Georgia and the Creeks have had a quarrel; he looks over them as his children, and will decide between them.   Your complaints on both sides have been carried to him. The commissioners then explained the misunderstanding arising from the settlements of the lands over the Little Ocoilee; they Sated that the treaty had been sent to the w:hite people, who saw- that the Apalachy was the line; they settled accordingly; you said the Oconee was the line, and thus arose a misunderstanding; and perhaps this very misunderstanding is the cause of ill blood between you, and the murders committed in some part of that neighborhood. The people of Georgia* sent complaints to the President that you were dissatisfied with the lines, and did.not keep the treaty; that you withhold the "negroes and property from them, taken since the treaty, and that you were taking more from them. Your father the President, w hen lie had heard these complaints on both sides, said to vis- go to Coleraine, there meet my-red and white children, hear the complaints on.both sides, and settle the difficulties between.them. Go, said lie; I will invite all toy red children to meet you there, and will direct'them of the beloved men of Georgia to meet you also: let them .both State their complaints to you, do you hear them, and settle every thingbetween them, and cause the hatchet to be buried for ever. And, while you are doing this, I and my old council will be making a regulation, which shall make good what you do. ' Your young people are.some of them .mad, some of the young people of Georgia are mad also. But we are not; we are old men, sent here from all parties to reconcile differences, ami what we do, must be good. War is a miserable curse; it gratifies -the foolish pride and ambition ol the young and thoughtless, but entails wretchedness on all who teel.its influence. Peace is a blessing; pehce must be re-established, and* the depredations of war forgotten: wisdom must interfere. The young and ambitious must be taught to respect the decisions of tiieir wise and old chiefs;- they must be tgugh't to be content with their lot of peace; they must be taught to respect_ the law, to acquiesce, in its decisions, and not to attempt to be judges in their own case. . If they will not be taught this, they may be assured, red ami w hite, that tiieir father will extend his arm, and correct.. The commissioners then took a retrospective view; of what had been said, recapitulated the most material.parts, and concluded: We hope you will think seriously on these tilings; we have come a great way to settle your difficulties: and  " we wish you would, to-morrow, come and sit down in temper, and talk.over-your affairs with the* beloved men of Georgia; we will hear you, and arbitrate between you. Your.Great Father lias sent us here for that purpose." [A request from Colonel Hendricks, present.] Fusatchee Mico replied: . , ■ We do not know what more can be said to the commissioners of Georgia. We have given a decided answer tithe requisition for land. If Georgia lias any other business to introduce, let them mention it, that we may know,-1 what business will come before us. If we were to talk again, it would only be the same tiling over again. The talk already given is the determined voice of the whole representation, and not' one of them can be dissuaded from his determination. Any proposition on the subject of land, will, meet the same answer; therefore, this subject is done with; and I cannot see the propriety of further .conference. I have already told you that our bounds were so contracted that we have hardly ground to hunt upon, and that the nation would not agree, at ajl. to part with any more land. * . . Mr. Sinnns, one of the commissioners of Georgia, replied: . . * * The commissioners of Georgia understood the chiefs yesterday.". But, as the beloved men of Washington thought it would be proper to talk again, they came here to day to hear; and. being more fully convinced of your determination-not to sell your lands, we have nothing further to say on the subject. That they were under the direction of ( the beloved men, commissioners ol the United States; i{'they thought proper that further talks should be made, the commissioners ol Georgia are disposed to do so. .   . -   ’ Mr. Clymer observed: The commissioners of the United States have no individual wish, nor interest, any farther than equal justice to the parties induce it, in conformity to instruction?. Mr, Hawkins: ' , . Chiefs of the Creeks l\xd: You know, some time ago that this business, respecting your land, rested entirely with yourselves. The President sent his talk to you, and told you, if you were willing to sell your lands, say so: tf ■ not. say so. There was no compulsion: Fusatchee Mico, replied: " . We have now spokeu to the commissioners on both sides: we wish to retire and consult together, and will call on you and talk’again; we will retire, and return immediately. Mr. Hawkins. Very well, take your own time; we will wait and attend op you, whenever it is convenient for you; The chiefs returned in about half an hour, and made a short speech. They recapitulated what was done at New York;their understanding of the treaty, and that of the boundary, was the Little Oconee. They declared.this.to be the understanding of those who went to New York, and that they had communicated it to the nation, the' spring after their return; and that the whole nation expected this to be the line, .and no other. The commissioners informed the Indians they would attend again to-morrow. ,   . . * *, 1 ■ j I The commissioners and chiefs met. ■ Jnne^Uh, 1796. - . .Alexander Cornell.—The Indians wished to know the opinion of the commissioners, relative to the boundary debated on yesterday, and to receive their advice. The commissioners explained the line, according to the treaty of New .York; and they .advised that the Indians should concur in it. The Indians enumerated many difficulties attending if, and proposed to run the line from the. Gurrahee to a fort near the falls of the Apqlachy, two days’ walk below the source of the river. The cqmmis-' sioners s.aid, no; they must abide by the linfe of New York; and if there were any settlers.over that line, they should be removed backve are not n'otv bargaining wifh you; if we were, we might accommodate you. But the land now belongs to the people of Georgia; they are uneasy about it, and we must hold the line good as Understood*by the President. ' . ... Chiefs.—The claim is new to us: we heard it three years ago for the first time, and some of our chiefs shed tears,' but we did not believe w hat was then said to us, it being directly contradictory to what all of us, who went to New York, said was the truth.   We now .suppose what you say must be the understanding of the President. * But it-is new to us, and, having never met, the approbation of the chiefs, makes it hard on our parts to.concedeto it. . ; Commissioners.—We must abide by die instructions of the President in this affair; he understood the line as mentioned in .the treaty, or he would never have had it signed, or now insist upon it. ' '   . . ' . Chiefs.—It has been understood.by us, that the Little Oconee was the line; but we see that we have been imposed on, perhaps by our beloved man (McGillivray.) ' - ■ . Commissioners.—We expect you have been; some how, imposed upon by your chiefs; but we cannot help it; we cannot depart from the line marked out by the treaty, as understood by the President. The people of Georgia are, as well as you, dissatisfied with this treaty; they say, this is their line, and also, they ought to have the line from the Oconee and' Oakmulgce, to the head of St. Mary’s. The people who own these lands in the fork of-the Apalachy; are dissatisfied at your claims; they hold to the. treaty of New York. They have-paid taxes for their property, and, perhaps, some of their money goes to pay for the beef and rice we now eat at this treaty, Indians.—Our.objections go to the-light of .the thing; we do not know wre ever consented to part with them, and, believing this, we think we have a right to complain that we are.not fairly dealt with. This line comes to the neighborhood of Chatalioochee; these rivers have their source in the same grounds.   - Commissioners.—AVe supposed the lines had been: fully explained .between McGillivray and Knox; and the same must lie run by good men of the two parties. You will, view the map, and you will see where it must be. Indians..—MV a see and know. It is but half a day’s walk from these-sources* to the Apalachicola; it borders too near upon our country. ■ '   . Commissioners.—lie know the distance you mention, but'the treaty wras not made here; it .was made at New York, and ratified by the'President and his old council. One of us was one of the'Senate at the time. If it has not been explained, the fault, was hot the President’s, and we cannot-allow it in favor of either-of the parties. Indians.—We are sorry for it,- and think it hard. , .   * Commissioners.—We have come; to see justice done to both parties. Thetreaty is. our guide; it is expected on one side, it must be adhered to on .the other. This. line is ratified-by treaty,'and must be considered valid, and carried into effect. You know, in all our proceedings, we have, been candid; wc have explained thetreaty, we have explained the claims of Georgia, and we have explained the guarantee to you; this shows yon the uprightness" of,the disposition of the Government. And tve must repeat, we have no power to make any alterations of this treaty, to the injury of the people of Georgia. You and they must abide by this line, unless you and they bargain to alter it, and we approve of it. 7 ' '   . Indians.—If we agree to that line, the. cattle-hunters will be running into our country, and ours into yours*, and peace will never be certain. -     * ' > Commissioners.—Wc-.will again explain some parts of this law, and wc can only add, that it will be carried into effect, and that rib inlractions ot it should be committed with impunity. Indians.—These lands fire in the heart of our Inditing grounds, which makes us strenuous to retain it. We have had, on former occasions, assurances, sufh as you now make. Wc once caught a man hunting on our grounds; we took him-to the nation, and took his beaver trap from him; but a-demand came for. the trap, and we were obliged to give it up..   _ . '   _ ' Commissioners,—The Indians might have, given'permission to the man to'hunt. Ofcourse, he ought to have hail his trap returned. Under the law we.have explained, you see the case would be different now.   ■ Indians.—We are not satisfied; we must, and do, insist oh the line as we understand it. Commissioners.—We have answered you already. If wc were now. making the treaty, we could talk about that line; but, as the treaty is made, we cannot alter it. You see, in the first section of the law, the line that is drawn between the red and the white people. It is according .to the treaty, in its whole length, and this law will have effect as extensive. ' ' . . Indians.—-That land which McGillivray defrauded us out of, we know hot if he had money for it; w'e never received a farthing for it—wc mean that in the fork; but if you will keep if, we .must lose it: we cannot help it _ * Commissioners.—You see the stipulations in the treaty for the cession of claims; if the annuity is not paid, it is still due, and will be paid, according to agreement. . _ . ' Indians.—We do not know that any goods have been received on.this account. Chenah said yes, there was‘ some sent up by one Higgins, from the Rock Landing. * . . * _ Commissioners.—-Exclusive of the goods, fifteen hundred dollars are to be paid, which, it appears, have not been-paid; hut when the,treaty of New York is fully complied, with, the annuity will be punctually paid. And we can' assure you, that the President will not suffer any fraud to be practised against you; that the treaty would be faithfully-observed by, and on the part of, the United States. Indians.—If the line was so high up the river as to keep cattle from crossing the liver, it would be better; but to extend it to the souvees and small streams of the river’s head, would render it impossible to prevent cattle, hogs, &c. crossing which would be a source of eternal bickering and disagreement; nor would it be possible for all the soldiers in the world to prevent it, or even-to remedy it.. It' the line could be drawn to some high bluff', where the river is not fordable, we would not object, how ever high it should be up the river. We-wish- you would let us take your, map home into our nation, lay it before the whole nation, anil if they agree, it shall be good. Commissioners.—>-The-objection to running the line on the small streams, applies equally to the line run across the country. The line described by treaty cannot be altered. . '- '   .' , Indians.—We think you should accommodate us, by coming somewhat lower than yon mention; the line will be very near the Apalachicola, and some of it will cross the waters making into that river. .' Commissioners.—We have said all on the subject which*can be said on bur part. The line must remain, and every part of this treaty must be binding, until altered by another, * _ * Jl Coweta Chief Warrior, then addressed the chiefs with great energy, violent emotions, and apparent decision. The purport was, that it was time to have a consultation among themselves, to determine for the general good, and to speak decidedly and positively-to the beloved men sent by their father.-   *   .- After a consultation of one or'two hours, the chiefs returned, and Alexander Cornell, their speaker, said, in English, that all had concluded, at last, that the line should be run according to the treatyat New York, and the explanation   given by the commissioners; and that, whenever'persons should, on the part of the President.be appointed.to run the line, the. chiefs would appoint one also. .   , > . The commissioners then, directed him to give the reply, and conclusion of the representation, in the Indian language, which he did. ■Question by the commissioners.—Is this the assent of the nation? * .Cornell.—Yes. I am directed to speak the sense of.'tlie representation, and it is this: The matter in question has been laid before them, since they have been here. It was a strange and a hard matter; a thing which they had "not explained to them at New York, and could not explain to the nation. It was with the utmost reluctance that ihey consented'to give the land away; it was .like pulling out their hearts, and throwing th'em away. Rut, after all, while they can say they find it must be so, that there is no other way to save the rest of the lands, their wives, and their children, and induced by considerations of safety, the representatives of the nation, present, had concurred that the line should'be run, as before expressed. , We hope the white people will not be in a hurry to settle the land, till the line is run; that, if there is any stock of the white people’s on the land, it must be removed; and that there shall be no further encroachments beyond the present settlement of the white people, till the line is run. That, from the fork of the Oconee and Oaknndgee, up to the mouth of Apalachy, and all up the west, side of-that river, there have been seen, hogs, horses, and cattle, ranging as far back as the wafers of (lakmulgce. all the winter past. As that laud is the property of the I iidians. these must be immediately-TemQved to the east side of the Oconee.* And that will lie a convincing proof to us, that the new act regulating intercourse, and to preventencroachments. will be carried into effect. - The white-people come over hunting: thfl hunt by night,!with fire; they go even to the creeks of Oaknndgee. they encamp, and tarry days and nights on the heads of those waters; they carry off fish by loads, and when the Indian hunters come into these lands, they find the whites there..taking their deer and other game; and this they do constantly. This is a complaint, which the whole representation of the nation now present, old and young, make to you. Anil we requit'e that an immediate stop should be put to this trespass on our rights. The young men, particularly, who are most interested and most injured by it. request tins. . 1 have stated many complaints of the nation, and I am dewrous to slate the wishes of the Indian's. It is, that it be exponed as the understanding of the nation present, that, from the middle of the Oconee, on the east side, belongs ip the whites, that, there they may do as they pleftse; but that all the west side of this centre line which divides the Oconee, including creeks, and all waters, belongs?to the Indians, and that the whites have no right to go there. ' That, if any cattle, or other property of the whites, be'found on the west side of the line, the Indians will deem it a right to consider it theirs. T am now to address to you a talk from our young men who are present: The young people have seen, with anxiety, the situation in w hich the old people have been placed, for several days past: that it was impossible for them to settle the matter in question, without some sacrifice of this sort. They have therefore consented to it, and, at the same time, deeming it immensely valuable to them as hunting ground., being among the be.-t which they possess, they. notwithstanding, make the same reserve respecting the creeks, the ground bordering on them, and that the line shall be down the middle of the Oconee and Talapocka, as the old, men had made. ' _ ' ‘ Here you are, the .three, beloved men, from our friend and father. General Washington, come to talk to the Indians. There'are present, also, beloved men fro in all-the Indian tribes; some young men, and some not yet grown up. They have all heard this agreement,, and we mean to abide by it: and yve all hope the yvliite people yvill do so likeyvise. That it shall he perpetual; even yvhen yve, yvho are-present, shall be dead and gone, it shall be a standing l.ayv to the generations yvliy shall succeed us. tin both sides. This is all yvhich yve have to say to-day. We hope you yvill make a finishing business to-morrow. The people have been lube a long yvh'ile. and are becoming impatient to go home. That, alter the talks ol to-morrow shall be concluded, yve'expect the next tiling yvill be preparing to go home. . The Bunmissioners; by' Mr. Hawkins, explained the treaty of New York, relative to the boundary: informed  the Indians that the line was to be drawn along the centre of the river, and, that their request, relative to this point, was already provided for. As to trespasses on I heir rights, the law, lately explained, put this on the proper footing for the present, and its operations would most likely produce all they wished. I must now mention two other things, the one of the utmost importance to you; it is the fixing proper sites for trading posts, and posts of protection; the other, the subject of retaliation: The first, yve think, you should leave to the President's discretion, to be exercised for your benefit. 'I yvill show you litis to-morrow, in the sketch of a treaty we mean to betthe subject of that day's conversation. 'ks to the subject of retaliation, yve have already spoken out- minds freely to the friends and chiefs of the .toyvns more immediately interested; yve shall, nofyvithstanding, give, at the usual place.'our lodgings, some further explanations. We have nothing further to say this day, but yve. are well.pleased yvith the good sen»e of our red brethren, and their solicitude, to provide for the means of perpetual peace.and friendship yvith their white brethren. Monday, 21th June. This morning the friends and chiefs of the toyvns wlio had lost the Indians, lately murdered on'the trontiers ol Georgia, paid us a visit. They informed us of (‘very thing appertaining to this transaction, within their reach; their having suspended, ou tlie letter of Mr. Seagrove, the mode usual among them on such occasions, and that now they chose to come privately to talk yvith us, to know yvhether they might expect that the murderers yvould be punished. They understood that, the purport, of Mr. Seagrove’s letter to them yvas, an assurance that they might here see one. of'the culprits executed, and that, for this purpose, many of the relations'of the deceased came expressly to see this execution. . ‘ 'The commissioners replied, they yveve pleased yvith the mode proposed to freat this subject, by the Indians, in private. They then entered fully into the subject; stated the length of the line on the frontiers, as detailed in the first section of the act explained to the Indians. That blood had been spilt by bad people on both side's, the whole length of it. That, if the account yvas fairly settled for the last three years, the Indians had certainly killed tyvo for one; that, even here, in this neighborhood, the murders at Trader's Hill, and near the Burnt Fort, were not yet accounted for, and they yvereunprovoked. That they saw in the invitation, sent by the President, how he, and all the good people, yvere grieved at the late murders in Georgia; that he called on the Governor of Georgia to cause the layvs to be put in execution against the murderers. They yvere then slieyvn the steps taken by the Governor and the Legislature of Georgia. The commissioners then stated, in as striking a point of vieyv as-they could, the unjustness-of the Indian mode, of  retaliation. That, on the yvh'ole line of frontier,'there yvere some people friendly to the Indians; that these people gave notice to the officers of Government of all those who violated Indian rights; that it yvould lie unfortunate, indeed, that any of those friendly to them, should suffer, under their idea of retaliation. They then stated that the business must stop someyvhere. If they shed innocent blood, the friends of such would demand satisfaction. The rule among us, explained, in similar cases, our abhorrence of the punishment of the innocent They seemed somewhat to give in to our idea: some of them reprobated, in strong tcrnls, a contrary doctrine, and urged that the wicked only should suffer. 'We subscribed' to this doctrine. Whereupon, they urged that these people under arrest should not be included in bur terms of expressing the article of amnesty in the proposed treaty. They then left us. yvith a declaration, that they should see us again on this subject; that they yvere not yet satisfied; but they must try to reconcile the difference between u’s on this point, as well as they could. _ The commissioners then met the Indians in their oyvn encampment, at the place of negotiation. They explained the draught proposed for the treaty betyveen the.parties, and, after having had it read, paragraph by paragraph, a® translated, the Indians shewed'some uneasiness at the wording of the articles relative to trading, or military posts: thought that the whole savoured of an encroachment on their lands; They named Wallars, an unfit place, twelve miles below Beard's bluff, on the south of. the Altainaha. They seemed unwilling to be suspected-of wanting con.-Tidence in the Government’of the United States, yet could not bring themselves to cede any fit place for an establishment. Upon this, we left them to their own reflections, and returned to our {dace.of residence. Alt.er we.had left, them; they said they were apprehensive'they had done wrong, and that we were angry with them, but they could not help it, and'they would.consult, and see if they could do better to-morrow.   , '  * '     Tuesday, 28tli June.’ . This morning spent in conversation with several influential chiefs, on the subject of retaliation, and restitution of property. The chiefs promised to fulfil these two articles, as explained, as far as was in their power. They said they had already delivered much property, and would still persevere;' but there were many difficulties. That there was,not much in the nation, nor ever had been, nearly to the amount contemplated by the pretended claims.of the comlnissihners of Georgia. -They said, after they should have carried their present stipulations as completely into effect as they could, they did not expect there would be fpur thousand dollars behind hand, perhaps not the half of that. That, on the" subject of retaliation, they could hot clearly Understand us, and of course were fearful some embarrassments would result from it. That their long established, habits could not easily be done away, although the contrary doctrine, urged by u's, was, to some of them, highly acceptable. They said, they would stipulate lor the present, and until they heard from the President, about running the line; at that time, they hoped to receive his    advice; in the mean time, they would follow ours; and they requested that some man might be sent.into their nation to explain fully these points, in their towns. That such a until, coining from the ‘President, should be treated as.if he were the President himself..' ' '. \ ‘ . . The commissioners then, went to the square of negotiation, and the Indians all assembled immediately. Fusatche Mico addressed the Indians:" . , The Big king of the CuSsetahs reverted to the unfinished business of.yesterday; hoped it would be settled.to-day. Me reverted to the place by them proposed yesterday, as that was not satisfactory to the ‘white people. They hid examined fully ,among themselves, and would now, without reserve, go the utmost extent of their powers. .They had'concluded on a place about one or two miles abov.e Beard’s bluff: at.was the first bluff on the south side oT the river, above'that station. This, or any place below, you may take, and we will freely give it up, on the terms you propose. As soon as, our talks go up to the President, we wirl mutually agree on some other place. ' ' . We present, know, General .Washington, and Ins beloved men present, and Major Seagrove, mean nothing-hut-to do rightly by the Indians. But this-is uotjenown to all the Indians; they cannot conceive it so, and have some fears and jealousies; We have.fixed on the place we mention. But, still, we will leave it to General Washington, and the people whom he appoints, when the falks of ihe President come into our land. , The upper line on the Apalachv is fixed on: when the President sends word to run that, proper people, on our part,'Will be present,'to assist in doingit. And if it should be deemed proper, by the President, to fix a post for his warriors on our side of the line, up any where there, it shall bethen fixed on; that this 'was the wish'and sentiment ofall present. That, at the. time aforesaid, it should-be in the discretion of the President to choose the'necessary-post for his warriors, to be fixed on; and the people attending from their nation should concur in it. 'Fusatche -Mico said: I have taken the necessary time to investigate-the matter clearly, and make it understood by all; and 1.have now come to a conclusion. As soon as I saw the.establishment efforts made l»yj Clarke, broken up by Washington’s warriors, it was a satisfactory demonstration, that General Washington meant nothing but their good: and consequently, we have all determined to confide in him. Me then mentioned the. pains taken by him and others, upon hearing of Major’Seagrove’s intended-visit to the nation, to-meet and conduct him safe, and his.constant advice to his people, to listen to the talks of the agent, as they- .were the words of .Washington himself. The young men following this advice, restored peace in -their land. We have now done; you have your choice, .on the terms mentioned, of such posts'as Washington wants; we will now go upontrade, and other points, settl.e the whole, as we are impatient to he going home. .     _ ’ ‘ Mr. Hawkins expressed the satisfaction of the commissioners at. tlieir decision, and assured them it should be adhered to; and as they relied on the President for their protection, and for flic protection of their lands; as they had confidence in him, and were willing he should judge of the places suitable for the protection of their rights; and as, to use an expression of theirs, they deposited their safety, and the tenure of their lands, in the liands of General Washington, the commissioners pledged the faith of the Government, that both should be secured. .   'The line of boundary, between us and1 Spain, was then explained; the extension of the guarantee as stipulated m the treaty of New York. . The chiefs were then required,, that when this line was to be run,'that they; would furnish two chiefs, and twenty hunters, to act as guides and hunters. After considerable pains in explaining this, the chiefs agreed. ■ . - The article for the restoration of property, according to the New York treaty., was then introduced and explained, and its extension, according to'the new article.. These points were Urged as indispensable, and that they must be attended to, and carried into effect. ’   . The article of amnesty was then introduced, conformable with the stipulations concerted with the chiefs. The commissioners then, in token of the friendship of the United States, and in testimony; of their approbation of the conduct of the Indians, during the negotiation, -and for die considerations mentioned in,the treaty, gave the Indian^ goods, to the value of six thousand dollars; and promised, moreover, two blacksmiths, one for (he Upper, and one for the Lower Creeks. _ -   . \_ Mr. Hawkins, then told the Indians, the commissioners would recapitulate what was agreed on; and the next day they would introduce the whole in form of a treaty, have the same explained, and if approved, it should then be signed; one copy given‘to them, and one sent to the President; that if he and his' old-counsellors said.it was good,.it should be binding on fill parties: * . » 1st. The treaty of New York, to be carried into effect, with the exceptions in this.treaty. 2d. The line to be run from the Currahee, to thesoiirce of the main South branch of t[ie‘Oconee,'called Apalaehy, at the discretion of the President. .3d.; Trading posts, at the discretion of-the President, any where on the Oconee, or Altamaha, as soon as lie deems it advisable, to run the upper fine; in the mean time", and as long as there may be occasion for the same, the place above Beard’s Bluff, is given. ‘ 4th. The line between Spain and the United States, to be run as mentioned. Hopewelj'and Ilolston treaties, valid. 5th. Restoration of property; under the treaty of New York, and since taken', to be faithfully made. 6th. The United States, as by the New York treaty, guaranty to the. Indians, all their lands, within the boundaries of the said States.'' '7th. General oblivion of the past, and amnesfyextended to every person, except those under arrest, now in the State of Georgia. .   ' * .... 8th. The present of goods, to the value of six thousand dollars, to be now given. ., 9th and last. The two smiths to be sent to the nation. ‘ These points beiiig all recapitulated, Mr. Hawkins added: The commissioners now hope, as there appears a fair prospect of accommodation, that the old men on both sides would observe moderation; that they- would adhere strictly to the stipulations, and teach their children to keep this treaty forever. . . CussetaiIMico.—I have a short request. I wish to know whether the stipulation respecting the annuity-, he still valid? _ '   ‘ Answer.—Yes, as soon as the treaty is carried' into complete effect. I must also add, we are much in want of hoes, saws, drawing-knives, aiid sudh things. Answer by the commissioners.—You can have your annuity, laid out in these articles. * ’ , ufflr.] THE CREEKS AND SEVEN NATIONS. 609 The commissioners then informed the Indians, that they should prepare t wo criminals of the treaty on parchment, and attend here to-morrow, at 12 o'clock, to have them signed. . 'We received a paper, signed'by the commissioners of. Georgia, dated this day. purporting to be a protest against certain proceedings, aftecting the object of the State of Georgia. After the draught of the treaty was read, explained, and amended, and approved' by the Indians and commissioners, Mr. Seagrove requested of the commissioners, to take'such measures as they deemed advisable, on the subject of his request of the 26th, marked A- They, in conformity therewith, determined; that the examination should, be in full council of all the chiefs, and that it should be now had. The message from tlie superintendent, dated St. Mary's; in Georgia, Cth April; 1706, marked B, addressed to the chiefs, was.then read by Mr. Hawkins, by paragraphs, aiid interpreted to the Indians.   After this was finished, the commissioners put the following questions, and received the answers as recorded. is/., Chiefs of the Creek land: Is this the talk interpreted to you by-Mr. Seagrove, agent in your land? .insider by the chiefs.—Yes, it is the same, word for word. 2d. By the commissioners.—Was there any other talk se.u.t you, before or since .this talk was interpreted to'yoo, relative to the objects of it?   * ‘ Answer.—No. 3d. By the commissioners.—Has Mi'. Seagrove, or any.of his agents,'at any time, advised you against selling your lands to the people of Georgia? . . Answer.—No. No white man, or any other mail, employed by Mr. Seagrove, ever advised aii'y such thing;-we advised among Ourselves, and determined not to sell them any lands. The commissioners then requested'Mr. Thomas King, to administer an'oath to .the agents and interpreters, to answer such questions as should be asked of them, which lie did. The persons sworn and interrogated, were Timothy Barnard, James Burges, and Alexander Cornell, Richard Bailey, and Richard Thomas. ■ . , Question by the commissioners.—Yon have, heard the message read. Is this the message received, from Mr. Se agrove, sent to die Creek nation?!   .. . Answer.—Yes. ....... 2d.. Question by the commissioners. —Have you, or any -of you, any knowledge of any talks from'Miv Seagrove, not to part with their,land?   ' ' . _ . Answer.:—No: we have not heard of any such. . '■ 2'Jth June. —The commissioners this day met the Indians, in the square of negotiation, at 12o‘clock. Present James Seagrove, .Superintendent of Indian Allans, C. N. ' Henry. Gaither, Lieutenant Colonel Commandant; Constant Freeman. A. \V. D. Major of artillerists, and engineers, Samuel Tinsley,-Captain 3d sub legion; Samuel Allinsou, Ensign 2d sub legion; John W. Thompson, Ensign 1st U. S. sub legion; George Gillaspie, Surgeon L. C. S. Timothy Barnard. 1). Al and sworn Interpreter;'James Burges, 1).-A. and sworn interpreter; James Jourdan, Richard Thomas, Alexander Cornel!, sworn interpreters; William Eaton, Captain -It'll IV S. sub legion, commandant at Coleraine. ’ The commissioners then exhibited the two draughts of the Treaty, had them interpreted, article by article. Is follows: ' ■ A treaty of peace and. friendship, made 'and concluded between the President of the United. Suites of America, on the one part, ana on belia/f of the said States, and the undersigned kings, chiefs, and warriors, of the Creek . nation of Indians,. On the part of the said nation. " ’ ’ . ’ .The parties being desirous of establishing permamuit peace and friendship between the United.States and the said Creek nation, ami the citizens and members (hereof, the President of the United States,-by Benjamin Hawkins.. George Clymer, and Andrew Pickens, commissioners, whom lie hath constituted with powers for those purposes, by, and. with the advice and consent of the Senate, and the Creek nation of fndians, by tlie undersigned kings, chiefs, and. warriors,- representing the whole .Creek nation, have agreed to tlie following articles: Article 1. The' treaty entered into at New York between the pra ties, on the 7th day of August, 1790. is, and shall remain, obligatory on the contracting parties, according to the terms of it,- except as herein provided for. .Art. 2. The boundary line from the CurialiCe mountain to the head or source or the main south branch of tlie Oconee river, called by the white people Apalachy, and by the imlians'Tulapucka, and down the middle of the same, shall be clearly ascertained and marked, at such time,-and in*such-manner, as the President shall direct; and the Indians will, on being informed of the determination of the President, send as many of their old chiefs as he. may require, to see the line ascertained and marked.. Art. 3. The President of the United States ol America-shall have full powers, whenever he may deem it advisable, to establish a trading or military post on the south side of the Altamaha, on die bluff about one mile above Beard's bluff or any where from thence, down, the river, on tlie. lands of the Indians; to, garrison the same with any part of the military force of the United States, to protect tlie post, ami to prevent the violations of any of the provisions nr regulations subsisting between the parties; anil the Indians do hereby annex to the post aforesaid, a tract of land,- ol live .miles square, bordering one side on the fiver; w hich,post, and the lands annexed thereto, are hereby ceded to, and shall be'to the use and under the Government of, the United States of America. Art. J. As soon as tlie President'of tlie United States has determined on tlie time and manner of running the. line from the Clurrahee mountain to the head or source of the main south!branch of the Oconee, and notified the chiefs of the Creek land of the same, a suitable lihmbei 'of person’s, on their part, shall attend, to see. tlie same completed; and if the President should deem it proper then to fix on any place or places adjoining the'river, and on the Indian lands, for military or trading posts, the ('reeks who attend there will concur in fixing" the same, according to the wishes of the President; and to each past tlie Indians shall annex a tract of land, of live miles square, bordering one side on the river, and the said lands'shall }ie to the use and under tlie Government of America: .Provided, always. That, w henever any of the trading or military posts mentioned in this treaty shall, ill the opinion of the President of the United States of America, be no longer necessary for the purposes intended by this cession, the same shall revert to, and become a part of, the Indian lands. Art. 5. Whenever the President of the’ United States,'and the King of Spain, may deem it advisable to mark the boundaries which separate their territories, the President sha.ll give notice thereof to tlie Creek chiefs, who will furnish two principal chiefs, and twenty hunters, to accompany the persons employed on (his business, as liunterB and guides from the Choctaw country to the head ol St. Mary's. The chiefs shall receive, each, half a dollar per day,_ and the hunters one quarter of a dollar, each, per day, and ammunition, and a reasonable value, for the meat delivered by them for the use of the persons on this service. Art. 0. The treaties of Hopewell, between the United States and'the Choctaws and Chickas'aws. and at Ilolston, between the Cherokees and 'the United States, mark the boundary of those tribes of Indians; and the Creek nation do hereby relinquish all claims to any part of the territory inhabited, or claimed, by the citizens of the United States, in conformity with the said treaties. Art. 7. The Creek nation shall deliver, as soon as practicable, to the superintendent of Indian affairs, at such place as'he may direct, all citiz.eps.of tlie United States', white inhabitants an'd negroes, who are now prisoners in any part of said nation, agreeable to the treaty of New York; and. also, all citizens, white inhabitants, negroes, and property, taken since the signing of the treaty;- and if any such .prisoners, negroes, or’property, should n6t be deli- ■ vered on or before the first day. of January next, the Governor of Georgia may empower three persons to repair to the .said, nation, in order to claim and receive such prisoners, negroes, and property, under the direction 61" the President of the United States. Art. 3., In consideration ol the friendly disposition of the Creek nation towards the Government of the United States, evidenced by the stipulations in the present treaty, and particularly the leaving it in the discretion of the President, to establish trading or military posts on their lands, the commissioners of the United States, on behalf of v the said States, give to the said.nation, goods to the value of six thousand dollars, and stipulate to send to the Indian nation two blacksmiths, and strikers, to be employed for the Upper and Lower Creeks, with the necessary tools. Art: 9. All animosities, for past' grievances, shall henceforth cease, and the contracting parties wil.l carry the foregoing treaty into full execution, with all good'faith and sincerity: Provided+nevertheleps, That persons now under arrest in the State of Georgia, for a violation of the treaty at New York, are not to be included in this amnesty, but are to abide the decision of law. . Art. 10. This treaty shall take ('fleet, and be obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as the same shall have been ratified by the President ot the United States, by, and with, the advice raid consent of'the Senate.-'Done at Coleraine, the 29th June, one thousand seven hundred and'ninetyrsix. . , . -    ’ The commissioners then addressed the chiefs: ' .   . You have assented to this treaty, article by article; we shall now .sign it with our hands, apd you will do the same.   ' ' . '■ They replied they would do so.    . . . . The. remainder of the day was then spent in 'signing the treaty..   * '   'June 30[h.—The principal'chiefs called,and had a long conversation with the commissioners relative.to the stipulations in the treaty. They dwelt much on the article relative to -the amnesty; they said'they were pot quite satisfied of the justice of the act.. That the murderers in Georgia would pever be punished there, and tlfoy had'no other reliance than on'the justice of the President. .We replied, this part of the treaty was well explained, and if they were yet dissatisfied, we could not help it; we had said every thing on the subject that was necessary; that this murdering business must stop somewhere, and we -had'agreed it should be now. The Government of the. United states were at the expense of protecting their rights, and they must be contented and grateful. Theysaid they-would do whaf-lhey could, and they would stipulate solemnly not to do any tiling improper till they'heard from the President;1 .they hoped this would be-iri the fourth moon; their young men should remain quiettill then; and afterwards, they should rely on what the President should say to them. In the meantime, they hoped, qs.soon as the President saw what we had now done, that lid would send a man .from himself into their towbs, -to.speak one voice through the whole land, and explain every thing exactly as it is now settled. . , They said, they had had.some conversation in council since they settled the article about the posts, aiid the more they reflected on this, the better they liked what they had agreed to. The hunters said there were some very good places, which they would point out to-'us before We left them. ' 'The chiefs said, as General Washington would have the choice of the places bordering on the. river, for the.trade and .his warriors, the Indians had one idea on this part of the treaty, which they would now express. ' They wished General Washington to know, that the eyes of the whole nation Xvere upon him; -that they "clia not want their land marked, hut he might mark the cattle, horses,’and hogs, belonging to the garni sous, inform the Indians of his marks, aiid they would be sure fa respect them; and.if they strayed on'at any time, the Indians wiiuld be sure.to bring them ’ back, il they saw them. ’ . They then concluded, by saying, we have done much to settle the affhirs-of the nation exactly as the commissioners wished them, relative 'to -the line with Spain.-the claims covered by the .Choctaws, Chickasaws, and Cherokee treaties, the line from the Currahee to the mam south fork of the.Oconee, and permitting General Washington to fix the posts for trade and his warriors. They should now go home, and do what, they could to explain the same to their town’s people, before a talk should be sent from the President, .that When this went through the land all would be straight.. ' 1 . -. ' 'That, if a'man came directly from the President, they would meet him, and go through' the whole nation with him, and treathim as if he was the.President himself. . . , . . The commissioners requested the superintendent to deliver the goods, as soon as possible,to the Indians, and despatch them home. . , ' .'   . . ■ The Indian chiefs again visited die commissioners,, to deliver a message from the children and near relations of the persons murdered on the Oconee, &c. They mentioned the distressed situation of six. young children, and some others, whose dependence for support were on those who were killed; that, beside tikis loss, dial-some property was taken at the time, to which they had a just claim; that they now applied for that property, the whole of which was not much, bur, little as it was, it was of value to the relatives. If the murderers could be punished, this loss would be deemed of still less value, and they should never have mentioned it. But they hoped, as', the commissioners came to see justice'.done, they would order this payment., and order the chiefs to carry it, and deliver it, in their name, to the relatives. .The commissioners Replied: We.tojd you, some time’past, in a.private conference,-we would do this for those who waited, and relied On the President to'see justice done to them; but thos.c who took satisfaction according to the Indian mode, should not be included in our promise. , The commissioners ordered that the superintendent should take order to pay for the property taken at the time the murders were committed, in agreement with their.prdmise'. * . . . *. . "   .. " Coleraine, Is/ July, ‘179<J. Sir: ' .   ■ We enclose to you, a copy of the treaty, which we entered into the 29th of June, with the Greeks. - They came here with the determination, not to part with any of their lands,' apd this determination was the result of a deliberation of the whole nation, before the representatives left it. We were not apprized of this! till some time after their, ■answer was given to the commissioners of Georgia. The conduct of this State, is viewed by the Indians, as inimical to them; they complain of unfairness in all their intercourse .with them; of the recent murders and promise to punish the murderers,'as being of a piece with former conduct. They have no'reliance on the promises■ of- the Governor, to do them justice, and expect it only from the interposition of'the Government of the United States, or-the bravery of their young warriors.   ' * <  ’ -. Finding that the expectations of the commissioners of Georgia were-at an end, we entered on the other objects of our mission, and have assiduously employed ourselves in their attainment. ■ ■ We have taken unusual pains to explain every thing, and.we believe nothing is done, but what-was well understood by all tile chiefs. ' 'We find, in the present temper of the citizens of this country, that it is indispensably necessary, that the posts and garriso.nsshould.be out of the jurisdiction Of the State,and solely under that of the United States. Without obtaining this, we saw no prospect of peace on the frontiers; .and the jealousy of the Creeks, is all alive on'the least mention of an acquisition of land from them. We have freely conversed -with the chiefs on the subject, who agree they understand thoroughly the object of the President, and they are pleased with it; that their whole nation will be pleased also, as soon as they shall have time to explain the subject to them. This article is strictly in 'conformity with what their powers enable them to stipulate Irom their own statement. 'Since the signing of the treaty, several of the chiefs have urged that the President should cause the line to be' run, as soon as possible, and make choice of the places for the posts. They request, that the lands around the posts may not be marked; and that a mark be put on the-stock; which, when they know, they yvill respect, if any of them should stray off- from the garrison. . ...... .’ We have promised them, they should.hear Irom the President in four months. . , They have had repeated conversations .with us, on the murder of their people by Harrison and others. The friends of the deceased came-here, expecting that they should see spine of the murderers executed; and they were not a little vexed at the disappointment. The principal chiefs consulted .with us privately-, that they might know whatto do and to say to the relations of the murdered. They told us yesterday,, that' they should expect tfie advice of the President on this subject,'when he sent a man to run the line; and they would in the mean time follow.our advice, and thou they would-follow his. They urge, that they may not be deceived, and that the guilty maj be punished agreeable to what they understand the promise to be of the Governor of Georgia, to the President. They solicit us to pay for the property lost at the time, and direct them to take charge of it. and deliver it to the friends of .the deceased. .We have promised it. ' ' ■ The'line with Spain, we explained fully, and they acquiesced; yet some further explanations will be necessary, to remove the jealousy attached to.every act,'relative to their boundary. They have asked that this explanation may be sent from the.President, with the plan of trade: and that, after he has seen what is done here, that he will have the whole explained in their land. We have preferred,.instead of an increase of the annuity, as contemplated in our instructions, to give the sum mentioned in the treaty. The situation of the chiefs required some attention in this way: yet they were desirous, that we. during the negotiation, should keep every tiling of this sort out of view, until they had fully comprehended us, and were ready, having agreed upon the principal points under negotiation, to put them on paper. . . We examined into the state of the goods, how appropriated for presents, under the direction of the superintendent and directed some to be purchased, which werefiere for sale, at a reasonable price, and suited to the market. When we mentioned the sum. the chiefs expressed themselves satisfied. We had another motive in this business for satisfying the Indians with the small sum  contemplated in the treaty. We were not certain that the chiefs can restore all the property taken from the citizens, according to the stipulations in the treaty,.and eventually it may be deemed advisable, iu.the General Government, to pay up the deficiency, rather than incur, the. resentment of the Creeks, which they would do, byinsisting on a'cession of lands. "We send, herewith, a paper..purporting to-be a protest on the part of the commissioners of Georgia. - It is perfectly in style with all their proceedings here. We shall ‘have occasion to comment on some parts of it. in a letter we shall write to the Governor, to inform him ofthe pacific'disposition of the Indians. B. II. ' . G. C. ;' ■ ' ' . A. P. The Honorable James McHenry, Secretary of JFar. Not having leisure to attend immediatelyto the protest-from the commissioners of Georgia, we determined to send a letter to the Governor, and afterwards to Send a comment, as soon as we could attend to it. . . ' .. ' Coleraine. 1st July, 1796. Sir; . . ' i . 'Having terminated our mission here, by concluding a- treaty of peace and friendship.w ith the Creek nation, we feel-it a-duty we.owe to your Excellency, to make this communication to you, to inform you ofthe pacific disposition of the Creeks.' They have, among other things, stipulated w ith us, to carry the treaty of New York completely into effect, and to aid in running the line from the source of the main south fork of the Oconee, to the Currahee mountain, at such time and in such manner as the-President of the United States shall direct. The expectations formed by your State, relative to the purchase of certain lands guarantied to the Indians, are frustrated. 'The representation ofthe Creek nation came instructed by the whole nation not to part with the lands. -We were not apprized of this till our negotiation had been extended to all the objects connected immediately with our mission. AN e, on being informed of it, thought it our duty to examine whether any improper interference had been used to produce this determination ot the nation: and we are of opinion, after the necessary inquiry, that there was iiot any fetich interference on the part of any ofthe citizens ofthe United States. From the long, repeated, and friendly, conversation we. have had with the cliiefs. we have been able to draw from them some-information, which we owe to our situation to give freely to you. It is, that it will require sometime, and a considerable degree of prudence, to impress on the Indians, a confidence in the uprightness of- the views of your Government, and in the friendly and peaceable intentions of its citizens, who inhabit the frontiers. And until such confidence is established, we are of opinion that all attempts to acquire land from them, by fair and open purchase, will be ineffectual. ' : . .'With ourbest wishes for the prosperity of the State of Georgia, we have the honor to be. sir, your obedrt serv'ts. . . ' . B. 11. G. C. . A. P. His Excellency Jared Irwin, -Governor of. Georgia. ' July '2nd.—Requested the Superintendent1 to send off the Indians, as soon as possible, and to cause a return to be made, immediately, of the stores remaining unexpended. That measures might be taken, -as circumstances might require, sent him this note: * . . ' . . ’ Coleraine, 2nd July, 1796. Sir:     ■ The commissioners of the United.States have passed an order that you should pay to the heirs of the son of Airs. Cornell, who was killed.in the neighborhood of this garrison, with a flag bringing despatches for the garrison, and the superintendent, and some others lately on the Oconee, by persons excepted out of the general amnesty, the value of the articles lost at the time those Indians were, killed. 1 But. that this order is not to lie extended to any persons, for whom satisfaction, according to the mode of the Indians, has been obtained. July 3rd.—The Indians were this day receiving their present’s. Mr. Hawkins, with some of the gentlemen, visited Trader's Hill, and the. lands still .higher up, as far as the Corn-house, and the neigborhood of it. They discovered, on the Indian lands, some provisions carefully packed with skins: at first it was judged to be venison, but. from the quantity, probably one thousand'pounds, it was supposed to be beef. After return, on inquiry, it was discovered that it was beef the Indians had. notwithstanding the precautions to prevent their being alarmed, deemed it necessary to prepare against the possibility of such a contingency. They, early.after their arrival, drew beef, prepared it in their way, by drying it near a tire, and deposited it in places where they could have recourse to it, in case of necessity. On mentioning this to them, one of the chiefs said,, the nation had occasion, in times past, to suspect every thing for the worst in any transactions with their neighbors, and, in consequence,1 their apprehensions were always oil the watch. Those wlm had visited General Washington, and talked with him. face to face, would rely on him, and any promise he made: but. as there were but a few of them, the others still had doubts.' That the manner this treaty had been conducted had impressed all who came, with a degree of confidence, unknown among them, in the justice of the Government. ■jth July.—The Cbwetas and Cussetahs visited us. to take leave. They requested that the President would cause the troops, at fort Fidius. to be removed as soon as possible. That, after gaining the best information they could, from the. hunters, who were' present,*they now came to recommend one place. . 'There is a high bluff, atiittle below fort Fidius, perhaps .about one mile belo.w-, on their lands. Two miles below this bluff, there is a creek, called I tchee-wam-otchee, and, about-three miles above the bluff, there is another creek, called Tlilock-laoso, or fishing creek, very valuable, always, for fish, particularly for shad, in the spring. The lands between the creeks is high and good, and. bordering on the creeks, covered with cane, and fine for stock. This is the fittest place for a military post, according to the information which they have obtained. The chiefs request, that, if this spot is selected by the President, the troops of. the garrison, and those connected therewith, only, should be permitted to take lilli out ofthe waters belonging to the Indians. ■ There is another bluff, about one day's ride, or twenty-five miles, still higher up the river, and the same distance below the mouth el'the Apalachy, or Tulapocka. where the old Oakfuskee path cVosses the Ooonee. They mention this,but cannot recommend it; it is not so high as thg other, nor the lands'so valuable: however, it is the best,they now have any information of, and they thought they would iniorm us of it.  . ‘ . 5t!i July.'—SVe-directed that the remains of the stores, sent round from the War Office, for the use of the com-misioncrs. and their furniture, should be returned to .Mr. -Price, and held subject to the order of the Secretary of War.   The officers having been very attentive to us; during the negotiation, and having, had their little stores exhausted by the unusual number of visiters, the climate being unfavorable to health, and the autumn commencing, we requested them to accept the small remains of our port wine.   'We requested Mr. Seagrove to have a return of all the stores in the department of the contractor, inventoried, the corn measured, and bold the same, in security till further orders, which, he would probably receive from-Mr.-Habersham. ‘ .  ' - ' .. . 6th Judy.—Bid'adieu to Coleraine, at live o'clock in the morning; came 33 miles'to breakfast; where we saw, on the Spanish side of the St, Mary's, at a place called Marbery’S,- a bed of strawberries, in bloom; and fall bearing, many of them quite ripe. Arrived at St. Mary's at 7 in the morning; we came in a- boat and oars. We If ft our boat there‘to accommodate Mr.Clymer, and came round to Savannah,, on the:' 10th. llth July.—Saw Mr. John Habersham, gave him abatement of our recommendation, relative to filestores'; and, after consultation, it wa? deemed advisable to send immediately for the corn, and other articles, to this place, and to convert the' whole into cash, as this State is amenable for half the expense; The corn, particularly, requiring to be immediately carried to market, as. the weasels were likely to'injure it much.. . ', . ■ ''   . . 'Coleraine, 1st July, 179G. Sir: The day before the commissioners, on the part of the State of Georgia, left us,- they sent in a paper, purporting to he a protest against certain proceedings had in relation to the wishes of the State of Georgia,.to acquire certain lands from the Creeks, at the treaty concluded the 29th ultimo,“at this place. We read it with that attention due to men in their situation; and, we can attest' extravagant As the protest is, that is is of a piece with their whole conduct, during their residence at this place. The best answer to it, probably,’ would be drawn from the paper itself, by every reflecting mind, after a candid perusal of its contents. . We feel, notwithstanding,-a desire to remove some impressions, which are intended to be produced by it, and this is the object we have, in giving your Excellency the trouble of reading our comment. It would be sufficient for-ns to refer you to our letter of this dat'e. the facts therein being incontrovertible; all the expressions in the protest would, of course, have their just weight and no more, but we. must'enter somewhat info detail. Your.commissioners, frequently speaking of our ruling and-arbitrary conduct, 'forgot that it is only applicable to themselves. It may be necessary to observe, that they* have altogether mistaken the nature of their authority, and have assumed, a high diplomatic character.   Tlris we must suppose,.or, otherwise, that.they had willingly slighted the terms and conditions of their appointment. Such high self-created pretensions not being yielded to, on our part, is, no doubt, the'real ground of the discontent apparent throughout the whole of their performance. . The regulations, mentioned under the first head, afe'literally in .conformity ,to instructions suggested, we can conceive, by the experience of the. past, and they’ conform exactly to-our seuse of right. We .were surprised that the commissioners of Georgia did' not. themselves, discover a special interest, in the observance of some such regulations. considering their tendency to obviate some of the difficulties lying in the way of their own object, had ij been attainable in this treaty, as they ai;e now aware of the jealousies of the Creeks in all things relating to this State'. The comment on these regulations in the protest, we do not pretend to understand.- ’ 2d. In answer to this, which we hope (though against appearances) not to be designedly .misrepresented, we.have testate, that the commissioners ot. the'United States did, on .the 17th of June, and the commissioners of Georgia, on the 18th, address the chiefs, at the square of.negotiatien. in the garrison; .that; after the latter, the commissioners of the United States said to the Indians: You have this day heard the talk of our brethren, the beloved men of Georgia; it is a long one. anti contains many-.tilings. M e request ypu will allow yourselves sufficient time to consider upon it : that yo.u -will consider upon the subject with as much coolness and deliberation as if you were within your own square, at vouf own councils, in your nation. You are in,perfect safety at this place;’you may choose your ground for deliberation, and shall there be secure from all interruption."“ The chiefs, after consultation applied to Mr. Hawkins, and requested that he would have, them furnished with a copy of the talk delivered them-by the commissioners of Georgia,-and all the'papers referred to therein; they wished to have them in their own councils, that they might understand , every part, before they made up their minds to reply. Mr. Hawkins applied to Mr. Simms, anil Colonel Hendricks, who promised them m half an hour.” “ 19th June.—This day the Indians applied for the papers promised them yesterday, and we .wrote to'the commissioners of Georgia: ‘ The’Indians have requested us to furnish them with a copy of the talk von addressed to them yesterday, that they may be able to examine it leisurely in their councils: we have promised it.- and we have to request of you to furnish us an authentic copy of the speech, together with the-papers referred to therein, which were shewn and explained to the Indians.! _ ' ■ * . “ Mr, Robertson, the Secretary-to the commissioners, called on us and delivered the talk, certified tobe a true copy, and extracts from some of the papers alluded to. He said the paper containing tlie claims against the Indians, was an original, that it Would take three days to copy it. that the commissioners did not like to trust it in the camp, but they would show it to us, if we were desirous of perusing it. Me requested we might have the examination of it at our lodgings. . * . “ '20th June.—The Indians spent this day in council, in a square which they prepared for that purpose,' ip their o\cn. encampment. They requested that three of the interpreters should attend them, and named Timothy Barnard. Alexander Cornell, and James Burgesrthev were ordered accordingly. '“ The result of this consultation being delivered to us. we gave ft to the commissioners of Georgia. “ 2.3(/ June.—Extract from a -note to the commissioners of Georgia: ‘ The commissioners of the United-States expect to see the Indians this morning at their square in the Indian encampment, at the request of the Indians, and they trill call on the commissioners of Georgia to accompany them.'“2 Wi June.—-One of the commissioners of the United States requested Captain Eaton to wait on the commissioners of Georgia, and'conduct them to the Indian square of negotiation. '   .- “ Extract from a letter from the commissioners of.Georgia.- relative to the .stoppage of their Secretary: ‘ A circumstance, grating to pur feelings, Ac- which we are sorry for, .as Captain Tinsley has been so polite as to waif on us! to assure us.it was contrary to orders.. Although we are of opinion with Captain Tinsley, and thank him for his attention, we cannot forbear to express,' Ac. '“ The commissioners of Georgia attended, and the council opened. ‘ The commissioners Of thje United States, by Mr. Hawkins: , ' '- ■ ” Representatives of the Creek Lund: ‘ This paper, which I- now shew you. is the paper you-sent us, in answer to the beloved men of Georgia; we 'nave shewn, it to them; you are 'now together face to face; I shall read it to you, that you may know whether it is your talk, and your,determination. The talk being read,-paragraph by paragraph, and interpreted, the commissioners enjoined 11 on all the interpreters to be particular, as they were on oath; and they put a question to the chiefs:   : '' ... - ' ' ' . ' ... “ Question. Is this the talk which you made in council, and sent to the beloved men. commissioners of Georgia? “ Answer. Yes: it is the very words we spoke. . . Question by the commissioners of Georgia. Why did not you say this, face to face, to us, in the square, when we spoke to you? .insu'er. The chiefs could give no other reason than that they chose first to sit down together in council, with their interpreters, and reduce this talk to writing; but that they were ready to give it verbally, when digested, at any time, and in the square, face to face, if the commissioners chose they should do so. Question by the commissioners of Georgia. Is this your usual custom, to carry on talks in writing; or do \ ou always give them from the voice, in the public square? “ Answer. There are no rules reduced to system; when they talk among themselves, it is usual to talk face to face, anti to send beads to assist the memory: but. as we bad, in this instance, a talk to deliver to white people, and having our linguisters all present, we chose to send our answer in writing."As to the charge of evasive conduct, we might rely on the conclusion of the charge for an acquittal, although, perhaps, it was not intended. We did offer our services, and continued them. But we had no wish that the Creeks should part with their lands, without their own consent. By the manner of stating this charge, one would suppose that the gentlemen of Georgia had such a wish. We told the commissioners of Georgia we were instructed, had the means, and were well disposed to further the objects of their mission. We did, at one time, expect they would come forward and make a serious offer, and that wp, with the funds at our discretion, should be able to obtain the object they had in view, by demonstrating to the Creeks that the sum was an equivalent for the lands: and, as tins accommodation might have a tendency to remove all misunderstanding between the parties, that it would be for then-interest to part with them. 3d and 4th. We refer to the superintendent to answer for himself. 5th. Needs no comment. 6th. This, unintelligible to us. The commissioners of the United States are of opinion, that, under the old Confederation, the authority to make treaties was vested in Congress; and. as to the construction relative to tlx* treaty of New York, we gave the words of the treaty, and the same are again inserted in the treaty we have recently concluded. 7th. The gentlemen commissioners set out with an assumption of powers unwarranted, and close their mission In like form. Being unwilling to pay a debt contracted at the request of the State, they protest against the “ payment, or liability of payment, of the State of Georgia." They charge, that " the answer of the Indians, one party thereto, if so it can be called, has been dictated to them in secret council, by undue influence." This, the gentlemen. in the same sentence, deny themselves. They say: ” The plea of the chiefs, openly declared by Alexander Cornell and the Bird-tail king, their speakers, now being that they refused to giving up the land, was fully determined on in the nation, and that the chiefs came instructed to abide by that determination/* To this declaration we may add, from our diary of the 05th, the following: ” The commissioners then took a retrospective view of what had been said, recapitulated the most material parts, and concluded: we hope you will think seriously on these things; we have come a long way to settle your difficulties, and we wish you would, to-morrow, come and sit down in temper, and talk over your affilirs with the beloved men of Georgia; we will hear you, and arbitrate between you; your Great Father has sent us here for that purpose. “ Fusatche! Mico replied: We do not know what more can he said to the commissioners of Georgia. We have given a decided answer to the requisitions for land. If Georgia has any other business to introduce, let them mention it, that we may know what business will come before us. If we were to talk again, it would be the same thing over again. The talk already given is the determined voice of the whole representation, and not one of them call be dissuaded from his determination; any proposition on the subject of land will meet the same answer, therefore ffiis subject is done with, and I cannot see the propriety of further conference. I have already told you that our lands were so contracted, that we have hardly ground to hunt upon, and the nation would not agree at all to part with any more land."’ We deem it unnecessary to say any more on this subject, hut, to conclude, that it is remarkable, throughout tiie protest, that every sentence is at war with some other, and. that the conclusions drawn, always destroy the premises. With our be^t wishes for the prosperity of the Stale of Georgia. XVe have the honor to be, vour Excellency's most obedient servants. 'BENJAMIN HAWKINS. GEO. CLYMEII. ANITW PICKENS. His Excellency .! \red Irwin. Governor of the. State of Georgia. TIIE PROTEST. Coleraine, 28/A June, 179t>. We. the undersigned commissioners of the State of Georgia, appointed, on the part of the State, to attend a treaty with the Creek Indians, now held at this place, under the authority of the United States, in pursuance of the rust reposed inns, think it our indispensable duty, which we owe to our country, to protest, and we do hereby protest, against the commissioners of the United States, and their Superintendent of Indian Affairs, for certain proceedings affecting the object of the State of Georgia, the relinquishment of the Indian claims to certain lands contemplated in an act of this State, entitled An act for appropriating part of the unlocated territory of this State, Repayment of the late State troops, and for other purposes therein mentioned, passed the 28tli December. 1794, as the causes of the failure thereof, as follows: First. We protest against certain regulations of the commissioners of the United States, signed Benjamin Hawkins and George Clymer, posted up at the gates of the garrison of Coleraine, and dated the 26th day of May last; and which regulations are in the words following, to wit: " The commissioners for holding a treaty with the Creek nation of Indians, in order to prevent quarrels, improper behavior, or mal-practices, during the negotiation, have judged it proper, in virtue of the powers and authorities vested in them, to make the following regulations: 1st. The Indians arc to he encamped on the river bank, above the garrison, convenient to the spring and river. 2d. The superintendent is to fix his residence within the Indian encampment. 3d. No citizen of the United States is to be permitted to encamp with, or near, the Indians, except such a.- are under the direction of the superintendent. 4th. No citizen is to be permitted to enter the Indian camp in arms. 5th. No citizen is to visit the Indians, or hold any conversation with them, except with a permit from the commissioners of the United States, or either of them. 6th. No citizen is to be in arms in the garrison, or neighborhood of it; and on the arrival of any visiters, who may travel with arms, they are to he informed of this order, and requested to conform thereto. 7lit. No citizen is *o he permitted to sell, or furnish by gift, spirituous liquors to the Indians, or to have any ommercial traffic with them. 8th. These regulations are to be posted up at the two gates of the garrison, and at the residence of the superintendent/* By which regulations the commissioners of the State have been debarred from conciliating the affections of the Indians, and. consequently, effecting the object of their mission. The civil and actual jurisdictional rights of the State have been infringed, and her consequence, in the eyes of the Indians, much lessened; who will be taught, by +hc conduct which we have experienced, being liable to stoppage by the sentinels, without passports from the Federal 78 commissioners, on our ground, and within the actual limits of tlm sovereignty of Georgia, from entering their encampment, that the citizens of the State, however high their commission, are inferior in consequence and rights to themselves, and maybe insulted with impunity. Secondly. We protest against the manner of conducting the said treaty, the same being ordered by the President to be at Coleraine, and to be’conducted in a fair, open, and honorable manner; and so the talk, or invitation of the President, and the talk of Georgia, were given in a square, or bower, erected in the garrison for that purpose. Since which, without any known reason to the commissioners of the State, the place has been altered to Muscogee, die residence of the superintendent, where the talk of the Indians, in answer to the talk delivered by us, was manufactured, and where the commissioners of Georgia, owing to the regulations before protested against, had no access. The said pretended answer, or talk or the Indians, not being delivered in the usual open manner, in the square, face to face, before the commissioners of Georgia and the United States, but penned in their camp, by certain agents, or interpreters, under the command of the superintendent; and transmitted, not directly, but through the channel of the commissioners of the United States, to us, without being certified by them, or by any attesting witnesses, chief agent, or interpreter. And for this, also; that, in attempting to attend one of the conferences, to which the commissioners of the United States had invited the commissioners of Georgia, we were insulted, by the stoppage of our secretary by the sentinel of the garrison picket. And he having our papers, we were compelled to return, in obedience to the regulations aforementioned. We further protest against the commissioners for not permitting us ro propose questions, or deliver sentiments, during the negotiation, on the subject of our particular mission, without being under their control, and over-ruling arbitrary interference. We further protest against the said commissioners, for evasive conduct towards the State, ana her commissioners, in offering their services to procure the land, at one period, and openly declaring, at another, in open council, that it was not the wish of the commissioners of the United States, that the. Creeks should part with their lands without their ov. n desire. Thirdly. We protest against the Superintendent of Indian Affairs, for not counteracting certain reports introduced into the Creek nation, that the Georgia militia were to encounter the Indians at this place, and certain talks sent there, persuading the Indians not to relinquish their claims to the lands contemplated to be purchased by the State, in the invitation of the President, and the act aforementioned. Fovrlhly. We protest against the time and place appointed for holding the treaty, both of which we understand were recommendeu by the Superintendent of Indian Affairs, on account of the scarcity of provisions at such a season, and the poverty of the surrounding country; the supplies of the former swelling the expense to an enormous amount, and the latter being, although the property of the Superintendent, inconveniently situated, in every respect, but more particularly lor our fellow-citizens to attend, who have suffered from Indian depredations. Fifthly. We protest against any cession of land within the territorial limits of the State of Georgia, by the Creek Indians, to the United States, whether fur the purposes of posts, trading houses, or otherwise, without the consent of the State of Georgia, as contrary to the eighth section of the first article of the United States’ constitution, which declares, “ The Congress shall have power to exercise exclusive legislation, in all cases whatsoever, over such district (not exceeding ten miles square) as may, by cession of particular States, and the acceptance of Congress, become the seat of Government of the United States, and to exercise like authority over all places purchased by the consent of the Legislature of the State in which the same shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines, .arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings.” Such cessions, for trading houses and garrisons, being now applied for by the commissioners of the United States, with land adjacent, for stock, anti to raise corn, within the territorial limits of the State of Georgia, and'which, at a future day, may militate with the rights of the State, and be pronounced binding on her, being now to bo concluded on at a public treaty, and perhaps may be ratified by the treatymaking power of the United States. Sixthly. We protest against the decision of the commissioners of the United States, given in open council, to the chiefs of the Creek nation, that the treaties of Augusta, Galphinton, and Shoulderbone, held in the years 1783, 1785, and 178(1, whilst Georgia was a free, sovereign, and independent State, unconnected with the treaty-making power of the United States, under the present constitution, were invalid; of course, that cession of the Tallassee country was void. There was no Federal compact against such cession bv treaty, between individual States and Indian tribes, at the time it was made; and if the United States have the right to take a retrospective view, and lop oft’ cessions of part of a State, made before their authority existed, the United States may make different cessions, until they lop oft' a whole State; and, if one State, they may several States—the whole having been formed by cessions at different periods. A melancholy prospect, and more melancholy tie to the Union, for the frontier State of Georgia. We further protest against the construction of the said commissioners, as to the property the Indians are made liable for, under the said treaty of New York; which construction confines the demand ior property plundered from our citizens, tu a very humble limit, even as respects negroes, the only article, agreeably to their construction, contemplated thereby. Seventhly and lastly. We, therefore, protest against the payment, or liability of payment, of any share of the enormous and unnecessary expense attending the present treaty, by the State of Georgia; which, so far from being conducted in a fair, open, and honorable manner, the answer of the Indians, one party thereunto, if so it can be called, has been dictated to them in secret council, by undue influence, and cannot be considered their answer; and for that the State of Georgia has not had a fair and open opportunity to contract for the lands. The plea of the chiefs, openly declared by Alexander Cornell, and the Bird-tail king, their speakers, now being, that the refusal to giving up the land was fully determined on in the nation, and that the chiefs came instructed to abide by that determination; which, if true, is a fraud on the State, and a trick, unworthy the dignity and honor of the United States, transacted through their Superintendent, to fling one-half of the expense of a treaty, to serve their own purposes, on an individual State, which would possibly reap no benefit thereby; and we do, in consequence, protest against any payment, or liability of payment. by the State of Georgia, as aforesaid, for, or on account of. the same, unless it may be such necessaries as the commissioners of Georgia, or their guard, or household, may have drawn, and for which only the. State ought to be accountable. J AMES HENDRICKS. JAMES JACKSON. JAMES SIMMS. By order of the Board of Commissioners: THOMAS ROBERTSON, Secretary. The talk of the Commissioners of Georgia to the Kings, Head-men, and Warriors, of the Creek nation. Brothers: The hatchet has been frequently lifted, as well by your mad people, as by the mad people of Georgia. We are now met, under the eye of the great beloved man, General Washington, who has sent his beloved men, the commissioners of the United States, here, to settle all disputes between us and you. It is true, that many of our people have been killed by your mad people, and it is also true, that many of your people have been killed by our mad people. We are sorry for it. because we were all formed by the same Great Spirit, and ought to live as brethren of the same great family. Yet, when we recollect that we have mad people on each side, we should make allowances for each oilier; and when we are assured that the conduct of those mad men has not been countenanced by the beloved men, we ought to forget and forgive the blood which lias been spilled. As to the murders on the Oconee, committed by Harrison, and Vessels, and others, the good citizens of Georgia were as much displeased at them as you were. It gave the beloved men of Georgia, when they met in council, much pain, and they told the great beloved man, General Washington, so. * They had Harrison, Vessels, and others, taken and bound over to take their trials. Vessels is dead, the breath of life is gone from him; but Harrison and the others are yet to be tried, and, if found guilty, must die the same death as if they had killed white men; so that you see it was not the fault, or the wish of Georgia, that Harrison should spill your blood. We were in hopes to have satisfied you by this, and that, as you promised General Washington you would not retaliate, until you heard from him; but, to our sorrow, some of your people came down, and killed and wounded several innocent persons, who were as angry at what Harrison bad done as you were. Brethren : You heard yesterday what the great beloved man General Washington told you, in the talk the commissioners delivered; that you had' not complied with the stipulations you had entered into at New York, in all parts; that the prisoners, and property, such as negroes, horses, cattle, &c. were not restored; many of the chiefs now here, were at New York, and promised to do this. You promised to return this property at three different treaties before you went to New York. 1st. At Augusta. 2d. At Galphinton. And 3d, at the treaty of Shoulder-bone, where many of your principal chiefs who now hear us, also were. You there promised not only to return all negroes and other property, but to pay all debts due to traders. Very few of the negroes, however, and little of other property, has been returned, notwithstanding those repeated promises, and particularly that you made the President. Many of the owners of the negroes, horses, and other property, are now here, waiting to see if you have them ready. To give them all up, agreeable to ytfur contract with the great beloved man, is necessary and just, into pay us for them. If Georgia is to he bound by the treaty you made at Ne\i York, you ought to be so too: you made it, and you ought to see it fully performed. We white men have no right to take your skins, and give you nothing for them; and you red men have no right to take our negroes and horses, and not pay us for them. We are here, ready to receive the negroes and horses, with the other property you have taken from us; or, if you have not got them to deliver, we are ready to receive payment for them. We call upon the beloved men sent here by the great beloved man, General Washington, to see this done. He sent them here to settle all disputes between us. They are sent here to do justice to you, and they are also sent to do justice to us. Here is a list of property taken by you from us, previous to the treaty you entered into at New York, and we have other demands since that time for property taken, which we will speak of by-and-bye. This list proves that you took, before that time, eighty-nine . negroes from us, eight hundred and twenty-five horses, eleven hundred and fifty-nine head of cattle, four hundred ana ninety-five hogs, besides other property, and that you burnt one hundred and fifteen houses. The value of this property, if you are prepared to pay for it. is upwards of seventy thousand dollars. Very little of all this property has been returned. We hope now it will be settled, as we are. come together under the eye of the great beloved man, to put an end to all disputes. Brothers: We have something further, of great importance to you and to us. and which the great beloved man lias told you was one principal reason for calling you here. Our beloved men, and particularly our beloved man Governor Irwin, whom many of you know to be a good man, and no enemy to the red men, sent us here to talk with you, and to tell you truths. Listen, and we will tell them to you. Although General Clarke, and the people with him, were removed from the Oconee fork by our people, under General Irwin, because they went there without your consent, or the orders of the beloved men. yet they bid us to tell you that they want this land; that they wish to deal fairly with you. and to pay you for it; and they think you ought to part with it on that consideration. The people of this State are very thick settled, and, on the Oconee, they are in such numbers, that they have not land enough to maintain their families. They are like a river, so very full that its banks cannot contain it, so that it overflows the neighboring grounds. They must go somewhere to settle. They cannot return back from whence their fathers came, because the people are full there, and there is no land to be had; if they were to return, their families must starve. They have looked over the Oconee, and find that, between that river and the Oakmulgee. there is a slip of land up to the heads of those rivers, which affords you but little game, and which they, therefore, think, without hurting yourselves much, you may part with to them, at a fair price. We wish to pay you for it. and are desirous of obtaining it, because it will heal all old differences, and rivet the chain of friendship between us so firmly, that it will last for ages, and prevent the spilling of imraiid your blood, and the blood of our and your children after us. We think, if you deliberate and consider of this matter properly, and how your fathers got possession of the ground you now live and hunt on. you ought to agree with our proposals, and let us have the little slip of land we ask for. We are told that your fathers came from a great distance wh-re the sun sets, a great while ago. because they wanted land, and that they settled the lands you now claim, although other nations then lived and hunted there, who had lands to spare. Now, if we consider this point, we must say it was right to do so: for the earth is a great nursing mother, and supplies food for all mankind. Now, when one nation has fewer neopie and more land than another nation, which has a great many people, and not land enough for them to live on, the earth being the nursing mother for all. white men or red men, the nation which has fewest people, and most land, ought to part with a little of it to the other nation, at a reasonable price. Now, this is our case. We have not land enough to raise corn for all our people. No red man would refuse a white man something to eat, if he came hungry to his cabin: and yet a refusal of this land will be like a denial of bread to many hungry families, who want to raise corn on it to feed themselves. Your hunts, we are told, are not very profitable on this land, and that it is fit for the purpose we want it, to raise corn for our hungry people. Brothers: We have brought you a large parcel of goods, in the vessel which lays yonder, of great value, which we will deliver the commissioner* for you, if we can agree about the land. They will comfort your wives and children, and will be of more value to you than the profits ot many years' hunt on the lands we wish to get from you. Brethren: The beloved men here present, know more of the will of the big beloved man. General Washington, than we do: but we believe lie would not have sent them here, or for you to come down, it he had not thought that your relinquishing your claims to this land, to the State of Georgia, i- necessary and proper to promote peace, and prevent the spilling of blood. We advise you to consult the beloved men on tins subject. As we have come here under the eye of the great beloved man. to settle all disputes, as we before mentioned, we now inform you, that we have a large claim against you for negroes, horses, and the other property taken, and mischiefs committed by you since the treaty you made tit New York. Here is a list ol what has been taken, and hen-are vouchers, proofs, to the amount of near forty thousand dollars. As we are now to settle, every thing, by desire of the great man. ne also call on his commissioners to see the property returned, or compensation made us for it. and also to see that the debts due our citizens in the nation are secured. Brethren: The beloved man, General Washington, has mentioned to you, that the boundary line settled at New York, did not please the State of Georgia: it is true, it did not please us. You recollect, that, by the treaty of Galphinton, the kings, chiefs, and warriors, of your nation, then present, and some of you were there, made a relinquishment of all that tract of country, beginning at the forks of the Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers, thence, in a southwest direction, until it should intersect the most southern part of the stream called St. Mary's river, including all the islands and water courses of the said stream; thence down the said river to the old line. This relinquishment of claims was confirmed by the treaty held at Shoulderbone. where many more kings and chiefs ol your nation attended, and several of them we now see present; those treaties we have here.f Some of your nation, however, complained of grievances, and the great beloved man, General Washington, sent three of his principal beloved men to this State. General Lincoln. Colonel Humphreys, and Mr. Cyrus Griffin, who came here to the llock Landing, and examined into those treaties? and when they returned, they told General M ashington that the. treaties and relinquishment of the land were fair. We have their talk to him liere.t and they say that it was done with good faith between the people of Georgia and the Creek nation. Some of your people being still displeased, you. many of you. went to New York, and there a treaty was held between the great beloved man and you: but mi f See extract, No. 2 8; 3. See extract, No. 1. t See extract, No. 4. G16 INDIAN AFFAIRS. Cir9r. commissioners of Georgia were present, and this land was left out of the boundary line, without the consent of the State. We submitted toil, because the big beloved man had done it, and we were loath to shed blood: but we have not parted with our claim; we always thought we had a good claim, and we think so still. It was at that treaty, and many of you now here were there, that you promised to restore all our negroes and property, with the prisoners you had taken, belonging to our people; you have not returned them, as the President has told jou. Now, even on your own ground, until you comply with this treaty, this land must be considered as ours. \ ou cannot expect us to be bouml by the treaty of New York, which you made, when you do not comply with it yourselves. But we claim this land under the respective former treaties which you made with us. Brethren: We long to have the path open, and the chain bright between us; to obtain this, it is necessary that you should give our talks due consideration, and not rashly determine. We have mad men as well as you, and we wish to settle all things amicably, that our mad men, on both sides, may be restrained from doing mischief. We fear this may be the case, if matters are not now settled. We wish you to consult the beloved men, sent here by Gen. Washington, on all the points we have talked on. We look to them to see justice done between us, as the representatives of the President, who is the cliief lather of 11s and you. I do certify, that the foregoing and annexed sheets, are a true copy of the talk delivered by the commissioners of Georgia to the Creek Indians, at Coleraine, the 18th June. 1796. THOMAS ROBERTSON, Secretaiy. Extracts alluded to in the Talk. No. 1. Resolved unanimously, That his Excellency the Governor he earnestly requested to assure the President of the United States, that the Legislature of the State of Georgia has viewed with regret and indignation the conduct of Benjamin Harrison, and other citizens of the United States, who attacked a party of Indians on the Oconee, on the 28th of October last; that it is the wish and desire of the State of Georgia, that Harrison, and the others charged, may he brought to a fair and speedy trial, agreeably to the existing laws. Resolved unanimously, That his Excellency be further requested to take such steps, in consultation with the law officers of the State, as will be most effectual to carry the foregoing resolution into full operation. No. 2. Extract from the treaty of Galphinlon. The said Indians shall restore all the negroes, horses, and other property, that are. or may be among them, belonging to any citizens of this State. The present temporary line, reserved to the Indians for their hunting ground, shall be agreeable to a treaty held at Augusta, in the year 1783, and that a new temporary line shall begin at the forks of the Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers; thence, in a southwest direction, until it shall intersect the most southern part of the stream called St. Mary’s river, including all the islands and waters of the said stream; thence, down the said river, to the said line. [Signed by the Tallassee, and several other kings, on the part of the Indians.] No. 3. Extract from the Shoulderbnnc treaty. All negroes, horses, cattle, and other property now in the nation, and which were taken from the inhabitants of Georgia, shall be restored to such person or persons as his honor the Governor or the commissioners shall direct. The present temporary lines reserved for the Indians, for their hunting grounds, shall be agreeable to the treaties held at Augusta amt Galphinlon, the former bearing date the iirst day of November. 1783, and the latter the twelfth day of November, 1785. every part of which is hereby confirmed. [Signed, on the part of the Indians, by the Bird Tail king, the Cussetah king, and seventeen other kings.] No. 4. Extract from General Lincoln's, Colonel Humphreys', and Mr. Cyrus Griffin s report to the President. The commissioners beg leave further to report, that, alter the most accurate investigation in their power to make, after consulting the best documents, and having recourse to creditable depositions, they are unable to discover, but that the treaty of Augusta, in the year 1783, the treaty of Galphinton, in the year 1785, and the treaty of Shoulder-bone, in the year 1786, were all of them conducted with as lull and authorized representation, with as much substantial form, and apparent good faith and understanding of the business, as Indian treaties have usually been conducted. I do hereby certify, that the foregoing extracts are true copies from the certified copies front the Executive. THOMAS ROBERTSON, Secretary, C. G. Proceedings at the Treaty with the Seven Nations. Ata Treaty held at the city of New Y ork, with the nations or tribes of Indians, denominating themselves the Seven Nations of Canada: Abraham Ogden, commissioner appointed under the authority of the United States to hold the treaty; Ohnawiio, alias Good Stream, Teholagwanegen. alias Thomas Williams, two chiefs of the Caghnatvagas, Oteatohatongwan, alias Colonel Lewis Cooke, a chief of the St. Regis Indians, and William Gray, deputies, authorized to represent these Seven nations or tribes of Indians at the treaty, and Mr. Gray, serving also as interpreter; Egbert Benson, Richard Varick, and James Watson, agents for the State of New Yrork: William Constable and Daniel McCormick, pure ha -sers under Alexander Macomb. The agents for the State having, in the presence, and with the approbation of the commissioner, proposed to the deputies of the Indians, the compensation hereinafter mentioned, for the extinguishment of their claim to all lands within the State, and the said deputies being willing to accept the same, it is thereupon granted, agreed, and concluded. between the said deputies and the said agents, as follows: The said deputies do. for and in the name of the said Seven nations, or tribes of Indians, cede, release, and quit claim, to the people of the State of New Y'ork. forever, all the claim, right, or title, of them, the said Seven Nations or tribes of Indians, to lands within the said State: Provided, nevertheless. That the tract equal to six miles square, reserved in the sale made by the commissioners of the Land Office of the said State, to Alexander Macomb, to be applied to the use of the Indians of the village of St. Regis, shall still remain so reserved. The said agents do, for and in the name of the peojile of the State of New York, grant to the said Seven nations or tribes of Indians, that the people of the State of New \rork shall pay to them, at the moutl; of the river Chazy, on Lake Champlain, 011 the third Monday in August next, the sum of one thousand two hundred and thirty-three pounds six shillings and eight pence, and the further sum of two hundred and thirteen pounds six shillings and eight pence, lawful money of the said State; and on the third Monday in August, yearly, forever, thereafter, the like sum of two hundred and thirteen pounds six shillings and eight pence: Provided, nevertheless, That the people of the State of New York shall not be held to pay the said sums, unless in respect to the two sums to be paid on the third Monday in August next, at least twenty, and in respect to the said yearly sum to be paid thereafter, at least five of the principal men of the said Seven Nations or tribes of Indians shall attend as deputies to receive and to give receipts tor the same. The said deputies having suggested that the Indians of the village of St. Regis have built a mill on Salmon river, and another on Grass river, and the meadows on Grass river are necessary to them for hay: In order, therefore, to secure to the Indians of the said village the use of the said mills and meadows, in case they should hereafter appear not to be included within the above tract, so to remain reserved: It is. therefore, also agreed and concluded between the said deputies, the said agents, and the said William Constable and Daniel McCormick, for themselves and their associates, purchasers under the said Alexander Macomb, of the adjacent lands, that there shall be reserved, to be applied to the use of the Indians of the said village of St. Regis, in like manner as the said tract is to remain reserved, a tract of one mile square at each of the said mills, and the meadows on both sides of the said Grass river, from the said mill thereon, to its confluence with the river St. Lawrence. In testimony whereof, the said commissioner, the said deputies, the said agents, and the said William Constable, and Daniel McCormick, have hereunto, and to two other acts of the same tenor and date, one to remain with the United States, another to remain with the State of New York, and another to remain with the said Seven nations or tribes ot Indians, set their hands and seals, in the city of New York, the thirty-first day of May, in the twentieth year of the independence of the United States, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-six. [Signed as aforementioned.] At a Treaty held at the city of New York, by the United States, with the nations or tribes of Indians denominating themselves the Seven Nations of Canada: Abraham Ogden, commissioner for the United States, appointed to hold the treaty; Ohuawiio, alias Good Stream, a chief of the C'aghnawagas; Oteatohatongwan. alias Colonel Lewis Cook, a chiet ol the St. Regis Indians; Teholagwanegen. alias Thomas Williams, a chief of the Caghnawagas; and William Gray, deputies authorized to represent these nations or tribes at the treaty: and Mr. Gray also serving ■as interpreter: Egbert Henson, Y Richard Yarick, and > Agents for the State ot New ^ ork. James Watson. j 03d May, 17%. The deputy. Thomas Williams, being confined to his lodging in this city, by sickness, was unable to be present. The other three deputies proposed, nevertheless, to proceed to the business ol the treaty. The commissioner thereupon informed them, generally, that he was appointed to hold the treaty: that the sole object of it was to enable the State of New York to extinguish, by purchase, the claim or right of these nations or tribes of Indians to lands within the limits of the State, and that,"agreeably to hi? instructions from the President, he would take care that the negotiation for that purpose, between the agents for the State, and the deputies for the Indians, should be conducted with candor and fairness. Mr. Gray then read and delivered the following speech,as from the deputies, written in English: A talk from the Seven Nations of Indians, residing in the State of New York, and Upper and Lower Canada, to the commissioners of the United States and State of New York, concerning a claim ol lands in the State ot New York: Brothers; We are sent from our nations to you, and fully empowered by them to treat with you. concerning our lands, or any other occasion that might be attended with good meaning, or cause to brighten and strengthen the. chain of friendship betwixt you and us. This power was given us now present. Colonel Lewis Cook. Ohuawiio, Good Stream, Teholawanegen, Thomas Williams, and William Gray, our interpreter, at Caghnawaga, the place where our great council fire is held, and where our nations were all assembled, and in full council, and there, to convince you, brothers, and in order that our business might be attended to with care and speed, they gave us their full power to act in behalf of our nations, and that, whatsoever should be agreed upon betwixt you and us. the same should ever hereafter be indisputable, and stand for just to ns or any of us. This power was given to us on paper, and signed by all our principal chiefs, and the sime paper lodged in the hands ot our great brother George Washington. the President, one we had too much confidence in to believe that lie would have misplaced a paper of that ■ nisequence: however, it does not alter ouv power: as we have before mentioned, we are sent to you fur the purpose of having a final settlement with you. before we return to them: and, brothers, our chiefs' last charges, when we parted with them, at the great council at Caghnawaga, was. to reason the case with our brothers, and to act with judgment: for that, whatsoever was agreed on at this meeting, through us. should stand for just to the whole ol our nations. Rrotuers: At our meeting last fall, at fort George, yon, after some conversation, desired us to point out the land we claimed in this State, and accordingly we did. Brothers: You then brought in several objections against our claim, but we could not find either of them to be reasonable, or in any measure sufficiently weighty. If we had ever sold any ol our lands, either to the King of France or Britain, or either of the United States, we should of course have signed our names to the agreements, which, if that were the case, we are sensible that such papers would be brought forward against us; and that, too, with great justice; but. so far from any thing of this kind, that we bid defiance to the world to produce any deed, or sale, or gilt, or lease, of anv of the lands in question, or any part of them, from us, to either the King of France or Britain, or to either of the United States, or to any individual excepting those we have adopted into our nation, and who reside with us. Brothers: You produced to us a copy of a deed from several Mohawks, for eight hundred thousand acres of land, which those Mohawks had as good a right to sell as they have to come and dispose of the city of New York; notwithstanding this, vou, at the treaty of last fall, pointed those people out to us to be too just a people, you thought, to do a thing of the kind; but what makes them just in your eyes, we expect, is. because they stole from us, and sold to you. This is what makes them a just people. Brothers: Had we. several years ago. done as those have, whom you call a just people, that is, had we sold off all our lands, then underhanded!v sold our brother's, then fled our country, took up arms, and come and killed men, women, and children, indiscriminately; burnt houses, and committed every other act of devastation: and, in short, done every thing we could against our once nearest friends, then, according to what yon say of those Mohawks, you would have esteemed us a just people, and therefore would not have disputed our claim. Brothers: From what we have seen within these few years, wo have reason to believe that such a people as those are most esteemed in your eyes: we need not mention to you the conduct of the Western Indians, nor of their friends; you can judge whu'we mean; but it seems those who injure you the most, you are the readiest to sen e. Brothers: It seems that, before a nation can get justice of another, they must first go to war, and spill one another's blood; but, brothers, we do not like this mode of settling differences; we wish justice to be done without; and it is so far from the conduct of a Christian People, that we are fully determined we never will resort to such-means. unless driven to it by necessity. Brothers: It is our earnest wish to live in friendship and unity with von; and we have always endeavored to persuade our brother Indians to take pattern by us, and live peaceably with you. and to think that our brothers of INDIAN AFFAIRS. [1797. the United States were a just people, and never would wrong them of any of their lands, that justly belonged to them. Brothers: This we did on the strength of your former promises to us, which we think you remember too well to need them to be repeated. You, who depend on ink and paper, which ought never to fade, must reccollect better than we, who cannot write, and who only depend on memory; yet your promises are fresh in our minds. Brothers: We ask for nothing but what is our just due, and that we ever shall expect, to get, until such time as you deny your own words; but we could wish that never to be the case: for, if it was to be, it would'not o,nly be breaking your promises, but making false speakers of us in all that ever we said to our brother Indians, in your behalf, and encouraging those who always have been endeavoring to injure both you and us, all that ever lay in their power. Brothers: We intreat you only to look back, and consider the privileges your brother Indians formerly enjoyed, before we were interrupted by other nations of white people, who teign themselves to us as brothers, arid let justice take place betwixt you and us, in place'of arbitrary power: for that, brothers, you very well know, is a thing that never gave contentment to any people or nation whatsoever. Brothers: Formerly we enjoyed the privilege we expect is now called freedom and liberty; but, since the acquaintance with our brother white people, that which we call freedom and liberty, becomes an entire stranger to us; and, in place of that, comes in flattery and deceit, to deprive poor ignorant people of their properties, and bring them to poverty, and, at last, to become beggars and laughing stocks to the world. Brothers: This is what we have already seen; but, however, we wish never to reflect on what is past, but trust in the Great Spirit, that made us all, to so order it that justice may take place, and that better is to come. Brothers: We prav you to take this matter into good consideration, and do by us as you would wish to be done by. Brothers, (his is what we wish for: that every brother might have their rights, throughout this continent, and all to be of one mind, and to live together in peace and love, as becometh brothers; and to have a chain of friendship made between you and us, too strong ever to be broke, and polished and brightened so pure as never to rust. This is our sincere wishes. Brothers: We wish, likewise, to enjoy our own laws, and you yours, so far that, if any of our people, Indians, should commit a crime, to any of their brothers, the white people of the United States, that he may he punished, by his own nations, and his chiefs to make good all damages; and likewise, on the other part, if any white person should commit a crime to any Indian, that we, the Indians, are not to take revenge on the person, hut to resign him up to justice, and there let him he punished, according to the laws of his nation. Brothers: This we think will be one great step towards strengthening the chain of friendship, and to prevent all differences and disputes hereafter, and that is what we could wish; that after this settlement witli you, Brothers, that there never may, hereafter, arise any differences or disputes betwixt you and us, but rather, if any nation, people, or individual, should attempt to cause any difference, or dispute, betwixt you and us, or to intrude, or wish to injure either of us, that we may be all as one, agreed to drive such ill minded people from off our continent, that does not wish to live amongst us in peace. Brothers: These are our sincere wishes, and we hope that you will consider this matter well, and let us make a good path for your children and ours, to walk in after us; this. Brothers, is our greatest desire, to live in peace and love with you. Brothers: As to our lands, we wish our children after us to share their part of the lands, as well as ns that are now living; and we are sensible, Brothers, that, if you do by us as you would wish to be done by. were it your case, as it is ours, and let justice speak, and make us an offer for our lands, yearly, exclusive of a small piece we wish to reserve for our own use, we are satisfied, that, as you know the value of the lands so much better than we do, that your otter will prevent any further contention on the business. Brothers: We, with patience, wait your answer. 21 th May, 170G. Speech by the Agents for the State to the Deputies for the Indians. Brothers: We have considered your speech to us of yesterday, and we linil the question, respecting your claim, remains as it was when the conferences between you and us, at the treaty held at Lake George, last fall, were closed. "Without some further evidence, it appears to be scarcely reasonable in you to expect we should admit your claim; and the only inducement with us to have it released, or extinguished, is, as we before stated to you, because we desire to liv e in peace and good neighborhood with you, and to avoid all controversy in future; and, consequently, not any supposed merit or justice in the claim itself, but merely contentment and satisfaction to you, are the considerations in determining as to the amount of the compensation to be allowed to you. We have, heretofore, ottered yon three thousand dollars, which you declined accepting, without any otter or proposal in return from you; and although it was then intended as a definitive otter from us, we are still willing to add to it, or to vary it to an annuity, in order to which, however, you must now inform us what your wishes or expectations are. This'will be necessary, otherwise the negotiations will not be conducted on terms duly fair and equal between us. 25th May, I79G. Mr. Gray read and delivered to the Agents, the following speech, as .from the deputies, written in English: A speech of the Seven Nations of Canada and State of Netv York to their Brothers of the State of New York. Brothers: We have considered your answer of yesterday, to our speech to you on the day before, wherein you say you find the question respecting our claim remaining as it was when we parted last fall, from the treaty at fort George. Very true, so it does: for, if we remember right, you told us you would give us three thousand dollars for a release, or quit claim, for all the lands in our claim, exclusive of six miles square, to be reserved for the use of the village of St. Regis, and that was all that you could otter, as you was sent there by them that was greater than you. We told you that we was not able to comply with your otter, as we did not wish to bring our children to poverty by an action of that kind, neither did you ask us what we did expect to have for our lands; if you had, we should immediately have told you. Brothers: Now you say, without some further evidence, you still cannot see tit to admit our claim. We pray you, Brothers, to tell us what further proof you wish us to shew, than what we already have shewn. We have told you, time past, and we tell you now, that our claim is just; and as to finding any other nation, or people, that can say our claim is not just, or that there is a better title can be produced than ours, as we told you before, we are sensible that cannot be done in justice; however, for your satisfaction, Brothers, as we mentioned several times before, that if you was not convinced that our claim was just, to be at the expense of calling the different nations, whose boundaries join our claim, and let them be evidences for and against us. We likewise tell you, that if we ever have sold any part of the lands we now claim, to bring forward the papers, signed by our chiefs, and they will end the business between you and us, and for any farther evidence. Brothers, we think it unnecessary. Brothers: We will now tell you what we expect to have, and do justice to you and ourselves; that is, to reserve for our own use in land, to begin at the village of St. Regis, and to. run east ten miles, on the line of the latitude of forty-five: then up the river St. Lawrence, from the village of St. Regis, to a place called the Presqu" Isle, which we think is about thirty-five or forty miles from the village; and that distance to continue twenty miles in breadth; this piece we wish to reserve for our own use. which is but a very small piece; and the principal we di> otter for your settlements, or any other use you may see tit to put it to. We should think it no ways out of reason or justice, to allow us the sum of three thousand dollars, yearly, which will come to a trifle over one dollar lot-each person that is now living, and has a right in this claim, which is but a small sum towards clothing a person yearly, w hen, before your clearing up our hunting grounds, we supported ourselves, both in victuals and clothing, from w hat nature provided for us, from ofl'those lands. Brothers: Your compliance to these terms will give contentment to the minds of your Brothers, the Indians of the Seven Nations. Brothers: Speech from the .igenls to the Deputies. 26th Mai/, ! TOO. We had intended to have avoided all further examination of the.merits of your claim, and that the conferences between you and us should have been confined only to adjust the compensation to be allow ed to you for the extinguishment of it: but there are some parts of your speech of yesterday, which we suppose ought not to remain wholly unnoticed by us. Brothers: You say there is no other people can be found, who can say your claim is not just: and if we are not convinced your claim is just, that we should be at the expense of calling the different nations, whose boundaries join your claim, to be evidences for or against your claim. Brothers: It would be sufficient for us merely to say. that, considering the objections we have made to your claim, and the very unsatisfactory manner in which you have endeavored to answer them, that it is not reasonable in you to propose, that w e should be at the expense of procuring the attendance of the Indians, to whom you refer as witnesses? we will, however, state to you a fact, to convince you that, if they did attend, such is the probability that their testimony would be against your claim, as to render it unadvised even for you to call them. Brothers: The Six Nations of Indians, by a deed, elated the 30th day of November. 17S7, and in consideration of an annuity of two thousand dollars, sold to John Livingston, and his associates, for the term of nine hundred and ninety-nine years, lands described in the deed, ns follows: " All that certain tract or parcel of land, commonly called and known by the name of the lands of the Six Nations of Indians, situate, lying, and being in the Stale of New York, and now in the actual possession of the said chiefs or sachems of the Six Nations: beginning at a place commonly called and known by the name of Canada creek, about seven miles west of fort Stanwix. now fort Schuyler: thence northeasterly to the line of the province of Quebec; thence along the said line to the Pennsylvania line: thence east on the said line, or Pennsylvania line, to the line of property so called by the State ol New York; thence along the said line of property to Canada creek aforesaid." These boundaries you perceive include nearly, if not all the lands you claim, within this State, and the deed is signed by forty-five Indian chiefs, and among the witnesses to it. is Colonel Lewis, the deputy here present. This deed was confirmed by another, dated the 9th day of July. S788, signed by sixty-six chiefs, and among the w itnesses to it. are Colonel John Butler, and Captain Joseph Brandt. These deeds having been given up to the State by the persons to whom they were made, have been lodged in tlie Secretary’s office, and they are now produced to you, in order that you may see them. This purchase by Mr. Livingston, and his associate-, having been made without the consent of the Legislature, w as contrary to the constitution of the State, and therefore, void; it is, notwithstanding, sufficient to the purpose for which we principally mention it. as it is not to be presumed that these Indians would ever declare, that lands which they intended to sell and be paid for as belonging to themselves, did belong to others; not only so, but if the persons who have subscribed the deeds as witnesses, anu having a know ledge of Indian affairs, and some of whom, even Colonel Lew is himself, if we are not much misinformed, assisted Mr. Livingston, and his associates, in making the purchase, were called on as witnesse.- between you and ti-. they must declare that they never had heard or believed, that any part of the lands described in these deeds, belonged to any other Indians than the Six Nations: otherwise, they must declare that they were witnesses to a transaction which they knew to be intended fraudulent and injurious to you: so that it must evidently be fruitless- in you to depend on the testimony of the neighboring nations to establish your claim. Brothers: When we first came together at the treaty held last fall, and before any formal speeches had passed between you and us. you mentioned that you claimed the land-, also, on the east side of the line between this State and the State of Vermont: but the intent of that treaty being only for the extinguishment ol your claim to lands within this State, the lands in Vermont were, therefore, omitted out of the boundaries of your claim, as you after wards described it to us. This you again affirmed to us verbally, yesterday: and you described the lands claimed by you within the limits of Vermont, as running from Ticonderoga to the Great Falls on Otter creek, thence, easterly. to the heights of land dividing the waters which run eastwardly from the waters which run into Lake Champlain; then along these heights, and the heads of the waters running into Lake Champlain, to the forty-fifth degree of latitude; and we take it for granted, you mean your claim is the same, as well with respect to the lands in Vermont ns to the lauds in this State. The King of Great Britain, however, when that territory was under the jurisdiction of this State, as the colony of New York, made grants of lands within the boundaries of your claim, a-extending into Vermont, without requiring a previous purchase from you. or any other nation or tribe of Italians: w hich is a farther proof against the exi-tence of any title in you to the lands you claim. Brothers: In 1788 and 1789, we purchased Iroin the Gneidas, Cayugas. and Onondagoes. the whole of their lands, except some tracts which were reserved for their own use;, and the lands which wc purchased from each of these nations, and exclusive of the reservations, are certainly not less in value than the lands you claim as comprehended within this .State. Their title was not disputed: vour title is not only disputed, but utterly denied, by us. W e are still willing, however, but from motives of prudence and good will only, to place you. in respect to the amount of compensation, on an equal footing w ith them, and. therefore, will allow you the average of what was then allowed to them, which will he an immediate payment of one thou.-and two hundred and thirty-three pounds six -hillings and eight pence, and an annuity of two hundred and thirteen pounds six shillings and eight pence. The tract, equal to six miles square, near the village of St. Regis, still to be applied to your use, as reserved in the sale to Alexander .Macomb. If this offer is accepted by you. it will then remain to he adjusted between you and us, as to the time, place, and manner, in which the payments are to be made. Brothers: Mre shall now wait for your an-vver. Speech from the Deputies to the .igcnls. 2Sth May, 179(7. Brothers: We have considered your offers to our last speech, and w-e think that we understand the greater part of them; and we are happy to think, that, after so long a time, you have thought lit to take some part ol our -perches into good consideration. Brothers: We did say. there was no people could, with justice, say our claim is not just; ami we still repeat to you, brothers, that those deeds you have shown to us, are unjust; that is, we mean, according to all information, we can get from Colonel Lewis, w ho was present when such purchase should have been made, and according to all the conversation we have had with the different nations that should have sold this tract of land belonging to us, and we never understood by these nations, that they had disposed of any lands within our boundaries; and we have, likewise, strictly examined Colonel Lewis, that was present when these purchases were made of those nations, and he solemnly declares, that he did not know of their selling any part of our lands, or any other, only the lands that belonged to them; and, indeed, we take him to be a man oi better principles than to be witness to so great a piece of misconduct against his own tribe, and then not inform us of it before this time. We, therefore, must needs tell you. that we think there is a great deception in diese deeds, as there has been in many other former purchases from our brother Indians; and to conv ince you. brothers, that vve do not malfe any unjust demand, was it not lor our poverty, vve should not have requested you to have been at the expense of calling (lie different nations for witnesses between yon and ns, as we wish to convince you that vve are a people that always have acted on honest principles, and mean to continue in doing the same. However, it seeins you are indifferent about having these nations to come forward; and, for our parts, brothers, we think it to be a great honor to settle matters that concern you and us. amongst ourselves, and not to trouble other nations with our business; we, therefore, are willing to comply with any tiling in reason or justice, rather than it should be said by those ill-minded people, that are always trying to invent mischief between us, that we could not agree. But, there is one question we wish to ask you, brothers: had yon not known us to be the right owners of these lands, why did you direct your good advice to us at the beginning of the troubles between you and the King of England? We are sensible that a nation or people, without lands, are, like rogues, without friends; of neither is notice taken, or any confidence put in either of them. But we_ received your council, heard your advice, and your promises to us, and took them to be sincere; and we ever since have endeavored to live up to them with you, as near as possible was in our power. And we believe, we can with safety say, that, since we have been neighbors, that we never have injured you or vour properties, even to the value of a fowl; neither have we ever made any demands from you while we could support ourselves by hunting, and always thought it to be a favor to our brothers in the new settlements, rather than to think, or have the least mistrust, that it would be a detriment to your justifying our claim, when made. No, brothers, we put too much confidence in your good and lair promises, to have the least mistrust of any thing of the kind. Brothers: Respecting our lands in Vermont, our claim in that State is the same as in this State, which is just; and, as to the King of Great Britain giving grants for settlements, without requiring a purchase from us, that was not much for him to do at that time; if that had been the only misstep he had taken towards the welfare of his children, we dare say you would not have rebelled against tiie government and laws of Great Britain, for the sake of obtaining liberty; so we think that but a very small reason why we should be deprived of our rights. And, as we have mentioned to you in a speech, at the treaty of last fall, at fort George, that he did request us to sell these lands to him, and our answer was, to him, that we could not sell our lands, and that we had reserved them for the maintenance of our children after us. And that has always been the advice of our forefathers, never to sell any part of our lands, but to lease them for an annuity, if it was ever so small; and we shall never forget their advice to us. And on those principles our lands were settled: that was, when we could not support ourselves by hunting, that those who resided on our lands must expect to give us some assistance for the use of our lands. Brothers: And, in respect of your last offer to us for our lands in this State, we must beg you to have a little patience, and consider this matter once more; and we will now make you an offer, that we are sure you will not think unreasonable: that is, brothers, we are not able to bring the reserve into so small a compass as six miles square, but, for the anxiety we have for settling this matter to your satisfaction, as well as for our own, we will bring our reserve into as smiill a compass as possible, without interfering with our plantations: which will be resigning up to you about two-thirds of the reserve, which we never did intend to dispose of on any consideration whatsoever. Still, as we have beforementioned, that we are willing to comply, on any terms, in reason, for the sake of good neighborhood and friendship with you, you will allow us to reserve to our use. as follows: beginning at the head of the second island above Long Saut, on the river St. Lawrence, and run down the stream of said river ten miles below the village of St. Regis; then back into_ the woods, twenty-one miles; then westwardly, in rear the same distance as in front; and from thence, to the river, opposite said island, to the place of beginning. This reserve, brothers, we will not be able to make any less, without interfering with the plantations of our people, which is out of our power so to do, and an annuity of four hundred and eighty pounds, with all expenses free, to the place where we may agree for the delivery of said payments; if so be you may see fit to agree to this offer, which we are sure you cannot think unreasonable, for we are sensible it will not be more than half a cent per acre, yearly; and the immediate payment to be, as as you propose. Brothers: We hope you will not request us to vary from this offer, which we beg you rightly to consider, and let your brothers live as well as yourselves. We will wait your answer. Brothers: Speech from the Agents to the Deputies. 28th May, 1796. The otter which we made to you the day before yesterday, was on mature consideration, and appeared to us to be as liberal as you possibly could expect; and it is now to be considered as definitive between you and us, so that it only remains for you to give us your final answer, whether you are willing to accept it or not, in order that the negotiations at the present treaty may be brought to a close. We would, however, explain to you, that a reasonable allowance to you, as deputies, for your services and expenses, in attending this treaty, and such presents as are usual on those occasions, will be made to you, exclusive of the compensations which ure have proposed should be for the nations or tribes whom you represent. Brothers: Speech from the Agents to the Deputies. 'iOth Slay. 1796. After we had made our speech to you the day before yesterday, you verbally suggested to us, that the Indians  of St. Regis had built a mill on a river which you call Salmon river, and another, on a river which you call Grass river, and that they had always supplied themselves with hay, from the meadows on Grass river. You describe those rivers, generally, only as emptying into the river St. Lawrence, and being in the vicinity of St. Regis, and it is uncertain whether they, and especially the places on them where the mills are built, will be included in the tract,' equal to six miles square, reserved in the sale to Mr. Macomb. If you had seasonably informed the State of your claim, they might then have reserved lands for your use, to any extent which might have been judged proper; but they have now sold all the lands in that quarter, to Mr. Macomb, and as reservations cannot be made without the consent of the. persons who have purchased from him, we have spoken to them on the subject, and they have consented we should further offer to you, that a convenient tract, at each place where the mills are built, and the meadows on both sides of the Grass river, although they may hereafter be discovered not to be within the above tract, equal to six miles square, shall be reserved to the use of the St. Regis Indians. 3lst May, 1796. The deputies having declared their acceptance of the compensation as proposed to them by the agents, three acts, .of the same tenor and date, one to remain with the United States, another to remain with the said Seven Nations or tribes, and another to remain with the State, were, thereupon, this day executed by the commissioner for the United .States, the deputies for the Indians, the agents for the State, and Daniel McCormick and William Constable, for themselves and their associates, purchasers under Alexander Macomb, containing a cession, release, and quit claim, from the said Seven Nations or tribes of Indians, of all lands within the State; and a covenant from the State for the payment of the said compensation, and, also, certain reservations of land, to be applied to the use of the Indians of the village of St. Regis, as by the said acts, reference being had to either of them, will more fully appear. The act referred to above, and to remain with the United States, accompanies this report. ALEX. OGDEN. THE CIIEROK.EKS AND CHEEKS 621 4th Congress.] 
