NO. 225 INSTRUCTIONS TO, AND CORRESPONDENCE WITH, GENERALS PINCKNEY AND JACK- SON, RELATING TO THE TREATY WITH THE CREEKS AT FORT JACKSON. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,‘DECEMBER 27, 1825. [To the House of Representatives of the United States:	WASHINGTON, December 27, 1825. In compliance with a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 23d instant, I transmit, herewith, a repoit from the Secretarj' of War, with the correspondence between the Department of War and Generals Pinckney and Jackson, and all the instructions given to the said Generals Pinckney and Jackson, relating to'the treaty with the Creek Indians, afterwards made at Fort Jackson, so far as the same can be communicated without prejudice to the public interest. WAR DEPARTMENT, December 24, 1825. The Secretary of War, to whom was referred the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 23d instant, requesting the President of the United States “ to cause to be laid before this House the correspondence between the Department of War and Generals Pinckney and Jackson, and all the instructions given to said Generals Pinckney and Jackson relating to the treaty with the Creek Indians afterwards made at Fort Jackson, so far as the same can be communicated, in his discretion, without prejudice to the public interest,” has the honor to enclose, herewith, papers marked from No. 1 to No. 11, inclusive, which contain the information required. • Respectfully submitted. The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.	JAMES BARBOUR. No. 1. SIR:	WAR DEPARTMENT, March 17, 1814. The policy dictated as well by the unprovoked and ungrateful conduct of the hostile Creeks, as by a due regard to the future safety of the southwestern frontier, may be brought under the following heads, viz: 1st. An indemnification (for the expenses incurred by the United States in prosecuting the war) by such cession or cessions of land as may be deemed an equivalent for said expenses. 2d. A stipulation on their part that they will cease all intercourse with any Spanish post, garrison, or town; and that they will not admit among them any agent or trader who does not derive his authority or license from the United States. 3d. An acknowledgment of a right in the United States to open roads through their territory; to navigate all waters and streams within the same; and, also, to establish therein such military posts and trading-houses as may be deemed necessary or proper; and 4th. A surrender of the prophets or other .instigators of the war, who will be held subject to the orders of the President. With these outlines as your guide, you are authorized, in conjunction with Colonel Hawkins, to open and conclude a treaty of peace with the hostile Creeks, so st>on as they shall express a desire to put an end to the war. I have the honor, &c. To Major General THOMAS PINCKNEY.	JOHN ARMSTRONG. No. 2. SIR:	WAR DEPARTMENT, March 20, 1814. Since the date of my last letter, it has occurred to me that the proposed treaty with the Creeks should take a form altogether military, and be in the nature of a capitulation; in which case, the whole authority of making and concluding the terms will rest in you, exclusively, as commanding general. In this transaction, should it take place, Colonel Hawkins, as agent, may be usefully employed. ,	I have, &c. Major General THOMAS PINCKNEY.	JOHN ARMSTRONG. '	No. 3. Extract of a letter from Major General Pinckney to the Secretary of War, dated FORT HAWKINS, April 8, 1814. I have had the honor of receiving, by the mail of this day, your letters of the 20th of March, &c. Your letter of the 17th of March, containing instructions for the treaty of peace with the Creek Indians, was received on the 1st of this month, and immediately communicated to Colonel Hawkins. I greatly prefer the form of a military capitulation, and will endeavor that the business shall take that course; in which case, the quantum and location of the land to be ceded as indemnity, with other details, may be left to be settled by commissioners to be appointed by , the President.	.. No. 4. Extract of a letter from General Andrew Jackson to the Secretary of War, dated .	FORT WILLIAMS, April 25, 1814. The commissioners appointed to make a treaty with the Creeks will have little to do but to assign them their proper limits. Those of the friendly party, who have associated with me, will be easily satisfied; and the remainder, or the hostile party, pleased that their lives were spared them, will thankfully accept, as a bounteous donation, any district which may be allotted them for their future settlement. Will you permit me. to suggest that a line, running from some point on the Georgia line, westwardly, to New Yankee, on the Tallapoosa, and thence to the Coosa, a mile or two above this place, would leave to the north of it a district of country quite sufficient for their purposes, and perhaps the most suitable that could be assigned them? Provision might be made for the Big Warrior and his immediate adherents on the south of the line, if that should be found necessary for any reasons. Such an arrangement, I am satisfied, would be the best for the United States, and, I believe, for the Creeks; and such an arrangement it will require but little negotiation to effect. No. 5. Extract of a letter from the Secretary of War to Major General Andrew Jackson, dated MAY 24, 1814. In the event of your acceptance of the appointment announced by my letter of the 22d instant, I have to suggest the wish of the President that you should proceed, without delay, to Fort Jackson, and consummate the arrangements committed to Major General Pinckney, in relation to the hostile Creeks. A copy of the instructions given to General Pinckney is enclosed. No. 6. « Extract of a letter from the Secretary of War to Major General Pinckney, dated MAY 26, 1814. General Jackson has been furnished with a copy of the instructions which were given to you in relation to the Indian treaty, and required to carry these arrangements into effect. 75 E No. 7. Extract of a letter from the Secretary of War to Major General Andrew Jackson, dated MAY 31, 1814. Colonel Meigs states that the Cherokees are interested in the arrangements which you are authorized to adopt in relation to the Creeks; and it is desirable that his statement should be heard by you in their behalf. No. 8.’ Extract of a letter from General Jackson to the Secretary of War, dated FORT JACKSON, July 14, 1814. I have summoned the chiefs of the Creek nation to a convention, to be holden at this post on the 1st of August next, for the purpose of terminating, if possible, pursuant to instructions, the differences between their nation and the United States. Whether all the chiefs of the hostile party will attend, cannot be ascertained until the lapse of that period; but the event shall be announced as early as possible. •	No. 9. Extract of a letter from General Pinckney to the Secretary of War, dated CHARLESTON, Avgust 26, 1814. I have the honor of enclosing an extract of a letter addressed to me by Colonel Hawkins, and beg leave to submit to you the propriety of the promises held out by me to the friendly Indians, in my letter to Colonel Hawkins of 23d of April, being complied with. When that letter was written, I considered it to be good policy to attach to the interests of the United States the leading men of that nation who should render essential service to us; and I know of no method so cheap to the United States as to assign to them such lands as might be thought a reasonable reward for their services, within the limits of the conquered territory, which the United States might relinquish to the nation; which, with the addition of some honorary medals, &c., would probably have the desired effect. No. 10. Extract of a letter from Colonel Hawkins to General Pinckney, dated CREEK AGENCY, Avgust 16, 1814. The following part of the terms offered by you to the Creeks, in yours of the 23d, [April,] the general [Jackson] declared he had no authority to accede to: “You may likewise inform them that the United States will not forget their fidelity; but, in the arrangements which may be made of the lands to be retained as indemnity, their claims will be respected, and such of their chiefs as have distinguished themselves by their exertions and valor in the common cause will also receive a remuneration in the ceded lands, and in such manner as the Government may direct.” He marked his line, and demanded their acquiescence. No. 11. HEAD-QUARTERS, SIXTH AND SEVENTH DISTRICTS, SIR:	CAMP NEAR THE CONFLUENCE OF THE COOSA AND TALLAPOOSA RIVERS, April 23, 1814. The complete success with which it has pleased the Almighty to bless the arms of the United States in the present war with the hostile Creek Indians, having amply retaliated on their infatuated people the loss of blood sustained by the citizens of the United States, and by that part of the natives who remained faithful to them; and their insolence, ingratitude, and perfidy having been severely chastised; the Government of the United States, willing to spare the dispersed remnant of these miserable people, who may be sincerely disposed to atone for their former misdeeds by their future good conduct, you will be pleased, sir, to communicate to them the followingterms upon which peace will be granted to them. The United States will retain so much of the conquered territory as may appear to the Government thereof to be just indemnity for the expenses of the war, and as a retribution for the injuries sustained by its citizens and by the friendly Creek Indians. The United States will retain the right to establish military posts and trading-houses, and to make and use such roads as they may think necessary, and freely to navigate al) the rivers and watercourses in the Creek territory. The enemy must, on their parts, surrender their prophets, and such other instigators of the war, as may be designated by the Government of the United States; and they must agree to such restrictions upon their trade with foreign nations as shall be established by the Government of the United States. The hostile Indians, willing to submit to the above terms, are to come in to Fort Jackson by the northwest side of the Alabama road; or to Fort Decatur, by the federal road, on the southeast side. You will please, sir, to communicate these terms to the friendly Indians, and to enjoin on them, in the prosecution of the war, against such as may continue hostile, to abstain carefully from injuring those who maybe returning with the intention of making their submission. You may likewise inform them that the United States will not forget their fidelity; but, in the arrangements which may be made of the lands to be retained as indemnity, their claims will be respected, and such of their chiefs as have distinguished themselves by their exertions and valor in the common cause will also receive a remuneration in the ceded lands, and in such manner as the Government may direct. You will please, sir, to take such measures as you may think expedient to communicate the above terms to the hostile party, and to point out the roads whereby they may approach the posts of the United States to surrender themselves; which road you will also please to designate to the friendly party. The calamities of the w^r having reduced many of the women and children of the nation to the utmost distress, for want of subsistence, the United States will furnish provision for them at the posts to which it can be most conveniently conveyed. I have the honor to be, &c.	. To Colonel HAWKINS. 19th CONGRESS.]	
