No. 34. [2d Session SOUTHWESTERN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, DECEMBER 7, 1792. Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House of Representatives: I lay before you two letters, with their enclosures, from the Governor of the Southwestern Territory, and an extract of a letter to him from the Department of War. These, and a letter of the 9th of October last, which has been already communicated to you, from the same Department to the Governor, will show in what manner the first section of the act of the last session, which provides for calling out the militia for the repelling of Indian invasions, has been executed. Itremains to he considered, by Congress, whether, In the present situation of the United States, it be advisable or not, to pursue any further^ or other measures, than those which have been already adopted. The nature of the subject does, of itself, call for your immediate attention to it. And I must add, that, upon the result of your deliberations, the future conduct of the Executive will, on this occasion, materially depend. GEO. WASHINGTON, United States, December 7th. 1792. Governor Dloant to the Secretary of JJar. Knoxville, November 8th, 1792. Sir: I had the honor to receive your letter of the 15th August, on the 2ist of October, by a return express from Richmond, the same that conveyed my letter of the 14th of September to that place, and to receive that of the 9th of October, by Mr. Tatham, express, on the 25th of the same month, whom I have detained until this time, to convey this letter as far as Richmond. The reason why I have so long detained him is, when he arrived, and several days after, I was'so indisposed as to be confined to my room, and mostly to my bed, and until now I have not been able to write you in answer, as fully as the subject required. You request a statement of the alleged and actual causes for the violent conduct of the Indians. The letter of the Bloody Fellow to me, of the 10th September, contains all that I have ever heard alleged, a copy of which I forwarded to you, and iny letter to him of the IStli, in answer, a copy of which I also forwarded to your office, will be found. I hope, to contain a sufficient, answer to such alleged causes. The actual causes will be found in the narratives of Jo. Deraque and Richard Finnelston, already transmitted to your office, and in that of James Carey, herewith enclosed, namely, the officers administering the government of Louisiana, and their instrument, .Mr. Panton. i enclose you a return of the persons killed, w ounded, or carried into captivity, in or from this territory, since, the first day of January, 1791, by the Creeks and Chcrokees, including, under the name of the latter, those Sliawa -nese who lived in their land, that is. about thirty. The sufferings of these persons cannot be charged on the Spaniards, as very few of them have happened since Watts’return, but may be accounted for from a principle of Indian education, “that all national honors are acquired by the shedding of blood;” consequently, all w ho wish for national honors will shed the blood of white people, as Indians no longer kill Indians, as was the constant practice when the principle was established. Another reason for these depredations is, that the white people living among the Creeks and Cherokees, (the greatest of all rascals) and the hall breeds, who are numerous, ami mostly traders, encourage the Indians to steal horses from the citizens of the United States, to the end that they may purchase them. Thus encouraged, ihe Indians go into the frontier settlements in search of horses, and if they find an unarmed person, or family, fall on them ; and if they take horses and are pursued, kill in their own defence. As soon as the Indians return to the nation with the horses, those who encouraged the stealing of them become the purchasers, and shortly after, knowing the quarter from w hence they w'ere taken, carry them out ol the nation in a different direction, and sell them to a great profit. This is also a reason why so many horses are stolen; and I verily believe, not one less than five hundred have been stolen from this territory since the first day of January last, an account of which I have not yet been able to collect. And. to throw more light.upon this subject, I conceive it necessary here to add, that the want of government, both in the Creeks and Cherokees, is such, that all the chiefs in either nation can neither restrain nor punish the most worthless fellow' in it, from, nor for, a violation of the existing treaties, let the enormity of it be ever so great or evident; nor, if demanded by the United States, dare they deliver him up to lie punished. Every Indian nation is divided into families, or clans: and it is a law among them, that each clan shall protect and take satisfaction for all injuries offered to the. person of each individual of it, whatever his offences may be, except that of killing an Indian of another clan; and then, if the injured clan, or any of its members, take satisfaction, it is well, and the matter ends. The better to explain how this clanish law operates, I beg leave to trouble you with the following story: The brother of the chief now called the Bloody Fellow, had killed a white man, Cameron; the British Superintendent demanded him. and upon his being delivered, had him put to death; and, in a little time after, the Bloody Fellow put to death the fellow who delivered, or caused his brother to be delivered to Cameron. Having shown the alleged and real causes of the declaration of war. and the probable causes of the depredations committed prior to the declaration of war, I will now offer some reasons why neither may be justly charged to the encroachments on their hunting grounds. You will recollect that the Cherokee deputies who waited on you last autumn and winter, the Bloody Fellow, Nontuaka, and others, made no complaint respecting the line established by the treaty of Holston, except that they wished the ridge, which divides the Tennessee and the Little river, to be the line, in preference of a straight line, from the place where that ridge struck the Holston. Now', the settlers south of that ridge have not suffered by the Indians since the treaty of Holston, neither in person nor property, except Mr. Gallaspie, on the 12th of September, in having one son killed and another made prisoner; and that was by the Creeks; who never had a claim to a foot of land on the north side of the 'Tennessee. It is observable, that most of the depredations committed before the declaration of war, and the attack since, have been committed and made on the people of Miro district, (waters of Cumberland) by the Creeks and Cherokees. The Creeks having never had the color of claim to land on the north side of the Tennessee, it is not necessary to say any thing to show that their conduct must have been occasioned by other motives than a claim relatively to boundaries. And if the Cherokees ever had a claim, it has been extinguished by two public treaties, that of Hope-well and Holston; at the last of which, a valuable consideration was paid in hand, and since, the first annual payment has been made, and principally received by the inhabitants of the five Lower towns, who have declared war against the United States. Thus, il the Cherokees ever had a claim, it has been twice extinguished, and by two public treaties. But, by the best information I can collect, the claim of the Cherokees to the lands lying on Cumberland, is a recent thing; there are many very respectable people now living who were present at the time. Richard Henderson and Company purchased from them their claim to the lands lying on Cumberland, as well as nearly all those included within what is now the limits of Kentucky. And they told Henderson, pointedly, that they did not sell 42 * 326 INDIAN AFFAIRS. [1792. him any right, for they had none; they only sold him their claim. And a recurrence to the minutes of the late conference, near Nashville,' with the Chickasaws and Choctaws, will show that the former claimed, in strong terms, all the lands north of the Tennessee, and below the old field, where a part of their nation formerly lived, and as far eastwardly as the head waters of Elk and Duck, and to the ridge which divides the waters of Cumberland and Duck. And James Carey, the interpreter, informs me* that, upon the return of the Cherokee agents, who were at that conference, and who had a literal copy of the minutes, as reported to your office, they caused it to be read and explained to the chiefs at Estanaula, and they confessed that the Chickasaw claim was just; and it will appear by the same minutes, that the Chickasaws considered that they ceded to the United States, and not the Cherokees, the lands lying south of the ridge which divides the waters of Cumberland and Duck ri\ers, that is, the lands lying on the waters of Cumberland river. And so they did by a treaty held at Nashville, in the year 1783, by Colonels Donel-son and Martin, Commissioners from the State of Virginia, two years prior to the treaty of Hopewell, by which the Cherokees ceded them. This treaty, probably, never was reported to Congress. Thus I have shown, the Cherokees never had a well founded claim to the lands lying on Cumberland River, and if they had, that they have ceded them, by two public treaties, to the United States; and that they have once been paid for them by an individual. His haying no. right to purchase or receive the title makes nothing in their favor; they had a right to divest themselves of their title or claim, if any they had. I also enclose you an account of the number and loss of the Indians who made the attack upon Buchanan’s station, and an account of Indian depredations on the district of Miro and on the Kentucky road, from the 3d to the 14th of October, by which you will lie informed that, although I have chose to consider the five Lower Towns as the only ones engaged in the war against the United States, for reasons which, in my limited situation, appear politic, yet, that the contrary is the tact. If the reason given for the commission ot the depredations, prior to the declaration of war, be just, they seem to prove that no faith can be placed in treaties formed with such nations, and point out the necessity of establishing fortifications for the protection of the frontier inhabitants, while those causes exist; and, if the causes assigned for the declaration of war be just, they operate as additional reasons for making them so much the stronger so long as the war shall continue. Reference being had to the copy of my letter to the Little Turkey, and the other chiefs of the Cherokess, of the 4th of June, which has been forwarded to your office, it will appear, in that letter, I proposed to the Cherokee chiefs that they should appoint commissioners on their part, to. meet commissioners which I would appoint, on the part of the United States, on the second Monday in October, to extend and mark the line agreeable to the treaty of Holston; and the journal of the council at Estanaula, a copy of which is also in your office, contains an acknowledgment of the receipt of that letter. The chiefs never answered whether they would or would not send commissioners, as by me proposed, but, lest they should send them, and complain in case I did not, I appointed and sent forward, to attend at the day and place, .Judge Campbell, Charles M’Clung, and John McKee, the two latter in the place of General Smith snd Colonel Carter, who could not attend; but no commissioners on their part appeared. To these commissioners I gave instructions, a copy of which you have enclosed, and they extended end measured the line agreeably to those instructions, from Clinch to Chilhowee Mountain—distance about twenty-five miles: but they have delayed to make their report, because, with it, they wish to present an accurate map of the part of the country through which it will pass, and they have not yet been able to complete it: both of which shall be forwarded to your office by the first conveyance after I receive them; but this I can now inform you, from their works which I have seen, that that line cannot be run, agreeably, to the treaty of Holston, without leaving out several plantations on Nine-mile Creek, perhaps eight or ten, nor without striking near the month of Clinch. These settlements were all made prior to the treaty of Holston, hence I presume they will not be deemed encroachments or violations of that treaty, and I conceive cannot be so considered until the line shall be established, and these settlers shall refuse to move off ' ' ' 1 Upon the principle that war dissolves all treaties, perhaps what I have said on the subject of this line may be considered uninteresting matter; but I have thought it necessary, lest it should be suspected, from the Bloody Fellow’s letter, that encroachments had already taken place in that quarter. General Sevier, with the troops mentioned in my letter of the 27th of September, as ordered into service, is in the field, advanced about thirty-five miles southwest of Knoxville, that is, at tne mouth of Clinch, with his main force; the other parts of his brigade are detached to different parts of the frontiers of Washington district, for the protection thereof, with my orders to act on the defensive, under the limitations mentioned in your letter of the 9th of October. The advantages of the troops at the mouth of Clinch are, they will cut off all communication by water, between the Upper and Cower Cherokees: they will deter, in a greater degree, and can more easily intercept, inclusive parties from it, than any other situation; they will impress the Lower towns with apprehensions of sudden attacks by water, as well, as by horsemen: the distance by water can be passed in from forty to forty eight hours. These apprehensions wiil induce them to stay at home, to act on the defensive, or to remove their families and property to the mountains, on the approach of an army, instead of going to attack our frontiers. Troops at that place' will also give protection, in a great degree, to the travellers to the dfstric^of Miro, and they will not only awe the the Lower towns but the Upper too, in a much greater degree than they would or could from any situation on the North side ol the Tennessee—a thing truly, necessary to keep the young fellowsfroin joining generally the Lower Towns. Of three companies ordered from this district for the defence of Miro district, the greater part have marched, and the remainder are here on their way. I have not heard from that district since, the 14th of October.   - 'The Hanging Maw of Chota, four friendly fellows from Estanaula, and one from Hiwassee, arrived here on Sunday, the 4th, and will leave me to day, accompanied by James Carey, the interpreter, with an escort as far as the Tennessee, to protect them from the insults ot ignorant iinthinking'people. of which there are plenty in all countries. The principal object of their visit was to assure me of the friendship of their particular and neighboring lowns, and to beg that they should be spared, when an army should enter their nation; which, from political motives, I affected to believe, although I knew the contrary, (Hiwassee in particular had sixteen warriors with Watts) treated them well, made them some small presents, and sent them home well pleased, declaring their friendship for the United States. During their stay, I endeavored, through Carey, to collect such information as might enable me to form a decided opinion of what the Creeks and Cherokees were about' to do; but all they gave was so imperfect and contradictory, that no such opinion could be formed. However, I collected from them that Watts was on the recovery, could walk about; that attempts had been made, and were making, to collect another large party of Cherokees, which was not like to be crowned with such success as before, but that smaller parties, under Talotiskic and other chiefs, would certainly turn out for mischief; that runners hail gone to Pensacola, with the disastrous news of the repulse of Watts, and to the Creeks, to inquire when they may be expected. I have engaged James Carey, in compliance with your order of the 9th of October, to go on to the Creeks, if lie finds he dare venture, which he can only do in the disguised character of being friendly to them: in which he may sen e the United States, by entering into their councils, and by collecting information of their intentions. Was he, or any other person, to appear among them in character of a friend of the United States, lie would unquestionably be put to death. In my last, I assured you of the good conduct of the people of this territory, but an event had like to have taken place that would have compelled me to have given them a different character. On Monday night last, five Creeks, headed by young Lesley, the son of a Scotchman in the Creek nation, the same that headed the party that killed and captured Gallaspie’s son, on the 13th September, came in upon the waters of Little river, about twenty miles from this place, and stole and carried oft'reight horses; they were traced towards Chilhowee, the nearest Cherokee town. This gave reason to suspect the Chilhowee Indians of the theft: w hereupon, as many as fifty-two of the neighboring people, including the sufferers, assembled together in arms, and determined to go and destroy Chilhowee and Tallassee too, a little adjacent town, and actually did march; but General Sevier received information of their intentions, and despatched orders to them to disperse, and return home, which they obeyed; and thus the matter happily ended. This affords a proof, both of the feelings and inclinations of the people, and of their obedience to the orders of Government; but I do assure you, much as I have said jn favor of their past conduct, that I am hourly in fear that their thirst for revenge, or, what is here termed satisfaction, will lead them to.break through the bounds of good order and government, notwithstanding what can be said or done to prevent it. ' If war should be declared against the Cherokees and Creeks, or either, I conceive it essential to inform you that, in the district of Washington, in this territory, as many as live hundred horsemen, or mounted infantry, can be raised at thirty days’ notice, to perform a three months tour of duty, of the best marksmen in the world, armed with good rifles, and that, in any arrangement for a campaign, they may be counted on to a certainty. I have said thirty days, but J believe, in fifteen; but it is to be understood that, in case of counting on them to a certainty, that they are to be commanded by militia officers, and to be headed by General Sevier; and I will venture to say that, besides General Sevier, there is a sufficient number of officers in this district to command that number of men, equal, in Indian warfare, to any other.officers in America. Accounts from the Chrckasaws and Choctaws, as late as the first day of October, on which I depend, say that the Chiekasaws and Choctaws breathe the wannest spirit of friendship for the United States, and that the Choctaws, on their return home, drove Boshears, the Spanish agent, who prevented a part of that nation from coming to the  conference, from among them, and-that the Spanish Government have sent up a Frenchman to supply his place. I hope and trust the late conference has had the good effect to keep these two nations at least quiet, so that we shall not have them to contend with as well as the Creeks and Cherokees. I have the honor to he. with great respect and esteem, Your most obedient humble servant, WM. BLOUNT. Heniiy Knox, Esq. Secretary of War. Minutes of information given Governor Blount by James Carey, one of the interpreters of the United States, in the Cherokee Nation. After leaving Coyatee, on the 25th day of May, the day after the conference at that place, which promised nothing but peace and friendship, Carey proceeded, with many Indians, (among whom was John Watts) to Toqqo, distant fifteen miles, where a letter was handed to Watts, (written by Mr. Panton, a inerchant of great business of Pensacola, then in.the Cherokee nation) addressed to the Bloody Fellow, as well as Watts. Mr. Panton wrote it from the house of Mr. McDonald, a Scotchman, an old resident in the Cherokee nation, and, in the late war, a deputy under Colonel Brown, who succeeded Colonel Stewart in the superintendency of the nation; and McDonald forwarded it to Watts by an Indian runner. The contents of the letter was to invite Watts and the Bloody Fellow, m the name of Governor O’Neal, to come down to Pensacola with ten pack horses; that they should have from Governor O’Neal arms and ammunition, as many ami as much as they wanted, and that Panton himself would supply their nation with goods in.plenty. Mr. Panton, during his stay in the nation, made the house of his countryman, McDonald, his head quarters, from whence they together paid a visit to the Little Turkey, and spent several days, Mr. McDonald acting as interpreter between Mr. Panton and the Turkey. The particulars of their conversation, it is supposed, never Fully transpired; but it is said, and believed, that Panton invited the Turkey to visit Governor O’Neal; assured him that the Governor would give him arms and ammunition at Pensacola; that Mr. McDonald would accompany him in such a journey; that he (Panton) would supply the nation with goods much cheaper than they had heretofore purchased them; that the Creeks had agreed that the Spaniards might erect a fort at the Alabama fork, a mile below Mr. McGillivray's house, for the protection of the (’.reeks and Cherokees, and where arms and ammunition would he kept for them both. This Alabama fork is a place where the French once had a fort, to and from which there is water sufficient for large boats to pass up and down from thence to Mobile. Shortly after Watts received the letter that Panton addressed to him, and the Bloody Fellow, they went together to Mr. McDonald’s house, and stayed with him a day and a night. Mr. McDonald wrote a letter to Governor (TNeal, . recommending Watts, and his uncle Talteeske. in high terms: he also wrote a letter to Governor O’Neal, in the name and at the request of the Bloody Fellow; the contents were, that he hail been to see the President, where lie was well treated, but as far to seek for his lands as ever; that he was glad to hear that the Spaniards would supply his nation .with arms and ammunition, and assist in the recovery of his lands; that he had been blind a long tune, but now his eyes were open, lie would let go the hands of the United States, and take fast hold ol the Spaniards; and requested that the Governor would not permit M atts to return without plenty of arms, and ammunition, and that he himself, and the Turkey, and some other of the chiefs, would come down with Mr. McDonald, some time hence, to visit him. The Bloody Fellow then accompanied Watts to the crossing of the Coosa river, encamped with him all night, and returned; and M’atts'and his companions proceeded for Pensacola, with ten pack horses. At this time, (about the last of June) the national council were about to sit at Estanaula, by appointment made at the conference at Coyatee, at the request of the Bloody Fellow, to receive his report touching the business he had been on to Philadelphia, and to hear the big book read, which he had brought from the M’ar Office. The council waited his coming three days before business was entered upon. At length lie sent, as an apology, tliat’one of his relations was unwell, and lie could not come, lie did not appear at the council, and his absence can.be attributed only to tire letters he received from Panton: for at Coyatee he was a warm partisan for the United States, as was his friend Watts. The demand of the Little Turkey, contained in his speech, in'eouncil, of the-----day of June, “ that the ridgeu'between Cumberland and Greene river should be the line,” can he accounted fur no otherwise than from the visit of Panton. At the time the Little Turkey was delivering tins part of his speech, the Jobber’s Son, sitting at a distance, observed to those around him, in a low accent, that it was now too late to talk of that line, for they had established a different one at the treaty of Holston: to which the Young Frog replied, “ that is nothing; then we had nobody to back us; now we have, and can get to that line;” meaning, as Carey now supposes, the Spaniards. Immediately after the return ol John Watts and his uncle, from Pensacola to Willstown, in the latter part of August, the brother of the late Dragging Canoe, the same that the council at Estanaula declared should succeed to his brother’s honors and command, came to Estanaula after the war pipe which he had brought from Detroit, and left at the house of the Old Prince, while the Old Prince was at Philadelphia; which pipe the Old Prince and the King Fisher, on their return from Philadelphia, destroyed: and, being informed of the fate of the war pipe, declared, if the King Fisher was present, lie' would destroy the medal that had been given him at Philadelphia; that, in future, his talks should be considered as a little boy’s, and not as the talks of a man and a warrior. He then requested the Warrior’s Son, the Standing Turkey, and the Half Breed, to go to a pipemaker, who lived abou t twenty miles from Estanaula, and have a pipe made, as near like that which was destroyed as possible, that he might have it to show to the Northwards, whom lie daily expected at the Lower town's. About an hour after this conversation had passed, he took the three before-mentioned Indians and the Big Fellow out from the company, and delivered them a talk from Watts; that they must attend at Willstown in eight nights; to pay no more attention to the talks of the old chiefs; that they were not to assist the old chiefs in the restitution of horses, or any other property, taken from the United States; that the day was just at hand when the blow was to be struck; that, Watts had been to Pensacola, seen Governor O’Neal, and all things were to his wishes; that the.thing would be fully explained to their satisfaction on their arrival at "Willstown, and delivered them a string of black heads of four strands. This they agreed to, and made Carey acquainted with what had been said to them. The next day after this conversation, Mr. Shaw presented this fellow, the Dragging Canoe’s brother, sometimes called the White Owl’s Son, with a scarlet match coat laced, a ruffled shirt, a handkerchief, and some feathers, and a medal. He accepted of all except the medal, offering for apology for not accepting that, that he could not. unless it was offered to him at some public meeting. He then proceeded to tell Mr. Shaw and Carev what valuable presents had been given to him last winter, by the British at Detroit, for the use of himself and his brother, the Dragging Canoe, namely, a pair of large and a pair of small arm bands for each, three gorgets for his brother and-four tor himself, a pair of scarlet hoots and flaps, bound with ribbon, for each; four match coats, a blanket, and two shirts for each, anil powder and lead, as much as lie wanted, for himself and‘three other Cherokees who were with * 328 INDIAN AFFAIRS. [1792. 7 V «/ y him. He added, that himself and the three other Cherokees, with their powder and lead, went into the battle against General St. Clair, and one of them was killed; and that he himself killed an officer in that battle. . ’ This fellow went from the Running Water, with his three companions, to Detroit, with letters written by Mr. McDonald, and a man of the name of Willbanks, commonly called Captain Willbank, in his early days an apprentice to Rivington of New York, afterwards a refugee tory,and came into the Creek nation with Bowles, from thence passed on to the Running Water, and there lived many months with the Dragging Canoe, wearing the British uniform, and assuming to himself the title of British  agent. lie never left the Dragging Canoe’s until just before the treaty of Hoiston, and is now among the Lower Creeks. The Cherokees assembled, from every quarter of the nation, at Willstovvn, to hear Watts’ report from Pensacola, and to the green corn dance, which was at the same time to be held there. . ' _ Watts commenced his report by causing a letter, which Governor O’Neal had written by him to the chiefs, to be publicly read. The contents were, that his master, the King of Spain, had sent to his care, at Pensacola, arms and ammunition in abundance for the use of the four Southern nations, which he had divided into four separate warehouses; that Watts had been an eye witness of the Quantity he had of powder, and lead, and arms; that he had sent some by Watts for the Cherokees; that the Kiiig of Spain had made a greater man of M’Gillivray than Congress did; that it was his business to deliver out these articles; that he would be at Pensacola by the middle of October, when, if the whole of the towns would come down, they should be supplied, each town with from four to'five hundred pounds of powder, and more if necessary, and lead accordingly, and with arms; and, that he would have plenty of provisions provided for their support while with him; and recommended Mr. M’Donald arid Alexander Campbell, their old triends, to their particular notice and protection. The letter being read, Watts then informed what Governor O’Neal had said to him. The Governor, he said, received him with open arms; asked him if he had seen any Spanish settlers before he arrived at Pensacola; assured him that the Spaniards never wanted a back country; wherever they had landed, they sat down; even such a sandbank as this is sufficient for them; they are not like the Americans, first take your land, then treat with you, and give you little or nothing for it; this is the way they have always served you, and, from time to time, killed some of .your people. In the late war with Great Britain and the United States, the Spaniards assisted them, and lent the'm money, and they owe the Spaniards a great deal, and instead of paying them what they owe, they take our lands, as well as yours. That the King, his master, had sent in powder, lead, and arms, for the whole four Southern nations, in plenty; and that then was the time for them to join quickly in war against the United .States, while they were engaged in a war with the Northern tribes; if they did not, that as soon as they (the United States)- conqnered the Northern tribes, they would be upon them, and cut them oil'; that the talks which that part of the nation who had been to visit the President had received, was not from the heart, but only from the teeth; that, besides guns and ammunition, they should be furnished with swords, caps, pistols, bridles, and saddles, for horsemen; that the King of Spain had ordered a fort to be built at the Alabama fork, within a mile of M’Gillivray’s house, to which the Creeks had agreed, where there would always be a magazine of arms and ammunition for both Creeks and Cherokees; and that a magazine should be erected for the Cherokees at Willstown. Watts having thus recapitulated the talks he received from Governor O’Neal, proceeded to address hisaudience. That his people had been to several places, to Hopewell, to Swannano, to Holston, and to Philadelphia, and he had heard all their reports, but none pleased him like what he had heard and seen at Pensacola. Here Finnelson’s narrative takes up the proceedings at Willstown, which Carey confirms, as far as he knows, and contradicts no part. The fourth day after Watts’ party determined to desist from going to war at the Look-out Mountain, (say the’ 14th September) Carey received three runners from the Bloody Fellow, the Breath, and the Glass, informing him that his breath had been almost gone on account of a report that he had given information to Governor Blount, that they had determined for war; but as He was raised in the land, they would look over it for that time, and in future he must quit looking towards or giving any intelligence to the Americans; for their parts, they had let go their hands, and they expected he would do the same; that they had written to Governor Blount, anti informed him, that .the Lower towns had given out the notion of war; but what they wrote was not their intentions; they only meant to deceive him until such time as they and their warriors could go down to Pensacola to Governor (PNeal and receive their arms and ammunition, and get their crops from the ground, and hid; that they expected to see Mr. M’Gillivray at Pensacola, and requested Carey to go with them, and he should there receive a better office than he held under the United States. 'About this time, (14th September) arrived at Estanaula, the Boot or Chulcoah, the particular friend of the Little Turkey, from the Turkey’s town, saying, his business was to wait there for letters Irom Governor Blount; when the letters arrived, he stayed himself, and forwarded them to the Turkey and John Thompson; he stayed three weeks, and at length it appeared that his real business at Estanaula was to induce, by his art and address, the young warriors of that quarter ot the nation to join in sending beads, talks, and their numbers, by the Turkey and himself, to Governor O’Neal, to procure ammunition and arms for them. _ - . When he was about to leave Estanaula, he came to Carey and requested him to deliver the following message to Governor Blount; that he had been in Estanaula to try to keep peace and friendship in (hat quarter ot the nation; that he was so engaged in the service of the United States that lie could not hunt; that lie hoped the Governor would send him something for his support. _ After closing this message, he informed Carey that the Turkey and himself had been invited to Pensacola by Mr. Panton, along with Mr. M’Donald; that Mr. Panton had assured the Turkey that he should be cured at his expense of an indisposition of which he complained, by a doctor at Pensacola, and if any other Indians were sick, they also should be cured, in case they would come down. , ■ . . Prior to the departure of the Boot from Estanaula, a runner came to him from the Turkey, who said to him, in the Turkey’s name, “ What keeps you? Mr. M’Donald is about to set out for Pensacola, and ifyou don’t come along, we must leave you.” It is Mr. Carey’s opinion, that the true object of the Turkey and the Boot in going to Pensacola is to get every thing they can, as well for themselves as for their quarter of the nation, not intending war against the United States; but it is to be feared that having arms and ammunition in plenty, and being so nearly connected with a number who are engaged in the war, that they must, with their parties, be also drawn in to take a part. About twelve days after receiving the message from the Bloody Fellow, the Glass, and the Breath, Carey met with the former, who inquired the news from Governor Blount, and being informed, he said it was very well. Carey then asked him what was the reason that the Lower towns wished to go to war against the United States? His /answer was, when he came from the President and left Governor Blount, at Coyatee, what was going on was little expected by him; Panton being up in the nation, and giving such encouragement, and-Watts going down and bringing up such good reports, and ammunition, it was impossible to keep.'the young warriors from going to war. Carey then asked him, why the blow was not struck when so many were assembled at. Willstown and the Look-out Mountain town? He answered, that himself and the other chiefs had prevailed on them not to strike at that time, but to stay until their crops could be got oft' the ground and hid out, and until himself, the Breath, and Glass, with their parties, could visit Governor O’Neal, and bring up a larger supply of ammunition and arms; he said he had written Governor Blount that they had desisted from war, but it was only a make haste, from the teeth outwards, to deceive him, until they could make ready. The Bloody Fellow then asked Careyif he had received the message, as before recited by the runners? Carey answered yes; he then asked Car'ev what he in tended to do; was he going to Pensacola? For his part he was going, and he expected Carey would go, and take with him six pack-horses or eight, to assist up with the ammunition. Carey agreed to go, and asked if pack-horses were scarce with him. He answered he should take down, for his own part, and use, two, and if he got more than they could bring, himself and wife could walk up, and pack their riding horses. He then desired Carey to go home, collect and hobble his horses, that when he was ready, he would give Carey notice, and then Carey would have nothing to do but to set out and meet him at the Creek village on nis way. He then begged Carey not to communicate his determinations to Governor Blount, or I I any other person, “but let us go to Pensacola together, and see what is to be done there; and if things are as ! expect, you will get better business than you are now in.” . Mr. Carey confesses, that while all this business was in agitation, and to the time of his leaving the nation, he did not express his disapprobation of the measures, and on some occasions expressed his approbation; he found such conduct necessary, not only for the preservation of his person and property, but essential to the discovering the true objects and intentions of the Indians, which he conceived would the better enable him to serve the United States, under whose appointment he acted; and that, being considered as a party, he was better able by advice, by raising difficulties, &c. to counteract schemes, than if he had openly dectareil his sentiments. It admits of no doubt but the talks of the Bloody Fellow, as reported by Finnelson, were well understood by Watts and his party, and that the only objection he had to war with the United States, was the time. Immediately on the return of Watts to Willstown, he despatched four runuers to the Northward Indians, to inform them of his new determination. From the best information Carey has been able to collect, he supposes there were about thirty Cherokees in the action against General St. Clair, from different parts of the nation, not confined to the Lower towns. Mr. C arey says, that, with respect to the Creeks, to his knowledge two of the Lower Creeks were at the taking of Gallaspte’s son. one of the Broken Arrow. and the other of the Coweta towns, the other six were of the Upper Creeks, and that the chief who commanded the Creeks at the attack on Buchanan’s station, on the 30th September, was Talotiskee of the Broken Arrow, the great friend of Bowles. It has been concluded among the Creeks that the young warriors, with a few of the chiefs, should go down to Pensacola to receive arms and ammunition, and the others should go to Seagrove, at the Rock Landing, and give good talks, and obtain all the presents they could, until the nation was quite ready for war. This information given by the brother of Chinnabie the great Natchez, warrior. The eight Creeks who took Gallaspie’s son, boasted, at Carey’s house, that the Creeks did all they could to provoke the United States to war with them; that they killed and scalped men, women, and children; that they took them prisoners, and made them slaves like negroes; that they debauched their women, that they took their property, and that they had done it for many years, yet they could not make them mad: “ What else can we do to provoke them? Shall we take some man and bouger him, and send him back to tell his people, and try if that will not rouse them to war?” Carey, after being some days with Governor Blount,at Knoxville, was sent by him toChotaand the Hanging Maw’s, tocollect further information; at Chota lie met with three young fellows, just returned from Cumberland Mountain, but he could collect little or no information from themselves; but a friend informed him they had been with Talo-tiskee; Carey went then'down (o Coyatee, where he met with five other young warriors, with whom he entered into a confidential conversation, which lasted upwards of an hour; they informed him that they, with the three lie had seen at Chota, and many others, had been out for war, with Talotiskee, * that they had waylaid .the Kentucky road until six travellers appeared, of whom they killed one; they then turned off that road to the Cumberland road, and met with four fellows who had been with Watts in his repulse at Buchanan’s station, who gave them the particulars, upon which Talotiskee cried bitterly, then rose, and requested his men to divide into small parties to hunt, and kill three or four deer each, go home, get a fresh supply of provisions, and meet him at the Short mountain, equipped for war, for vengeance he would have for Watts. Four of these five fellows, live in Chilhowee, one of whom hail the scalp of the man they had killed, and holding it up asked, “ don’t you think it pretty hair?” and another his jackcoat. The other fellow was of Coosawatchee. It remains yet to be added, that Talotiskee blacked himself, and raised the war-whoop at Pensacola, and declared himself for war against the United States. J AMES CAREY. Knoxville! November 3d, 1792. Note.—Chota lies on the south bank of the Tennessee, 25 miles distant from Knoxville. Chilhowee on the south bank of the Tennessee, six miles above Chota, distant 30 miles from Knoxville. To the information contained in this narrative I pay full faith and credit. WM. BLOUNT. A RETURN of persons killed, wounded, and taken prisoners, from Miro District, since the 1st of January, 1791. NO. NAMES.  t TIM E WHEN PLACE WHERE. BY WHOM, WITH REMARKS THEREON i Richard Withs killed - I 16 Jan’y Papon’s creek 0 Lloyd Hynniman do 1 February At a sugar camp, near Bledsoe’s Lick. 3 Cornelius Keinden I wounded do Near Bledsoe’s Lick 4 Capt. Cuffey, negro man killed - 20 March On his master’s planta-  tion, Stode river 5 Charles Hickman do 1 April Surveying on the wa-   Creeks. ters of Duck 6 George Wilson -   do 25 May On the great road, near Station-camp creek ■ Smith’s Fork T John Nickerson - do 27 do 8  Thompson - do 2 June Near Nashville 9 John Gibson tio 14 do .Mayfield’sStation, near Creeks. Nashville 10 Benj. Heykanol do 29 do In his own vaid. near Creeks. Bledsoe's Lick 11 Thomas Fletcher do 12  Harry - do   do Near the mouth of Red river 13  Harry -    By the Cherokees. before they knew 14   Robert Jones do 18 July Maj. \\ ilson's. Smiles from Sumner courthouse Cumberland mountain. of the treaty. 15 John White do 15 do j on the new trace 16 Joseph Dickson - do 31 do At his own house, near Croft’s mills 17 George French do 1 August I ’ The Talotisk ee who commanded the party on the Kentucky road, is a signer to the treaty of Holston, the same who Was at Pensacola. RETURN-—Continued. NO. NAMES. T1 ME WHEN PLACE WHERE. B Y WHOM, WITH REMARKS THEREON. 18  Grantham - killed - 5 Novem At the mouth of Red f river y the Northwards. 19 20 -   do Decemb’r Cumberland river, in Conrad’s salt boat "uckalateague, or Double Head, a Cherokee, and his party. wounded   Do. , 22 ■ John Rice - killed - Jan’y 7, 1792 Near the mouth of Red river, in Cumberland do. Do. 23 John Curtis - do do  Do. 24    Sevier - ' - do do . do. Del. 25  Sevier - do do do. , Do. 26  Sevier - do do   (Io. Do. 27  Boyd -  Thompson - do 14 Jan.   Clarkesville Do. 28  do \ 25 Feb. ' 4 miles from Nashville, on his own plantation J reeks. 29  Thompson -  Thompson - do do do.   Do. 30  . do do do. Do. 31 Elsey Thompson -P’r CufTey’s wife & child prisoner ; do do. Do. 32  do do do. Do. 33 34 35 36 37 4 boys killed -do 6 March Brown’s Station, four miles from Nashville . Do. Samuel McMurray do 25 do Ploughing at Buchanan’s Station 38 - do do Near the mouth of Red river Tuckalateague. 39 John Purviance - do 7 May Dr. Donnell’s., near Sumner court liouse By the Cherokee^, Running Water. 401 41 c 42 j Benj. Williams, wife ? and child ' C do | 8 do | At his own house ^ Do. 43 5 Negro woman and child > . ~) do | ? With the Cherokees, at the Running 44 j  prison rs >  ' . 5 Water. 45 A woman killed, 12 do Company’s Station, n’r' Nashville 46 A boy - wounded 25 do Near JudgeM’Nairey’s 47 General Robertson do 24 do On his own plantation 48 Jonathan Robertson do do do. 49 James Everite killed - 8 June Gowen’s place 50  Parks - do 22 do Sycamore By Creeks, Shawanese, and 'Chero 51 Michael Shaver - do 26 do Zeigler’s Station 52 Archibald Wilson do do do. kees. The Shawanese and Chero 53 Mary, a negro do ■ do do. kees live at the Running Water 54  . do. do do . do. and killed, wounded, and captur 55 Joel Ellis - wounded do do. ed as far as number 72. 56 Thomas Keefe do do * do. 57 Galniel Black do (io do.1 58 Joseph Wilson do do do. Supposed to be burnt in his house. 59 Jacob Zeigler missing do . do.   - 60 Mary Zeigler prisoner do do. Purchased by her friends from th 61 Elizabeth Zeigler do do do. Shawanese warrior, lor 58 dollar 62 Hannah Zeigler - do do do. \ each. 63 Sarah "Wilson do do do. 64 Moses Wilson do 26 June do. Little Owl, a Cherokee chief. 65 Zacheus Wilson - , - do do do. 66 Sarah Wilson do do do. A prisoner with the.Creeks. 67 Eleanor Wilson - do do do. Purchased for 58 dollars, by he friends, from the Creeks. 68 Mary Wilson do do do. 69 Montilion Wilson do do do. With the Creeks. 70 Molly Jones do do do. 71 Eader, a negro - * - do do N’r the DrippingSprinj By the Creeks. 72 Isaac Pennington killed - 15 July 73  Milligan do do do. Do. 74  McFarland - wounded do do. Do. 75 Unknown - killed - July On Cumberland river 76 Ditto - do do Near-Clarksville 77 "William Clack - do 16 May In company with Judge Campbell, returning from court 78 John Barclay, Jr. do 31 July In his father’s peach orchard,.near Bledsoe’s Lick 79 John Barclay, Sr. wounded do In his own peach orchard Chickasaw Trace 80 Miss Collinsworth prisoner Fcbruarj 17, 1792.  Now in Nickajack, with the Chero kees. 81 John Collinsworth killed - do do. By the Cherokees, the Glass presen '82 Mrs. Collinsworth do (io do. Do. v 85 A man - - - do do do. Do. 84 Mrs. Paskley capt’d an afterward killed d do § Big Barren Cherokees, Running "Water. THE SOUTHWESTERN TRIBES. 331 RETURN—Continued. NO. NAMES. * time when PLACE WHERE. RV WHOM, WITH REMARKS THEREON 85 Mrs. Paskley’s child - killed - February Big Barren Cherokees, Running Water. 86 Mr. Alins do do do. Do. 87 His son, about 12 prisoner do do. Redeemed by his friends for $58. 88 A pregnant woman do July Unknown By and with the Creeks. 89 A boy 12 years old do do do. Do. 90 Dr. White’s negro boy - do February Near Nashville By and with the Cherokees. 91 Oliver Williams - wounded do On the Cumberland trace Creeks. 92 Jason Thompson - do do do. Do. 93 Elizabeth Norris - killed - 6 August Sulphur Fork - Do. 94 Shaderick Williams do 6 Sept. Near Cotterel’s Do. 95 William Stewart do 8 October Near Nashville Do. 96 Jonathan Gee do 30 Sept. Taylor's Trace Bv Watts’ party of Cherokees. 97  Clayton do do do. Creeks and Shawanese. WASHINGTON DISTRICT. . 1 Mrs. McDowell - killed - 23 Aug. o 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Francis Pendleton Reuben Pendleton Mrs. Pendleton -A boy eight years old Mrs. Fans -Mrs. Livingston -Her child Mrs. Faris - Nancy Faris do wounded prisoners do killed -do , <1° wounded and died prisoner do do do do 2G do do do j do do Near Moccason Gap, By the Bench, who lias attached him Cliuch mountain self to the Shawanese. do do do (lo do do do . . do * do 11 Mrs. Ratcliff 12 13 14 15 16'17 18 19 20 21 22 Her child Her child Her child A Boy A Boy -----Gallaspie -----Gallaspie James Paul -George Moss Robert Sharpe John Shanklin T killed - 1 do do do (io do . do I - pris'iierj - killed - do do wounded 5 April Stanly's valley. Haw- 1792. kins' county .do do do do. do do 16 May Knox co. n’r Knoxville do do 12 Sept X Knox co. south side ^ X of Holston 3 3 Oct Black's block house do do do do do do Creeks. Creeks and Cherokees. From the best accounts, the Indians w ho attacked Buchanan's station on the 30th September, 1792, appeared to have been. Creeks, from 400 to 500: Cherokees. 200; Shawanese, from 30 to 40; of whom, three were killed, and seven wounded. The former were, Tunbridge’s step-son, left on the ground; the Shawanese warrior, dragged off; a Creek chief, dragged off. The latter were, John \\ atts, with a ball through one thigh, and lodged in the other, supposed dangerous, hut now on recovery; Unacata, or White Man-killer, supposed dangerous, but now on the recovery; the Dragging Canoe’s Brother, (alias) the White. Owl’s Son, supposed mortal, the same who wras at Detroit: a young warrior of the Look out, supposed mortal; a young warrior of the Running Water, on the recovery; a Creek warrior, since dead; a young warrior of the Running Water, since dead. Of the signers of the treaty of Holston, besides Watts, there was Middle Striker, and the Otter Lifter. This Unacata mentioned above, among the wounded, left Pensacola the day Watts arrived there, and making very little halt at his ow n house, came on with his wife to this place, and stayed with me ten days immediately preceding the time he set out with Watts for war, ate and drank constantly at my table, was treated in the kindest manner, and made the strongest professions of friendship during his stay, and at his departure. His visit had not even the color of business, nor could it be extracted from Rim w hat he had seen or heard at Pensacola. It would seein as if lie had come as a spy. It also appears that there were sundry young warriors of the Cherokees along with Walts, besides those who live in the five IMver towns, particularly John Walker and John Fields, two young half breeds, who have been raised among and by the white people, in whom eveiy body who knew' them had the utmost confidence. The former is <|uitc a stripling, and apparently the most innocent, good natured youth I ever saw. They were both .at the treaty of Holston, and have been repeatedly here since. They acted as the advance, or spies to Watts’ party, and killed Gee and Clayton. The Cherokees say the Creeks have long been boasting that they were men and warriors, but that they proved to be great cowards, ami that most of them kept such a distance from the station, that they could hardly shoot a ball to it. Watts is called Colonel Watts since bis return from Pensacola. Knoxville, November 5th, 1792. More particular information of the warriors of the. Cherokees who were with I Cot Is, besides those of the JjOwer towns, namely: From Higlnvassee, 16; Kuilici, 1; Cannasauga, 5; Springstons, L Highwasse’e lies on the river of that name, forty miles south of Chota, and eighty miles above the Lower towns. . . WM. BLOUNT. Jhiuccomuof Indian depredations in the district of Mho, and on the Kentucky road, from the 3d lo the 14th of October, 1792. Wednesday, October 3<A—A party of Indians fired seven guns on James McRay, on the north side of Cumberland. About the same time, Benjamin Jocelin. on the south side of Cumberland, bad about twenty guns discharged at, him. Neither were wounded. Sunday, October the 7th.—A Mr. Irvine was shot through the thigh on a road about six miles south of Nashville. The same day, about two miles from the above place, Thomas Thompson was fired at, but received no injury. Monday, October the 8th.—William Stewart was killed about six miles from Nashville, on the north side of Cumberland. The same night the Indians burnt Stump’s distillery, on White’s creek, on the north side of Cumberland, in which were five stills. Tuesday, October the 9lh.—A party of Indians went to Sycamore creek, 18 miles from Nashville, and burnt the houses of James Frazier, Riley, and Major Corfield, destroying a quantity of valuable household furniture, a large quantity of corn, and shot down a number of hogs. They then proceeded to Bushy creek, of Red river, where they burnt the house of Obadiah Roberts, and took off a number of horses. They were followed by a party of men, who killed one of the Indians, and regained the horses. The same day, they took four liorses from Major Ramsay, of Tennessee county. Friday, October the 12th.—The Indians fired at a Mr. Suggs, on White’s creek, on the north side of Cumberland, and took from him ten valuable horses. Sunday, October the 14th.—The Indians shot at John Cotton, on Station Camp; seven balls passed through his clothes, none of which touched his skin. ' _   « . The same day, they fired on Francis Armstrong, at his plantation, four miles south of Nashville. 'On Saturday, the Glh of October.—A company of travellers, on their way from Kentucky, were fired on in the wilderness: one man was killed, and one said to be mortally wounded. The party who attacked this company, consisted of fifty warriors, and were headed by the noted Cherokee chief Talotiskie, a signer to the treaty of Holston. He raised them general ly from the Upper towns, and some of them from near the borders of South Carolina. ,For fur-: ther particulars respecting him and his party, see the latter part of Carey’s narrative. Governor Blount's letter of instructions of the 7th of October, to David Campbell, Charles McClung, and John McKee, Commissioners, <$*c. Knoxville, October 7th, 1792. Gentlemen: By the enclosed extract of my letter of the 4th of June last, to the Little Turkey, and the other chiefs of the Cherokees, you will be informed that to-morrow is the day that I proposed to them to meet the commissioners on the part of the United States at Major Craig’s, on Nine-mile creek, in order to extend the line between the said nation and the United States, as stipulated by the treaty made and concluded between the said nation and the United States, on the second day of July, 1791, a copy of which you have herewith. You have also enclosed,-an extract of a letter from the Secretary of War to me, of the 22d of April last, to which you will please attend, as your instructions, in case commissioners on the part of the Indians should appear, and proceed to running the line. But, in case none do appear, you will please examine where the ridge which divides the waters running into the Tennessee, from those running into Little river, strikes the Holston, and extend the line from thence to Clinch, and again, from that ridge to the Chilhowee mountain, paying strict attention to the treaty, and report your proceedings to me. I am aware that the Five Lower towns of the Cherokees have declared war against the United States, and that war dissolves all treaties. Nevertheless, 1 think it essential that so much of the fine should be examined and reported upon, that it may appear whether there are any citizens of the United States residing on the Indian lands or not. > I have the honor to be, your most obedient humble servant. David Campbell, Charles McClung, John McKee. Governor Blount to the Secretary of I Cur. . . / Knoxville, November the 12th, 1792. Sir: This morning, fifteen Indians surrounded the house of a Mr. Bryan, within eight miles of this place, in which was another man besides himself. They broke down a window with their hatchets, and pointed in their guns, but were repulsed with the loss of one killed, and another wounded, without injuring any person in the house. 1 have the honor to be, &c. Of the contingencies of the War Department for the year 1793. In estimating the expenses of any given corps of troops in a stationary situation, or upon a peace establishment, every probable demand maybe foreseen,- specified, and calculated. But, in estimating the expenses of an army in the time of war, designed for offensive operations, the case is materially otherwise: for, after all the stated and probable expenses are estimated, there ought to be an allowance either to make up for short estimates of the several heads of, supplies, or to serve as a fund to defray moderate losses by casualties. All active armies are liable to the loss of provisions, the means of transportation, ammunition, clothing, &c. by numerous accidents attending a state of war. But, in the case contemplated in the estimates, the chance of such accidents is greatly increased by the subtilty and activity of the enemy, and our ignorance of the wilderness in which the troops may operate. _ - It has generally been considered as wise to appropriate a sum for casualties, to be applied to the public service in case of necessity. If no such case occurs, no expendi ture will take place, and, of course, the money will remain in the treasury. But if no contingent fund be appropriated, the operations of an tinny may be arrested at a critical moment, and the army lost, or the public service greatly injured, for the want of means which might be acquired if authority and provision existed lor the purpose. But futurity being inscrutable to the limited faculties of man, he is unable to ascertain the form or value of demands which have not, and which never may have, any existence. All that can possibly be done in the present case, is to exhibit the expenses of the late campaigns, and thence to infer the sum which may be judged proper to appropriate for the contingencies of the future, the strength and time of service of the relative armies being duly considered. It will appear, by paper No. 1, that the claims for allowance, and the accounts actually settled, at the treasury, for the loss of horses in the expedition under General Harmar, amount to seventeen thousand eight hundred and sixty-four dollars and two cents, for w hich sum an appropriation w'as contemplated by the act of the eleventh day of February, 1791, embracing one hundred thousand dollars for the said expedition. The estimates presented for the services of 1791 were embraced by two appropriations. The first of the eleventh day of February, 1791, for fifteen thousand three hundred and six dollars, including the sum of ten thousand three hundred and six dollars for the (Quartermaster’s Department. The other, of the third day ol March, 1791, for twenty-five thousand dollars, amounting in all for the said year to forty thousand three hundred and six dollars. The stores and other property lost in the defeat of the fourth of November, 1791, as stated in the paper No. 2, amount to thirty-two thousand eight hundred and ten dollars and seventy-five cents. ]n addition to these losses, it appears by paper No. 3, that the contractors have a claim at the treasury for provisions and horses, amounting to fifty-tour thousand six hundred and thirteen dollars and thirty-five cents, of which, perhaps, the sum of ten thousand dollars may he estimated for contingencies, the articles having fallen into the hands of the enemy. Whether the sum will exceed or fall short of the allowance which shall he made, will depend upon the proofs which shall be produced at the treasury. The other contingent expenses for the year 1791, are contained in paper No. 4, amounting to nine thousand six hundred and twenty-one dollars and twenty cents. The total expenditures made, and allowances claimed, under the head of contingencies for the year 1791, will probably amount to fifty-two thousand four hundred and thirty-one dollars and ninety-five cents. The estimates for the services of the year 1792, also specified two sums for the contingencies of the War Department. The first, of twenty thousand dollars, was authorized by the act which passed the twenty-third day of December, 1791, entitled ‘‘An act for making appropriations for the support of Government for the year 1792.''The other sum, of thirty thousand dollars, was authorized by the act which passed the second day of May, 1792, entitled “ An act for raising a further sum of money for the protection of the frontiers, and for other purposes therein mentioned,” both sums amounting to fifty thousand dollars. The expenses already, under this head, are contained in paper No. 5, amounting to ten thousand two hundred and twenty-nine dollars and nine cents. It is to be observed that the fund appropriated to the Indian Department having been exhausted by goods given, and payments made, to the Creeks, the Cherokees, the Choctaws, and Chickasaws, and also to the Six Nations, that, in addition to the above sum, expended in the year 1792, as contingencies, twenty-four thousand seven hundred and seven dollars and ninety-eight cents has been applied to the Indian Department. The expenses of the. Indian Department are, at this critical period, as difficult to be previously calculated as those of the army, excepting the stipulated sums to the Creeks, Cherokees, and Six Nations, and to the agents employed to the several tubes. Besides the said expenditures, the contractors of the present year lost, about the 5th of October last, one hundred horses, said to be captured by the Indians. I f they prove this, they will be entitled to an allowance, by the terms of their contract. Hence it will appear that the sum of fifty thousand dollars, requested to be appropriated for Ihe year 1793, is not inordinate. For the sums which shrill be expended, vouchers will be required in the usual manner of other accounts, excepting always the sums which may be expended by the Commanding General for secret services, in which it would be prejudicial to the public interests to disclose names. Hut this sum is not large, and his reputation stands pledged to the public for its just appropriation. II. KNOX. Secretary of I Jar. War Department, December 1st. 1792. * I 2nd Congress.] 
