NO. 174 TREATY WITH THE CREEKS. [COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 26, 1821. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, January 26,1821. I lay before the Senate, for their consideration and advice as to a ratification, a treaty concluded between the United States and the Creek nation of Indians. JAMES MONROE. TREATY WITH THE CREEKS. Articles of a treaty entered into at the Indian Spring, in the Creek nation, by Daniel M. Forney, of the State of North Carolina, and David Meriwether, of the State of Georgia, specially appointed for that purpose, on the part of the United States, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Creek nation, in council assembled. ARTICLE 1. The chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Creek nation, in behalf of the said nation, do, by these presents, cede to the United States all that tract or^ parcel of land situate, lying, and being east of the following bounds and limits, viz: Beginning on the east bank of Flint river, where Jackson’s line crosses; running thence up The same amount on hand at this date. the eastern bank of the same, along the water’s edge, to the head of the principal western branch; from thence, the nearest and a direct line to the Chatahoochee river; up the eastern bank of the said river, along the water’s edge, to the Shallow Ford, where the present boundary line between the State of Georgia and the Creek nation touches the said river: Provided, however, That if the said line should strike the Chatahoochee river below the Creek village Buzzard-roost, there shall be a setoff made, so as to leave the said village one mile within the Creek nation; excepting and reserving to the Creek nation the title and possession, in the manner and form specified, to all the land hereafter excepted, viz: one thousand acres to be laid off in a square so as to include the Indian spring in the centre thereof; as also six hundred and forty acres on the western bank of the Oakmulgee river, so as to include the improvements at present in the possession of the Indian chief General McIntosh. ART. 2. It is hereby stipulated, by the contracting parties, that the title and possession of the following tracts of land shall continue in the Creek nation, so long as the present occupants shall remain in the personal possession thereof, viz: one mile square, each, to include, as near as may be, in the centre thereof, the improvements of Michey Barnard, James Barnard, Buckey Barnard, Cussena Barnard, and Efauemathlaw, on the east side of Flint river; which reservations shall constitute a part of the cession made by the first article, so soon as they shall be abandoned by the present occupants. ART. 3. It is hereby stipulated by the contracting parties, that, so long as the United States continue the Creek agency at its present situation on Flint river, the land included within the following boundary, viz: beginning on the east bank of Flint river, at the mouth of the Boggy branch, and running out, at right angles from the river, one mile and a half; thence up, and parallel with the river, three miles; thence, parallel with the first line, to the river; and thence, down the river, to the place of beginning, shall be reserved to the Creek nation for the use of the United States agency, and shall constitute a part of the cession made by the first article whenever the agency shall be removed. ART. 4. It is" hereby stipulated and agreed, on the part of the United States, as a consideration for the land ceded by the Creek nation by the first article, that there shall be paid to the Creek nation, by the United States, ten thousand dollars in hand, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged; forty thousand dollars as soon as practicable after the ratification of this convention; five thousand dollars, annually, for two years thereafter; sixteen thousand dollars, annually, for five years thereafter; and ten thousand dollars, annually, for six years thereafter; making, in the whole, fourteen payments in fourteen successive years, without interest, in money or goods and implements of husbandry, at the option of the Creek nation, seasonably signified, from time to time, through the agent of the United States residing with the said nation, to the Department of War. And, as a further consideration for said cessinn, the United States do hereby agree to pay to the State of Georgia whatever balance may be found due by the Creek nation to the citizens of the said State, whenever the same shall be ascertained, in conformity with the reference made by the commissioners of Georgia, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Creek nation, to be paid in five annual instalments, without interest, provided the same shall not exceed the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars; the commissioners of Georgia' executing to the Creek nation a full and final relinquishment of all the claims of the citizens of Georgia against the Creek nation, for property taken er destroyed prior to the act of Congress of one thousand eight hundred and two, regulating the intercourse with the Indian tribes. ART. 5. The President of the United States shall cause the line to be run from the head of Flint river to the Chatahoochee river, and the reservations made to the Creek nation, to be laid off in the manner specified in the first, second, and third articles of this treaty, at such time and in such manner as he may deem proper, giving timely notice to the Creek nation; and this convention shall be obligatory on the contracting parties as soon as the same shall have been ratified by the Government of the United States. Done at the Indian Spring, this eighth day of January, A. D. eighteen hundred and twenty-one. D. M. FORNEY, D. MERIWETHER [Signed, also, by the headmen, chiefs, and warriors of the Creek nation.] GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, August 8, 1820. I enclose you a commission to treat with the Creek Indians, and the sum nf $30,000 has been appropriated to defray the expense of the treaty with them and the Cherokees; but, frem a belief that this sum would not be adequate to treat with success with both nations, it has been determined, after consulting the delegation from Georgia, to make the first efforts with the former nation; and to expend, should it be found necessary to success, the whole sum appropriated in treating with them. You will, therefore, consider that amount as subject to your control in your treaty with the Creeks, taking care so to make your arrangements that the whole amount spent in the negotiation (including the expenses of your commission, issues of provisions to the Indians under your orders, presents to them, and such preliminary expenses as the agent may be authorized to incur,) shall not exceed $30,000. The principal articles of expense will probably be the issue of provisions to the Indians while treating with them, as it is usual for the greater part of the nation to assemble on such occasions. The probable amount of provision which will be required, and the price at which it can be obtained, can be ascertained by a correspondence with the agent, General D. B. Mitchell, who has been instructed to obey your orders on all points connected with the proposed treaty, and to take such steps as he may judge best calculated to prepare them for it. The enclosed circular will be complied with in contracting for the provisions, and in issuing them; to which, as there has, in some instances, been great irregularity, I particularly call your attention. On consulting with the members from Georgia, I am of the impression that a cession from the Creeks of the northern portion of their territory, so as to admit of a white population between them and the Cherokees, would be preferred, which you will accordingly first propose and urge on them. Io the event of their agreeing to such a proposition, it may be proper to observe that there is some uncertainty as to the true line between the Creeks and the Cherokees; and that, after investigating the subject two years ago in the presence of a delegation from both nations, it is believed that the claims ef the Creeks do not justly extend north of a line drawn due west from the high shoal of the Appalachee. Should they refuse the cession proposed, it would be next most desirable to obtain a cession to extend from the northern limits of the Creek territory, south, along the line between Georgia and the Creek. Indians, to be extended as far south and west as can be obtained. The sum to be stipulated for any cession which may be made must be left very much to your sound discretion, taking into consideration rhe extent and quality of the country to be coded; but, rather than the treaty should fail, the price ought to be liberal. In no event, however, ought a price to be given which, on comparison with that usually given for Indian cessions, might be considered extravagant. The price given for the last cession, made in a treaty held by the present agent on the 22d of January, 1818, is considered (taking into calculation the extent of country acquired and the quality of soil) as very high, and ought not to form a precedent to be followed on the present 32 E occasion. An annuity for a term of years would be preferred to a permanent one; or, if an exchange of territory for lands beyond the Mississippi can be agreed on, it would be preferred to an annuity in any shape. Commissioners have been appointed by the State of Georgia to claim property of the citizens of that State, under the provisions of the treaties of New York and Coleraine. You will correspond with them, and inform them of the time and place of holding the proposed treaty. You will render them every aid which may tend to effect the object of their commission. For the expense of negotiating the treaty, you will draw on the United States Branch Bank at Savannah; of which you will give the Department information. The bank will be authorized by the Treasury Department to accept your drafts, provided they do not exceed $30,000. Your compensation will be at the rate of eight dollars'per diem for the time actually engaged, and the secretary to the commissioners (whom you are authorized to appoint) at the rate of five dollars per diem for the time actually engaged. The payment will be made on your certificate of honor, specifying the time that you have been actually engaged. You will also certify the time that the secretary may be actually engaged. Your certificate, in like manner, will be a necessary voucher for the presents distributed under your authority. The treaty, when made, will be forwarded to this Department. I have, &c.	J. C. CALHOUN. Colonel ANDREW PICKENS, ) „	■ . „	, m	> Commissioners. General THOMAS FLOURNOY, J	4 SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, October 19, 1820. I have laid your letter of the 13th instant before the President, and I am directed by him to say that he regrets much that any difference of opinion should exist between you and the commissioners on the part of the State of Georgia, which might, in its consequences, endanger the successful termination of the contemplated treaty. The treaty contemplated to be held with the Creek Indians being at the request of that State, and intended for her benefit, it is desirable that the treaty should be conducted in a manner which may be perfectly satisfactory to her; and, for that purpose, as well as to insure success, the intercourse between the commissioners of the United States and hers should be of the freest character. You will, accordingly, co-operate with them in the fullest manner, in promoting, to the extent of your powers, the interests and views of the State, consistently with the instructions you have received from this Department. Yet,there can be no doubt that the commissioners on the part of the United States have alone the power to conclude and sign the treaty. The State commissioners cannot, without holding a commission also from the United States, have any such power; and the Governor of Georgia will, through the proper Department, be accordingly so informed; which I hope may remove the difficulty between you and the commissioners, as I infer from your letter that is the sole difficulty. But it is proper to observe, that, by a letter from the Governor of Georgia, enclosing a copy of one from you to General Adams, which has been received at the State Department, it would seem that the sole difficulty was not the one which 1 have inferred from your letter. I do not understand from Governor Clark’s letter that he insists on the right of the commissioners of Georgia to conclude and sign the treaty, but that he is of an opinion that you are not disposed to co-operate with their commissioners to the extent that he was led to believe, from his correspondence with the Executive Government here, that you would be instructed to do, and which, regarding the successful termination of the treaty, he thinks you ought. It is probable that he has received his impression from that portion of your letter to General Adams of the 7th September, in which you decline to furnish him with certain details which he requested. Not having a copy of General Adams’s letter to you, I can form no opinion as to the propriety of his inquiries; but I cannot think there can be the least impropriety in communicating freely with them on all points, in order to a full co-operation. Their character, and the commission which they hold, are a full guarantee that the confidence reposed in them will not be betrayed; but, on the contrary, a full and reciprocal confidence may contribute much to the successful negotiation of a treaty in which the State has so deep an interest. In order to apprize Governor Clark of the views of the Government in this business, extracts of that part of this letter, and of the original instructions to you, which relate to a co-operation with the commissioners of Georgia, will be communicated to him through the State Department. Colonel Pickens, by his letter of the 11th September, has transmitted his resignation, which has been accepted, and the honorable D. M. Forney of Lincolnton, North Carolina, has been appointed in his place, who is instructed to correspond with you on all points connected with the proposed negotiation. I am not sufficiently acquainted with the localities of the country beyond the Mississippi to which the Indian title has been extinguished to designate a particular tract to be offered to the Creek Indians in exchange for theirs, should they be inclined to make an exchange. But, in that event, a tract may be offered to them on the Quapaw cession, to be laid off any where upon it (the farther to the south and west the better) that the deputies whom the Creek nation may send out to explore the country may choose; provided the tract chosen does not interfere with any previous grants, or with the Quapaw reservation. The United States to furnish an agent to accompany the deputies in exploring the country. The enclosed extract from the treaty with the Quapaw nation designates the boundaries of the cession, which may be easily traced upon Mellish’s map, and also those of the reservation above mentioned. In relation to the transfer of funds, I cannot conveniently comply with your request, as the Treasury Department has no funds in Augusta; but the commercial intercourse between that place and Savannah is believed to be so intimate, as to render the difference of exchange between the two places so unimportant that you will experience little or no inconvenience from it. I have the honor to be, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. To Gen. THOMAS FLOURNOY, Commissioner, fyc. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, October 19, 1820. I have the honor to inform you that the President of the United States has appointed you a commissioner, in conjunction with General Thomas Flournoy, of Augusta, Georgia, to negotiate a treaty with the Creek nation of Indians. Your commission will be forwarded to you as soon as it is prepared. I enclose, for your information, a copy of my instructions to the commissioners. General Flournoy has been informed of your appointment, and that you would be requested to correspond with him upon all points connected with the negotiation.	. I have the honor to be, &c. Hon. DANIEL M. FORNEY, Commissioner, &c.	J. C. CALHOUN. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, November 21, 1820. I am instructed by the President to inform you that General Thomas Flournoy having resigned his commission to treat with the Creek Indians, he has appointed General David Meriwether to act in his place as one of the commissioners of the United States; and I herewith enclose his instructions, which I will thank you to forward without delay. It is hoped and believed that his appointment will entirely remove the difficulty which had occurred between General Flournoy and the commissioners from Georgia, and that the negotiation will be conducted with perfect harmony between the commissioners of the United States and those of Georgia. The President deems it in some degree incompatible that General Meriwether should act in the double capacity of commissioner on the part of the State and the United States, and has appointed him in the confidence that he will resign his former appointment; to which it is hoped there will be no difficulty. He will be informed of the views of the President on that point. Should he decline to act, it is feared that there would be great embarrassment, as the time appointed for liolding the treaty is too near at hand to make another appointment. Major Forney, of North Carolina, is joined to the commission with General Meriwether. I have, &c. JOHN C. CALHOUN. His Excellency' Governor CLARK, Milledgeville, Georgia. SIR:	DEPARTMENT or WAR, November 21, 1820. I have received your letter of the 4th instant, and have laid it before the President for his direction in relation to it. In conformity with the determination which you expressed in your letter, the President has directed that your resignation should be accepted; and General Meriwether has been appointed as a commissioner in your place. The President regrets that you should have taken such a view of your instructions of the 8th of August and 19th of October as to induce you to tender your resignation. When the former instructions were given, the difficulty which has since taken place between the commissioners of the United States and those of the State of Georgia was not anticipated. The latter instructions grew out of that difficulty, which it was their object to remove. They were intended to be in addition to the former, being more full, and containing some particulars which they did not; but it was not thought that they contradicted them in any essential point. They had the same common object, so to conduct the negotiation as to give satisfaction to the State of Georgia. In fact, as the negotiation was commenced wholly for the benefit of that State, the President was solicitous to conduct it in perfect harmony with its local authority. He was of the opinion that a full and free intercourse would best promote the object; retaining, however, exclusively to our commissioners the right of making and signing the treaty. I have, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. General THOMAS FLOURNOY, Augusta, Georgia.	. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, November 22, 1820. The President of the United States has nominated you to the Senate as a commissioner to treat with the Creek Indians; and, in selecting you for this purpose, he has indulged the expectation that you would resign the appointment of commissioner of the State of Georgia, as he considers it incompatible with that of commissioner of the United States, which he hopes you will accept; for, should you decline it, there would be great embarrassment, as the time fixed for holding the treaty is so near that another commissioner could not be named in time to act. So soon as the Senate confirms the nomination, a commission will be forthwith transmitted to you; and, in the mean time, I send herewith copies of my letters to General Flournoy, which you will consider as your instructions to guide you in holding the treaty.	. The honorable Daniel Forney, of North Carolina, has been appointed a commissioner to act with you, and has been instructed to confer with you on the subject. I enclose, also, a regulation for the government of the issue of provisions to the Indians, which I request may be exactly observed. General Flournoy had, previous to declining to act on the commission, given orders to General Mitchell, Creek agent, to make a contract for the necessary supply of rations, and to request the Indians to meet the commissioners on the 20th of next month at the Indian Spring, (near Monticello.) General Mitchell will be informed of your appointment, and will be instructed to communicate with you on the subject of the supplies, and the time and place of holding the treaty. I have the honor &c. General DAVID MERIWETHER, Athens, Georgia.	J. C. CALHOUN. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, November 23, 1820. Since writing my letter to you of yesterday, informing you of your appointment by the President as a commissioner to treat with the Creek Indians, I find that a treaty has been concluded with the Choctaw nation, which renders it necessary to modify my instructions to General Flournoy, so far as they relate to an exchange of territory. I enclose an extract from the treaty with the Choctaw nation, by which you will see the tract of country which has been ceded to the Choctaws on the Quapaw reservation, in exchange for theirs, which might be chosen by the Creek nation; and you will consider the instructions as modified accordingly. I have, tkc. J. C. CALHOUN. General DAVID MERIWETHER, Commissioner, <ÿc., Athens, Georgia. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 23, 1820. Your letter of the 7th instant is received. The measures which you have taken preparatory to the negotiation are entirely satisfactory; and it is hoped your colleague will meet you at the time specified for holding the treaty, and that it will be speedily terminated to the satisfaction of all the parties concerned. I regret to state that, on examination, it is found that the order was omitted to be given by the Treasury Department on the Branch Bank of the United States at Savannah, as was arranged with that Department, and communicated to the commissioners on the 8th August last; but it is hoped that no inconvenience will result from the delay. Thirty thousand dollars have this day been forwarded to the cashier of the Branch Bank at Savannah, for which the commissioners are accountable. Your drafts on him will be good on the receipt of this letter, should he not have accepted the draft of six thousand dollars, contrary to your reasonable expectation. I have, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. D. MERIWETHER, Esq. Commissioner, .ÿc., Milledgeville, Georgia. Copy of a talk delivered by the United States commissioners. FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: General Meriwether and myself have been directed by-your father the President to meet you here, to shake you by the hand, and renew to yon the assurances of his friendship and protection. Friends and brothers: The people of Georgia have complained to your father the President that you have not done them justice; that you have not given up the property which your people took from them, and which you promised to restore by the treaties which you have made with him at New York and Coleraine. Friends and brothers: Your- father the President is very sorry to hear of any difference between his white and his red children; he loves them both, and wishes them to love each other, and has sent us to hear what each has to say. The Governor of Georgia has sent commissioners to talk with you on the subject, and your father the President wishes you to listen to them. Your father the President wishes you to do justice to all his children, and has instructed us to endeavor to settle the differences between his children, like friends and brothers. Brothers: Listen to the talk of your brothers from Georgia: think on it, and make your answer; when this is done, we will tell you what further business your father the President has directed us to lay before you. Copy of a talk delivered by the Georgia commissioners to the Creek Indians. BROTHERS.1	INDIAN SPRING, December 27, 1820. Our headman, the Governor of Georgia, under the authority of our father the President, has sent myself, General Adams, and General Newman to meet you here, to draw closer the bonds of friendship which our father the President hopes will always exist between his white and red children. Brothers: In order that the chain of friendship may remain bright between the white and red people, it is necessary that they should do justice to each other. This the white people are always willing to do, and expect to meet the same friendly disposition amongst the red people, their brethren. Brothers: Long before our father the President made a treaty with you, the headmen of Georgia and your nation talked together and agreed to bury all differences, and to have perpetual friendship. We wish these agreements to be fully and fairly complied with on the part of the red people, as they have been, and will be, on the part of the white people. Brothers: Your headmen and warriors, at a treaty held at Augusta, a long while ago, then at a place called Galphinton, then at Shouldcrbone, then at New York, then at Coleraine, promised to restore all the property which had been taken from us by your people, and to make good the damage they had done us. Brothers: Your friend the Governor of Georgia has now sent us here to lay this business before you, and to listen to what you have to say on the subject. The white people wish to be friends to the red people, and hope that, as guod men, on both sides, they can agree upon what is right. Copy of a talk delivered by the Georgia commissioners to the Creek chiefs. BROTHERS:	DECEMBER 28, 1820. We now, agreeably to our promise of yesterday, lay before you a statement of the claims of the people of Georgia against your nation. These claims you have promised to adjust and settle, in all the several treaties which were mentioned to you yesterday. This business has remained so long unsettled, that an adjustment of it now is necessary for the preservation of friendship between the white and red people. Look at the accounts; they are proved according to the laws of our country, and we wish to hear what you have Io say about them. The President of the United States and the Governor of Georgia expect the red people to do justice to the white people. They ask no more. Copy of the answer of the chiefs to the talk of the Georgia commissioners, delivered by General McIntosh. He said he was glad to hear of the friendly disposition of the commissioners on the part of the State of Georgia; that he feels the same friendly disposition himself, and will now proceed to answer them. He then observed that two commissioners, on the part of the President of the. United States, had delivered him the talk of the President; and he hoped the commissioners of Georgia and himself would be able to settle amicably all the differences between them. That he did not know he was called here to answer for the claims of the State of Georgia until he heard the talk of the State commissioners on yesterday; that he had luoked over the statement of claims exhibited by the commissioners of the State; that many items in the account he knew nothing about; that, thirty years ago, after General McGilvery held the treaty of New York, on his return to the nation, he informed the people that he bad promised to deliver up all the prisoners and negroes of the whites then in the nation, but they were not to be liable for any that were dead or removed, and nothing was said about any other claims; that, shortly after the treaty of New York, another was held at Coleraine, before which some of’the white and black prisoners were collected, principally from the Upper Towns, and delivered to Major Seagrove, then the United States agent. At the treaty of Coleraine, a similar account with that now exhibited was presented by General James Jackson, and the chiefs then refused to acknowledge it, except so far as the items therein contained were embraced in the provisions of the treaty of New York, in which no other property is promised to be restored than negroes and prisoners. At the treaty of Coleraine they agreed to restore the stolen property in the nation. That, in conformity with the treaty of New York, they have collected and delivered to Colonel Hawkins a number of the negroes alluded to; that Colonel Hawkins, in all his talks, reminded them of the provisions of the treaty of New York, but never brought forward such a claim as the present one, nor did he insist for any compensation for damage done before the treaty of New York; that Colonel Hawkins once informed them that he had an account, in favor of the people of Georgia, against the nation; that he never laid it before the nation, but said he had sent it to the President of the United States. These things all passed before he was a chief; since that, he has himself collected some and delivered them up. During the late war, the British collected many of the negroes of the nation, and carried them off, but left some of them in a fort, with a large quantity of arms and ammunition, and many of the negroes of the country joined them; he took his warriors and joined the American army under Colonel Clinch, attacked the fort and blew it up; many of the negroes were destroyed in it; those which remained were taken and delivered to Colonel Clinch, for their owners. Some of the negroes yet remained in Florida among the Seminoles. He joined General Jackson’s army, went down and took some of them, which were reported to the United States agent, and some of them delivered. Some of them remained there yet. If the President admits that country to belong to the Creek nation, he will take his warriors, go down, and brifig all he can get, and deliver them up. He. thinks the Creeks have complied with the treaties of New York and Coleraine. If, however, any of the negroes remain in the nation, he will hunt them out and deliver them up, or pay for them. On looking over the account, he finds many trifling things which he did not expect would be presented. The Indians have also many claims against the white people. He does not think this is the right way to settle them, but is willing to refer all the claims, on both sides, to his father and protector the President of the United States. He observes that no credit is given upon the accounts exhibited for the property which has been returned. When all the claims are exhibited and examined, he does not think there will be much difference between the Georgians and the Creeks. He will not say there is no property in the nation belonging to the Georgians, but he does not know of any; if there is any, he is willing to restore it, or pay its value. This is all he has to say. If two friends, one owe to the other, even individuals, they should not be too hasty in calling for pay, when the debtor is unable to pay. He is willing to pay whatever is just. Copy of a talk delivered by the Georgia commissioners to the Creek Indians. BROTHERS:	.	DECEMBER 29, 1820. We have heard your talk of yesterday, and considered it over. The friendly disposition which it shows leaves little doubt but that the friendship which is so necessary to the prosperity of the white and red people may be long preserved by a mutual disposition to do justice. We are, however, sorry to find that you do not consider yourselves bound to restore to us the property as well as the negroes taken or destroyed by your nation before the treaty of New York. Brothers: We are sorry and surprised to hear that you were not fully informed of the object of this meeting. It has been so long known, that we had no doubt but you were fully informed as to the business which we had with you. Brothers: We, your friends, want nothing but what is right; but that we must insist upon. You were bound to restore all property taken from us, even by the common rules of justice, if you had not agreed to do so by treaty; but, in the treaty of Augusta, thirty-seven years ago, you agreed to restore “ all negroes, horses, cattle, or other property, taken since the late war.” By the treaty of Galphinton, thirty-five years ago, you agreed to restore “all the negroes, horses, or other property, that might be among you, belonging to any citizen of this State.” In the treaty of Shoulderbone, thirty-four years ago, you made the same’promise, in nearly the same words; and none of these promises have been fulfilled with good faith. By the treaty of New York,you promised to restore “all the negroes then in the nation, belonging to the Georgians, to the commanding officer at the Rock Landing;” and that has not been done. But even that treaty, although it mentioned nothing but negroes, could not discharge you from the obligations you were under to restore “ all property” in the previous treaties. By the treaty of Coleraine you entered into the same obligation, and renewed the same promises, which you made at Augusta, Shoulderbone, and Galphinton. Brothers: Knowing that some bad men live on our frontiers, who are disposed to do mischief, we are not surprised to hear that you have claims against the white people which have not been exhibited. We, too, have claims which have not been exhibited to you, but which we have always intended to exhibit, when a proper mode should be agreed on by which these respective claims should be adjusted. These claims have not been brought against you during the time of your troubles; but the people of Georgia have waited so long now to have these things settled, that a speedy adjustment is absolutely necessary. Brothers: We know or have heard of very few negroes having been returned or paid for, except runaways; whilst a number, which have been plundered, and have otherwise got into your nation, never have been accounted for. This state of things has already existed too long. As to the negroes which have been carried away by the British, or have been destroyed in any manner, during the late war, we consider you responsible for such of them as belonged to the people of Georgia. If they had remained here, they would have been safe; and it was your act, and not ours, which carried them to the scene of war; and our headman, the Governor of Georgia, has directed us to insist, according to the laws of our country, upon the restoration of, or payment for, the increase of all such negroes belonging to the people of Georgia as have increased, and an adequate reward fur the use of such negroes and property as may not have increased. Brothers: As to the negroes now remaining among the Seminoles, belonging to the white people, we consider those people (the Seminoles) a part of the Creek nation; and we look to the chiefsof the Creek nation to cause the people there, as well as the people of the Upper Towns, to do justice. Brothers: We know that a final adjustment of these things is extremely difficult; and, for the purpose Of avoiding all causes of animosity between us, who are neighbors and friends, we agree to your proposition to submit all our claims on both sides to our common father, the President, whose decision we will conform to on our part, and hope there may never more be any cause for difference between us. Brothers: It only now remains for us to repeat that we assent to the mode proposed by you for settling these differences; and, accordingly, will now presentan agreement to be entered into between us, which will put an end, we hope, to all discontents. Copy of a later from D. M. Forney and D. Meriwether, enclosing a treaty with the Creeks, concluded on the 8th of January, 1821; also, talks in relation thereto. SIR:	INDIAN SPRING, CP.EEK NATION, January 9, 1821. We have the honor, herewith, to enclose a treaty with the Creek nation of Indians. In conformity with our instructions, we proposed to them a cession of country adjoining the Cherokee boundary, but found it impracticable to obtain such a cession at this time.	• As an inducement to a cession, we also proposed an exchange of territory; but were informed that they were rather disposed to remain where they now are, and gradually turn their attention to husbandry, than cross the Mississippi in search of game; that they had made a law, by which those who abandoned their country, in the pursuit of game, were deprived of all their rights in the Creek nation; but that, in the event of any town or towns wishing to cross the Mississippi, the nation would be willing to give up their lands to the United States for lands there. With regard to the cession now made, so far as the wishes of the people of Georgia were to influence our conduct, (for whose benefit we were instructed this treaty was to be held,) we must believe that no tract of country, of equal extent, within the Indian boundary, is as fertile or as desirable as the one now ceded. The only difficulty that has presented itself to our minds in the execution of this business is the sum stipulated for the cession. We have endeavored to make this as easy as possible for the Government, by the extension of the time of payment. The quantity of land embraced in the cession, by the most accurate calculations we have been able to make, falls but little, if any, short of 5,000,000 of acres; for which you will perceive, by the treaty, we have engaged the Government to pay $450,000. But it is necessary to state that the sum of $250,000, set apart as a fund for the payment in full of the claims of the citizens of Georgia against the Creek nation of Indians, must be considered more in the light of a nominal sum than an actual debt; for, from the partial investigation we have given this subject, we cannot believe these claims, on a fair settlement, will exceed $100,000; and if they should be restricted to the stipulations of the treaties of New York and Coleraine, for which the Indians contend, the amount will be much lessened. Upon this point we forbear to express an opinion, as, under the articles of reference, which accompany this, it is left with the President to decide upon matters touching these claims, in such manner, and under such rules, regulations, and restrictions, as he may prescribe. To enable you to judge more correctly on this subject, we enclose the substance of the communications between the commissioners of Georgia and the Indian chiefs; and, for more particular information, we beg leave to refer you to General Mitchell, the agent, in whose possession the Indians will deposite a copy of a schedule containing nearly the whole of these claims, collected and embodied under an act of the Legislature of Georgia. But, independent of this consideration, we believe the whole amount would only be a fair and reasonable consideration for the cession. The annuities were arranged so as to meet the wishes of the nation, communicated to us through the agent, General Mitchell. In order, in some measure, to comply with the expectations of the chiefs, which had been improperly and unreasonably excited, we found ourselves compelled to make a payment in hand, or to swell another item in the account of expenditures, which, to us, was extremely odious and objectionable.- We have been considerably embarrassed in negotiating this treaty, by the claims of the citizens of Georgia, and conflicting instructions, emanating, as was pretended, from the same source. But, however unpleasant this may have been to us, it will afford us great pleasure to have been able to accomplish the views of the Government. Owing to the inclemency of the weather, and other causes, there have been but few Indians attending the treaty, and the issues during the whole period have not exceeded 1,600 rations. General Meriwether, in compliance with a previous prumise of General Flournoy, advanced $3,000 to the contractor. The issues having fallen so far short of what was contemplated in the contract, the contractor thinks an allowance should be made him for losses sustained on the provisions purchased. Not feeling ourselves warranted in making him the allowance he wished, we forward you his receipt for $3,000, and have left the account open. Enclosed also is an account of all expenditures. It would be doing injustice to our own feelings to close this communication without acknowledging the great obligations we are under to the agent for his promptness in affording ns every assistance, to the extent of his influence, in bringing this negotiation to a successful termination. Very respectfully, &c.	D. M. FORNEY, D. MERIWETHER. Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. CONGRESS.] 
