No. 114. [2d Session. THE DELAWARES. COMMUNICATED TO T11E HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. DECEMBER 26, 1606. To the Senate and House of Representatives in Congress,1 the memorial and petition of Montgomery Montour, respectfully sheiveth: That lie is one of the Delaware nation, who resides on White Woman's creek, near Sandusky, in the State of Ohio, and son of the late Captain Montour, who served the United States faithfully during the Revolutionary war. That his nation, who anciently resided in the lower parts of Pennsylvania, gradually moved back to make room for the white people, until they settled down in their present situation; that, after a war with other Indians,about the land they have long occupied, they came to be peaceably possessed of it by a treaty, made long since with the ' other Indians. That, however, it appears, by a late treaty made by, and between the United States and the Delawares, Pattawatimies, Miamies, &c. that the Delawares had relinquished their claims to the said tract, and guarantied the same to the United States. This treaty is ratified by the President. April 24, 1806; and another treaty of purchase appears to have been negotiated by William H. Harrison, with the Delawares and other Indians, on the 21st of August, 1805, and ratified on the same day as the former. Both treaties appear to have been signed by one or more chiefs of the Delaware nation, but your memorialist asserts, from his own knowledge, and undertakes to prove, that the chiefs of his nation, whose names are affixed to the said treaties, were not present, but at a great distance. when these treaties were negotiated and signed, and that, therefore, the commissioner of the United States must have been some how or other imposed upon, with respect to these Delaware chiefs. He also asserts, that they claim, and always have, claimed, the complete right of soil, as secured to their fathers by treaty with the other Indians; but that, even admitting that they only claimed the use and occupancy of the soil, as long as they thought proper to occupy it, it appears reasonable that they should have had some compensation for relinquishing that right, with their extensive fields of clear land, houses, See. but no such compensation is mentioned in the treaty. Your memorialist believes, that, by the laws and usages of the unite people, so long undisturbed possession, residence, and improvements, would be sufficient to confirm a title; your memorialist, in behalf of the Delawares, long settled on White ’Woman’s creek, does not wish nor propose to enter into a controversy with the United States, as he has perfect confidence in their justice and sympathy. The Delawares, formerly a numerous and powerful nation, are reduced, as near as your petitioner can recollect, to forty-seven, or at most to fifty men, some of whom have very numerous families of children, some more than twenty and some of them more yet; but he thinks they may on an average have from three to four or five each; they have always lived nearest the white people, and still earnestly wish to do so. They reside at present in two towns, about ten miles apart. The lowest town contains much the greatest number of inhabitants, and amount of clear land, and at this town they are all willing to reside. Your petitioner, therefore, prays the honorable Congress to direct a survey of land, including the lower town, and its improvements, to be secured to the present inhabitants of the two towns and their heirs, lie is the more anxious to obtain this, as his people have no other land to go to; and. should they be obliged to go to the Missouri, to settle among strange and warlike tribes, the remains of their already exhausted nation would be cut off, or lose what advances they have already made in the arts and manners of the white people. Your petitioner is the more confident of the seasonable attention of Congress, as, he believes, he asks nothing but what the white people would think reasonable to be granted to them, if they were in the same situation in which the remains of his nation now are. He assures Congress that his people love the white people, and wish to be settled near them, and even round about them; they earnestly wish to learn agriculture and other improvements of life and manners,from the white people: in short, as soon as convenient, to become willingly one people with them. Your petitioner, in behalf of his people, would prefer a nalural boundary to be run by Kill buck, or otherwise Apple creek, as this would prevent disputes between them and the neighboring Indians, and secure to the United States much the best land. And if Congress are pleased to do so, the petitioners will guaranty the remainder, free of all compensation, to the United States, and relinquish the perpetual annuities already engaged by the United States; he begs leave further to observe, that the chiefs of his nation take it very hard that their their names affixed to a treaty, in their absence, and without their consent, premises, your petitioner, as in duty bound, will pray. was sold, ami Hoping for a favorable attention to the MONTGOMERY MONTOUR. Sir: War Department, January 8, 1807. In reply to yours of the 2d instant, covering the petition of Montgomery Montour, I must remark that, previous to the information given by the petitioner since his arrival at this place, it was not known by the Executive that the Delaware Indians pretended to nave any claim on the lands now petitioned for; and that, in the instructions given to the commissioner, who presided at the treaty, by which said lands were ceded to the United States, the Delawares were not contemplated as having any claim. Why the names of any Delawares were introduced among the signatures to said treaty, we have not been informed. That the two detached villages of Delawares have any claim to said lands, rests, merely, on the declaration of the petitioner; but, as the inhabitants of those, two villages are presumed to be destitute of any lands, which they have a right to cultivate, or on which to continue, their situation appears to call for some friendly aid; and Congress will decide whether grants of land, for the use of said villages, as long as the individuals, respectively, and their descendants, may continue thereon, will, under existing circumstances, be reasonable and expedient. A grant, on the foregoing principle, of such a tract, for each village, as would include their improvements, and afford to each family one hundred acres, would probably render general satisfaction. The petition is herewith returned. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, H. DEARBORN. Honorable John Boyle, Chairman, fyc. 10th Congress.] 
