No. 24. [1st Session. CHEROKEES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 18, 1792. Gentlemen of the Senate: I lay before you the communications of a deputation from the Cherokee nation of Indians, now in this city, (Philadelphia) and I request your advice whether an additional article shall be made to the Cherokee treaty, to the following effect, to wit: That the sum to be paid annually by the United States to the Cherokee nation of Indians, in consideration of the relinquishment of lands, as stated in the treaty made with them on the second day of July. 1791, shall be one thousand five hundred dollars, instead of one thousand dollars, mentioned in the said treaty. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, January 18, 1792. On the 20th January, it was Resolved, Two-thirds of the Senators present concurring, that they advise and consent to the additional article in the form above proposed. The following Cherokee, chiefs and warriors arrived at Philadelphia on the 28th of December, 1791, by the way of Charleston, South Carolina, bringing with them evidence from Governor Pinckney and General Pickens, of the authenticity of their mission, to wit: Nenetooyah, or Bloody Fellow, CncTLoii, or King Fisher, Noxtuaka, or the Northward, Teesteke, or the Disturber. Kt thagusta, or the Prince. George Miller, and James Carey, Interpreter. Having been clothed, they were, on the -4th of January. 1792. introduced to the President of the United States, who desired them to communicate their business to the Secretary of War. They were assembled for this purpose, at his house, on the tilth, when the Secretary of War addressed them in the following manner—(Colonel Thomas Procter and Constant Freeman, being present, besides James Caret', and a young Indian warrior named George Miller, who jointly acted as interpreters.) Chiefs and Warriors of the Cherokee nation: As you arc now recovered from the fatigues of your long journey and voyage, we will proceed to business. But before you mention the objects of your journey, it is proper that I should inform you, that the President of the United States gives you a hearty welcome to this city. He has commanded me to assure you, that your arrival makes him glad; that he will kindly hear every tiling you have to say: and he hopes that you will open your hearts fully, and conceal nothing from him, as it is his desire that the white and red people should become one people, and live’togther like brothers, on the same land. Speak, therefore, without reserve: for you speak to your real friends. Thursday, January 5th. Conference of the Chiefs of the Cherokee nation with the Secretary of War. Bloody Fellow.—I am come a long journey, by the direction of my whole nation, and others our neighbors, to take the President of the United States and yourself by the arm. But I am not prepared at present, to make a full communication of my business. One of the councillors is sick, and left behind. I cannot, therefore, before the next day after the morrow, Saturday, make you acquainted with my particular business. It was the wish of my nation, when J left it. that all speeches, both on their part, and the answers thereto by the President of the United States or yourself, should be committed to writing and transmitted to them. I will explain myself fully, agreeably to the desire of my nation, and I hope so full}' to your and their satisfaction. that an everlasting white cloud will be over them. [The Bloody Fellow then presented the Secretary of War with two silver medals. These medals were presented by Colonel Martin, about four or five years ago, but as some disturbances have since happened, they are now returned, to obtain others from the United States. Medals are valuable to the Chero-kees, ami when accompanied with speeches, are monuments of friendship to their nation. As the Bloody Fellow and the other chiefs had [nothing more to communicate on this day, it was agreed that they should again meet at the house of the Secretary of War. at 11 o'clock on Saturday morning.] Saturday, 7th January. Bloody Fellow.—On Thursday last. 1 was not prepared to enter upon business, as one of the chiefs was then sick. 1 am now desirous of entering upon business. About two ye’ars ago, Nonluaka was chosen by his nation to go to New York, to the great beloved man, at the great white house. When he was there, he had not a good interpreter, and not well understanding the English language, he could not receive so much advantage from his journey as his nation expected. When he returned, the .whole nation was assembled, and were disposed to enter upon the business of peace between them and the United States. I shall now enter upon the busines in behalf of my own and other nations. [The Bloody Fellow then produced a string of white wampum, which he held in his hand until the business of the day was finished. ] I wish you. if you are not already, to be made acquainted with the use and value of these beads, which, among the Cherokees, answer the same purpose as letters with yon, and are held in the highest estimation. George Miller, one of our own people, has been brought to attend this treaty, both as a witness, and that he might assist the interpreter in explaining our talks, as he understands the English language. It was early in the summer, soon after the treaty with Governor Blount, that the whole Cherokee nation eas assembled, and we delegated on this treaty. The whole nation were assembled at the great beloved town, Estan-aloee, (on the waters of the. Mobile) when it was agreed on to send an embassy to Philadelphia, to see the President of the United States and yourself. The talks to Nontuaka, delivered by the President and you, are now in the beloved town. Estanaloee, and these talks have induced us to come to this place. In these talks, you informed us, that, as North Carolina had not joined the Union, our business could not be attended to. But, as that State has since joined, we hope our business may be now accomplished. Before I left my nation, it was determined that a stop should be put to the further effusion of blood, and that they should take the United States by the arm with a warm heart. The talk which I am now delivering to you, is the talk of the beloved men of my nation, with a desire that their children might grow up on the land in peace, and this is the talk ol our beloved men. Among us, we have two kings to look up to, but you have only one; who, we hope, will extend his eye over all, both red and white. We have put ourselves under the protection of the United States, and from them only do we expect justice, and we wish to become as one people. We wish our talks may be attended to, and we have that justice which is the portion of all. We remember the talks of our forefathers, who told us of the first coming of the white people over the great waters; that they were few in number, and settled on the lands of the red people; they have now become so numerous as to be able to overpower them: but we still expect we shall have justice done us. Last summer we received talks from Governor Blount, informing us that he w-as authorized toliold a treaty with us; we accordingly repaired to the place appointed. When we left our country, we all rejoiced in the. expectation of having something done for us in regard to our lands, but when we arrived at the treaty ground, we were sorry to find it was hot the case. Very soon after we opened our business, Governor Blount informed us that he was authorized by Congress, to purchase our lands of us, which being contrary to our expectations, afflicted us exceedingly. When I found Governor Blount wanted to purchase our lands, 1 told him that I loved my lands, and would not part with them; that I came there not to treat of selling land, but on public business of friendship between the white and red people. I tell you truly what I said to Governor Blount, and I am come to ask of you whether he was authorized to purchase our lands. We remained seven days at the place of treaty on this business, and Governor Blount still urging us'to sell our lands, the thoughts of which made tears to come into my eyes daily. _ On the seventh day, finding Governor Blount still urging the sale of lands, I told him I was desirous of going to General Washington and Congress, to see whether I could notobtain better satisfaction; to which Governor Blount replied, that he was fully authorized for the purpose, therefore, it would be unnecessary for any Indians to go. I however persevered in my wishes to go to Philadelphia; when Governor Blount asked me whether I had money to defray the expenses of my journey; this struck me forcibly, and reflecting that our people, young and old, were in his power, I then told him that, if he would not demand so much land of us, we would give him a small piece, without any consideration whatever, if he would let us and our children-return to our own country in peace and safety. _ ■ In answer to this. Governor Blount told me he had goods in his house to pay for the lands, besides which, one thousand dollars should be paid yearly. I told him that I would not think of taking it; that it would not buy a breech clout for each of my nation. When the treaty was first fully opened, Governor Blount asked of us lands at the Muscle Shoals; I told him that we could not give them up, as they were not clearly our property, but belonged to the four nations, and were the common hunting grounds for them. Governor Blount told me that he had already purchased these lands of the State of Georgia, but was desirous of making a fuller purchase of our nation. That he intended to erect store houses on these lands, from which we could be supplied with goods, and smiths’ shops, where our guns could be repaired. After which, Governor Blount proposed a line upon the upper parts of the Tennessee, to go from that river upon a ridge, which divides the waters of Nine-mile creek from Little river. This line I also refused. Governor Blount then proposed another line, at the fork below Chota, to run to the aforesaid ridge, which he said he wanted to settle on himself, for the purpose of being near our nation, and that he might more readily confer with us on public business, and he said none others than himself should settle there. The fork I rejected. Governor Blount said he would quit the fork, but wished that the line might be on the aforesaid ridge, which divides the waters of the Tennessee from those of Little river, and that this line should be a lasting line, in order to divide the white from the red people. On which I complained to him that the white people had settled on our lands there without our permission. After a good deal of dispute with Governor Blount, I proposed that, from the fork down of the Long island of Holston, should be the boundary, (he having before mentioned a water course) but he still insisted upon the ridge before mentioned, observing that the game on that ground was all destroyed, the land settled, and, therefore, could be of no use to us. . . , < As Governor Blount still insisted upon the before mentioned line, I asked him whether the handful of g;oods was all he meant to give us for the lands, and if so, it was nothing equal to the value of them. To which Governor Blount replied, that the few goods he had were not intended to pay for the lands, but as presents; the yearly payment of one thousand dollars was to pay for the lands. It is my desire that you should understand, that John Watts and myself were the principal speakers at the treaty, being appointed for that purpose by our nation. That we repeatedly told Governor Blount that we considered the sum of one thousand dollars per year as too small a price for our lands; and-not near as much as Mr. McGiliivray had obtained for a worse tract. He replied that he was not authorized .to offer more, but that he would write to Congress upon the subject; and let us know' whether more would be granted. John W atts told Governor Blount, that he knew'the North Carolina people to be headstrong, and that they had, under the sanction of a flag of truce, laid his uncle, The Old Corn Tassel, low; it was therefore in vain to contend about a line at this time, as he knew' that they would have their ow n way, and that they w'ould not observe the orders of Congress or any body else. Watts further told Governor Blount, that he wondered that he should be appointed for this business, being a North Carolinian; but, that he would, notwithstanding, make him an offer of a line. Whenever you North Carolinians make a line, you tell us it shall be a standing one; but yon are always encroaching upon it; and, therefore, we cannot depend upon what you say. Governor Blount replied to Watts, that these lands, on the lines now contested, were taken from the Cherokees in time of war, and that he did not, therefore, consider the settlements made on them as encroachments. This is all that Watts said upon the subject. He told me, privately, that the death of his uncle so affected him, that he could not speak any more, and desired me to finish the business. After Watts retired. Governor Blount repeated tome the observation about the country’s having been conquered; he told me that I knew- the Americans had driven the English out of the country, and that the land had been purchased with American blood. On this I observed, that, although it was true the English were driven from the country, they had come a great way to fight the Americans, and that the Americans had been assisted in this war by the French; that no good purpose could be answered by bringing them up now,.and therefore such things ought to be buried forever. [The Bloody Fellow, and the other Chiefs, then agreed to meet again at the Secretary’s house, on Monday, the 9th instant, at noon. ] Monday, January 9th. The Bloody Fellow.—I shall explain myself fully, and hide nothing from you. When we were assembled at Estanaloee,_before we left our nation, as I mentioned the other day, just as we began our business, arrived Chinabee, the chief of the Natchez, and one of the Creek nation; we were glad that he arrived at that moment, as he was sent by his nation. He spoke to, us and said, that he was glad to find us assembled, as he was sent by the chiefs of his nation with a talk to the President, recommending to him the chiefs of the Cherokees who should go to Philadelphia. He said, we are near neighbors, and ought to be as one people. We have been to Congress and settled our business to our satisfaction; but you have still a deficiency; go then to Congress, and have your affairs settled, as ours are. He further desired us to believe what the President should say to us, and that he would attend to us, because we were recommended by him, (Chinabee) so that our children might grow up in peace, and that the red and white people should hereafter be as one. Chinabee also said, 1 look upon the Chcrokees as our elder brothers. 1 judge that they will be fully satisfied with the success of their journey; that, upon their return, I shall hear all this in a talk from them, and I shall come for that purpose. ' , [Creeks.]—Chinabee desired, particularly, that we should say that Bowles’ arrival had excited disturbances in the minds of the Creeks, who wished to know, from General Washington, what authority Bowles had for this conduct. That this answer was earnestly requested upon our return, in order that the Creeks might know how to conduct themselves against Bowles in the affair. This is an important point, on which we desire full information. This is all the talk from the Creeks. And, as a proof of the truth of it, we give you a string of beads from them, in token of their friendship. [TheBloody Fellow then presented the Secretary of War with a single string of white wampum.] [Chtckasaws and Choctaws.]—Hear now the talk from the Chickasaw and Choctaw nations. This talk was brought by Chenowie, and another Chickasaw, and two Choctaws, who came together to Tatokie, or the Town of the Springs, below Chickamaga, on the Tennessee, in the month of September last. They said: “ We were sorry, our elder brothers, that we could not come while you were sitting upon business with Governor Blount, but we were informed of the matter too late. But understanding that you are about setting out for General Washington, we desire that he would hear what you should say in our behalf, and, on your return, we will again attend upon you to learn the news. ” Tell General Washington, that the Carolina people ought not to be appointed to hold talks with the Indians, as they always ask for lands; and that we desire a person to be appointed by him who will not ask for our lands, but do justice, both to the white and red people. We have proved that we have regarded General Washington’s words: and we now desire that lie will make the white people equally quiet, and not breed disturbances.*’ Here ends the talk of the Chickasaws and Choctaws, which is confirmed by this string of beads. [The Bloody Fellow then presented a string of white wampum, and said,] When Nontuaka returned from General Washington, two years ago, he sent good talks to all the nations, of the kindness with which he was treated, and of the intentions of General Washington to do justice to the red people about their lands. We hope General Washington has not forgotten the good talks to Nontuaka; we desire nothing more. Having now fully explained my business, I will tell you what our beloved men and warriors told us when we left our country. They told us to make haste, to finish our business, ami to return as soon as possible, so that by fully informing them of the good dispositions of General Washington, measures might be taken to restrain the young warriors, whose minds are greatly disturbed by the proceedings of last summer. The King Fisjieii.—We have fully explained every thing; ,1 am a witness to it. I hope all things will be finished well. I have never been for shedding the blood of our elder brothers, and I hope we shall always live in peace and friendship. The Bloody Fellow’.—We now mention asmall circumstance for your consideration; a young man, of the name of George, who is now with us, and who served your troops, has complained to us that he never received any pay; think of this. We earnestly entreat that General Washington would now send a man with us who shall protect us in our lands, and be our friend; and who will explain all things, and at all times. He shall reside with us, and we will take care of him. If tww men were now to be sent, it would be better than one. Nontuaka.—I have attended to the talks of the President, delivered two years ago, in Nevv York, and, always believing in his words, I have persuaded our warriors to repair again to the President, knowing we should have justice done us fully, and it makes my heart glad to find myself under the roof of my friend, who treated me so kindly when in New York. We are now here, and havq^explained ourselves upon our business. I hope all things will be done to our satisfaction, and that we shall be- sent away with the good news, so that all our people may be made glad upon our return home. ['I'he chiefs having thus explained themselves, it v'as agreed that they should meet the Secretary of War, at his house, on Wednesday, the 11th instant, to receive his answer.] W ednesday, 11 th January. The Secretary of War addressed the chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee nation, as follows: Brothers: 1 am heartily glad that you have disburdened your hearts in your own way; because I am sure, when the red people see the hearts of the great chief. General Washington, and the Congress, that we should become as one people, each living in peace and safety with our families. You have mentioned some uneasiness about the treaty with Governor Blount; but the President, and the Senate of the United States, who are his council on this business, believing that this treaty was a good and satisfactory treaty, as well for the red as the white people, have confirmed it, planted it as you here see, and it has become the law' of the land; and, if any bad white people should encroach upon your grounds, or do any thing contrary to that treaty, they would be immediately punished. -*,lt is therefore for your good that the treaty should be punctually complied with in all its parts, as well by you as by us. Perhaps you may not clearly understand some parts of the treaty; if so, speak, for we wish to remove all possible causes of difference, and obstacles to our becoming one people. Bloody Fellow', in reply.—What you have said is true and just; and you shall now hear all I have to say, so that nothing may heareafter lay heavy upon the hearts, either of the red or white people. I have heard your talk with satisfaction, but I am afraid every thing has not been fully explained from the treaty ground. 1 have considered well on our business, and shall unfold all to you. We are now together upon important business to us; 1 wish, therefore, to see the line Governor Blount has mentioned to you. [A map was accordingly produced, with the lines mentioned thereon, to which no material objection was made, as it was slated that the lines were to be run by commissioners from each side.] Bloody Fellow.—At the time of the treaty, we objected to giving up so much land; but, for the sake of peace and quietness, we did it. But we object to the little money given tor so much land. We request, therefore, that something further may be done in this matter, so that all our people may be quiet in their minds. Instead of one thousand dollars a year for our lands, give us half as much more; that is, fifteen hundred dollai-s a year, and we shall be perfectly satisfied. If this could be obtained for us, wre do not require it in money, but in goods, bought in Philadelphia, where they are cheapest; and to be sent to General Pickens, by the way of Charleston. We should be happy that our business could be soon finished, that we might take one years’goods with us; thatyou might send a man with us, so that you may learn the satisfaction which we shall spread on our return. The treaty mentions ploughs, hoes, cattle, and other things for a farm; this is what we want; game is going fast away from among us. We must plant .corn and raise cattle, and we desire you to assist us. It these things could be sent us the next season, it would be a great service to us. We wish you to attend to this point. In former times we bought of the traders goods cheap; we could then clothe our women and children; but now game is scarce and goods dear, we cannot live comfortably. We desire the United States to regulate this matter. 27 * 1 shall now speak upon a point of great importance. The ridge, which divides the waters of Little river from the Tennessee, is the boundary fixed by the treaty. But the white people are.already over it, and their numbers have increased since the treaty. Remove these back, or our people will not be quiet. We speak strongly on this point. We came to Philadelphia with our eyes full of tears. But since vve have seen General Washington, and heard him speak through you, our tears are wiped away, and we rejoice in the prospect of our future welfare, under the protection of Congress. N Governor Blount spoke very much to us, that a trading house should be established at Bear creek, below the Muscle Shoals, on the Tennessee. We could not consent to this. After we returned home we talked among ourselves on this matter, and it would be very disagreeable to our nation. But we have heard that this matter is still going on. We desire that the man you send with us should prevent this settlement at the Muscle Shoals. 1 have now explained all I had to say, and hid nothing from you. I now speak of the private affairs of our party', who are now here. You will see that, being upon the business of our nation, we could not go a hunting, and, therefore, our families will be unclad, unless you will do it, and we hope you will. All which is humbly submitted. H.KNOX, Secretary of War. War Department, 17th January, 1792. 2nd Congress.] 
