No. 105. [2d Session. r H K D E L A \\ A R ES A N1) PIA N K E S H A WS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, NOVEMBER i !h 1804. To the Senate of [he United States: I now lay before you a treaty entered into on the 18th day of August of the present year, between the United States on the one part, and the Delaware .Indians on the other, for the extinguishment of their title to a tract of country between the Ohio and the Wabash rivers; and another, of the 27th day of the same month, between the United States and the Piankeshaws, for a confirmation of the same by the latter, together with a letter from Governor Harrison, on the same subject; which treaties are submitted for your advice and consent. TIL JEFFERSON. November 15, 1804. A Treaty between the United Stales of America and the Delawure tribe of Indians, concluded at Vincennes, the 18th day of August. 1804. The Delaware tribe of Indians, finding that the annuity which they receive from the United States is not sufficient to supply them with the articles which are necessary for their comfort and convenience, and afford the means of introducing amongst them the arts of civilized life; and being convinced that the extensiveness of the country they possess, by giving an opportunity to their hunting parties to ramble to a great distance from their towns, is the principal means of retarding this desirable event: and the United States being desirous to connect their settlements on the Wabash with the State of Kentucky: Therefore, the United States, by William Henry Harrison, Governor of the Indiana Territory, Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and their Commissioner Plenipotentiary for treating with die Indian tribes northwest of the Ohio river: and the said tribe of Indians, by their sachems, chiefs, and head-warriors, have agreed to die following articles, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding oil the said parties. Article l. The said Delaware tribe, for the considerations hereinafter mentioned, relinquishes to the United States, forever, all their right and title to the tract of country, which lies between the Ohio and Wabash rivers, and below the tract ceded by the treaty effort Wayne, and the road leading from Vincennes to the falls of Ohio. Article 2. The said tribe shall receive from the United States, for ten years, an additional annuity of three hundred dollars, which is to be exclusively appropriated to the purpose of ameliorating their condition, and promoting their civilization. Suitable persons slum be employed, at the expense of the United States, to teach them to make fences, cultivate the earth, and such of the domestic arts as are adapted to their situation; and a further sum of three hundred dollars shall be appropriated, annually, for five years, to this object. The United States will cause to be delivered to them, in the course of the next spring, horses tit for draught, cattle, hogs, and implements of husbandry, to the amount of four hundred dollars. The preceding stipulations, together with goods to the amount of eight hundred dollars, which is now delivered to the said tribe, (a part of which is to be appropriated to the satisfying certain individuals of the said tribe, whose horses have been taken by white people) is to be considered as full compensation for the relinquishment made in the first article. Article 3. As there is great reason to believe that there are now in the possession of the said tribe, several horses, which have been stolen from citizens of the United States, the chiefs who represent the said tribe arc to use their utmost endeavors to have the said horses forthwith delivered to the Superintendent of Indian Affairs, or such persons as he may appoint to receive them. And, as'the United States can place the utmost reliance on the honor and integrity of those chiefs who have manifested a punctilious regard to the engagements, entered into at the treaty of Greenville, it is agreed that, in relation to such of the horses stolen as aforesaid, but which have died or been removed beyond the reach of the chiefs, the United States will compensate the owners for the loss of them, without deducting from the annuity of the said tribe the amount of what may be paid in this way. But it is expressly understood, that this provision is not to extend to any horses which have been stolen within the course of twelve months preceding the date hereof.   'Article 4. The said tribe having exhibited to the above named commissioner of the United States, sufficient proof of their right to all the country which lies between the Ohio and White river; and the Miami tribe, who were the original proprietors of the upper part of that country, having explicitly acknowledged the title of the Delawares, at the general council held at fort Wayne, in the month of June, one thousand eight hundred and three, the said United States will, in future, consider the Delawares as the rightful owners of all the country which is bounded by the White river, on the north, the Ohio on the south; the general boundary line running from the mouth of the Kentucky river, on the east, and the tract ceded by this treaty, and that ceded by the treaty of fort Wayne, on the west and southwest. Article 5. As the Piankeshaw tribe have hitherto obstinately persisted in refusing to recognise the title of the Delawares to the tract of country ceded by this treaty, the United States will negotiate with them, and will endeavor to settle the matter in an amicable way; but, should they reject the propositions that may be made to them on this subject, and should the United States not think proper to take possession of the said country, without their consent, the stipulations and promises herein made, on behalf of the United States, shall be null and void. Article G. As the road from Vincennes to Clark’s grant will form a very inconvenient boundary, and as it is the intention of the parties to these presents, that the whole of the said road shall be within the tract ceded to the United States, it is agreed, that the boundary in that quarter, shall be a straight line, to be drawn parallel to the course of the said roau, from the eastern boundary of the tract ceded by the treaty of fort Wayne, to Clark’s grant, but the said line is not to pass at a greater distance than half a mile from the most northerly bend of said road. In witness whereof, the commissioner plenipotentiary of the United States, and the chiefs and head-men of the said tribe, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. Done at Vincennes, the eighteenth day of August, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and four, and of the independence of the United States the twenty-ninth. WILLIAM H. HARRISON, [l. s.] TETA BUXICA, his x mark, [l. s.] And others. A Treaty between the United Stales of America and the Piankeshaw tribe of Indians, concluded at Vincennes, on the twenty-seventh day of August, 1804. The President of the United States, by William Henry Harrison, Governor of the Indiana territory, superin tendent of Indian affairs, and commissioner plenipotentiary of the United States for concluding any treaty or treaties, which may be found necessary with any of the Indian tribes, northwest of the river Ohio; and the chiefs and headmen of the Piankeshaw tribe, have agreedjto the following articles; which, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding upon the said parties. Article l. The Piankeshaw tribe relinquishes and cedes to the United States forever, all that tract of country which lies between the Ohio and the Wabash rivers, and below Clark’s grant and the tract called the Vincennes tract, which was ceded by the treaty of fort Wayne, and a line connecting the said tract and grant, to be drawn parallel to the general course of the road leading from Vincennes to the falls of the Ohio, so as not to pass more than half a mile to the northward of the most northerly bend of the said road. Art. 2. The Piankeshaw tribe acknowledges explicitly the right of the Kaskaskia tribe to sell the country which they have lately ceded to the United States, and which is separated from the lands of the Piankeshaws by the ridge or highland which divides the waters of the Wabash from the waters of the Saline creek: and by that which divides the waters of the said Wabash from those which flow into the Au-Vase and other branches of the Mississippi. Art. 3. An additional annuity, of two hundred dollars, shall be paid by the United States to the said tribe, for ten years, in money, merchandise, provisions, or domestic animals, and implements of husbandry, at the option of the said tribe; and this annuity, together with goods to the value of seven hundred dollars, which are now delivered to them by the commissioner of the United States, is considered as a full compensation for the above mentioned relinquishment. Art. 4. The United States reserve to themselves the right of dividing the whole annuity, which they pay to the said tribe, amongst the families which compose the same; allowing, always, a due proportion for the chiefs. And the said chiefs, whenever the President of the United States may require it, shall, upon proper notice being given, assemble their tribe for the purpose of effecting this arrangement. In witness whereof, the commissioner plenipotentiary of the United States, and the chiefs and head-men of the said tribe, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals. Done at Vincennes, in the Indiana territory, the twenty-seventh day of August, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and four, and of the independence of the United States the twenty-ninth. 8th Congress.] 
