NO. 162.	[1st SESSION. PROGRESS MADE IN CIVILIZING THE INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 17, 1820. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OP WAR, January 15, 1820. In compliance with a resolution of the House of Representatives ef the 6th instant, “ that the Secretary of War be directed to report whether any and, if any, what progress has been made in the civilization of the Indian tribes, and the sums of money, if any, which have been expended on that object, under the act of the last session,” I have the honor to make the following statement: No part of the appropriation of $10,000 annually, made at the last session, for the civilization of the Indians, has yet been applied. The President was of opinion that the object ef the act would be more certainly effected by applying the sum appropriated in aid of the efforts of societies, er individuals, who might feel disposed to bestow their time and resources to effect the object contemplated by it; and a circular (of which the enclosed is a copy) was addressed to those individuals and societies, who have directed their attention to the civilization of the Indians. The objects of the circular were to obtain information, and disclose the views of the President, in order to concentrate and unite the efforts of individuals and societies in the mode contemplated by the act of the last session. The information collected will enable the President to apply, early in this year, the sum appropriated. The economy and intelligence with which it will be applied, under the superintendence of zealous and disinterested individuals, will, it is hoped, carry into effect, as far as practicable, the views of Congress. While many of the Indian tribes have acquired only the vices with which a savage people usually become tainted, by their intercourse with those who are civilized, others appear to be making gradual advances in industry and civilization. Among the latter description may be placed the Cherokees, Choctaws, Chickasaws, and perhaps the Creeks, most of the remnants of the Six Nations in the State of New York, the Wyandots, Senecas, and Shawanees at Upper Sandusky and Wapaghkonetta. The Cherokees exhibit a more favorable appearance than any ether tribe of Indians. There are already established two flourishing schools among them: one at Brainard, under the superintendence of the American Board for Foreign Missions; at which there are at present about 100 youths of both sexes. The institution is on the Lancasterian plan, and is in a very flourishing condition. Besides reading, writing, and arithmetic, the boys are taught agriculture and the ordinary mechanic arts; and the girls, sewing, knitting, and weaving. At Spring Place, in the same nation, there is a school on a more limited scale, under the superintendence of the United Brethren, or Moravians. Two other schools are projected in the same nation: one by the American, and the other by the Baptist Board for Foreign Missions; and arrangements are making to establish two other schools among that portion of the Cherokee nation which reside on the Arkansas. The Choctaws and Chickasaws have recently evinced a strong desire to have schools established among them, and measures have been taken by the American Board for Foreign Missions for that purpose. A part of the former nation have appropriated $2,000 annually, out ef their annuity, for seventeen years, as a school fund. A part of the Six Nations in New York have, ef late, made considerable improvements; and the Wyandots, Senecas, and Shawanees at Upper Sandusky and Wapaghkonetta, have, under the superintendence of the Society of Friends, made considerable advances in civilization.	• Although partial advances may be made under the present system to civilize the Indians, I am of an opinion that, until there is a radical change in the system, any efforts which may be made must fall short of complete sue- cess. They must be brought gradually under our authority and laws, or they will insensibly waste away in vice and misery. It is impossible, with their customs, that they should exist as independent communities in the midst of civilized society. They are not, in fact, an independent people, (I speak of those surrounded by our population,) nor ought they to be so considered. They should be taken under our guardianship; and our opinion, and not theirs, ought to prevail, in measures intended for their civilization and happiness. A system less vigorous may protract, but cannot arrest their fate. I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, J. C. CALHOUN. Hon. H. CLAY, Speaker of the House of Representatives. [CIRCULAR.] SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, September 3, 1819. In order to render the sum of $10,000, annually appropriated at the last session of Congress for the civilization of the Indians, as extensively beneficial as possible, the President is of opinion that it ought to be applied in co-operation with the. exertions of benevolent associations, or individuals, who may choose to devote their lime or means to effect the object comtemplated by the act of Congress. But it will be indispensable, in order to apply any portion of the sum appropriated in the manner proposed, that the plan of education, in addition to reading, writing, and arithmetic, should, in the instruction of the boys, extend to the practical knowledge of the mode of agriculture, and of such of the mechanic arts as are suited to the condition of the Indians; and in that of the girls, to spinning, weaving, and sewing. It is also indispensable that the establishment should be fixed within the limits of those Indian nations who border on our settlements. Such associations or individuals who are already actually engaged in educating the Indians, and who may desire the co-operation of the Government, will report to the Department of War, to be laid before the President, the location of the institutions under their superintendence, their funds, the number and kind of teachers, the number of youths of both sexes, the objects which are actually embraced in their plan of education, and the extent of the aid which they require; and such institutions as are formed, but have not gone into actual operation, will report the extent of their funds, the places at which they intend to make their establishments, the whole number of youths of both sexes which they intend to educate, the number and kind of teachers to be employed, the plan of education adopted, and the extent of the aid required. This information will be necessary to enable the President to determine whether the appropriation of Congress ought to be applied in co-operation with the institutions which may request it, and to make a just distribution of the sum appropriated. In proportion to the means of the Government, co-operation will be extended to such institutions as may be approved, as well in erecting necessary buildings, as in their current expenses. I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, J. C. CALHOUN. 16th CONGRESS.]	
