NO. 203.	[1st SESSION. CIVILIZATION OF THE INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, MARCH 23, 1824. • ", Mr. MCLEAN, of Ohio, from the Committee on Indian Affairs, to whom was referred the resolution of the 6th of January, instructing them to inquire into the expediency of repealing an act entitled “An act making provision for the civilization of the Indian tribes adjoining the frontier settlements,” passed on the 3d of March, 1819, reported:	• That they have examined the subject embraced by the resolution, and beg leave to submit the following statement: The committee have carefully examined the measures which have been adopted for the disbursement of the annual allowance made by this law, and find them very judicious, and such as are best calculated to effectuate the benevolent designs of the Government. Although the reports heretofore made by the Secretary of War contained the rules by which the sum granted was to be apportioned and paid, the committee annex them to this report, and wish them to be referred to as a part of it. The committee also submit a statement showing the different sums paid to the Indian schools which have been organized, and the number of scholars taught at each school. From this statement, it will appear that twenty-one schools have been established; all, except three, since the passage of the above law, and principally by the means which it affords. At these schools there are taught more than eight hundred scholars, whose progress in the acquisition of an English education exceeds the most sanguine expectations that had been formed. Very comfortable school-houses have been erected for the accommodation of the different schobls, and, in most cases, convenient dwellings for the teachers. -58 E So far as the committee have been able to ascertain, the plan of education has been very judicious, and no pains seem to have been spared to extend to the Indians the full benefit of the law. All the schools are increasing; and so urgent is the wish of the Indians to have their children educated, that numerous applications are refused, from the limited means which the schools possess. The time of the children is not wholly devoted to their books while at school; the girls are instructed in such arts as are suited to female industry in civilized life, and the boys are required to devote a part of their time in acquiring a knowledge of husbandry. The advances of males and females in these branches are most satisfactory, and have already had no small influence in inducing their parents to become less fond of an erratic life, and more inclined to have fixed residences, and rely for their support on the cultivation of the ground. Such has been the effect of the above circumstances, combined with some others not more influential, that, at many of the places where schools have been established, the Indians have already constructed comfortable dwellings, and now cultivate farms of considerable extent. They have become the owners of property necessary to agricultural pursuits, and for the conveniences of life. The committee are aware that very considerable aids have been given by different Christian denominations, all of whom feel a deep interest in the paternal views of the Government. But the committee are well persuaded that, had the Government afforded no pecuniary aid, very few, if any, of the benefits which have been conferred, would have been experienced by the Indians. The annual appropriation of ten thousand dollars has encourage^ the benevolent and pious, in many parts of the country, to form associations and collect donations, with the view of aiding the humane purposes of the Government. Hundreds of such associations are now in active operation; and they are much cheered in their exertions by the rapid advances to civilization which the Indians have made. It requires but little research to convince every candid mind that the prospect of civilizing our Indians was never so promising as at this time. Never were means for the accomplishment of this object so judiciously devised, and so faithfully applied, as provided in the above act, and the auxiliary aids which it has encouraged. It is believed to be an essential part of any plan for Indian civilization, that, with the rudiments of education, the males should be taught the arts of husbandry, and the females to perform those domestic duties which peculiarly belong to their stations in civilized^ life. The attempts which have heretofore been made, many of which have failed, omitted this essential part. Many zealous but enthusiastic persons, who have been most conspicuous in endeavoring to reclaim the Indians, persuaded themselves to believe that, to secure this object, it was only necessary to send missionaries among them to instruct them in the Christian religion. Some of their exertions failed, without producing any salutary effect, because the agents employed were wholly unfitted for the task. Others, though productive of some good effect at first, eventually failed, because to their missionary labors were not added the institutes of education and instruction in agriculture. These are combined in the exertions now making; and, from the good which has been done, the most pleasing anticipations of success are confidently cherished. There are many Indian nations within our boundaries who have experienced no aid from these efforts; being restricted in the means, the benefits are, consequently, limited. But the committee are assured that the continuation of the appropriation, seconded by the liberal and increasing aids which are afforded by voluntary contributions, will gradually, and most effectually, extend the benefits of the law to the remotest tribes who inhabit our extensive domain. This will be a work of time; and, for its accomplishment, great labor and perseverance will be necessary. The progress, however, of this work may be more rapid than any can now venture to anticipate. The instruction and civilization of a few enterprising youths will have an immense influence on the tribes to which they belong. As the means are constantly applied, the numbers reclaimed will increase, and an increase of numbers will insure, in a geometrical proportion, success for the future. It is difficult to say what rtvùy not be accomplished under such circumstances. No one will be bold enough to denounce him as a visionary enthusiast, who, under such auspices, will look with great confidence to the entire accomplishment of the object. The civilization of the Indians has been viewed as a work of great national importance by many whose talents and public services have rendered illustrious the annals of our country. This was an object of great solicitude with Washington, and to all who have succeeded him. Prior to the passage of the above law, the attention of Congress was invited to the subject, in almost every annual message from the Executive. If the policy of this measure were considered merely as a question of pecuniary interest, it is believed that but few would hesitate to sanction it. That it inculcates the most friendly disposition on the part of the Indians, no one, well informed on the subject, will venture to deny. They understand the motive of the Government, and properly appreciate it. So far as the benefits of this policy are extended, will this feeling be cherished; and it affords the safest guaranty against future wars. To say nothing of the valuable lives which have been lost in the Indian conflicts we have had, how much treasure has been expended in our defence! More money was expended, in protecting the exposed parts of our country from Indian depredations, during the late war, than would be required, if judiciously applied, to secure the great plan of Indian civilization. Shall we, from recent injuries, indulge a spirit of hostility against these unfortunate people? The principles of humanity and the dignity of our Government forbid it. There is much in their condition to excite our sympathies as men, and our protection as legislators. They have been driven from this wide domain, to a territory far less desirable, and of limited extent. They are constantly receding, as we are advancing. The Indians are not now what they once were. They have partaken of our vices more than our virtues. Such is their condition, at present, that they must be civilized or exterminated; no other alternative exists. He must be worse than savage who can view, with cold indifference, an exterminating policy. All desire their prosperity, and wish to see them brought within tl^p pale of civilization. The means which have been adopted, and of which the law in question is the foundation, seem the most likely to obtain the desired result. They should not, therefore, be abandoned. The passage of this law was called for by many of the people in the. most populous and influential sections of our country. Their wishes were made known in language that evinced a deep interest—an interest not produced by a momentary excitement, but the result of much reflection and a high sense of moral duty. It may be said, emphatically, that the passage of this law was called for by a religious community. They were convinced of the correctness of the policy in a political point of view, and, as Christians, they felt the full force of the obligations which duty enjoined. Their zeal was tempered by reason. No fanciful schemes of proselytism seem to have been indulged. They formed a correct estimate of the importance of their undertaking, and pointed to the most judicious means for the accomplishment of their wishes. Since the passage of the law, hundreds and thousands have been encouraged to contribute their mite in aid of the wise policy of the Government. However the various denominations of professing Christians may differ in their creedsand general doctrines, they all unite in their wishes that our Indians may become civilized. That this feeling almost universally prevails, has been declared in language too unequivocal to admit of doubt. It has been seen in their' words and in their actions. The committee believe that such demonstrations are not to be regarded lightly; that the National Legislature will treat them with the highest respect. If a sectarian zeal had had any agency to produce this general interest, it would be less entitled to serious consideration. But such a contracted feeling seems to have had no influence; a mure noble and Christian motive has been cherished. All unite to second the views of the Government, by ameliorating the condition of our Indians. They are taught the first rudiments of education, the duties which appertain to man as a member of civil society, and his accountability as a moral agent. Repeal this law, and these exertions are not only paralyzed, but destroyed. The Indians will see, in such an act, that we feel less for their prosperity than our professions have encouraged them to believe; and such an impression cannot fail to produce the most injurious consequences. From the various lights in which the committee have viewed the policy of this law, they are convinced that it is founded in justice, and should not be repealed. They therefore submit to the House the following resolution: Resolved, That it is inexpedient to repeal the law making an annual appropriation of ten thousand dollars for the civilization of'the Indians. Extract of a letter from the .Secretary of War to the Hon. John McKee. In answer to the first part of the inquiry, “ how the appropriation for civilizing the Indians has been applied, .and with what effect; and whether, in myopinion, the fund can be withdrawn without injury?” I would respectfully refer you to the reports of this Department to the House of Representatives of the 15th January, 1820, 8th February, 1822, and 24th January last. The first of these reports may be found in State Papers, 1st session 16th Congress, vol. 3, No. 46; the second, in State Papers, 1st session 17th Congress, vol. 6, No. 59; and the latter, having been made during the present session, and printed, it is presumed is in the possession of each member of the committee. In answer to the latter part of the inquiry, I have to state, that the societies, iu co-operation with whose benevolent efforts the fund referred to has been applied, have made considerable establishments in the Indian country, for the purpose of effecting the object of the appropriation, and incurred heavy expenses, under the expectation of a continuance of the aid which they have received from the Government. The Indians also have become much interested in these establishments, and would, no doubt, feel greatly disappointed if they are not continued. Should the fund, therefore, be withdrawn, it is my opinion that the measure would not only be productive of serious loss to these societies, but of the most injurious effects to our Indian relations; and that, both as it regards policy and justice, it would not be advisable to adopt it at this time. I enclose, for your information, a statement relative to the establishments in the Indian country for the purposes of civilization, which has been prepared from official documents. I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, J. C. CALHOUN. Statement in relation to establishments in the Indian country for the purpose of civilizing the Indians. Names and sites of stations. By whom established. When establish ed.	J No. of scholars at last report. Sum annually allowed by the United States for tuition. No. of missionary family. Whole expense duringdast year J School at Cornwall, Connecticut, Am. Board of Foreign Missions, Boston, 1817 35 $1,438 Brainard. Cherokee nation, Ten. Do.	do.	- 1817 84 1,200 42 $7,632 Elliot, Choctaw nation,	- Do.	do.	- 1818 80 1,200 12 9,735 Newell, do. -	- Do.	do.	- 1821 15 350 - 668 Mayhew, do. -	- Do.	do.	- 1822 66 800 10 15,706 Dwight, Cherokees, Arkansas, - . Do.	do.	- 1820 50 600 9 6,241 Ft. Wayne, Indiana and Michigan, Baptist General Convention,	- 1820 40 200 10 3,000 Valley Towns, Cherokees, Ten. Do.	du.	- 1820 50 500 26 * 3,000 Tensawattee,	do.	- Do.	do.	- 1821 25 250 Withington, Creek nation,	- Do.	do.	- 1823 40 600 7 3,000 Oneida nation,	-	- Hamilton Baptist Missionary Society, 1820 24 500 Tuscarora nation, New York, - United Foreign Mission’y Society, N. Y. 1819 45 450 Seneca nation, New York,	- Do.	do.	- 1819 31 450 6 2,451 Union, Osages, Arkansas,	- Do.	do.	- 1820 12 250 30 6,700 Harmony, Osages. Missouri, - Do.	do.	- 1822 17 250 41 4,680 Wyandots, near Upper Sandusky, Methodist Ohio Conference,	- 1821 60 500 - 1,950 Spring Place, Cherokees, Ten. - United Brethren,	-	- 1801 20 300 - 744 Monroe, Chickasaw nation, - Synod of South Carolina and Georgia, 1821 54 500 12 2,675 Charity Hall, do.	- Cumberland Missionary Society,	- 1822 21 400 - 608 Ottawas, Miami of the Lake, - Western Missionary Society,	- 1823 - 300 21 Florissant, Missouri,	- ♦Catholic Bishop of New Orleans, - 1823 - 800 * No part of this allowance has yet been paid. The expenses over and above the amount allowed by the Government are paid by the respective societies. 18th CONGRESS.]	
