No. 41. [1st Session. THE CREEKS, CHEROKEES, AND OTHERS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 16, 1793. War Department, December \tith, 1793. Sir; I have the honor to submit a variety of papers giving a view of the Southwestern frontiers, as connected with the Creeks and the State of Georgia, and the Southwestern territory of the United States and the Cherokees. 1 have the honor to be. &c. H. KNOX, Secretary of I Far. The Vice President of the United States. The Secretary of War respectfully submits to the President of the United States, the following statement, relatively to the Southwestern frontiers of the United States, as connected with the State of Georgia and the Creek Indians, and the territory of the United States South of the Ohio and the Cherokee Indians: That, in the month of November, 1792, James Seagrove, a temporary agent, held a conference with the Lower Creeks, at which were present upwards of one thousand men, women, and children. That the objects of this conference were to confirm the treaty, which had been made with them at New York, and by administering to their necessities, they being greatly in want of corn and clothing, to attach them more firmly to the interest of the United States. That, as the said Indians expressed themselves with great gratitude for the kindness they received, a hope was indulged that beneficial consequences would flow from the measure, especially as it was directed that the said agent should repair both to the Lower and Upper Creek towns, in order to tranquillize their minds upon past, and prevent any misconceptions respecting the future conduct of the United States. But, on the 11th day of March, these prospects were clouded by a party of about thirty of the Seminoles (some of them living to the southward of the territory of the United States) who plundered a store upon the St. Mary’s river of a large quantity of goods, and killed several persons. This outrage being followed by some others, excited a general alarm on the frontiers of Georgia. The Governor of that .State called into service considerable bodies of militia, horse and foot, for the protection of the exposed inhabitants. That, upon the receiving information of the aforesaid event, the President, on the 30th of May, directed that the Governor of Georgia should be informed, that, from considerations of policy at this critical period, relative to foreign Powers, and during the pending treaty with the Northern Indians, it was deemed advisable for tne present to avoid offensive expeditions into the Creek country. But that, from the circumstances of the recent depredations on the frontiers of Georgia, it was thought expedient to increase the force in that quarter, for defensive purposes, and, therefore, the Governor was authorized to call into sendee, in aid of the continental troops, one hundred horse, and one hundred foot, of the militia of the Said State. That, as it did not appear that the whole of the Creek nation were disposed for, or engaged in hostility, it was considered that the above force was sufficient for the purposes designated. That the case of a serious invasion of Georgia, by large bodies of Indians, must be referred to the provisions of the constitution. That, on the 10th of June, the Governor of South Carolina was requested to afford aid to Georgia, in case that it should be seriously invaded by large bodies of Indians. That a magazine of two thousand arms, and a proportionable quantity of ammunition, and some other military stores, have been established in Georgia, as a provisional measure, m case the said State should be invaded—the said articles, in that event, being subject to the order of the Governor. That, on the 12th of June, the Governor transmitted information of an intended expedition into the Creek country, to consist of a body of about seven hundred volunteers; and on the 18th of the same month, he transmitted the result thereof, by which it appeared that the said volunteers, commanded by General Twiggs, proceeded to the Oakmulgee, about forty miles distant from the Oconee, and from circumstances of their provisions being nearly exhausted, many horses tired, and other adverse events, they returned on the 12th of the month. That, on the 13th of August, the Governor transmitted information that lie had convened a council of general officers, on the subject of reducing the five inimical towns in the Creek nation; the propositions to, with the answers of the council, he transmitted for the purpose of being laid before the President of the United States. That, in an answer to the said letter, dated the 5th of September, the Governor wras informed, that, as an offensive expedition against the Creeks, of the nature, and under the circumstances mentioned, ivas a subject of great and complicated importance to the United States, it had engaged the serious consideration of the President, and, as the deliberate result thereof, he utterly disapproved the measure at that time, as being unauthorized bylaw, as contrary to the present state of affairs, and as contrary to the instructions heretofore given upon the subject. That, on the 2d of October, the Governor transmitted the information of two officers who commanded an expedition against a Creek town, which they surprized on the 21st of September, and killed six warriors, and took eight women and children prisoners. That it appears, from the representations of James Seagrove, that the Indian town which was surprised as before mentioned, on the 21st of September, was situated on the Chatahooeheeriver, and called “the Little Oakfuskee;” that the people belonging to it were among the most friendly of the Creeks, and no way concerned in stealing of horses, they being under the direction of the White Lieutenant. That it has been the opinion of James Seagrove, communicated in his various despatches, that, notwithstanding the outrage of the 11th of March last, and the subsequent conduct of some of the banditti, the main body of the Creek nation arc desirous of remaining at peace with the United States. That, in pursuance of his directions from the President of the United States, and his own opinion, he had been endeavoring for some months past to make arrangements to go into the Creek nation, for the purpose of obtaining the punishment of the banditti Indians, who have committed the outrages aforesaid, and of more closely attaching the Creeks to the United States. That he had made an agreement to meet a number of friendly Indians on the Oakinulgee river, about the 30th of September, and with them to proceed into the Indian towns for thepurposes aforesaid. But, the expedition of the 21st of September, and the violent threats of a number of lawless whites on the frontiers of Georgia, had prevented him. Some of these people appear to oppose every effort for peace, and ardently desire a war. That, by his letter of the 21st of October, it appears that two parties were preparing to go to war against the Creeks, the result of which has not yet been known. That the information of the Governor of Georgia to James Seagrove, dated the 26th of August last, to wit: “that, under the law of the United States, as well as for the security of this State, the Government of Georgia cannot recognise the establishment of peace without having commissioners at the treaty,” is a matter which requires serious notice. It is to be observed that the Governor of Georgia has not organized the hundred horse, and hundred militia foot, which he was authorized to do by the President, on the 30th of May last; but, instead thereof, lie has kept up considerable bodies of mounted volunteers of the militia, of which no returns have been received, but which, perhaps, may be nearly, or quite, five hundred men. The payment of these troops w ill probably amount to a very large sum of money, and it may become a question of importance, whether the United States are responsible for their payment, the circumstances of the ease being duly considered. It is suggested in the papers which accompany this statement, that it is highly probable that it is owingto some of these troops, that Mr. Seagrove has been hitherto restrained from adjusting amicably the causes of difference with the Creek nation, and also, probably, that it u'as a part of them who surprised the Little Oakfuskee town. From a review of the representations, contained in the letters of James Seagrove, Major Gaither, (the commanding officer) and Constant Freeman, herewith submitted, it will appear that the Creeks are generally disposed for peace,but that there is too much reason to apprehend, that the unjustifiable conduct of certain law less whites, on the frontiers of Georgia, will prevent that desirable event from being realized. The present state of this part of the frontier involves national considerations of great magnitude, whether viewed as relative to the expense which has been incurred during the past summer, of which payment will most probably be demanded of the United States, whether with regard to the claims of the Governor of Georgia, of a right of interference in any treaty with the Creeks, which is presumed to be contrary to the constitution of the United States, or whether with regard to a war with the powerful tribes of the Creeks, with the long and almost unlimited train of collateral and consequent evils attendant thereon, a measure which perhaps may be avoided, if means could be devised to keep the bold and turbulent of both sides in order. Of the territory of the United States Sonthivest of the Ohio, and the Cherokees. That it will appear, from the papers relative to the Cherokees, on the files of Congress, that, in the year 1792, a partial disposition for war existed among the Cherokees, being chiefly confined to the five Lower towns, so called, embracing, to the utmost, one-third of that nation, or six' hundred and’ fifty warriors. That, nowever, by the abilities and assiduity of Governor Blount, this disposition, in the commencement of the year, was greatly changed, and the said five tow ns were supposed to be desirous of an accommodation. That, while this business w^as negotiating, a party of armed men, under CaptainJohn Beard, who had been called into service by Governor Blount, with a view of protecting the settlers, did, on the 12th of June, in defiance of their orders, cross the Tennessee, and surprise and kill a number of our best friends among the Indians, at the moment Governor Blount’s messengers were among them. This violent outrage, so disgraceful to the United States, has been followed by several others, and the Southwestern territory is involved in a war with the Cherokees: which, as it relates to the above event, must be considered as highly unjust. It is to be apprehended and regretted, that, from the prejudice against Indians on the frontiers, it is but too probable that the perpetrators of these violences will escape unpunished. Such measures as the laws authorize have been directed, but, as yet, no result has been transmitted. Great bodies of militia have been brought inter service on this occasion, in order to guard against the effects of savage retaliation. Much expense has been already incurred, nor is it yet terminated: for, however hostilities shall be restrained by the severity of the winter, yet they may be expected to break out with renewed violence in the spring. The evil seems to require a remedy; but no Indian peace wall be permanent, unless an effectual mode can be devised to punish the violators of it on both sides. It will be with an ill grace that the United States demand the punishment of banditti Indians, when, at the same time, the guilty whites escape with impunity. All which is respectfully submitted. H. KNOX, Secretary of War. War Department, December 13th, 1793. Letters from the Secretary of War to his Excellency the Governor of Georgia. War Department, 9th March, 1793. Sir: Several of the delegates of the State of Georgia have made application to the President of the United States to establish magazines of arms, ammunition, and provisions, in Georgia, and, also, to make a provisional arrangement for calling out the militia of the neighboring States, on the apprehension of danger from the Cherokees. Although it is to be expected, from the measures taken to secure peace with the Cherokees, that these arrangements, to the extent required, may not be indespensably necessary, at this time, yet the President of the United States, desirous, as far as may be, to avert any apprehensions which might arise from a want of arms and ammunition, in case of need, has directed me to form a small magazine, at Augusta, of one thousand stand of arms, and a proportionable quantity of ammunition. These articles are,accordingly, in a train of preparation, and wall be shipped with all convenient.speed. They will be deposited, for the present, under the charge of Major Robert Forsyth, at Augusta, who will be instructed, in case of an invasion, to issue such of them to your order as you may require, or to serve such other purposes as may be requisite for the interest of the United States. The arms which shall be issued to the militia of Georgia, and not returned, will be charged to the State, in an account with the United States. The prospect of peace, with the Cherokees and Creeks, would render it inexpedient to take any immediate order on the subject of forming magazines of provisions, at present. Letters were written some time ago to the Governors of South Carolina and North Carolina, relative to any irruption of Indian parties upon the frontiers. I have the honor to be. &c. His Excellency Governor Telfair. War Department, 29//i April, 1793. Sir: Your two favors of the third and eighth instant have been received and submitted to the President of the United States. Information has also been recently received from Governor Blount, relatively to the hostile dispositions of some of the Upper Creeks, and the mass of the Lower Cherokees, and that a war exists between the Chickasaws and Upper Creeks. Governor Blount, alarmed at the posture of aftiiirs, has set out for this city, in order to concert with the Executive of the United States the measures which shall be advisable. As the business which he will have to transact will be blended with the state of affairs related by your Excellency, the President of the United States is desirous that some general principles should be adopted which shall be applicable (as far as circumstances will admit) to the general state of the Southern frontiers, the result of which shall be transmitted to you. In the mean time, however, the amis and ammunition, which were mentioned in my letter of the ninth of March, are now shipped on board the schooner Peggy, Captain Skelly, agreeably to the enclosed invoice. A letter has been written to Mr. Habersham, to have them immediately transported to Augusta. I have the honor to be, &c. Governor Telfair. [enclosure.] Invoice of military stores, shipped on board the schooner Peggy, Thomas Skelly, master, to the address of Major John Habersham, Savannah: 40 chests, containing— 1.000 stand of arms, 1.000 bayonets, 1.000 scabbards, 1.000 gun worms. 400 brushes anti wires. 25 barrels gun pow'der, containing 100 lbs. each. 5.000 lbs. lead, in bars and balls, 5.000 flints. N. B.—Powder-horns will be sent by the first opportunity. War Department, 30th May, 1793. Sir: The duplicates of your two letters, dated at Savannah, on the 22d and 29th ultimo, were received on the 28th instant, and submitted to the President of the United States, who, after having seriously considered their contents, has directed me to make the following reply to your Excellency: That, from considerations of policy, at this critical period, relative to foreign Powers, and the pending treaty with the Northern Indians.it is deemed advisable to avoid, for the present, offensive expeditions into the Creek country; but, from the circumstances of the late depredations on the frontiers of Georgia, it is thought expedient to increase the force in that quarter, for defensive purposes. The President, therefore, authorizes your Excellency to call into, and keep in, service, in addition to the regular force stationed in Georgia, one hundred horse, and one hundred militia foot, to be employed under the orders of Lieutenant Colonel Gaither, in repelling inroads, as circumstances shall require. You will please to nominate and appoint the commissioned officers to the above corps of horse, to consist of one captain, two lieutenants, and two cornets: the non-commissioned and privates, to consist of six sergeants, six corporals, one trumpeter, and one farrier, and eighty-six dragoons. In order that the corps shall be well equipped, the public will find the cans, swords, pistols, saddles, bridles, and carbines, all of which, however, will be deducted, at their prime cost and charges, from the pay of each individual, which, you will perceive, by the enclosed schedule, is very liberal. This corps of horse to be engaged of proper characters, to serve until the first day of May or June next, unless sooner discharged, which the Government must hold the right of doing, if it should think fit. If the non-commissioned and privates cannot be engaged for the above period, it must be left to your discretion to engagq them lor as long a time as possible. The authority, for the above purpose, is specially vested, by law, in the President of the United States; but the infantry, or foot militia, must be called into service according to the general course of the militia law, to which you will please to advert. The pay of the infantry will be the same as the troops of the United States, agreeably to the schedule No. 2. It will, however, be important, that proper endeavors be used to engage them for as long a period as the cavalry. The commissioned and non-commissioned officers, for the infantry, to be the same as for the continental troops, to wit: one captain, one lieutenant, one ensig-n, six sergeants, six corporals, one drum,one fife, and eighty-six privates. An additional thousand stand of arms and accoutrements, fifty barrels of powder, and a proportional quantity of lead and Hints, will be forwarded to Major Habersham, with all expedition, to be by him forwarded to Augusta, to the care of Major Forsyth, under the provisions of the former quantity. As it does not yet appear that the whole force of the Creek nation is disposed for, or engaged in, hostility, it is considered that the above force will be sufficient for the object designated. As it is to be apprehended the objects of the Western frontiers may, notwithstanding the treaty, require the energy of all the regular troops in that quarter, and, also, of the recruits, who are marching that way, it has been considered that no part of them could be sent to Georgia, in the present instance. But, if the treaty should be suc-cesful, or, if the troops should be victorious, it may be otherwise in future. The case of a serious invasion of Georgia, by large bodies of Indians, must be referred to the provisions of the constitution. But the proceeding with efficacy, in future, (the necessity of which appears but too probable) requires, absolutely', that no unnecessary expense shall be incurred in the mean time. It has been heretofore considered that block houses afford but a very imperfect security to a frontier, and nothing has occurred lately to induce a contrary impression. They serve to cover little more than the persons who are actually within them. The garrisons are, necessarily, too small to afford any considerable party to sally out; and the experience of Indian warfare evinces that the savages soon learn the force within, ana either despise or avoid it. It lias been found, by practice, in Kentucky, and along the whole Western frontiers, that a few scouts, or spies, who are formed of the hardiest and best hunters, and who shall be advanced a few miles of the settlements, traversing incessantly, at right angles, the paths most used by the Indians, are better calculated to give the alarm to the settlers, and secure them from danger, than any other species of troops whatever. And, in order that nothing on the part of the Government should be wanting, to induce the best frontier citizen to undertake this service, the high rate of five-sixths of a dollar, per day, has been allowed to each scout. Two men, or scouts, will cover an extent of ten or twelve miles. They are to be mustered upon oath, at the time of their entering and leaving the service: this is essential, in order to prevent abuse. Indeed, it is indispensable that all troops who are to be paid by the General Government, should be mustered in the same manner, by some respectable magistrate, or high officer of the militia. If your Excellency should have any map, which may be depended upon, of the Creek country, a copy of it will be of service. I have the honor to be, &c. Governor Telfair. [Note.—The enclosures in the proceeding letter of the 30th of May, were, a schedule of the pay, established by law, for the troops in the service of the United States, and an extract of an act, entitled " An act for making farther and more effectual provision for the protection of the frontiers of the United States,” passed the 5th day of March, 1792.] War Department, June 10th, 1795. Sir: Your letter of the 8th of May has been received, and submitted to the President of the United States. The State of Georgia being invaded, or in imminent danger thereof, the measures taken by your Excellency may be considered as indispensable. You are the judge of the degree of danger, and of its duration, and wall undoubtedly proportion the defence to exigencies. The President, however, expresses his confidence that, as soon as the danger, which has induced you to call out so large a body of troops, shall have subsided, yon will reduce the troops to the existing state of things; indeed, to the number mentioned in my letter of the 30th ultimo, duplicates of which have been forwarded, provided the safety of the frontiers will admit the measure. The articles mentioned in the enclosed invoice have been shipped this day, on board of the schooner Peggy. Captain Skelly, consigned to John Habersham, of Savannah, who has been directed to take your orders as to their further disposition. The remainder will be forwarded as soon as prepared, so as to complete the number and quantity mentioned in my letter of the 30th ultimo. As a general and open Creek war, in the present crisis of European affairs, would be a complicated evil of great magnitude, the President of the United States is anxiously desirous of avoiding such an event: for this purpose, he has again directed Mr. Seagrove to repair to the heart of the Creek country, provided the measure can be.attempted with any reasonable degree of safety. If a few of the most violent of the neprcdators]could be put to death, it ought, in the present conjuncture, to be considered as satisfactory. I enclose you a copy of the letter which has been written to Mr. Seagrove on this occasion. I also enclose you a copy of a letter to the Governor of South Carolina, in case circumstances should require you to call for aid from that. State. I have the honor to be, &c. Governor Tei.fair. [enclosure. ] Invoice of Public Stores shipped for Georgia- 50 chests containing No 1. to 50—500 muskets. 500 bayonets. 500 scabbards. 240 gun-worms. 200 brushes and wires. 4 boxes containing 50,000 musket flints. 50 boxes musket balls, each containing 100 lbs. 36 pigs lead, 2 tons lOcwt. lqr. 9lbs. 10 barrels 100 lbs. each. 7 ,, 26 half do. 50 lbs. each. 5 s r lle'* ~'J°° lb'* War Department. July 19//;. 1793. Sir: . '   . Your Excellency's letters, of the 12th and 18th ultimo, have been received, and submitted to the President of the United States. The reasons given, by his order, in my letter of the 20th of May last, still operate to prevent’any departure from the line of conduct therein specified: and it is to be hoped, from no information having been received of any late depredations of the Creeks, that they may be brought to a sense of their crimes, and be prevailed upon to give up. at least, some of the authors thereof. The swords and equipments for the hundred horse could not be completed by the manufacturers until this time. They are now sent, together with the arms, accoutrements, and ammunition, contained in the enclosed list. The public have no horsemen's swords in store. Some are in train of being mounted, which will be finished with all possible expedition. As soon as one hundred are mounted, application will be made to the President for permission to forward them to Georgia. This letter will be delivered by Captain Constant Freeman, who is ordered into Georgia as an agent of this department, to regulate the issues of public property to the troops who may be in the service of the United States, and to prevent or remedy any abuses which exist, or may arise hereafter. 1 have the honor to be, &c. Governor Telfair. War Department. September 5th, 1793. Sir: Your Excellency's letter of the 13th of last month, covering the proceedings of a council of war, composed of the general officers of the militia of Georgia, lias been received, and submitted to the President of the United States. As an offensive expedition against certain towns of the Creek nation, of the nature, and under the circumstances, you mention, is a subject of great and complicated importance to the United States, it has engaged the serious consideration of the President, and, as the. deliberate result thereof, I am directed to inform you, that lie utterly disapproves the meakire at this time. The following are among the reasons on which he grounds his disapprobation: First. Such an expedition is unauthorized by law. The right of declaring war, and making provision for its support, belong to Congress. . No such declaration has been made against the Creeks, and. until this shall be done, all offensive expeditions against their towns will be unlawful, and the expenses thereof cannot be paid by the Government, unless a special provision should be made by law for the purpose? which, under the circumstances of the case, may not be very probable. Although cases may exist to render a pursuit of Indians who have been invading the frontiers, into their own country, without any formal declaration of war. necessary and proper, yet the present does not appear to be of that nature. It is not understood that any late invasion of Georgia has taken place, excepting by small predatory parties, and of those, it does not appear that any of considerable moment has happened since the month of May or June last. On the contrary, it would appear.'by the written messages sent by the Creeks to Mr. Seagrove. the bearers of . which were killed on the 30th of June, that a great portion of the Creeks are disposed for peace. Copies of these messages are herein enclosed. Secondly. Such an expedition would be opposed by the present state of affairs, as connected with European politics, and the peace with the other powerful Southern tribes of Indians. The connexion of the Spaniards, by treaty, with the Creeks, is probably known to you. Circumstances arising out of this connexion are now the subject of negotiation with the court of Madrid. A premature invasion of the'' Creeks might, it is to be apprehended, be attended with other consequences than mere imputations against our good faith, and, in the present state of Europe, Spain might probably derive any assistance of which she might stand in need, of the Powers with whom she is acting. The hostilities of a part of the Cherokee nation had nearly, or altogether, subsided, and expectations were entertained, which were conceived to be well grounded, that the United States were upon the point of amicably terminating all differences with that tribe. But, in the month of June, some lawless parties of whites, contrary to the orders of Government, made an irruption into the peaceable part of the Cherokee nation, and murdered some of our best friends, who were assembled for the purpose of receiving friendly overtures from Governor Blount, and communicating the same through the nation. This outrage has been succeeded by others less successful, but not, perhaps, less criminal. Endeavors are making to bring the perpetrators of these disgraceful proceedings to punishment, but there are too many reasons to doubt of any adequate effect. Attempts will also be made to satisfy the Gherokees for the injury they have sustained, but the success is highly questionable. If to these acts should be added, an expedition against the Creeks, in which it vvould be difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish friends from foes, a gene ra I con led e racy of all the Southern tribes may be dreaded. The late unsuccessful attempts to make peace with the Northern Indians ought to render us cautious of extending the war. The communications which have heretofore been made to you, in the name of the President, have all been contrary to any offensive expeditions into the Creek country. When Congress shall meet, the subject may then be submitted to their consideration, unless circumstances should render it unnecessary or improper. If the" measure dmuld then be authorized, it would require that arrangements of means adequate to the end should be provided, upon economical principles. The President of the United States, therefore, deems the intended expedition against the Creeks as unauthorized by law, as contrary to the present state of affairs, and as contrary to the instructions heretofore given; and he has directed me to express to your Excellency his expectations that it will not be undertaken. The letter of the 10th of June last, written by order of the President, to the Governor of South Carolina, requesting his aid to Georgia in case its frontier should be seriously invaded by large bodies of Creeks, is considered as essentially different from requiring aid of South Carolina to invade the Creeks. A letter, therefore, has been written, by order of the President, to the Governor of South Carolina, to prevent any mistake upon this subject. Another has also been vyritten to the agent for furnishing supplies to the troops in Georgia, at the expense of the United States, copies of both of which are herein enclosed. 47 * Letters from the Secretary of JVar to his Excellency the Governor of South Carolina. War Department, U)th June, 1793. Sir: The President of the United States has received authentic information from Georgia of the unprovoked and cruel outrage of parties of Creeks upon the frontiers of that State; and, as it is at present uncertain to what degree the evils complained of may lie extended,'the President has directed me to request your Excellency, that, in case the frontiers of Georgia should be seriously invaded by large bodies of hostile Indians, you would, upon the request of the Governor of the said State, direct such parties of the militia of the State of South Carolina to march to the assistance of Georgia, as the case may require, for the expenses of which the United States will be responsible. The militia to provide themselves with provisions to the places of rendezvous, which shall be appointed by the Governor of Georgia, where arrangements for further supply will be made by the contractors for the continental troops. I have the honor to be, &c. Governor Moultrie. War Department, September 5th, 1793. Sir: 1 have the honor to enclose to your Excellency the copy of a letter from the Governor of Georgia of the 13th ultimo, enclosing a copy of the proceedings of a council of war of the general officers of the militia of said State, and also an answer to the said letter, of this date. The letter which was addressed to you on the 10th of the month of June (a triplicate of which is enclosed) was of so very different a nature from requesting assistance to invade the Creeks, that the President of the United States is persuaded that you would not consider it, in any degree, as sanctioning such a measure, and, therefore, that you will refrain, at this time, from affording the assistance of South Carolina to the proposed expedition* I have the honor to be, &c. Governor Moultrie. Letters from the Secretary of JVar to James Seagrove, temporary agent to the Creek Nation. War Department, 50th April, 1793. Sir: Your letters to the President of the United States and myself, of the 17th and 21st ultimo, have been received. The information therein contained was very unexpected indeed, considering the purport of your former communications. If, after heavy expenses are incurred by conferences, the consequences are hostilities, instead of tranquillity, the propriety of such conferences will be justly questioned. It is conceived, that a residence within the nation is the only solid principle of conciliation. On this ground, and your consent to go into the nation, it is expected that you will, if the measure can, with any safety, be adopted, repair to the Upper as well as to the Dower Creeks. The former still permit the depredations of their young people against the Cumberland settlements; perhaps, as the Chickasaw's are now at war with them, they will find other employment for their young men. Governor Blount has transmitted us recent information of this event. All your letters which have been received, from time to time, have been laid before the President of the United States, and certain parts, relative to your conference, were laid before the Legislature. From the complexion of the robbery at your brother’s store, it would appear, at this distance, to have been the work of a predatory party, rather than any fixed plan of the nation, and the more so, as no information of any depredations have been received from the Oconee, or in that .quarter. 1 have the honor to be, &.c. To James Seagrove. Esq. War Department, June 10th, 1793. Sir: The last letters from you were dated the 17th and 21st March last, which were acknowledged on the 30th April, since which we have been extremely alarmed, by information from other quarters, at the depredations of the Creeks. It is of the highest importance that some person should repair into the heart of the country, as well among the Upper as Lower Creeks, and, as your previous knowledge of their characters, as well as your station, render you the most proper person, it is the positive orders of the President of the United States that you forthwith perform this business, having made previous arrangements for your safety. It is understood that the White Lieutenant and the Mad Dog, of the Upper Creeks, and the White Bird king of the Cussetahs, are highly desirous for peace. It is, therefore, probable that you could make an appointment so as to meet them at some place not far from the Rock Landing, so as to escort you into the country.'The justice and moderation of the United States are so conspicuous towards the Creeks, that arguments may be multiplied without end to prove that our interest is reciprocal, and that the existence of the Creeks, as a nation, must depend upon their being at peace with us. That, in order to this, the most notorious of the late depredators ought to be given up to us, put to death by themselves, or driven out of the nation. The latter idea is mentioned merely in case the others cannot be complied with, and as a substitute for more energetic justice. The state of European politics renders it of high importance that the United States should be at peace with the Creeks. Exert yourself, therefore, to the utmost to this effect, always being assured that your conduct in pursuit thereof will be highly acceptable to the President of the United States, by whose special commands I write this letter. I have the honor to be, &c. James Seagrove, Esq. War Department, September \6th, 1793. Sir: Your several letters of the 19th and 30th ot April, 24th May, 14th June, 6th and 31st July, and 4th, 6th, 13th. and 17th August last, with their several enclosures, have been received, and submitted to the President of the United States. As far as has been discovered, no zeal has been wanting on your part to quiet the Indians. The defect is the external instead of the internal application which has been practised. The orders, however, have been so explicit on this head, that much more need not be urged, especially as you seem impressed with the necessity of the measure, and are about to execute it. ...... I can, however, say, writh entire truth, that, if you do go into the nation, and bring it to a just sense of the friendship and kindness of the United States, you will do an essential service to your country, and which will be highly acceptable to the President of the United States. Perhaps the expedient would be a good one, if you could obtain about a dozen of the real chiefs of the Upper and of the Low'er Creeks to come on this winter to see the President and Congress, in order to brighten the chain of friendship. If this idea should succeed, it ought, if possible. THE CREEKS, CHEROKEES, AM) OTHERS. 367 to be avoided bringing the same people who were here in the year 1790. They ought to be the most eminent, such as the White Lieutenant, the Mad Dog, and other great chiefs. Blit this arrangement ought to be made within the heart of the nation. If they should agree to the proposition, it would have a good effect to avert the impending storm. I have written a letter to the Governor of Georgia, expressing, in the most unequivocal manner, the. President’s disapprobation of all offensive expeditions against the Creeks, as being unauthorized by law, contrary to the present state of affairs, and contrary to the instructions heretofore given. Letters from the. Secretary of War to Major Henry Gaither, commanding the troops of the United States in the State of Georgia. War Department, 29th Sprit. 1793. Sin: From the representations of his Excellency the Governor of Georgia, founded upon the information of Mr. Seagroye, and others, it would appear that the Creeks had recently committed depredations upon the frontiers, and were disposed for war. As to the affair at Trader's Dili, it would appear at this distance rather the robbery of some marauders, than the result of any design of the Creeks generally; at the same time it is confessed that this view may be dictated partly by the hope that the fact was so. The peaceable Creeks who were at or near Colerain, would certainly give it this complexion. But, in case of real danger, the country ought to be protected by the militia. The propriety of the custom of calling out cavalry or horsemen, may justly be questioned. The expense would probably far exceed the value of the services between them and the foot militia. The Western frontiers experience great benefit, and have great confidence in a species of rangers called scouts. These are the most expert and hardy woodsmen, and upon whose judgment reliance may be placed. They are generally two of them together, and they traverse the country at right angles to the paths used by the Indians. I poti discovery of Indian tracks, they alarm the neighboring country, and, by their vigilance, predatory parties of Indians are made to suffer severely for their mischief. W ould it not be proper to adopt the patrols? Six of them would be equal to the watching an extent of twenty miles of frontier. They have been allowed, in order to induce the service of the best hunters, the high sum of five-sixths of a dollar per nay. If you should order any of these into the service, they must be mustered upon their entering and quitting the service. The pay rolls of the militia horse, ordered into service by Major Call, and which you transmitted to this office some time ago, are not supported by any muster rolls. These are essential to the adjustment of the accounts. No species of troops are to be in service at the expense of the United States, but lliosc which shall have been mustered upon oath on entering and quitting the service. But more information is required as to the reason of the said companies having been ordered out. It is necessary to know by whose requisition, and upon what occasion, and the cause of their continuance. 1 request that you will minutely inquire into this business, and state the result, at large, of your investigation. Your letters of the 13th January, and 10th February, have been received. If the State of Georgia should be invaded, the Government will, of course, order the militia out to repel it. If circumstances of danger should, upon mature rellectiou, induce you to request of the Governor that some of the militia should be ordered into service for the security of the frontiers, you will do it accordingly, taking care always that the numbers so requested are not more than the nature of the case may require, and that they arc again dismissed as soon as the danger is over. But you cannot do a more acceptable service than to endeavor, to the utmost of your power, to induce the Indians to continue the peace, and to calm every attempt to raise a storm. Let this idea govern all your conduct. Let me know constantly of every transaction of importance. 1 have the honor to be, &c. Major Gaither. War Department, June 10th, 1793. Sir: Your letters of the 17th and 19th April, and the Gth of May, have been received, with their several enclosures, and submitted to the President of the United States. The inlormation which has been received of the depredations of the Creeks, is extremely mortifying, no just cause for this conduct being known to the Government. It would appear, from a letter of the Governor of Georgia, that he has called into service a considerable body of militia, and encamped them at Shoulderbone. It is, however, sincerely to be hoped that the necessity for this measure will be of short continuance. But the Governor has been authorized, on behalf of the President of the United States, to call into service, in addition to the regular troops, one hundred horse, and one hundred militia, with the following officers: the horse, one captain, two lieutenants, two cornets, six sergeants, six corporals, one farrier, one trumpeter, and eighty-six dragoons; and the infantry, one captain, one lieutenant, one ensign, six sergeants, six corporals, one drum, one fife, and eighty-six privates; to be engaged to serve until the first of June, 1794, and to act under your orders. The pay of your detachment will be remitted by Captain Constant Freeman, who will go to Georgia in the capacity of public agent. This money will be issued agreeably to the regulations pointed out by the accountant of this Department. The clothing of your detachment for the present year shall be shortly forwarded to Savannah. You will still continue to be governed by the principles of moderation in calling’mililia into service, as heretofore, in case circumstances should authorize you to call into service an additional number, to the before mentioned one hundred horse and one hundred foot. I have the honor, &c. Major Gaither. War Department, July 17th, 1793. Sir: The bearer, Captain Constant Freeman, has been appointed an agent of the War Department for the troops in Georgia. The particular duties assigned him are contained in his instructions, a copy of which is enclosed. You are hereby requested to afford Captain Freeman all the assistance in your power he may need, in the exercise of his duty. It is of the utmost importance that every part of the administration of the public interests should be conducted with a truly republican economy. 1 request that you keep up a constant correspondence with this office of all things relatively to your command. 1 have the honor to be, Sic. Major Gaither. Letters from the Governor of Georgia to the Secretary of War. State House, Augusta, 3d April, 1793. Sir: I have received intelligence, of a very disagreeable nature, from James Seagrove, Esquire, agent of Indian a flairs S. D. U. S. The following are extracts of his letter, dated St. Mary’s, 17 th March, 1793: “A party of Creek Indians, m number about thirty, from the lower part of Flint river, entered the store of Robert Seagrove, at Trader's Ilill, on this liver, on the evening of the eleventh instant, and, in the most brutal and savage manner, murdered Mr. John Fleming, the store-keeper, and Mr. Daniel MotFet; a man of the name of Upton is missing, supposed tube taken off a prisoner.” “Thursday, the 14th, I received advice that some people had been killed the day before, about six miles from that place. There being now twenty two volunteers, well mounted, we proceeded, without a moment’s delay, and, in less than an hour, came where we found three men, and a little girl, murdered, and one of the men scalped. These unfortunate people appear to have been coming in to settle in this country; they had a wagon with their property—the horses carried off by the murderers; and it is thought a woman and child, who are missing, are prisoners. From the defenceless situation of the Southern frontier, the inhabitants of the counties of Glynn and Camden, must remove from their settlements, if speedy and sufficient aid be not afforded.” I have made a temporary arrangement, until the President may make sucli dispositions as he shall judge adequate to the emergency. Whilst I thus point out the situation of those counties, I must further remark, that every quarter of the extended frontier of this Slate is open to similar outrages. I mention this in order that the President may take the general defence of the said frontier uuder consideration. The militia remaining subject to the call of the commandant of the Federal troops, and not being drawn into service, upon pressing occasions, has abated the confidence of the people in Government; and, should a general pressure take place, (which, from the present aspect of affairs, I have reason to apprehend) I must, in a short period, be reduced to the dangerous expedient of impressing, and this, in my opinion, is to be avoided, as much as possible, by every Government. I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, EDWARD TELFAIR. The Secretary of War. State House, Augusta, 9th April, 1793. Sir: Your communication of the 9th March last, I have had the pleasure of receiving, and feel a peculiar satisfaction in contemplating the prospect of aid, both with respect to the establishment of a magazine of arms, and, also, the arrangements lor calling in the militia of the neighboring States, in the event of general hostility; and I hope that a farther relief, by the establishment of magazines of provisions, wall also take place. You have, enclosed, extracts of the information come to hand, since my last letter to you, from which, you will readily perceive that the depredations of the Creeks are of a very serious nature. 1 have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant. EDWARD TELFAIR. The Secretary of War. Extract from a deposition by eleven inhabitants of Glynn comity, dated 11 Ih March, 1793. The inhabitants of Glynn county have been robbed and plundered very considerably, by the Creek Indians, who are, at this time, in a state of actual hostility against said inhabitants, committing daily the most horrid robberies on them; insomuch, that, at this moment, they conceive almost all the cattle and horses of said county, being a very great number, to be in the possession of said Creek Indians. The Creek Indians have been treated kindly and hospitably by the inhabitants of said county, and in no wise injured by said inhabitants. From the files of the Executive Department. W. URQUHART, S. E. I). Extract of a letter from Mr. Cooke to the Honorable Judge Houston, dated Williamsburg, 21s/ March, 1793. The settlers on this side the river are not rich; notwithstanding, the number of cattle taken already, as far as we can ascertain, is nearly two thousand head. From the files of (he Executive Department. W. URQUHART, S. E. D. Savannah, 22r/ April, 1793. Sir: Some late accounts received from the southward, regarding the Creek Indians, would appear somewhat fluttering, were it not well understood that the policy of those people is to disavow, as hi nation, all murders and depredations. Mr. Seagrove has communicated that a promise has been made, by some ol the head-men,?to surrender the murderers, and return (lie captured property; those are measures not to be expected; perhaps, some part of the property may he returned, and, if so, it will extend to iny most sanguine expectations. The President will, no doubt, take a serious review of the situation of the frontier inhabitants of this State, and afford a speedy relief, either by the adoption of measures for negotiation, or by coercive ones, to compel them to a due observance of amity; and such is the aspect of European affairs,that it may perhaps be necessary to have refer-eiice to them, in regulating the immediate system of policy with the savages: be the result what it may, a due observance of the sense of the President, on the'subject of peace or war, shall be attended to on my part. Tiid linns and ammunition mentioned in your last are not yet arrived. It is my very earnest desire that two thousand stand of arms, in addition to those expected, with a proportionable quantity oi ammunition, be forwarded as early as possible. I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, EDWARD TELFAIR. The Secretary of War. Savannah, April 29, 1793. Sir: Since my last to you, dated the 22d instant, I have received the intelligence contained in the enclosed extracts, viz: From the deposition of Benjamin Harrison and Francis Pugh, and from the information of Joseph Dabbs, there is little expectation of avoiding a general war with the Creeks and Cherokees. Blood has been spilt in every direction on the extended frontier of this State, and one man killed in the State of South Carolina. I have directed fourteen block-houses to be erected, each to be garrisoned by one commissioned officer, two sergeants, and seventeen privates. Those stations extern! from St. Mary’s river to the river Tugulo; which, with the federal stations, may serve as a temporary defence, adding thereto troops of horse, to act on the spur of the occasion. 1 shall follow this plan of operation until measures be taken by the President for the better protection of the unfortunate settlers on this exposed b onder. If I find the pressure become great, the opposition must keep pace with the several emergencies. I shall make the necessary communications to the Governor of the State of South Carolina, in order to obtain aid, as I have every reason to hope that provident measures have been taken to that effect. Should general hostilities continue, it will be well to give Governor lijount the needful instructions, to cause a co-operation on his part. I have the honor to be, sir. your most obedient servant. EDWARD TELFAIR. The Secretary of War. Extracts from the deposition of Benjamin Harrison and Francis Pugh, of Washington county. “On the 18th April the Indians killed William, the son of Col. Pugh, and had taken Dick, a negro man of Col. Pugh’s, and shot said William Pugh through the body, and two scalps were taken off'his head." "There tire four horses missing.” Extracts from the information of Joseph Dabbs, of Franklin county. "That, on Tuesday, the 22d April, he saw General Clarke at the town of Washington, Wilkes county, who informed him that six persons were murdered by a party of Indians, at or near the Skull Shoals of Oconee, in Greene county, on Monday last, about 10 o'clock in the morning.” Taken from the files of the Executive, this 29th April. 1793. Attest. W. URQUHART, S. E. D. State House, Augusta, May 8, 1793. Sir; Such is the havoc and carnage making by the savages, in everv direction on our frontier, that retaliation by open war becomes the only resort. The horrid barbarities committed (some recitals of which the enclosures contain) have impelled me to cause the additional aid of six troops of horse to be drawn into service, to range on the frontiers, and also to establish a camp at Shoulderbone. to consist of three battalion companies; and I have directed a general officer to repair to the said camp, to be reinforced as circumstances may require. The late respite is only to be attributed to the height of the waiters, and, so soon as they subside, I have nothing to expect but an immediate renewal of the like barbarities. Every measure in my power to repel and annoy shall be taken, and, as far as means will extend, shall be carried into effect. Let no idea of peace so tar amuse as to divert the necessary and immediate preparations for war. Every information you may receive tending thereto must proceed from ignorance or design. The field is now taken; the people must be protected, and a failure, in this juncture, will affect the operations of Government in a serious degree. The agent for supplies has afforded much relief by furnishing the men called into service, and, on a continuation of such supplies, will depend the fate of Georgia. I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient humble servant, EDWARD TELFAIR. The Secretary of JVar. Extracts from the deposition of Michael Cupps and Nancy Smith, taken by Elihu Lyman, Esquire, one of the justices, of the peace for the county of Greene, dated 23d April. 1793. " Michael Cupps was near the Oconee river, on Monday, the 22d instant, and heard a gun fired, and saw about thirty Indians firing upon and massacreing Richard Thresher, two children, and a negro wench; at the same time the wife of the deceased, with an infant, ran and leaped into the river, the Indians firing upon her as she fled. The woman was found alive, scalped, wounded in both her thighs, and her right breast with balls, and stabbed in her left breast with a knife, her left arm cut nearly off', as is supposed with a tomahawk, of which wounds she died in about twenty-four hours. The infant was found drowned, without any marks of violence upon it. Nancy Smith deposed, the number of Indians was, in her opinion, nearly one hundred.” Taken from the files ol the Executive. Attest, W. URQUHART, S. E. D. Extract of a letter from Andrew Pickens, Esquire, to General Clarke. Hopewell, April 28, 1793. 1 received this morning, by express, from a friend, that the whole of the Creek nation, except the Cussetahs, had declared war against the United States. That John Galphin, with five hundred warriors, had set out, about sixteen days ago, to join the Seminoles, and was to fall on the southern parts of Georgia; but my information leads me to believe that they intend to make a blow all along the frontiers of Georgia and this State. Taken from the files of the Executive Department. Attest, W. URQUHART. S. £. D. State House, Augusta, June 12, 1793. 8m; Our frontier settlers still continue in a state of alarm: for, notwithstanding the waters still remain high, the cessations from Indian murders, and depredations of every kind, are of so short duration, that the inhabitants have not a moment’s security. The number of militia draw n into actual service, in consequence ot the harassed situation of the said settlers, is, by much, greater than I expected; but there is no appearance of my being able to relax: on the contrary, I shall be under the necessity to order additional reinforcements. I have just received a letter from General Twiggs, elated west side of the Oconee, the 8th inst. which mentions that a detachment of about seven hundred volunteers will move some distance into the enemy’s country. The result of this will be transmitted, for the information of the President of the United States. There will he a necessity for additional supplies of arms: a thousand swords and two hundred and fifty pairs of pistols would be a most seasonable supply. I shall be very happy to have communicated to me the general system that may be adopted by the President of the United States, as early as the nature of the case will, by any means, admit. I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, EDWARD TELFAIR. The Secretary of War. State House, Augusta, June 18, 1793. Sir: Agreeably to my letter to you of the 12th inst. the result of the going out of a detachment of volunteers I have now to communicate. They proceeded on to the Oakmulgee, about forty miles distant from the Oconee, and, from the circumstances of their provisions being nearly exhausted, many horses tired, and other adverse events, they returned on the 12th. The conduct and prudence exercised by General Twiggs, who commanded, as well as some objects which he had in view, will appear by the extracts herewith transmitted. 1 have the honor to be, sir. your most obedient servant, EDW. TELFAIR. The Secretary of JVar. Extracts of a letter from General Twiggs, dated l$th June. 1793. " On the morning of the 11th instant, an additional reason was given why the troops could not proceed, to wit: that there was not one day’s provision on hand. “ If we had gone on, in all human probability some of our troops would have come up with and killed some of the Cussetah nation, hunting in small parties: such a proceeding would have united the towns, who are now friendly disposed, and produceu very evil consequences.” From the files ot the Executive. Attest, W. URQUHART, Secretary E. I). Extract of an after-order of the 1 Ith June, by General Twiggs. “ That the detachment of cavalry ordered this morning to be in readiness, to march without delay, under the command of Brigadier General Irwin, to the place where Tom’s path crosses Flint river, near the Buzzard Roost, from thence to the little village, known by the name of the Uchees, twelve miles below, and take, if possible, the head-men of that town, and tiring them safe to camp: and to be cautious that no damage is done to any of the persons, or property of the Indians of that town: and to give them every assurance of our peaceable disposition towards them. From the files of the Executive. Attest, W. URQUHART, Secretary E. D. State House, Augusta, 24th July, 1793. Sir: Immediately on the return of the volunteers. General Twiggs forwarded a letter to Mr. Barnard, who resides on Flint river, explanatory of his designs when he entered the Creek nation. The messenger was a sensible halt breed, who remained some time in the said nation, as well to receive Mr. Barnard’s answer, as to gain every information in his power. From the general conduct of the Creek Indians, it would appear that they are not confident in their own strength, nor generally, at this period, disposed to war: that part of the nation who profess amity, still adhere to their former application for our people to go forward, in force, to destroy the five inimical towns, who have committed murders and outrages. My former opinion, on this subject, admits of no change. By a sudden stroke at those hostile towns, we will, in all probability, effect a restoration of property, as well as the liberation of unfortunate captives from among us, now in that nation. To destroy their towns and crops, and possess ourselves of prisoners, will ensure peace on a solid basis; and no other principle can be of any duration. A half-breed, named Cornell, going with some despatches to Mr. Seagrove, was unfortunately killed by a detachment of horse, that was out in Camden county: the particulars I have not, as yet. been satisfactorily informed of. In order to guard against future violences of this nature, I have directed all despatches by flags, from the nation, to be transmitted to me. I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant. EDWARD TELFAIR. The Secretary of War. State House, Augsuta, 30th July, 1793. Sir; Your communication of the 10th ultimo, w ith its enclosures, came to hand on the 25th instant, in consequence whereof some measures have been taken towards effecting the objects therein contained. The President shall be advised of any movements that may take place, in the event of the necessary resources being obtained. I flatter myself that the system to be pursued will, in the end, prove a saving to the United States, as well as bring about a peace on permanent principles. I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, EDWARD TELFAIR. State House, Augusta, loth August, 1793. Sir: Since my last letter to you, dated the 30th ultimo, 1 have had convened a council of general officers, upon the subject of reducing the five inimical towns in the Creek nation. The propositions, with their answers, I do myself the honor of transmitting, for the purpose of being laid before the President of the United States. If the agent for supplies can draw forth reosurces, 1 flatter myself the objects may be accomplished, on a scale more circumscribed. (A map of the Creek nation, furnished by the Surveyor-general of this State, is also enclosed.) I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, EDWARD TELFAIR. The Secretary of War. Government House, Augusta, Thursday, 8th August, 1793. In conformity to notification, the general officers attended. At a council of war, held by order of the Commander-in-Chief, in Augusta, on the 8th August, 1793. Present, The Commander-in-Chief. Major Generals, Twiggs, Jackson, Clarke. Brigadier Generals, Glascock, Morrison, Clarke, Irwin, Gunn.'His Excellency the Governor, having considered it necessary, for the safety and protection of the citizens of this State, to undertake, on the part of the United States, an expedition against the nostile towns of the Creek nation, proposed the following questions: Question. What season will be most proper to carry this expedition into execution, and what time shall the draughts from the different brigades be ordered to rendezvous at camp? Answer. The fall: on the 15th October. ljues. Where will be the most eligible spot to draw the army to a point? Ans. At or near the Oconee river, where Tom’s path crosses the same. Qiies. What number of foot and horse ought to be ordered to camp, for the objects that may arise in the intended expedition? Jns. At least two thousand horse, and three thousand foot. Ques. Shall the militia he draughted into two divisions: and what time shall they serve, after their arrival in camp? Jins. Yes: a term not exceeding sixty days. Ques. Are you of opinion that it will he requisite to direct the Federal troops, now in this State, to be held in readiness, to form a junction with the militia, intended to he called out, if necessary? Jns. Yes. Ques. Will it he expedient to notify the Governor of South Carolina to hold in readiness such a number ot horse and foot, as the Governor of this State may think requisite.: and to march, so as to he at camp in Georgia, at such time, and place, ns may appear necessary and proper? Jns. Yes. Ques. Arc you of opinion that the object of the forces, that may he drawn into actual service, ought to he directed against the inimical towns only? Jns. Yes. Ques. Will it be advisable to direct the officers and men to provide themselves with provisions, until they arrive at their respective brigade parades? Jns. Yes. Ques. Will it he advisable to cause volunteer cavalry, only, to he drawn to camp, from the counties of Camden, Glynn, and Liberty, and the draught of the infantry in said counties he held in readiness, to march to such posts or places as the emergency of the case may require? Jns. Yes. Ques. Will it be requisite to give assurances to the officers and men that do embody, and perform their tour of duty, on the intended expedition, that the Governor will use his influence with the General Assembly, at their next meeting, to make a compensation, in addition to the pay allowed by the General Government? Jns. Yes. Attest, .1. MER1 WETHER, J. 1). E. State House, Auousta, 6th September, 1793. Sir: Your letter of the 19th July was handed me by Captain Freeman: its import is of great concern to this republic, and ought to have met with no impediment in coming to hand. In consequence of the contractor having bonded, with security, to furnish supplies for the militia, to act against the hostile Creek towns, a few days since I transmitted to the agent for supplies, a copy of the bond, with instructions to place in the hands of the contractor any funds he could apply towards the intended operations. So far I have progressed, and am now compelled to desist from pursuing the only measure, in my opinion, that can give ease and security to the persons and property of the unfortunate settlers in this extended frontier. It will appear, from the talk of John Galphin, and the affidavit of Wiliam Jones, herewith transmitted, together with taking into view the recent circumstances of Harrison's fort being fired upon, and depredations being committed in the neighborhood of the fort at St. .Sevilla, that hostilities have not subsided, nor can it be expected that they will soon cease. Were the superintendent even in the nation, the United States can have no representation there, until the savages are brought to understand that.the arms of the Union are to be directed against them. Where is the channel through which they can “be brought to a sense of their crimes, and be prevailed upon to give up at least some of the authors thereof?" flow are the unfortunate captives, now among them, to he restored? and by what means will the vast amount of plunder taken from our citizens be recovered—even admitting that the feelings of humanity were not awake in the breasts of the near connexions of the women and children who have been butchered by savage brutality? 1 say, when I draw these gloomy reflections into view, the hope of peace and safety to the inhabitants of Georgia is very distant. The people have an indubitable claim on Government for protection, and the establishment of a paper peace can be of no duration, and, it is such, as the people of this country can have no dependence upon, without previous measures being taken to compel a due observance thereof. The present system of defence is deemed not more than adequate for the frontier settlements; and, should the proposed alteration take place. 1 have little doubt but the three southern counties, viz. Liberty. Glynn, and Camden, will be entirely depopulated by a total removal of their inhabitants. 1 have the honor to be. sir. your most obedient servant, EDWARD TELFAIR. The Secretary of War. John Galpliia to General Irwin. 1\ Council, C'owelas, list Jugust, 1793. Sir: Feeling with the greatest concern the hostilities and bloodshed which has been produced by the differences subsisting between us in all parts of our borders; we now otter, in behalf of onr nation, towards terminating the present war, and adjusting such terms as may decide forever the matters now in dispute. You well know, the cause of the discontent with us has ever been, the limits of our country; consider that we have retreated from the plains to the woods, from thence to the mountains; but no limits, established by nature or by compact, have stayed the ambitious, or satisfied your people. It is our determination to adhere to a line fairly agreed on, but such agreement must be by the legislative body of the nation, and not a clandestine bargain, with a few chiefs, that have no manner of right to dispose of any lands; such transactions only regenerate in fraud—always lead to animosities and bloodshed. You well know that no sovereignty was ceded to you at the peace ot 1763, except such lands as evas purchased by bis Majesty's subjects by solemn treaty. And we are now, as we always have been, an independent and free people; knowing this, and our abilities to maintain our independence, we view with astonishment the steps taken by the United States to rob us of our rights. We actually see our whole country laid out into districts, without considering us to have any kind of claim or right, which nature has bestowed on us, and of which oppression or prejudice alone can attempt to rob us. Consider well, now, the business on band, and let us know your intention as soon as possible. 1 have given strict orders to our warriors, to commit no hostilities on the other side of the Oconee; and shall expect that you will give out the same to your people; but, should your intentions be dishonest, know that we have still warriors sufficient to stain your land with blood, and that it is our determination to sell our lives with our country. Peace is best for all men, therefore we desire you will let us know, as soon as possible, at the Cowetas; where all public business will be transacted as soon as may be. We see that numbers of people wish to get possession of our lands, and are framing plans for that purpose. This we see plainly, by a treaty held with a James Scagrove, at St. Mary’s, last November, who called himself agent appointed by Congress; if so, why did he not come into the nation, where matters might have been long settled, and we might have been in peace and friendship? Hut no, he sent to Timothy Barnard, who made him believe be bad great influence in this country. Our chiefs are too well acquainted with that man, Barnard, to adhere to any thing lie may say. He cannot, nor any trader dare, give out any talks in our council, nor should it be supposed that we should put any confidence in such men; and am, sir, &c. A true copy, drawn August 26th, 1793. Taken from the files of the Executive. Attest, W. URQUHART, S. E. 1). JARED IRWIN. State of Georgia, (f ushington county: Personally appeared before me, William Jones, who, being sworn on the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God, saith, that he hath, for some months past, resided among the Upper Creeks; that, generally speaking, the majority of them seemed inclinable to peace until the death of Cornell, which circumstance has exasperated his family, in particular, who are determined, if desired satisfaction is not obtained, to take it themselves. There is a great probability, should that be the case, that many more will join them; and further the deponent saith not. his WILLIAM x JONES. mark. Sworn before me, this lGth day of August, 1793. JARED IRWIN, J. P. Taken from the Executive files. Attest, W. URQCHART, S. E. I). Sir: State House, Augusta, 9lh September, 1793. Since writing you on the 6th instant, I have received, by express, the information contained in the enclosed copy of a deposition of Henry Carrell, dated the 6th instant, together with what is contained iu the extract (also enclosed) of a letter from General Twiggs, both of which are on the subject of recent depredations by Creek Indians. I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, The Secretary of (Jar. EDWARD TELFAIR. Georgia, (Vashington county: Personallyappeared before me, Henry Carrell, and being duly sworn, saith, that, on the evening of the 1st instant, there were two horses stolen from Captain Stokes’ volunteer troop, stationed at the Long Bluff. On the second, the captain, with thirteen men, (this deponent being one) crossed the Oconee river, and pursued on the trail of the horses; and, by the appearance of the signs, there were four persons. We came up with them on the bank of the Oakmulgee, and discovered three Indians; fired on them; the fire was returned. Captain Stokes rushed upon them, and took the ground immediately. By the appearance of blood, two were mortally wounded, and one certainly killed in the river. We recovered our own two horses and one other, three rifles, and one smooth bore gun, with sundry other articles, and returned to our station without damage, except hunger and fatigue. HENRY CARRELL. Sworn before me, September 6th, 1793. JARED IRWIN, J. P. Extract of a letter from General Twiggs, dated the 8th instant. “ The Indians came to a Mr. Crib’s, in Greene county, and plundered his house of a number of articles; and to a Mr. Hill’s, and took and destroyed every thing in his house; and took oS', out of the neighborhood, ten head of horses. “ Colonel Melton pursued them over the Oaknnilgees; the waters being so very high, made it difficult to follow any further. The inhabitants below Carr’s bluff, near Colonel Pugh’s, don't think themselves secure withouta blockhouse, and a guard established there.” Taken from the files of the Executive. Attest, W. URQUIIART, -S’. E. D. State House, Augusta, 2d October, 1793. Sir: The enclosed documents will give the needful information respecting one of the inimical Creek towns. It will be without success to use any efforts to prevent the citizens from going in quest of their property. I am hopeful of having it in my power to give you a more minute detail of this event. The prisoners are directed to this place, where they shall be treated with humanity, and await the result of a treaty and exchange for our unfortunate captives now in that nation. I have the honor to be, sir. your most obedient servant, EDW. TELFAIR. Secretary of (Jar. To the Head-men and ITumors of Donally's town, Flint river. September 22, 1793. Warriors: Your continued depredations upon the property and persons of the settlement where I command, has forced me at last to follow your latest trail up to your own hunting grounds and habitations. I could no longer remain idle and see the people under my care suffer moonly losses of property and relations. Warriors: You do love to war with us, at the same time that you deceive our Father at New York with peace talks; and you give, your hand up to the elbow to his emissaries, whilst you keep the hatchet lifted over the heads of those of his children who are your neighbors. Warriors: How shall we any longer repose any confidence in your protestations of friendship and peaceful disposition towards usr Whilst a part ol your nation have been making treaties of jieace with us, the other was ever busy in shedding our blood, on our land. Warriors: Our Father of New York has been very good to you, and, iu the time of your need, supplied you with bread, clothing, and tools to work your land; and at the same time you were lurking about our farms, carrying away all you could steal from his children, and afterwards killed and scalped all you could of them. Warriors: I am proud to think you mistake our Father of New York’s bounty to you, for the fear of your fighting his children, and that you think the more mischief you do them the more wide his hands will be opened to you. Warriors: Ever since the English war, our Father of New York has kept our hands tied up, to keep us from ever retaliating the many wrongs we suffered from you every spring, and you know no father that will do the same with you on our behalf. Warriors: Our Father of New York, and his children, always pitied, they never were afraid of you. If he choose to loosen the arm of the beloved man and head warrior of Georgia, up to the elbow, we can disturb the peace of your hunting grounds, as you disturb that of our farms; and if he choose to loosen our head warriors’s arms up to the shoulders, we can go to your towns and meet you there. Warriors: I am now returning from your town, and you have witnessed from the swamps and cane creeks, where you hid yourselves, the consequence of my visit to you. Your future behavior will determine my conduct towards you henceforward. Wa rriors: I have taken with me eight of your women and children prisoners; but as they are innocent of your wrongs towards us, and that they are in our power, you may rely on their being treated with the care and attention iheir ages, sex, and situation, entit le them to, till I deliver them into the hands of the beloved man, once head warrior of Georgia, who. I am sure, will givcvou, in them, anew lesson of humanity. WILLIAM MELTON, Lieut. Colonel, 1st Regimmt, Greene County. Taken from the files of the Executive. Attest, J. MERIWETHER, S. E. JJ. A copy of a letter from Colonel Melton, Greene comity. To his Excellency Edward Telfair. Esq. Governor and Commander-in-chief fyc. Greene county, September 2,6th, 1793. I have this day returned from a tour to the Creek nation, have burnt the huts of one town, killed six warriors, the number wounded is uncertain, and took eight prisoners, which I now have at the town of Greensborough. 1 now wait the result of vour Excellency respecting the prisoners, and request that they may be kept at some interior place, as the prejudices of the people on the frontier may operate materially against them. The want of arms, ammunition, &c. may, (and I believe will) unless soon remedied, be the cause of the frontier in this quarter being evacuated. You will receive the particulars from Brigadier General Jared Irwin. 1 am, with respect, your Excellency’s most obedient servant, WM. MELTON, Lieut. Col. 1st Regt. Greene county. Taken from the files of the Executive. Attest. W. URQUH ART, S. E. D. Extract of a letter from Captain Jonas Eauche, dated September 2 tith, 1793. The 7th instant the Indians stole some horses, and shot at the owners as they were following the trail, and killed one of their horses. We started from the Oakmulgee the 17th inst. and the 21st, by 2 o’clock in the morning, we discovered that the trail had led us to a tow n, covered by a large river, at least 500 yards wide. \Ye killed but six warriors, and we know; nothing about the wounded, as it was not quite light. We took eight women and children prisoners, which were found chiefly in the two houses first taken. We found four scalps in the town house, and the prisoners declare they were taken last summer upon the Oconee and St. Maty’s rivers. The prisoners say also, great many warriors are gone to Cumberland; and that one hundred and three of them were in the town when we stormed it. Taken from the files of the Executive. Attest, W. URQUIIART, S. E. D. Letters from James Seagrove to the Secretary of liar. Savannah, in Georgia, 3d January, 1793. Sir: Since I had the honor of writing you on the 12th ultimo, I have made a journey with Major Gaither to fort Telfair, on the Altamaha. 1 have the pleasure to inform you, that I found all things peaceable and in good order on that frontier. I met at that place several families of Creek Indians, who were hunting in the neighborhood of that post, and who came there to supply their wants (which appeared great) with bread kind. There not being any to spare at that place, I brought eight of the Indians, with horses, into the settlements, and gave them 750 lbs. of rice, with which they w^ere greatly pleased. Those little attentions to their wants, wherever I meet them, I am convinced will have a good effect. Every thing in my department, continues equally favorable as when I last wrote. I shall leave this on the 7th instant for St. Mary’s, and on the 10th of April I intend setting off from thence for the Creek nation, so as to be in the Cussetahs by the first of May. James Seagrove to the Secretary of Jf'ur, dated St. Mary's, 17//i March, 1793. Sir: Since I had the honor of writing you from Savannah, on the 3d of January last, I have been on this frontier, where every thing in my department appeared in perfect tranquillity, and all my advices from the Creek nation promised a continuance of peace and friendship, until the 11th instant, when I received information from a friendly Indian, of a party of about thirty of the Lower Creeks being on our frontier, near Trader’s Hill, on the river St. M ary's, and that, from what he could discover, they were bent on doing mischief. I could scarcely give the least credit to this information, but as it came so direct, and from an Indian who I knew tube friendly, I thought it would be wrong to totally disregard it. I, therefore, called on my neighbors, and in two hours from my receiving the information, I set oft With nine gentlemen, volunteers, well mounted. It being then 9 o'clock, on the 12th, we proceeded to Colerain. where we arrived by dawn of day. There we received the truly alanning and melancholy account of the Indians having, on the night of the 11th, broke into the store of Robert Seagrove, and killed Mr. John Fleming, the store-keeper, and Mr. Daniel Motlit. a gentleman who came there on business, and that another man was missing. I proceeded, without a moment's delay, with my small party, to the place where the murder was committed, in hopes of coming up with the murderers, but found that they were fled; having robbed the store of upwards of two thousand pounds sterling in goods. I was preparing to follow them, when the Indian who gave the first information came in, and informed me that he had followed them upwards of thirty miles on their way to the nation; that they were well provided with horses, and travelled with all possible haste. I. therefore, concluded it would not answer any good purpose to follow'them, so returned to Colerain, to cover the public storesat that place, not knowing but that other parties might be out. 1 remained there on the night of the 13th, and on the morning of the 14th received information that a party of Indians had killed some people on the 13th, about six miles from us; 1 then mustered twenty-three volunteers, and immediately pursued, and within one mile of a place called the Burnt fort, on Great Setilla, found three men and a girl most inhumanly butchered by the savages. We took their trail, and pursued them upwards of forty miles, but cotdd not overtake them. Our horses being much tired, and not having any provisions for two days, we returned on the afternoon of the 15tii to where the last mentioned people were killed. I had them buried, and returned to Colerain, which place I am putting in a state of defence. In a few days I hope to have it in such a situation as to ensure it against any attack from savages. As the country is now alarmed, I am in hopes further mischief will be prevented. I have sent this news by express to our Governor, and to Major Gaither, commander of the federal troops in this State. A post established at Colerain, and one at the Burnt fort, on Setilla, with fifty good horsemen to scout between, (it being no more than six miles) would effectually cover the whole country below and between the river St. Mary and Setilla. I hope Major Gaither will find himself at liberU to embody a company of militia horse for this purpose: this new frontier is in a very defenceless situation. The cause of this sudden change in the conduct of the Creeks remains as yet a secret, further than you have been informed. My private despatches of this date to the President of the United States, will throw light on this business. Having received art express from town that a vessel was on the point of sailing to Philadelphia, I left Colerain, and am just arrived here for the purpose of giving the most early intelligence of this affair. Enclosed you have copies of two affidavits concerning ihe murder at Trader’s Hill: in a day or two I shall forward you circumstantial authenticated proofs of the whole. On the 15th an Indian was taken at Trader’s Hill by a small party of my people; 1 have saved 48 * his life, though there is little doubt of his being one of the party who did the mischief,- but until we know whether or not the nation sanctioned the late outrage, or would give satisfaction, I thought it best to detain him a close prisoner; 1. therefore, brought him here, and lodged him in fort St. Tammany. Should any more be taken, I will observe the same by them, as far as in my power. Should (here be a war, they will serve to exchange for our people, who may be so unfortunate as to fall into their hands. I cannot believe that the chiefs of the Creek nation are acquainted with this party being out; and I am in hopes satisfaction will be given by the nation. I shall send an account of this business immediately into the nation, and demand satisfaction on the part of my country. Had the Creek nation determined on a general war, I am confident I should have known it from different quarters, but, all my late advices are to the contrary. That you may be enabled to judge of the situation of this country, I take the liberty of enclosing you a draught of the same, which will also serve to inform you of the course of the boundary line from the Altamaha to the St. Mary’s; when you have examined it, I will be obliged to you to return it, as I have not another. Robert Brown's Affidavit, (enclosed in the foregoing.) State of Georgia, Camden County: Personally appeared before us, justices assigned to keep the peace of said courtly, Robert Brown, an inhabitant of Great Setilla, who, being duly sworn, deposeth and saith, that he, the said Robert Brown, went in company with Daniel Moffit, on Sunday, the tenth of this instant, to the house of James Allen, on the river St. Mary’s, between Colerain and Trader’s Hill; on the next morning went to Mr. Gascoin’s store, about one mile above said Allen’s, having then in company, John Galphin and James Allen. On their arrival at Mr. Gascoin’s, they met an Indian well known in this country, called Paddy Donnelly; that this Indian informed them that he had fallen in the day before with three Indians, who belonged to a camp of Creek Indians then within a few miles, who he said were painted for war, anil bent on doing mischief on this frontier; and the said Indians said, that it was war all over, and that parties of Creeks were out to do mischief on the Oconee. They also said, that they should have killed a Mr. Tillet and all his family, who lived at a place of James Allen’s, about four miles from Trader’s Hill, but were prevented by a Lackaway Indian, then encamped near said Tillet’s; this was on Sunday the 10thr That, being desirous of knowing more of this information, he, the said Brown, together with James Allen, John Galphin, and said Moffit, went to the store of Robert Seagrove, at Trader’s Hill, where they met three of the identical Indians mentioned by Paddy Donnelly: That John Galphin endeavored to draw them into conversation, and to discover their intentions, but they refused, and would not know him, saying he was dressed as a white man, and that the red people were all at war with the whites; Galphin expressed a desire of going to their camp, and was attended by one of the said Indians, this deponent, James Allen, and Daniel Moffit, to the neighborhood of said camp: That Galphin and Allen went into the camp, where they remained about two hours, and then returned to where this deponent and Moffitt were, having with them about ten Indians, all of whom were armed and on horseback, except one: That the whole party then proceeded together to the store of Robert Seagrove, at Trader’s Hill, where Mr John Fleming inquired the news; when Mr. Galphin answered, that matters were much better than they had heard when going up, on which Mr. Fleming asked them in to take a drink; at which instant, three Indians belonging to the party who rode in company, stepped also into the store, ottering for sale three or four deer skins, winch Mr. Fleming bought, and was paying the Indians for, all appearing in perfect good temper and pleased, when a gun was fired by one of the said party of Creek Indians from outside of the door, which killed the before mentioned Daniel Moffit, who was standing by the counter in said store, and within a few feet of this deponent: That John Galphin, who was then in the store, ran out and endeavored to prevent further mischief; that this deponent also went out and saw Galphin run after the Indian who fired the gun; that this deponent returned into the store, and found the before-mentioned Daniel Moffit lying on the floor dead, from the wound received from the shot fired. At this time, all the Indians pressed to enter into the store, on which this deponent rushed outof the store, and fled into some bushes abuut fifty yards from said store, where lie could distinctly hear the Indians murdering the beforementioned John Fleming: That at this juncture, all the Indians raised the war-whoop or yell: That from the time of killing Mr. Moffit until the Indians went away, this deponent thinks it was three hours, it being the dusk of Monday evening when it begun: That this deponent remained concealed until all was quiet, and the Indians gone off, when he approached towards the store, and heard two children crying in a room adjoining the store, which children belonged to Mrs. Ann Gray, whom the Indians beat and abused, as this deponent could distinctly hear while he lay in the bushes: That this deponent understood from Mr. Galphin and Mr. Allen, that all this party belonged to the town where a James Burges, an Indian trader lives, on Flint river, in the Lower Creeks, and that a brother-in-law and son of Burges, was of the party: That this deponent swam the river St. Mary’s, and went to the house of a Mr. Fitch, in Florida, about two miles, and informed of all that had passed, and got Fitch to go to said store, to see how matters then were: That the Indians took oft' this deponent’s horse, together with several others from the store; and further this deponent saith not. ROBERT BROWN. Sworn before us, at Colerain, on the river St. Mary’s, in Georgia, this 14th March, 1793. JAS. SEAGROVE, J. P. THOMAS KING, .7. P. ELIHU HUBBARD, J. P. Ann Gray’s Deposition. State of Georgia, Camden County: Personally appeared before me, one of the justices assigned to keep the peace of said county, Ann Gray, and being duly sworn, saith, that, on the eleventh instant. (March) that she, the said Ann Gray, being at the store of Robert Seagrove, in the care of John Fleming, at Trader’s Hill, on St. Mary’s river, between sunset and dark, there came a certain James Upton and John Galphin, to said store; that, after some time, there came four Indians, three of whom had some skins to sell, and the said Fleming chalked out the price of them, and the said Indians seemed well satisfied; that two of them received their payment, and the other said he would have his on the next day: That as the said Fleming was getting a bottle of rum, for a certain James Allen, there was a gun fired at the door of the store; that she, the said Ann Gray, heard a certain Daniel Moffit say, he was a dead, man, and went and lay down, and the said John Fleming asked what it did mean, and called for John Galphin; that Galphin was not to be found; there were two Indians then in the store, which the said Fleming asked to stay in the store; that they were his friends, and that they were all his friends, and endeavored to prevail with them not to go out; that the said Fleming endeavored to shut the door, but there came so many against it, that he could not, and that she, the said Ann Gray, saw a number of Indians lay hold of the said Fleming, and threw him on the floor, and some of the Indians took hold of her and forced her ou t of the door; and that she, the said Ann Gray, heard the said John Fleming cry out, the Lord have mercy on me, and could hear him speak no more: That the Indians did beat, abuse, and tie her, the said Ann Gray, and she saw- them robbing the store and carrying oft'the goods; and further, this deponent saith not. ANN GRAY, her + mark. Sworn before me, this I4th day of March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three. E. HUBBARD, J. P. Tuckaubatchees, Upper Cheeks, January 6, 1793. Friend and Father: I am a son of a white man, Joseph Cornell, interpreter for the United States. I have brought in a scalp from Cumberland, but the blame ought not, in justice, to be laid on me, as I was urged to do it by Captain Olivar, (the Spanish Agent in the nation) and even by the Governor of Pensacola himself. In future will not molest the whites, as have heard your talks, and like them very well. As you are coming yourself to treat with us, the Upper Creeks, we shall be glad to see you as a friend and father, and may be assured that yourself and property shall be safe. 1 ainayounger brother of Ab. Cornell, shall take his advice. DAVID CORNELL. Addressed to James Seagrove, Esq. We solemnly declare that the above was written at the request of David Cornell, and delivered us by a Linguister. * JOHN GALPHIN, JAMES M. HOLMES. Letter from Janies Seagrove to the Chiefs and Head-men of the Cassetah and Coweta iowns, dated St. Mart's, '20th -February, 1793. Brothers: It gave me great pleasure to hear, by letters from Mr. Barnard and Mr. Holmes, that most of £our people, who had been with me at St. Marys’ had got safe home, and that all matters were going on well in your towns. This I write principally to inform you that I shall be with you by the first of May, and that the talks, from our great Father, General Washington, President of the United States, is straight and good towards you, and all your country. It is his desire, as well as mine, that you will not listen toany bad talks which may be ottered you from the Northward Indians or Chickamagas, as they will, most undoubtedly, lead you astray. Those Northern tribes of Indians, who have been at war with us, finding a great many ready to go against them as soon as the snow is off the ground, have sent chiefs from their towns to ttie President in Philadelphia to beg for peace; they are now there, and I think it probable that the great goodness of our beloved Father will spare those wretched bad people, though their crimes deserve severe punishment. I am told there is some of them come among you of late, endeavoring to lead you into trouble; but I do not mind these things, as I am persuaded my Creek friends have too much sense, and regard for themselves and country, to be made lools of by such bad people. You cannot have forgot what I have told you on this head and many others. I pray that you will recollect your promises, not to take any part with those, or any other people, against the United States. Drive from your land all those who wish you to go to a war. As to those Shawa-nese, who, I am told, are now among you, showing scalps of our people, I think, as your regard for General Washington, that you ought to make prisoners of tho?e men, and bring them to me, and I shall send them to Philadelphia, that their chiefs, who are now there asking for peace, may see them, and make them ashamed of their bad doings. For each of those Shawanese, that are brought prisoners to me at this place, 1 will give a horse load of valuable goods: by this means you will be rid of all such applications in future, which will be a great relief to you. Mr. Barnard has my orders to wait on you with this and to explain it, as well as to tell you several other matters, to which I must request your particular attention. When I meet you, and the other chiefs of the nation, in die Cussetahs^ in May, I have not a doubt every matter will be settled to your wish. You wdl present my love to all your people, and tell them that I am, and ever shall be. their real friend. James Seagrove to David Cornell, dated , St. Mary’s, 20th February, 1793. My Child: I have received your talk, by Mr. Galphin, which gives me pleasure; as by it I find, that though you have been guilty of bad actions, owing to the wicked and villanous advice of white men, who, no doubt, will be made to suffer for such doings, yet there is a strong hone of your having seen your error, and will never do so any more. I know your father, and have a great regard for him : he always was a friend to the United States, which is his country, and I hope his country will do so too. Be assured, from me, that I do not blame you for any thing you have done, but I do blame the bad whites who advised yon to do so. Follow the advice of your cousin Alexander in all things, and you will find me your'good friend. I shall expect you will come down to the Cussetahs, and see me; I expect to be there by the first of May. Whilst you act a friendly part towards the United States, you will be respected and rewarded by (hem. live your countrymen good advice, and prevent them listening to bad talks. You will receive this as from a real and good friend to you, and all your family. James Seagrove to Jllexunmr Cornell, dated St. Mary’s, 20/7/ Febrmry, 1793. Brother: I have just received your talk, sent by John Galphin, and am much pleased to find that your people take my talks as they are really intended, and dictated from the purest friendship for them and their country. Exert yourself, my friend, all in your power, to prevent your people taking any talks from the Shawanese, or any of the Northern Indians. Those who are now in your land ought to be severely punished for daring to come among you to engage you in a war against the United States, when, at the moment, the chiefs of all the tribes, that have been at war with us, are begging Congress for peace, and Indian commissioners are now at Philadelphia, with General Washington, in hopes of getting a peace, which, it is probable, they will have granted them, though it is more than they deserve. But now, that they see a great army ready to destroy them and their country, they are glad to ask for peace. Those fellows that are among you, giving out bad talks from the Northern Indians, ought to be taken up. and sent prisoners to me, unless your people choose to punish them. 1 will give a horse-load of goods for each of them that is brought to me, or half as much for their scalp. This I wish you to communicate to such of your chiefs and others which you see fit; and I rely on your activity and zeal in thisbusiness. If you,and afew of your friends, could accomplish this business, your fortune is made without doubt. I am sorry to hear that your nation is like to be involved in a war with the Chickasaws. But. they cannot hurt the Creeks; keep in peace and friendship with us, and we will support you at all events. I hope you have seen the White Lieutenant and the Mad Dog, and given them my talks. Tell them I expect they will conform to my wishes, and that of our great Father, General Washington, which is to be in peace, love, and friendship, with the United States, to the end of time. 1 am sorry to hear mat your family have been unwell; I hope they all recovered before this, and that every thing goes on well in your land. I shall be in the Cussetahs by the first of May, when you must meet me there; we shall talk over all matters, and, 1 have not a doubt, to put every thing on an agreeable footing for our country. Wishing you all possible happiness and success, I remain yours, &c.* I received a talk from David Cornell: I now send him an answer. Do, my friend, give David good advice; he is wild. 37G INDIAN AFFAIRS. [1793. James Seagrove to Fine, Bones, Chief of the Broken Arrow, dated St. Mary’s, ZOth February, 1793. Brother: Your talk of the 11th oflast Moon, was brought me by John Galphin, and I receive it kindly, and return you my warm thanks; and, at the same time, assure you that it is the sincere wish of my country and myself to keep the path between your country and the United States, white, bright, open, and clear, to the end of time; you, and every other wise man in your country must be sensible that your happiness, in a great degree, depends on having the United States your good and firm friends, and such, I do declare to you, they are, and having nothing more at’heart than to contribute in making you a happy people. My talks to my Creek brothers have been always straight, and they have found them so; such they shall continue as long as I have to do with them. I shall meet you all in the Cussetah town, by the first of May, when you will hear my talks, and, I have not a doubt, but they will like them, as they are honest and friendly. Do not, my friend, sutler your countrymen to be deceived by those Northern Indians who come among them, and endeavoring to get you to join them. They are your great enemies, and will ruin you if you are so unwise as to listen to their talks. The whole of the chiefs of the Northern tribes, who have been lately at war with the United States, are now begging for peace, and have sent commissioners to Congress for that purpose. I have heard that seven Shawanese are now in your towns, who have brought in white scalps. This, my brother, you must allow, is very wrong. Such people should not be allowed to come into your land, as you are in friendship and alliance with the nation whose people they are killing; besides, the chiefs of the very towns that those fellows belong to, are begging my country lor peace, whilst those villains are murdering our people. I hope you, and every good Creek, will think seriously, and drive those wretches away, or punish them, for their daring to involve you in trouble. If they have brought a war on themselves, let them go through with it. You have no concern in thebusines, and I hope you will all have wisdom and virtue to treat them as they deserve. I am sorry I had not the pleasure of seeing you, with the rest of your people, at St. Mary’s, in November last. I had a talk wrote to send your nephew, but the hurry I was in when the chiefs left me, prevented its being sent. I now send him a talk. It is my wish that you, and all the chiefs ol your nation, use every means in your power to preserve your country in peace with every body; that is the way to be happy and great. But should, contrary to your good intentions, any power oblige you to a war, I will, when I meet you, advise and direct you in such way as will be for your good, so far as in my power. This I send to Mr. Barnard, who will explain it to you, and to whose talks I hope you will pay attention. I have no opportunity of sending you and your nephew some presents; but if you will send down two horses, I will send you and him a handsome present. In the mean time, I have sent you a pair of elegant arm-bands, which came from our Great Father, General Washington, which please accept, and weal-tor his sake. I will be to you, and your country, as my good old countryman, John Galphin, was, yourreal friend. I am, &c. James Seagrove to the leader of the Cowetas, dated St. Mary’s, ZOth February, 1793. Brother: It always gives me pleasure to see or hear from my Creek friends. Your kind talk, which I received from Mr. John Galphin, made me very happy, as it will our great and kind father General Washington, President of the United States, when he hears of the peaceable, wise conduct of his Creek children. I am very glad to hear that the talks from the Upper towns continue good. I hope my friends in the mother towns, the Cowetas and Cussetahs, will always be foremost in good doing. Do not, my friend, suffer your people to be imposed on by bad talks, from red or white people. Follow what I have already told your chiefs, and you will do well. I shall be in the Cussetahs the first of May, when I shall renew my talks to you, which shall always be straight, clear, just, and friendly, to your nation. I am told there are some of the Northern Indians among you, giving bad talks; do not, on any account, as you value your happiness, listen to them, but drive them from your land. They behave like bad people, and involve themselves in a war, and now want to bring the same on you. The chiefs of all tlm Northern tribes, seeing the great army that is prepared and ready to go against them in the spring, are now begging for peace. I think it is probable that our great father, the President of the United States, will have pity on them, and not destroy them, although they have been very bad, and deserved to be severely punished. But he is kind and merciful. Do not suffer those bad Northern Indians to give out talks in your land, as it may poison the minds of some of your young foolish people. Continue, my friend, to give your people good talks, ana keep them straight, until I meet you. Mr. Barnard will deliver you this; and I must request, that you and your people will assist and befriend him and Mr. Holmes, and pay attention to what they will tell you. James Seagrove to the TFhite Lieutenant of the Oakfuskees. St. Mary’s, February 20, 1793. Brother: A few' days past I received a talk from you, through the medium of Mr. Townsend, and Mr. Timothy Barnard. I find, by this talk, that you had not then received my letter by Alexander Cornell, with the present of silver ware which I sent you by him. Your being from home when he arrived, must have been the cause. I was very sorry that you was not with us at the treaty on St. Mary’s, as there is not a chief in the Creek nation I have a greater regard for, than yourself. I am led to this favorable opinion of your character from the voice of all who have known you, but, in particular, am induced thereto, from the great regard our great and good father, General Washington, President ot the United States, has for you. He considers you as one of his best friends in the Creek land, and, as such, recommends you to me. 1 fully intended that you should have been at our meeting; and it was my express orders that you should be one of the very first chiefs invited. How it was omitted I am at a loss to account, but I hope you will take it for granted that it was not intended. I doubt not but you have heard before this, the talks which I gave the chiefs of your nation on this river, in November last. I hope you find them such as to give you satisfaction, and that you will receive them, and hold them fast. Our friend, Mr. Barnard, had my orders to explain all my talks to you; and I hope you will receive them from him as from me. By Mr. Fowler, and Mr. Reilly, your horses are arrived; and when Mr. Fowler returns, I shall send them back with a handsome present to you, such a one as will leave no room to complain. I have the pleasure to tell you, that all is peace and friendship in this country towards yours, and that it will continue so, as long as your people choose; and that it is the ardent desire of the President of the United States, that you should be a happy, free people; that he will, by every means in his power, make your situations more comfortable, and protect and support you, as long as you act well by him and his people. I am really sorry to find that my Creek friends should continue to allow a set of villains of the Northern tribes to come into their land, and give out talks, which, if attended to, cannot fail to bring ruin on your nation. I know those people are endeavoring to get you to join them against the United States; but I hope you and your nation have too much settse to be led into such a scrape by them. I will just inform you of the situation those Northern tribes, who have been at war with us, are in, and then you shall judge, whether it would not be madness in the Creeks to have any thing to say to them. Those tribes have been carrying on a kind of war for some years. General Washington always wished them to be brought back to their duty by lenity and kindness, and not to destroy them; for which reason, he would not send a large army among them, and, by this means, they have bad an opportunity to kill a number of his people, and do a great deal of mischief. Last year he sent three commissioners, offering them peace and good treatment; but, like bad men, they murdered his commissioners. This angered him much, and lie ordered a very great army of choice warriors to go against them. This army is now ready, and will march into their towns as soon as the snow is gone, and lay all in ashes before them, unless peace should be made this winter. Those tribes, finding the President determined to punish them, are now begging, in the most hunible manner, for peace, and have actually sent chiefs from all the tribes, to the President and Congress, now at Philadelphia, for that purpose. Therefore, every Creek Indian who will give himself time, to think but for a moment, must plainly see the design of those people is to involve you in a war, which they brought on themselves without your consent, and which they are not able to support. They are like a man a drowning, who will take hold of any bush, or even bis brother, or best friend, and drown them to save himself. Open your eyes, my friends, and do not be made fools of by those bad people. Drive them from vour land, or punish them as they deserve, for endeavoring to mislead you. 11 your nation do not choose to punish those who are now among you giving out bad talk, let them be brought prisoners to me, at this place, and I will send them on to Philadelphia, to let their chiefs that are now there see them, and make them ashamed of themselves. I will give, for each of them that is brought a prisoner go me, a horse-load of good and valuable goods. 1 have to request, that, as you regard the peace and happiness of your country, you use your utmost endeavors to prevent your people taking bad talks, from either red or white people, until i meet you and them by the first of May in the Cussetans, when I shall put every thing straight and clear for you. I should come sooner, but the path is very bad, and no feed for my horses. 1 am, yours, &c. James Seagrove (o James Holmes, acting as an assistant among the Creeks. St. Mart’s. 24th February, 1793. Dear Sir; With pleasure I received your letters of the 27th and 30th of January last, from Flint liver. 1 attend to what you say, respecting sanctioning certain measures; 1 am, by no means, at liberty to do so at this moment; however, I view it in the same light as you. and think it justifiable on every principle. Should our red friends think it necessary, I must not oppose their will in what relates to their own affairs. Galphin gave us a great alarm on his arrival here. He asserted to me, as an absolute fact, that the Creeks had broke up all the Spanish settlements on the Ten.sa and Bigby rivers, and made an attack on the fort at Mobile; that he was in the attack, as also yourself; that he was wounded in the thigh; that the Indians were repulsed with the loss of twenty-two men; that the Spaniards lost about seventeen men; about seventy negroes brought off by your party, with a large sum in dollars, with many more such improbable tales. He also assured me, that a considerable body of Indians were on the head of Setilla. on their way to strike a blow on St. Johns, and only waited to get some necessary supplies from me. I knew this youth too well to put much faith in what he said, but he told me all so plausibly, that I must confess I was much staggered thereby. I concluded that, as you or Sir. Barnard had not taken the least notice of a matter of so much moment, that it must have originated in this bad young man's fruitful, inventive genius. On his arrival in town, Mr. Fowler confirmed its being a notorious falsehood. It is scarcely possible to describe the extreme irregular conduct of Mr. Galphin since he has been here; his attempt to impose on me I shall not readily forgive. 1 wish, from my soul, we could get clear of him; he is a very dangerous person from his falsehoods; but I hope the Indians know him so well as not to mind what he says; and I must request, if he should attempt to say any thing in the nation, that Mr. Barnard and yourself will counteract and expose his villany. It was, and still is, my wish to serve him, but be is incorrigible. As soon as Fowler came to town be cleared out, and, 1 believe, he is now at Colerain. It is not a little surprising, that after all the chiefs promised me, that they should suffer these Northern rascals to come among them, and with scalps of our people. Should this be allowed by the Creeks, we must conclude them concerned in the business with the Shawanese, and others, w ho are our enemies. You will observe, by the talks to different chiefs that accompany this, that I have endeavored to work a change; and I must request that you and Mr. Barnard will, by every means in your power, enforce those ideas among them, and work them up to destroy those Shawanese villains; or, if not, to drive them off, or bring them prisoners to me; either of which plans being effected, would effectually sever the Creeks from those hostile tribes. There is every appearance of a peace with those Northern Indians, which, I must confess, I am sorry for. My opinion is, that they ought first to have been thrashed on their own account, and also by way of example to others. There are commissioners now met on the business of peace, and the savages seem earnest in the business. The great preparations for a vigorous campaign in the summer, has alarmed them exceedingly. This convinces me that those fellows that are now in the Creeks, are there without authority; and, if so, are the proper subjects for the Creeks' resentment. I conceive it altogether useless in me. at this time, to dictate to you, or Mr. Barnard, what to say to the chiefs. 1 have only to entreat, that you will leave no stone unturned to overset these Indians’ purposes, as also that of the Dons. It will be impossible for me to be with you before the first of May, but I hope no bad will arise from my not being on the spot. I send the bearer, Mordecai Light, for sake of despatch: by his return. I hope to hear fully from you, and have agreeable accounts. James Seagrove to Timothy Barnard, dated St. Mary’s, 24th February, 1793. Dear Barnard: 1 have before me your three letters, of the 20th. 27th. aud 30th ultimo. The contents of each has my particular attention. 1 am really sorry, and it is truly unfortunate, that your indisposition had, until then, deprived our country of your very necessary presence in the towns, in order to explain and assist, in directing matters aright, as well as to counteract the machinations of the ill-disposed towards us. 1 hope and trust that the greatest, if not all your time, since writing, lias been employed in that w'ay, and that I shortly shall hear, that you have been able to overset the plan of the Northward Indians. You must see the necessity of counteracting the plans of those Indians, and prevent the Creeks being led into a scrape by them for this purpose. You must attend all meetings, and call meetings of your own. and speak in forcible terms to the chiefs of the consequence of their listening to those people; and that, if they do, I shall have a had opinion of them, after their promises to me not to have any thing to do with them or the Spaniards. Herewith, you have talks from me to different chiefs, which you will peruse, deliver, and explain, as well as enforce the objects of those talks home to those people, by all the address in your power. I cannot think there is the least danger of the Creeks, as a nation, joining those people; but what I dread is, that a part of the young disorderly of them may. It therefore behooves us to use our influence to prevent them. You will see what I have wrote the White Lieutenant and Fine Bones; and I shall fulfil my promise. I wish you to send the one to Jack Kinnard, and have him up with you in the towns. You will acquaint the chiefs that I cannot be with them, before the first of, May, You may give them as a reason, badness of the roads, want of grass at this season, and the like. But the true cause is, that I wait for full instructions from the President, which I do not expect sooner than the 10th April. You will see, by my letter to Mr. Holmes, the rascally part Galphin has been acting, since he has been here: Mordecai will tell you further. You will prevent his lies taking had effect in the nation. There is no such thing as bearing with him. As to the Shawanese that are in the nation, you must, by every means possible, stir up the Creeks against them. You must see the good consequence that would result from setting them at variance, and at any rate stopping them from coming into the Creek land. I have to desire, in the most express and positive terms, that you do not yourself, or suffer any other person to, give out talks from any person or persons in any of the States, Governors, or others, without my previous knowledge of them. I am told there has been some of late from the Governor of Georgia to the Creeks,' which I hold as a very improper act. Be active and resolute, my friend, in our country’s cause: much depends on us. James Seagrove to John Kinnard, dated St. Mart’s, 24th February, 1793. My dear Friend: I wrote you a letter, about three weeks past, which I hope you have received. I then told you all our talks in the United States continued straight and friendly to your country, which I now again confirm. I hope this will meet your people all well, and pursuing such plans as will make them happy. This I send by the way of our friend, Mr. Timothy Barnard,and have desired him to send it immediately to you, and request that you will come up to him, and go with him into the towns on some business of much consequence; which he ■ will make known to you when you see him. I now entreat, my friend, that you do not let any thing stop your seeing Mr. Barnard, as soon as possible, and that you w ill give him all the assistance in your power, and w hich our Great Father, General Washington, expects of you as his good friend in the Creek land. About 300 Indians from the Seminoles, Lachaways, and other of the Southern people, have been with me since you went home. They have all returned well pleased. James Seagrove to the Secretary of Jf'ar, dated St. Mary's, 19/A April, 1793. Sir: My last letters to you were under date of the 17th and 21st ultimo: since then, we have continued, and are yet in a state of suspense as to what will be the determination of the Creek nation, when they hear of the depredations committed by some of their people on this frontier, in the last month, and also to my demand of having satisfaction for the murders and property carried off. By the papers now enclosed, you will be informed of my communications to and from the nation since I last Avrote you. Matters in the nation were getting in a favorable way, when this unfortunate affair took place. The Avhole of the upper towns were unanimous in rejecting all overtures of the agents of the Northern tribes to join them: and only a part of three of the Lowrer towns befriended them. My talks Avere attended to, so far as to have a general order of the nation for those agents (nine in number') to depart the Creek land in five days. You will observe that I was requested to be with the chiefs in the nation by the 22d instant, which would have been the case, as I had every thing ready to have set off on the 10th of this month, which I declined on the late outrage taking place, and until I could hear the determination of the nation on the same. Kinnard has acted wonders in the affairs of the North tribes. He has not ceased, since he went from this, in riding himself, and sending talks, to all the towns, in our favor. The White Lieutenant of the Oakfuskees, and Mad Dog of the Tuckaubatchees, are firm fiiends to the United States. Alexander McGillivray died at Pensacola on the 17th of February last, and, from what I can learn, has mentioned Panton as his successor, to direct the affairs of the Creek nation. Should Panton be received by the nation as such, the United States can have no hope of peace with the Creeks. From a full conviction of this, in my own mind, as w ell as from unquestionable proofs of the perfidious conduct of the Spanish Governors of theFloridas,and those acting under them in the Creek nation, there appears a necessity that steps should be taken, that those bloody-minded agents should fall into the pit which they have dug for the servants and friends of the Union. In my opinion, it would have been well if I had found myself, long since, at liberty to have retaliated, w hich has been much in my power. Self preservation renders it indispensable. The conduc t of the Spaniards of late is so barefaced, that the lenity or forbearance of our country towards them, is considered by the Indians, as well as white people, as proceeding from a want of power to check such doings. The consequences of such opinions are Aery unfavorable to our interest. You w ill observe that some of the Lower toAvnshaye become acquainted xvith the murders and robberies on this frontier and the Altamaha, by the return of the parties to their towns. You have, herewith, a copy of a letter received from six of the identical villains avIio perpetrated the crimes six miles from Colerain, and also on the Altamaha. Kinnard, on hearing of their return, sent to the chiefs of the towns whose people committed the violence, and talked very severely to them. He told them, in presence of four white men, who I can depend on, (and who came here along with my despatches) that, unless they gave immediate satisfaction for the murders and robberies, (and Avhich he told them Avould be demanded) that they had nothing to expect but Avar and total ruin to their country. The party that did the mischief at Trader’s Hill, Avere from a town on the loAver part of Flint river, and Avho Avcre doubtless set on by Panton, and one Burges. Mr. Kinnard, the instant he heard of the affair, sent a runner Avith a letter to Burges, informing him that, if lie did not immediately have the goods collected, and sent back, he (Kinnard) Avould come and take all his property, and his life, as a part atonement for that ol Mr. Fleming, killed at Trader’s Hill. An ansAver Avas not received Avhen my express came aAvay, Avhich Avas the next day. I fear that my demaud, for delivering up to me an equal number of those Avho advised or executed the late murders, for those that were killed of our people, in order to their being punished agreeable to our Lavs, may appear to some to be harsh, arbitrary, or abrupt. But I am persuaded it is in conformity to the opinion and Avish of a very large majority of our countrymen, and I am happy in fiuding myself supported therein by the treaty formed at Ncav York Avith the Creek nation, and Avhich is a supreme Lav of this land. I hope you Avill think Avith me, on this occasion, that, for the United States to relax an atom on this occasion, of having life for life, and full satisfaction for the property taken atvay and destroyed, Avill be at once relinquishing every idea or possibility of living in peace Avith those people. For, if Ave do not insist, and have examples made in the present instance, Ave shall nave similar outrages daily repeated, in defiance of all treaties or engagements that can be formed, as those Avretched people and their abettors Avill attribute all to pusillanimity in the Virginians, as the Americans are generally termed by the Creeks. I am not Avithout great hope, that my demand Avill be complied Avith. All the men of consequence, among the chiefs, are for being in peace Avith the United States; and several of the toAvns are determined, at all events, to be so. Should they refuse justice, their internal divisions will tend much to their speedy reduction. They are in no state at present to encourage a Avar aaith the United States. The ChickasaAvs and Creeks are actually at war Avith each other; and the ChoctaAvs have, or are on the point of joining the ChickasaAvs. Their being nearly destitute of provisions, is another reason, to Avhich may be added, a full conviction in the minds of many of their chiefs, that, if they quarrel Avith the Americans, they will lose their country. They have ammunition and arms in plenty. The Spaniards give every man ot them as much of those articles as they require. They have been lately draAving supplies in this Avay from Augustine, Pensacola, and St. Marks. The Spaniards are busy in endeavors to paten up a peace betAveen the Creeks and Chickasawrs. Fortius purpose a number of the chiefs of both nations are invited to Pensacola, but whether they Avill go or not is uncertain. Since the injury done on the 11th and 13th March, nothing further hath taken place on this frontier: owing, chiefly^ (I have reason to think) to the precautions I immediately took of putting Colerain in a state of defence, and collecting a body of about fifty horsemen, which have done constant duty. The Indians have almost constantly been over on the Florida side, but seeing we were prepared, and on our guard, have not yet ventured to interrupt us. But as this company are militia, and on no certain footing, I fear we shall lose them. One hundred and fifty, or two hundred continental troops, fifty of them horse, would be a seasonable relief to us. "Without assistance, we cannot hold this valuable frontier. We want about one hundred stand of good muskets, with bayonets; one half, nearly of our little force being at this time without arms. On the 17th instant, a party of Indians appeared in Florida, within five miles of Colerain; they killed cattle, stole „ horses and other property, took oft’eight negroes, robbed several houses, and burnt one, fired at some men, tied and carried oft'one man, who since made Ins escape, and says that those Indians were from Ilurges’ town, and some who did the mischief at Trader’s hill. They at the same time declaring friendship to the Spaniards, and that their intention was against Colerain and this town, as well as the Americans in general; John Galphin was with them, and very conspicuous in declarations of enmity to this country. I have offered a reward for him, and am not without hope of laying hands on him. The Spanish settlers seem more alarmed than we are. When Robert Seagrove’s store, at Trader’s Hill, was robbed, all the books of Indian accounts were carried oft; which, I think, cannot fail to strengthen the belief, that Panton and the Spaniards wanted to discover the nature as well as the amount of business done there, in addition to their breaking up the store. As my letters giving you an acceount of the late unfortunate business in this country, must have reached you long ere this, lam in daily hopes of receiving instructions from you. You will be informed, by a copy of Mr. Barnard’s letter, nowr enclosed, of the very irregular conduct of the settlers on the northwest frontier of Georgia; it will ever be the case. I have given Governor Telfair regular advice, ever since the unfortunate event of Trader’s Hill; but have not been favored with a line from him or Major Gaither, since then. You will see, herewith, a copy of a circular letter, which I sent to the commanding officers of the militia of every county in the State. Being much in need of your advice and direction, in the present conjuncture of affairs, I am very anxious to hear from you. James Seagrovc to the Chiefs, Head Men, and Warriors, of the whole Creek nation. singly as well as collectively. St. Mary's, 28th March, 1793. Brothers: From the solemn assurance given me, by a large majority of the chiefs of your nation, on many recent occasions, but more particularly at our conference on this river, in November last, that you would, at all events, preserve peace with the United States, and on no account join with any people, w hatever, that were unfriendly to them, 1 was led to believe your declarations just, and, as such, communicated them to my country, who was pleased to think that your nation were acting with justice and wisdom. But, alas, of how short duration was this pleasing prospect. Scarcely had all those of your people w ho had been with me at the conference, returned to their homes, when the most wanton, unprovoked murder and robbery was committed on this frontier by a body of Creek Indians, on the peaceful, honest, unoffending inhabitants of the United States. Duty to my country,as well as regard to your future peace, obliges me nowr, to make known to you, as heads and rulers of the Creek nation, that, on the night of the eleventh of this month, a party of the Creek Indians, in number from twenty-five to thirty, entered the store of Robert Seagroye, at Traders Hill, on this liver, and then and there murdered Mr. John Fleming, the store-keeper, and Mr. Daniel Moffit, scalped and tomahawked them, beat and abused others, then robbed the store of every thing therein, to upwards often thousand dollars, which they took off with them to your nation. Next day. three men and a girl were killed within fifty miles of Colerain, by a party of your people. These last that were killed, were inoffensive travellers, coming to settle in this country, and of course, could not have offended. The bodies oi those unhappy victims to wanton barbarity I beheld with horror, and could scarcely allow myself to think it possible, that men belonging to a nation whom I had been feeding, clothing, and loading with every mark of my country's kindness to them, could be guilty of such villany. Indeed, I cannot yet believe, the nation were acquainted with it. I pray God this may have been the case, and that they will give immediate satisfaction for so daring an outrage, by delivering up to me the whole of those concerned in the before mentioned murder and robbery, which, alone, can appease the just resentment of the United States. Brothers: What I have here stated to you are truths, and the same is supported by testimony on oath, sent herewith. It therefore admits not of a moment's delay, w ith honest men, the part they ought to take. If you have a wish that your land should not be deluged with blood, and that you should possess the same, and live in it in peace, you will, on receiving this, call together the chiefs of your land, and take immediate measures for delivering to me those murderers and plunderers, that they may be punished agreeable to our laws. The outrage is so enormous and unprovoked, as not to admit delay on your parts. Vengeance will be showered on your nation, if justice is not im mediately done. Attend to w hat I say. It is my love for you, and a belief that you were ignorant of the late perfidious act of your people, that gives you this opportunity of yet living in peace with my country. You never found me to tell you an untruth, and be assured, that, what I now tell will come to pass, and that is, that inevitable ruin awaits your whole land, if you do not comply with my demand of giving up the villains who committed the late murders. Do not suffer yourselves to be longer deceived, or suppose that the United States will stop short of doing ample justice to their citizens, and punish, in the most exemplary manner, offenders against their Government. But peace and friendship is their wish towards your whole nation, as long as your conduct as honest men justifies it. What could have driven your people to act as they have done, is what I cannot account for. Every body in this land were in perfect peace and friendship with your people, and at the moment those murders were committed, near fifty families of your town were at Colerain, receiving supplies of provisions from the public stores of the United States, which had already been the means of saving several hundred of them from perishing bv famine. Shameful ingratitude to so generous a benefactor as you have found the President of the United States! If there is a spark of manly virtue left in your nation, you must shudder at the recollection, and dread how much the world must despise a people capable of such perfidy. I have reason to think, that you will find that base, ungrateful man, John Galphin, a principal in this business; if so. he deserves no mercy. The Indians who composed the party that robbed and murdered at Trader’s hill, were from the town where Burges lives; Burges’ son, and brother-in-law, were leaders of the party, so that you cannot be at a loss to discover the rest; and I hope you have so great a respect to the honor of your country, and your own characters as honest men, that you will attend to this business without delay, and give me such answer as to confirm me in the opinion of your being honest men and desirous of peace. Three of your people have fallen into our hands since the time of the murders, but I would not suffer them to be hurt. One of them was frightened and fled; the other two I return safe with this, which serves to prove that we do not wish to hurt any that has the appearance of being innocent. I shall expect a full and satisfactory answer from you in twenty-five days from this time; any person you send with letters to me, will be safe, and treated well, and return when they please. With a hope that the path between us may ever be kept bright, and that our friendship may continue strong whilst the sun shines, is the desire and fervent wish of your real friend. Broi her: [circular.] St. Mary’s, 28th March, 1793. Little did I expect to have to address you and the other chiefs of your nation on so disagreeable a business as the enclosed will fully explain to you. It is of so alarming and serious a nature, as to call your attention to an immediate inquiry into the cause, as well as to take speedy measures to give satisfaction for so unprovoked and wanton an outrage on the peace of the United States, and your nation. I have great consolation in thinking that the Creek nation were unacquainted with the wicked aftair, and that their resentment will be raised against those villains, who, to gratify their private views, have committed murder and robbery, the consequence of which, if not speedily redressed, cannot fail to involve your country in a bloody and ruinous war. I cannot doubt, that you, and every good man in your land, must feel the insult offered to you all, by the planners and perpetrators of the late murders. The chiefs, and others of the nation, had scarcely returned home from treating with me on this river, and where they pledged their nation and selves, in the most solemn manner, to preserve peace, and live like friends and brothers with the United States, until this horrid, unprovoked outrage, was committed. Such doings, my friends, cannot be overlooked by a powerful and spirited nation, such as the United States. As to the unaccountable conduct of your people, in this instance, I shall avoid any reflection or comment thereon, and submit it to your own feelings and understanding. The President of the United States, as well as myself, having always considered you as one of our best friends in the Creek nation, and one who had the good of both countries at heart, I'roin these reasons you are now called on by me, in behalf of my country, to use your utmost influence and exertions in procuring peace, which I fear cannot be done, unless examples are made of those who have murdered and robbed our citizens, and destroyed the peace of our land and yours. I have sent a general talk into the nation, which I hope will be attended to by you and every friend to peace, and that you will give it your support. I should have sent sooner, but could not find an opportunity. Having great confidence in your exertions in favor of justice and peace, I shall not say more to you on this business at present, and remain a real friend to you and every good man in the Creek nation. [Note.—The preceding letter sent to twenty-one of the principal chiefs of the Upper and Lower Creeks, with the general talk enclosed.] James Seagrove to Mr. Payne, head-chief of the Seminole tribe of the Creek Indians at Sotcharcay. St. Mary’s, in Georgia, 14th April, 1793. Sir: Although I have not the pleasure of being personally acquainted with you, yet I am no stranger to your very respectable character and connexions in the Creek land. Ever since the United States honored me with my present appointment, I have been very desirous of seeing you, and of being in close friendship with a man of your character. I am really sorry that it has so happened that vve have not met, as I have reason to think it would have been mutually agreeable, as well as serviceable, to our respective countries. But I hope it is not yet too late, and that you will favor me with a visit at this place, where nothing shall be wanting to make your jaunt agreeable, and, in return, 1 shall call and spend some time with you in your country. I was just on the point of setting oft’ into the nation, where I had agreed to meet the chiefs on the first of May. in the Cussetah town, in order to arrange and settle all matters still depending between your and my country, which there was no difficulty or doubt of accomplishing, as I bad nothing to ask from them, and much to give and advise, solely for the good of the nation; but' an unexpected and unfortunate aftair, which took place in the upper part of this river, on the eleventh of last month, has for a time delayed my going. It is more than probable you nave heard of the affair alluded to; but, lest you should not have had a true statement of it, I shall relate it to you. which is as follows: On the evening of the eleventh of last month, a party of Creek Indians, chiefly from the town where Burges lives, in number from‘twenty-five to thirty, entered the store of my brother, Robert Seagrove. at Trader’s Hill, on this river, and then and there killed Mr. John Fleming, the store-keeper, and Mr. Daniel Moffit, scalped and mangled their bodies in a brutal manner, beat and abused a woman who lived there, and left her lying supposed to be dead. A man of the name of Upton, who was there, is missing, and must be killed or carried off a prisoner by the same party, who also robbed the said store of goods, the first cost of which was ten thousand dollars, which they took oft’ with them to their towns; also, a number of horses, &c. &c. Two days after, a party of the same killed three men and a girl, that were travelling about ten miles from said store, and plundered their wagons, and took oft' horses and all they could find, and fled towards the nation. This is a true state of the outrage, which you may rely was committed without the shadow of offence, of any kind whatever, being given by our people. On the contrary, I was at that instant feeding and giving presents from the public stores, on this river, to a great many families of Indians from the different parts of the nation, with whom all our people were on the most friendly terms, not suspecting harm, when this unprovoked, horrid murder and robbery was committed. I have since sent a talk to the chiefs of the whole nation, and doubt not they will see the necessity there is of doing justice to my country, which, in this instance, has been very ill treated. I am happy in finding, by letters which I have received from the nation, that they knew nothing of this affair until it had taken place, and that it appears to have been done through the advice of some white villains, to serve private purposes. The insult and injury is great on the Creek nation as well as the United States, and the consequence may be of a most serious and alarming nature to the whole of the Creek land, unless their regard for justice, and a wish to live in peace and friendship with this country, shall direct your wise men to make examples of those bad men who have dared to disturb the peace of two nations, whose mutual interest it is to be friends. My principal reason for writing to you at this time is, that, not having heretofore seen you. and that probably you may not nave heard my different talks to the Creek people, I do it to assure you that it is the wish and desire of the President and United States to live in fhe most friendly and brotherly terms with every part of the Creek nation, and that the whole of my talks to the chiefs of your nation, has uniformly been to that effect, as well as that the Creek people should, on no account, involve themselves in a war or disputes with any people, either white or red; these are truths which cannot be denied. Happy will it be for your nation, if my advice is preferred to that of a designing, malignant set of wretches, who, from motives of personal interest or revenge, advise contrary measures, in order to involve you in a war. Such people are regardless of what may befall your land; they have nothing to lose by your misfortunes, but unquestionably will take advantage of them. As a friend to your country, I hope you will attend to w'hat I now tell you, and use your influence to direct your people to peace and what is for their good, and will keep them in a state of prosperity. It will always give me pleasure to be of service to you or your country, and convince you how much I am your friend. I have sent my interpreter, Langley Bryant, with this, to inform you that it is our desire to be in peace and friendship with you. and request that you will let me hear from you. I should have sent you a handsome present by him, but as the path does not seem quite clear at present, I am afraid he might lose them. If you will do me the pleasure of coming here, you shall receive a present equal to the first chief oi your land. In the mean time, I send yon, from the President of the United States, a handsome pair oi arm-bands, which please to accept and wear, as a' token of his friendship for you. Notwithstanding the late murders by the Creeks, no injury has been offered any of them; although several of them have been in our posses- sion, yet I have sent them all safe home. This alone must convince you that wc wish to live in peace, provided it can be done on proper terms. Mr. Bryant will inform you more particularly of our friendship. Wishing that your nation may have wisdom to live in peace, 1 conclude this talk, and remain a real friend to you and every honest man in the Creek land. James Sea grove to the Kings, Chiefs, Head-men. and JVarriors, of the whole Creek nation. St. Mary’s, 14/h April, 1793. Dear Brothers: 1 sent you a talk on the 26th of last moon, by an Indian, which I hope you have received. It was addressed to the whole Creek nation, on the late murders and robberies committed on this country by the people of the Creek towns. Lest any accident should have prevented these talks reaching you, 1 now send you a copy of them: and I hope that, on the chiefs of the nation perusing them, they will see the necessity of immediately complying with my demand, and deliver up to me an equaL number of those who murdered our people in cold blood, and without any reason or cause whatever. It now' appears that they killed seven persons; six were found, and a man of the name ol Upton is missing ever since the murder of Trader’s Hill, where he then was. This demand is agreeable to your own laws, and. being founded on strict justice, and the laws of nature. I cannot doubt but that you have (or will speedily have) seven of those persons who were foremost in advising, planning, or executing the horrid murders alluded to, seized on and delivered to me, that their blood may atone for what they have done. This alone can save your country: I’orl must inform you that, as much as the United States respects you as'a people, and wishes your happiness and prosperity, yet the late wanton, unprovoked outrage of your people on this country, has been of so heinous a nature as to call loudly on our Government to see satisfaction made. Indeed, I am convinced that the citizens of America will not submit to any thing short of what I now demand. Should your people be lost to a sense of justice, and regardless of peace, or their existence as a nation, and obstinately decline a compliance with my just demand, 1 must desire that you will all please to remember, that no hasty steps have been taken by me or my country; but that full opportunity is now given for punishing the aggressors, and thereby you may continue to live in peace and friendship with the United States as long as you choose. That certain w hite men in your land have been principal advisers and promoters of the late acts of violence, 1 have not a doubt. I have always told you those white villains would bring ruin on you unless yon drove them from among you. Is it not very strange, that the w hole of the wise men of your land should be so blind as not to discover the designs of those base men, which evidently appear to be to involve you in a war, and have you destroyed thereby, to plunder your property, and take your lands that you now live on? Rouse, my friends and brothers, and clear from among you or destroy, a set of such men as I have described; you cannot be at a loss to know them: their actions have already pointed them out as lit objects of your resentment. All those who advise your people to do mischief or go to war, those who encourage your people to steal horses and other property, and purchase them after wards, are. bad; but, above all, the adherents and supporters of Bowles' impositions on you are deserving of severe punishment, as they have kept your land in a flame for years, and imposed on your people by false promises. I expect these things will be done without delay, as, on it, your future happiness, in a great measure, depends. 1 was all ready to set oft’ to meet you all. my friends, in the Cussetahs, agreeable to promise, when the murder and robbery on this river took place: this has, of course, delayed me, and will, until you have ordered examples to be made agreeably to my demand, herein contained. \\ hen this is done, 1 shall shortly after be with you, and when I shall make known to you many agreeable talks, which I have from our great and good father, the President of the United States, whose greatest w ish is to make you, Ids children, happy. Notwithstanding the late very bad conduct of your people towards this country, yet you have it in your power to live in friendship with the United States, on your complying with my present demand. Now, brothers, would you not he much to blame to suffer your whole country to be ruined, to save from just punishment seven bad men, who have brought trouble and disgrace on your land, and destroyed an equal number of our people, your good friends, and that without any cause? It gives me great pleasure to find that you were so wise as not to take the Shawanese and other Northern Indians talks; you did well, and you will find the good of it. 1 shall let your Great Father know of your good conduct in this. If I could be with you in peace, I could regulate all join aftairs, so as to make you happy; I hope that day is not far off; it rests with yourselves. But I again tell you, that you must do justice, and remove from among you bad white men, before I can think of coming. Colonel John Kinnard w ill inform you of some other matters; to him I request you toattend, and also to my deputy, Mr. Tim Barnard, and let their talks take deep root in jour hearts, for their talks are like mine, for the good ol all my Creek friends. 1 have now given you a long talk, as I know not when to stop when I talk to my Creek brothers. Attend to what I have said, and let me have such answer from you as tocontinuemy friendship and good opinion. 1 am, &c. Timothy Barnard to James Scagrove, dated Flint River, 26th Mar eh, 1793. Dear Sir: Your express, by Mr. Mordecai, came safe to band; I received it at the Cussetahs, where I have been ever since my last to you, bjr Mr. John Galphin, except five days I spent at the Buzzard Roost, where I was obliged to attend in consequence of some complaints I heard from the Indians, respecting the inhabitants on the Oconee driving great gangs of cattle over on this side in the fork of Jullah Packa, and from that up, forty or fifty miles higher; besides that the white people, hail built two or three houses on this side. When I got to the Buzzard Roost, 1 found that the report I had heard was not groundless, as there was a white man that had just arrived at the Roost from Rock Landing, who convinced me that it was the case. 1 heard, while I was at the Roost, that the Cowetas were just going out to drive off all the stocks and kill some of the inhabitants. 1 immediately sent off an express to the Rock Landing, and wrote to the commanding officer there, to order the people to drive their stocks back. 1 likewise acquainted his Excellency the Governor with the circumstance, and of the ill consequences that would follow, if lie did not put a final stop to such proceedings; I at the same time wrote to Captain Philips, that lives nearly opposite where those cattle were driven over. I have since been at the town, had a letter from Captain Philips, where he mentions, that some of the hunting Indians had given them liberty, last fall, to drive their stocksovertdl the spring, which I do not believe; but whether or not, I should imagine that they might have a little more know ledge of Indian matters than to think such liberties would hold good with the whole nation. Major Gaidier was kind enough to answer my letter, wherein he informs me that he has given his orders for all the stock to be driven back, which lie says wras duly complied with. A few days ago at the meeting, I have had more complaints la.d before me of the like nature, which I immediately informed Major Gaither of, and Captain Philips; both of which is, that the w hite people came and encamped out, thirty or forty miles on this side the river, and hunted, with lire, and all day with rifles, and destroyed the game so bad, that they can hardly find a turkey or a deer to kill, and with great gangs of dogs hunting bear; this the Indians say they cannot put up with; and if the white people do not decline such proceedings, they will kill some of them. They say, that such proceedings as this fully convinces them, that, if there, was a line run, that they would not still be restrained from such practices. 1 gave them to understand, that it was for want of the line that they could not be hindered, and that, when you came up, that you would have it in your power to convince them that all such matters should be finally done way, and that you would, on your part, give them satisfactory redress, to every legal complaint they had on their parts to lay before you. I have done every thing in "my power to stop them from doing miscnief on the stock or inhabitants, till you come up. The Cowetas have stolen a good many horses, and brought them in, which I think the white people have to blame their own conduct for, as I am told there are both horses and cattle twenty miles on this side the river; I am amazed that people will be so foolhardy, till matters are settled, which never will be the case while the people on the frontier go so head-strong to wrork. 1 remain in hopes the Indians will remain quiet now, till you can come up. I am in dread of no danger from any part of the nation but the Chehaws below me; nevertheless, though I had been down there not more than ten days before I set oil'to the town, and talked above three hours to the head King of the town, and acquainted him with every necessary matter that was transacted at the treaty, lie since hearing a flying report, that the Cowetas were gone out to do mischief, and some of the other towns had joined them, without waiting to hear the truth, set off with ten or twelve fellows to do mischief low down on the frontier. Though Kinnard sent them word not to go, they had gone so far they could not stop them; it’s since said they only went off toTunt, which, if so, will be all the better; there were likewise runners despatched after them to turn them back, but am afraid, if they were determined to do mischief, it was too late; however, I think if they had done any mischief, they would have been in before this, as it’s three weeks ago since they went out; had it not been for those imprudent steps of the Oconee settlers, driving their stocks over the river, the Shawanese talks would not have had near as much effect on the minds of the Creeks, as it was a good subject for the Shawanese to work on, telling them it was the way the white people served them to the northward. As soon as I received your express by Mordecai, I appointed another meeting in seven days, and sent off expresses to the Upper Creeks, to the Mad Dog of the Tuckaubatchees, and Alexander Cornell, and to the White Lieutenant of the Oakfuskees or N ow yawger, likewise to Kinnard; they attended the meeting, likewise the heads of the other towns you see mentioned in their answer. Those head-men from the Upper Creeks assured me, that* there was none of the towns in that quarter but what was for peace. Neither dp I find that there is any in the lower much inclined for mischief, except tlje Cowetas, and Broken Arrow, and some of the Chehaws and Ousauches, and them, I believe their chief views are for stealing horses. As I got these head-men from the Upper Creeks to give them a very severe talk on that head, the Mad Dog and chief of the rest of the heads, desired me to urge you much to be up in thirty two days from the date of the meeting; 1 acquainted them with every obstacle that I thought might detain you, but that I knew you would lose no time. 1 am of opinion myself, that the sooner you can be up the better, as chief of the nation is in a starving condition, and chief of them will be under the necessity of turning out in the woods again to support their families. The Chickasaws and them are likely to settle their dispute, as they have sent runners off for that purpose. Those rascals, the followers of Bowles and Willbanks, have been lying at the mouth of Okelohne all this winter, notwithstanding, they have been frequently told by the Spaniards, that they need not expect any goods there; Kinnard likewise informed them at the.meeting, that he had letters from Mr. Leslie, that informed him, that all their hopes of ships there were in vain. They are now, I hear, breaking up, as hunger obliges them to it. Willbanks set off down that way about a month ago, and had not returned when I left the towns, and I expect, without he has very good luck, I do not think he will return, as the Spaniards have offered a great reward tor him; 1 would not do any thing respecting that matter of the prisoners in the nation at the meeting, as there was too much confusion for such business; besides, it is a matter that entirely concerns the Upper Creeks. I read and interpreted yonrletterto the Little Prince, the Leader I could not see; the Prince said he would have sent a horse for goods, but had none able to go down. His uncle that you wrote to, says, he hopes you will think on him when you come up, as he is an old man and your friend; he is the man you wrote the other letter to. The Mad Dog and some more of them hinted strongly lor a few presents after coming so far, but I had nothing for them, as there were but little goods among the traders where I was, and had enough to do to borrow a little from them to buy provisions, which was hard toget at, payinga treble price; I hope you will, when yon come up, have it in your power to furnish me with a little goods to answer such purposes, as I have none, and cannot get them without running in debt for them. What you mentioned respecting making the Shawanese prisoners, 1 omitted in public, as it was the advice of Cornell and the Lieutenant both, likewise the Mad Dog; as they said at this time it might make matters worse; but the Mad Dog says, as they were to set off in live days up to his town, he will give them their lesson there, and send them home, which he is sure will prevent them coining back any more with talks to the Creeks. I at the same time gave Alexander Cornell particular instructions wliat to put in the Mad Dog’s head to say to them; it’s not my opinion that they will be able to do any great damage in the nation. 1 had two of them over at the Cussetahs to the meeting; one of them is as white a man as me, and speaks nearly as good English. I told them in public of their nation suing for peace, and many other things, which seemed to agitate them much, as they did not seem to believe it; one of them, an Indian, got up to leave the square before our talks were over, but was called back by the Little Prince, who is their chief director. 1 had a good deal of private talk with the Prince, which lie seemed to take pretty well, and make not the leastdoubt but he may be made a useful man with a good present and a little good talk. The whole burthen of interpreting lay on myself, as Dourouzeaux has been laid up with the rheumatism since he arrived, and I doubt will never be able to do much now. We have certain accounts from West Florida, that our friend Mr. McGillivray has departed this life, and was interred in Mr. Panton’s garden, as the Dons would not admit of his being laid in their burying ground. Kinnard directed me to acquaint you, that he had done every thing in his power to reconcile matters, and should continue in so doing till you arrived, which lie hoped would be as quick as possible, as he is in the same opinion as myself on that head; and thinks the longer you stay now, will be the worse to settle matters. Mr. Holmes has written you a long letter as well as myself, therefore I judge, that, betwixt us both, you will receive every necessary information for the present, till you arrive here, where we can talk over matters; till then, 1 wish you health. Jl talk delivered by Mr. Barnard to the Indians assembled at the Cussetahs, and interpreted by himself, 22 d March, 1793. Friends and Brothers: I have lived many years in your land, and have always endeavored to advise you all to follow one straight path, for the happiness ol the nation. _ What I have done, you all know, has been from friendly motives and not interested views. 1 need not tell you, that I was poor for this office that I have been honored with, but accepted of it, with a view of servinga country, in which. 1 have, the most of my days, resided, and where my connexions are dear to me. Consequently, you must suppose, I would not wish to see them suffer from the bad talks, which are daily sent into your land, which, if not guarded against in time, will be the inevitable ruin of your nation. The peace of your land has been greatly disturbed by talks from white people that are poor, and wish to make themselves rich, at the expense of your blood being spilt and your nation undone. Those men who have brought you to this, will leave you, and retire into some other country, where they will live at their ease, and laugh at your credulity for being such fools. Do but look a few years back, and see the manner in which the British secured you. Colonel Brown (a beloved man) is now in Providence, and Mr. Tate in England, living in splendor and aflluence, on the money they received from the English, lor sending you to war against the Americans, and care not, should they never see you more, or even hear of your welfare. The English have not thought of you, since the American war, as, they have not sent you a single piece of stroud, as a present, since they left your land, although many of you fought for them, and some beloved men have lost their lives. Had it not been for our friend, Mr. McGillivray, who is now no more, and Mr. Panton, w ho obtained liberty from the King of Spain, by paying ten thousand dollars per annum, to bring goods from their land, you would have been very poor, and your women and children very naked. These, my friends, are circumstances, which ought to make deep impressions in your hearts. Some of your great men have veiv bad eyes; they see but a very short distance before them, otherwise, they would distinguish their friends from their enemies, and guard against the pernicious consequences attending some bad talks, which I find they have paid too much attention to, and which, if they persist in, will be their total ruin. When a thing is past, there is no recalling it; therefore, wise men ought to consider what they are about, before it is too late. Look round, my friends, and consider you are surrounded with difficulties, but you have still a door left open, if you will but keep it so. Our great and beloved father, General Washington, is still your friend, and will remain so, if you do not draw on his displeasure, by your own repeated bad conduct. While he is your friend, you have no enemies to dread. The Northward Indians, which are now amongst yon. 1 have frequently told you, are only endeavoring to bring you into the same predicament into which they themselves are involved. I am glad to find, there are some of my old friends here present, that still possess their senses, and are not to be frightened or led away by the Shawanese talks. There are some of my own color amongst you. as detrimental to your peace and happiness, as these Shawanese. Willbanks is one; a man who never did, nor never will, render your country any service. It is useless for me to say any thing more respecting this base man, as you all ought to be well acquainted with his conduct, from his frequent deceptions. I have always cautioned you against listening to such men, and think it is time that your eyes ought to be opened, and view such men with contempt. Some of your own white people that are trading among you, are encouraging your young people to steal horses from the Americans, and they are buying them. Your young men pretend, that they dp it, because their land is encroached upon, but your head-men that are present, ought to put a stop to such proceedings, ere it be too late, as such behavior will never establish a peace, but will be productive of much mischief and perhaps the utter ruin of your nation. Do but be quiet, until the beloved man, Major Seagrove. comes up, and I make not the least doubt, but he will remove all such complaints, as he will be invested with full power, from General Washington, our great, good, and beloved father, who strives to do the best for both his white and red children. Witnesses present. T. BARNARD, Interpreter. James M. Holmes, Gf.o. J. Hill. Kinnard’s Covvpex, 29th March, 1793. Talk from the Head-men of the Chehaws and Telluiana. Major Seagrove: friend, it is not long since we were down to see you. and heard your talks, but when we got home, we heard a talk from the Upper towns from the Sawonocas, (Shawanese) and thought it was a general war, and our people went off' in a hurry, and have done mischief. And since we have returned home, we find that talk was sent to us. to bring us into trouble. But we had no intent to do any such thing of ourselves, but thought that the rest were bent upon the same thing. The Ossuehees sent us word, that all the rest of the people was gone out, and we thought it was a war indeed, and on that, our people turned out. M hen we went out, we did not intend to have killed any body, but on going down and finding Captain Fleming dead, and the other man at your brother’s store, we were sure that it was a war, and we then killed some men, but it was not us that began to kill. We are very sorry that any such thing has happened, as it was our intention to try and keep peace, but we were deceived by a bad talk, sent to us. -My' friend, this is all that we can say in the business, till we hear from you, which I hope will be soon, and hope you will send us a talk byr Mr. Kinnard's negro boy. We have brought a great deal of property , such as horses, cattle, and negroes. As we find that it is not a war, we dont think they belong to us, and we shall keep them safe, till we hear from you, in older to return them. Malitea desires to talk to yrou, which is as follows: M v Friend: We have had a talk with you, which I hope will not be spoiled on account of the mischief done by our people. We have been very well used by you, and have had provisions whenever we asked for it, and I hope that the inhabitants will not run off and leave their houses and land, as we do not mean to disturb them. And as you are sent-for, we hope to see you here, and settle all the talks with you. When I came home with the letter you sent by me. the people had gone out. so. that I did not see them till this miehief was done. This comes from your friends as follows: MALITEA, ST1NNPEE, SLOFIA CHOPEO. CHEIIAW TUSTANOCCA, TUSTANOC110GN, COCHOXONA TUSTANOCCA, Chiefs of Chehaws and Ttllihuana towns. James Seagrove, Superintendent, §-e. Note.—All those who send this talk, (exept Malitea) were perpetrators of the murders, &c. near Colerain, and also, the robberies on the Altamalia. Malitea is one of the commissioners, who attended running the boundary line. The Chehaws and Telluianas are one people: the latter is only a village detached a few miles from the former. J. SEAGROVE. At a talk held in the Cussetahs, Creek nation, March 22, 1793, before Timothy Barnard, deputy agent of Indian Affairs, Southern district, United States, in behalf of said States, and John Kinnard and other Chiefs from the Hitchetas, Coweta, Cussetah, Broken Arrow. Oswitches, and Swaggles Towns, representatives for the. Lower Creeks. The White Lieutenant, Mad Dog, Head King, Oakfuskees, and Alexander Cornell, for leading men from the Upper Creeks, to represent that part of the nation: 'The Mad Dog of the Tuckaubcitehees' Talk. Friend and Brother: . I have heard the talks sent to the nation, and receive them the same as if I were taking you byr the hand and receiving them from your own mouth. It is very true, there are many very bad talks in the nation, but hope they are not so bad as they may appear, as we are using every endeavor to make them better. The talks you sent to us, we know, are for our benefit, which makes me the more anxious to see you, and it is my advice that you may be here speedily. It is true, there are mad people amongst us, who have acted imprudently, which, I think, is the. case with some of yours. I have not much to say at this moment, as we expect to see you soon, when you will hear much from us; we have much to say. In thirty-two days from the date hereof, we shall expect to see you in our land, when we take you by the hand, as our friend and father, and smoke the pipe of peace and friendship together. T. BARNARD, Interpreter. Signed in presence of , James M. Holmes, Geo. J. Hull. James Scagrove to the Secretary of ff'ar. St. Mary’s, 30th .April, 1793. Sir: On the 28th instant, 1 received, by express, from the chiefs of the Creek nation, the enclosed talks, by which, you will find them disposed to comply with my demand, which, if they do. will be a most happy circumstance for our country. From the information which I have received, I have reason to look for the prisoners daily. I shall feel embarrassed what to do with them, especially the two white men. which the chiefs say shall be sent to me. Our prison, in this country, is very bad, and, to nut them in fort St. Tammany, will not do, as there, they would be almost certain of escaping. The Indian which I put there made his escape, which has been a very greatinjury to our cause. Yesterday, my interpreter, Mr. Bryant, returned from the Seminoles, with an answer to my letter of the 14th instant, from Mr. Payne, the head chief of that tribe. Mr. Bryant was kindly received, and Mr. Payne, with a number of his head-men, are to meet me at Colerain, in seven days from this date. By this, I hope to secure the friendship of those people. It will be necessary that I make those Indians a handsome present, for which purpose, I shall be obliged to purchase some articles that I am deficient in. I now send you a belt of peace, received from the chiefs of the Upper towns, to the President of the United States; and, also, a white wing, from the Cussetahs. which, you will observe, is their desire. The Indians continue to plunder in Florida, and a war with the Chickasaws seems certain. Near two thousand Creeks are preparing to go against them. I find, by accounts from the nation, that two men have been killed on the Oconee, by the Old Tallasee king’s people; for what reason, 1 know not, but must suppose it owing to the ill conduct of those white people, in intruding on their lands. The following talks received by James Scagrove, .Agent of Indian .Affairs. Southern Department of the United States. Dear Friend and Brother: Cussetah, 15/7i .April, 1793. This comes from the Cussetah king, and Bird-tail king. 1 send this beloved wing, and, when you see it, you will see my friendship, lioping that it will always be so. Mr. Scagrove, when you see my white wing, and our talks, you will send them to our great father. General Washington. 1 wish for a peace, and always did, for I want our women and children to grow up. The Upper towns have directly sent oft’to have Galphin and Upton taken. The Indians themselves say. that Galphin was the first man that went to them, and got them to go. The red men that were with Galphin, shall also be given up, as soon as our meeting is over. I have called a meeting to-day about it. It is our wish to keep peace, and always was. There are people that are gone out, but don’t know- whether they can be turned back or no. Copy of a letter from .Alexander Cornell, in behalf of himself and the Upper Creeks. Cussetah town, 15th .April, 1793. Dear Friend and Brother: This is to let you know' that I have been very uneasy, as I never could hear the truth until now, (by your letter) of what mischief was done at St. Mary’s. I hear now, that the old Tallassee king, and his people, are turned out for war, and the Colemmys have joined them. They are like mad people, and running crazy. What you told me to do, in the Upper towns, I did. I have done all that lies in my power: it is impossible to do more than I have done. All the Upper towns are strong for peace but them two towns, and I have sent for them several times, when we have had meetings, but they never would come. They mean to spite the whole nation, if they Can, by spoiling what talks we have had w ith you. The old Tallassee king lives about twenty-five miles from my house. He was the first man that gave the land away to the white people, and now. is the first that proposes doing mischief. It must be the Northern Indians coming among us? them two towns have taken their talks. We cannot help it, therefore I hope you will not blame the Upper towns for it, for we still stand to your talk, and mean to do so. We never heard of their going out to do mischief until they were gone two days, for we never could hear from them, or understand what they meant to do. They offered to give me up the prisoners, but I told them I would wait till you came up yourself, as I had no horses to send them down. No more at present, from Your friend and well wisher. ALEXANDER CORNELL. In behalf of self and Upper Creeks. P. S. Sir: Please send by the bearer an answer, audit shall be punctually obeyed. Sir: I have heard that Galphin. and one Upton, was at the murder of Mr. Fleming, and robbing the store. We mean to give them up, and the rest that was with them. Mr Seagrove: 1 never got the letters till the 15th of the month; I was waiting six days for them, at the Cussetahs, before I got them. By their detaining them so long, we have got too little time to do it. I hope, when you see our talks, you w ill take jt in consideration, and give us longer time. I have sent our white man off directly to you, with our talk to you. We have sent off’to have Galphin and Upton taken, for fear they should make their escape. A Ye have agreed to give up two red men from the Chehaws, two from Burges’ town, and one from the point. If we had got the letters sooner, you should have had the murderers by the time you mention, but you must allow us longer time, for it is the wish of the Upper towns to do it. This will be a ivarning to the young people; then they will mind what their head-men say to them, and not before. Tuckaubatchee, 8th .April, 1793. Dear Friend and Brother: This comes from your brothers, the Mad Dog, the AVIiite Lieutenant. David Cornell, Alexander Cornell, Mr. Weatherford, and thirteen other head-men of the Upper Creeks, who all agree, w ith one talk, together. That David Cornell, and the head-men of the Upper towns, and warriors, all agree to your talk, and mean to hold them fast by the hand, and never to let it go as long as they live. You heard the Northern Indians was among us, but we never listened to any of their talks, nor would suffer any of them to give any out among our people, for we don’t want to shed no white people’s blood, for I have got white people’s blood in me. We intended to go to war against the Chickasaws, and, if we don’t we will come again to see you. We formerly went to war against the Cumberland people, but, since we heard your talk, we don’t intend to go to war against them any more. Phe Mad Dog’s brother ana nephew, wrent into a trader’s house in the Chickasaws, and they killed them both. We mean to have satisfaction, tor, if they had killed them in the woods, we might try to make it up; but, killing them as they did, we cannot put up with it. Mr. Seagrove: You told us to keep peace with all colors, which we meant to do, but our color began first, and hurt us greatly. Dear Friend and Brother: We are going to send our feathers by our white man. There has some mischief been done your way. but we have not heard the truth of it yet; if there lias been any done, it is more than any of us Upper towns did know. Our friend and father. General Washington, lias sent us talks several times, which we always took, and mean to do. If there isany mischief done your way, I hope you won't blame the Upper towns, for we don't know any thing about it. We wish to have a wide path down to you, that our women and children may travel down to you; it is the wish of the Upper towns that it should be so. The Tuckaubatchee town, and the rest of the head-men, have taken your talk, and mean to live by them, as long as you and the brothers of the United States exist. Mr. Sea grove: My name is the Mad Dog that is going to send these talks to you. and when you see my talk, it is all the same as if you seen me, and, when I see your talks, it is all the same as if I seen you. I hope, when you see my belts, you will see an everlasting peace and friendship with our great Hither, General Washington, and our brothers of the. United States; the one stripe for General Washington, the one for Mr. Seagrove, and the other for the brothers of the United States. Mr. Seagrove: I send the belts, as our talks, for it is our way of showing our friendship as long as we live. The other belt is for Mr. Seagrove and his lady. I always listened to your talks, and mean to do so, and all my people. Mr. Seagrove: I hope your heart is in a good place, for, if there is any thing that is in it, let me. know, and I will ease it if I can: if the Lower towns have done mischief, you shall have satisfaction for it; for we Upper towns all agree to it at our meeting. An answer from you shall be immediately obeyed; so no more at present from the Mad Dog. the White Lieutenant of the Oakfuskees, &c. Dear Friend and Brother: Copy of a lot try from //. Cornell. Tuckaubatchee, 8th April, 1793. I take the opportunity to write by the bearer, to let you know I am sorry to hear that there has mischief been done at St. Mary's. I have never heard the truth of it yet. As soon a« I heard any thing of it, 1 sent oft’runners to the Upper towns and the Lower towns, to have a meeting about it, but the Half-way House king stopped our breaking days from going down to the Lower towns. This was the reason that none of the head-men of the Lower towns were at our meeting. The Mad Dog. myself, and David Cornell, are so uneasy about it we don't know what to do. Y\ e had great hopes our nation was getting very happy, for they had taken your talks, and our Great. Father. General Washing®’*, and mean to hold it fasti as long as we live, for we have thrown away the. Spaniards’ talk; we hold them by the hands as friends yet. but not to take any oftheirtalks against the United States. If every man would exert himself as well as the Mad Dog, and the head-men of the Upper towns, and Mr. Weatherford, we should have an everlasting peace with our brothers of the United States, l have sent our white man with our talks to you, for he is the only one that has done any thing for us. Since he came from St. Mary's. 1 have been sending him through the Upper towns, to the traders, to hear what they thought of our talks, and to tell them not to give the Indians bad talks, as some of them used to do, not to tell them to go and steal w hite people's horses, for, if they did, and it was found out, it would be of a bad consequence to them. There was that Ash, that you gave goods to, 1 suppose he told you he would do a great deal for you when he went home. He has never done any thing for you. Mr. Weatherford and myself, wanted him to come down with the bearer, and lie would not. Since he has come from the Upper town, 1 hear that Grason. that lives at the Hillebese, has been giving the Indians talks to so to war; 1 wiS you would send me word what to do with such people. So no more at present from your friend,'A CORNELL. Copy of a letter from Charles I Tea1 ho foal. . Hickory Ground, 9th March. 1793. Dear Sir: After my compliments to you and family. 1 have the unhappy news to communicate to you of General Mc-Gillivray's death, on the 17th of February last, about 11 o'clock at night, at Mr. S. Panton's, in Pensacola, and I being immediately sent for. by his Excellency Governor O'Neal, and Mr. Panton, on what business, as yet. I am not able to tell, but. when you come up. I shall be able to give you a full account of every particular circumstance, that will be satisfactory to you. Had it not been for my being called that way, I should have been down before this time, and the waters being high, prevented me from writing to you sooner. As concerning the affairs of the nation, the Indians are at peace at present with the States, and wish to remain so; and since Mad Tom. of the Cussetahs, has arrived at home, he has spoke much in your favor, and looks on you as a sincere friend to the nation : likewise informed the heads of the Upper towns you are coming up: they are very desirous to see you. and every good friend to America. With a little trouble, ami good conduct, the nation will be kept at peace with the States; as there are much depending upon a man, who has considerable influence with the heads ol the nation, and one who could draw the attention of the Indians to hear the talk lie had to give them. As it is most certain the Spaniards will send an emissary to the nation to disturb the Indians, which I am afraid will be attended with bad consequences; but this is a serious matter, and of course I am not at this time able fully to communicate to you at present: I shall, therefore, refer it until I see you. at which time, 1 hope I shall he able to give you every satisfaction on the subject, as I shall start in two or three days at furthest, for Pensacola, in order to return by the time you promised to be up at the Tuekaubatchees, which, I understand, is the last of this month; and as I shall see you in a short time, I shall refer the most particular business until then. Of course, you have heard of the Chickasaws ami this nation going to war against each other; this you will be able to consider upon more fully; and if you would wash it to continue, I shall keep it on; and on the contrary, if not, I shall put a stop to it immediately, as it is my sincere wish to keep the Indians at peace with the States. I shall always be happy in doing every thing in my power to serve you. as I have ever looked upon you as a sincere friend in every respect. I would ever wish to continue my friendship to you as before, and ever shall, as far as lays in my power, hoping that every matter of importance will be secret to you and myself alone. At this time, I am not able^to give you a satisfactory account of every particular circumstance, but shall as soon as I have the pleasure of seeing you. Contrary to your orders, I have given the head-men (of which I shall give you a list of their names, and the articles I gave them) those who had not an opportunity of going in, viz: The White Lieutenant, Punknot,'Mad Spanyard, Mad Tom. Cusadies, Good Hunter, Wocke Coys Mad Beaver. Ala Bamer, Mad Tiger, Sdewaetes, Old Tales, a ’Warrior, Quarterroon, Elewalies Old Red Shoes, Cussadies. 10 yards Strouds, 8 yards Calico. 8 yards white Linen, 1 black silk Handkerchief. The above articles was delivered to each of the head-men mentioned. Likewise, Moltanhead, of the Tuskegees, received two strouds, and two duffil blankets. These articles I have given on iny account (thinking it would be agreeable to you) as I would wish to keep peace. I am. &c. C. WEATHERFORD. Mr. J. Seagrove, &c. Copy of a letter from C. JVeatherford.—March 22, 1793. Dear Sir: I am sorry to inform you, that since the death of General McGillivray, there is a great confusion in the nation; they started in order to go against the inhabitants, and I have sent the bearer to the White Lieutenant, and Mammoth of the Pialeges, and have sent them and some more of the head-men down to the Lower towns, to stop them from doing any mischief to the inhabitants. The Chickasavvs and these people are continually doing mischief. The Chickasaws has killed three Creeks a lew days ago, and to revenge it, the Creeks have killed some of them that lived in this nation; they killed two last night. This will not be ended without some difficulty and trouble, but I wait your approbation in this respect; a few lines from you, as soon as possible, will ever be attended with the greatest punctuality. I am, sir, &c. C. WEATHERFORD. Major James Seagkove, &c. Copy of a letter from James M. Holmes. Sir: Flint River, JlprilSU), 1793. This country is in as convulsed a state as it is possible. The majority of the head-men are for peace, and seem determined, at all hazards, to give satisfaction for the murder committed at St. Mary’s. I set out from this place some days since for the Tuckaubatchees, but did not proceed further than the Cussetahs, as wras informed at that place, A. Cornell had left a message, if I should come, to inform me, that it would not be prudent to go farther, as there were Indians out from the Upper towns to do mischief on the Oconee, and should they lose any men, they might wreak their vengeance on me. They had sent off five runners to stop them, but when I left the Cussetahs, had not learned whether they had effected it or not. Whilst I was at the Cussetahs (I only returned last evening) there came news that four fellow's, belonging to the Cowetas, had brought in two scalps taken near the fork of land in dispute. The Cussetahs were for making examples of those that did the mischief, immediately; but they told them several gangs w'ere out, and mentioned two or three different nights on which mischief would be done. One gang, they said, consisted of one hundred men. This put the Cussetahs at a. stand, and concluded to defer the business until they were fully acquainted with the matter. Those concerned in the mischief already done, are using ever}' method to make the matter general, in order to screen themselves; and I fear that such a number will be concerned, that it will be a difficult matter to give full satisaction; however, the event is buried in the womb of futurity. The Indians say that Allen was concerned in planning the mischief done at St. Mary’s, the truth of which, I will not pretend to determine. Galphin and Upton, I believe, will be positively given up (the latter they assert was equally guilty) and the White King of the Ufalees, is to take satisfaction for the murder from Burges town. They consider it hard to demand men for the robbery, which, they say, was never done before; but satisfaction for the murder they think just on every principle. My own private alfairs put on a very gloomy aspect. 1 have to the amount of several hundred pounds in skins, furs, &c. at this place, but cannot get a horse to go for St. Mary’s, since that mischief was done; my case is peculiarly hard, ’tis my all; and what makes the matter worse, every shilling is due to persons who reposed a confidence in me for their property. Should there be an Indian war (which God forbid) I will thank you to use your interest in procuring me a birth in the horse, should there be a troop raised. From the repeated marks of friendship which I nave at times received, has induced me to take the liberty of asking this favor. Mordecai has been gone twenty-one days; am very anxious to hear from you. JamesSeagrove, Esq. am, sir, &.c. Copy of a letter from Timothy Barnard. Flint River, .April 19, 1793. Dear Sir: . I wrote you a fewr days ago by Aikens, who went on by way of Newport, and acquainted you with every matter that occurred to me at that time. Your demand for satisfaction has been fully explained to the Indians. Mr. Kinnard, before your express arrived, sent me word, that when expresses came up for that purpose, to leave it to him, as he knew it would endanger my life to interfere too much in that business, as I was a white man, which I was daily informed of by Indians and white people from the Chehaws. That notorious fellow, Galphin, has done all in his powrer to set those Cliehaw villains on me; and Mr. Hanard, oy what I can learn, has done the same; but I am in hopes those two villains’ race is nearly run. I am fully convinced, that if it had not been for those two-scoundrels, there would have been none of this mischief that has happened. 1 have great reason to believe, before many days, to hear of some of the offenders losing their lives, at least as many as were murdered on the St. Mary’s; but as to their giving up the whole of the offenders to be punished, I fear that is totally out of their power. The Upper Creeks are determined, by what I can learn, to give full satisfaction, which you w ill be fully informed of by Mr. McDonald, who is the bearer of this, with the express from Alexander Cornell, and the Mad Dog. Alexander Cornell has been down to the Cussetahs, on the business of getting satisfaction, and they have settled it among themselves what is to be done. I should, though at the risk of my life, have went myself to the towns on the business, but the day after I received your express, had information of the Half-way-house King, or Tail King, and all his towns round him, setting off to war on the upper parts of Georgia, and a number of the Tusehatche in the Upper Creeks, and the Tail King. On hearing of this, I sent off a runner to a village about thirty miles this side the Cussetahs, and about forty miles from where I live, where the Warrior king and one of the head warriors of the Cussetahs resided; they immediately came, and I sent the head warrior off next morning to the town, to despatch off runners after those gangs of the Upper Creeks that I heard were turned out. I, at the same time, made them both fully acquainted with your demand for satisfaction, which was immediately made known fully in the Cussetah’s square, where they consulted, and were fully determined to give satisfaction; and it would have been done before this, had not those Upper town gangs turned out to war. The people that I sent out, stopped the Tallassee king and his party, and turned them back. I have not heairl of the return of the other gang, but there are five runners after them, therefore, I hope they will be stopped. I need not say much to you respecting the disposition of the Upper Creeks, as Mr. Alexander Cornell’s letter will inform you fully; by what I can learn, the chief of all the UpperCreeks are much inclined forpeace. It is thought those two towns that went out, were persuaded to it by that villain Grearson, wdiicli, if it is proved against him, the Mad Dog and Alexander Cornell says, shall cost him his life. Almost all the Upper Creeks, to a man, are turned out against the Chickasaws; near two thousand of them it seems have started. Charles Weatherford, by what I can learn, is doing all he can for the good of the United States; and I think, was he sitre of your protection, would be a very useful man in that quarter against those Spanish commissaries, as there is one, I hear, just arrived at the Upper Creeks, and that rascal, Melford, is at the Tuckaubtachees. Weatherford has great influence in that quarter, and wants revenge from the Dons for making a prisoner of him. 1 think, if you were to give him instructions, and the same to Alexander Cornell, they would soon run oft' the Spanish commissary, as, while they are there, there will be no good talks from them towards us. Mr. McDonald, the bearer of this, informs me, that Mr. Panton and Governor O’Neal, both, are called home to the Court of Madrid, to answer to a complaint lodged there against them by the United States, and that a Colonel White is made Governor of Pensacola; the truth of this, a little time nail make appear. Mr. Panton, 1 find, has sent very pressingly for the head-men of the Upper and Lower Creeks to come down to him; but I have done all I can to stop the Lower towns, and wrote Alexander Cornell to stop the Upper towns, and believe there is no danger of any of them going, as the Chickasaws’ war wall help to keep them back. The Chickasaws have already killed some of the Cussetahs, near the Mobile, and carried oft'some children. The Cussetahs are still as firm friends as ever, and I believe will do every thing they can to give satisfaction for what’s done. Sir. Holmes has acquainted you/ully with what has happened lately with the Cowetas, on the upper frontier. 1 am almost afraid that such intermission taking place will put matters past being settled. Those villains, die Chehaws, when some of them gets killed for what they have done, will perhaps be for doing more mischief, to make matters general. They threaten Kinnard's life, as well as mine, about satisfaction being demanded; therefore I could do no more than w hat I have done. I expect I shall have to clear out from this, somew here, soon, especially when some of the murderers get killed, which I expect w ill be as soon as they find that those Upper Creeks are turned back, without doing any mischief. 1 need not mention to you, as you are able to judge, what confusion there is at this time here. Every w hite man that is a friend to the United States is in danger, therefore cannot act as they would wish. 1 now expect Mordecai up_ every day from you; and, if affairs do not take too bad a turn, will set off to the Cussetahs, and. f rom that, to the Upper Creeks, and endeavor to do the best I can. I would have stayed at the Cussetahs. but. if I had. 1 must have starved, as there is not a quart of corn to be bought there at any price, nor within seventy miles round. Alexander Cornell says he does not know how to act respecting those Spanish commissaries, without you send him instructions how to act. which. 1 think, if you did, between him and Charles Weatherford, they would soon rout them. Yesterday Fed. Charves arrived here back from Carr's Bluff, on the Oconee, where he had been to conduct Aikens that far into Georgia, as be found it not safe to stay any longer at the Chehaws, nor yet to go the path from there down. Charves informs me that, while lit; was there. General Irwin, and the Brigadier General of the State, were laying out the ground for a fort at Carr's Bluff; and. by a letter I had from there, am informed, the next day they were to proceed to Long Bluff, and, from that, to the White Bluff, lor the purpose of laying the ground out for twm more forts, which I am glad to hear tjiat there is some preparation making in that way, as I am much afraid there will be a call for forts before this matter ends. I wish it may not be the case. While Charves was at Carr’s Bluff, there came a pnan just from one John Fords, w ho wras shot at, at Ford’s house,- the house plundered, and Ford’s wife stripped naked. Such things as these are enough to agitate the minds of the people on the frontier, not to spare one wherever they find them. This I know to be a party of the Chehaws. who went off to steal horses, since the murders were committed, and came up. just before Charves, w ith six or seven head. The sooner you can despatch McDonald back with the letters the better, as Cornell and the Mad Dog will be very uneasy till he returns. Our friends. Cornell and Kinnard. both, by what I can learn, has neither slept nor ate much since this mischief has happened. Kinnard. I am told, keeps the American colors flying, and means to do so, and remain at home, if he hears of an army marching, and the Cussetah town means to follow' the same step. My best wishes for your health, &c. T. B. St. Mary’s, April 30, J793.—1 certify the preceding pages to be copied from the originals, in my office. JS. SEAGROYE, Agent /. A. James Seagrove to the Secretary of War. St. Mary's, May 24, 1793. Sm: The last letter I had the honor of addressing to you was under date of the 30th ult. which I hope you have received. Since then, 1 have been using every means in my power to obtain satisfaction, and preserve peace to our country; but I am sorry to say my endeavors have not been successful. The intentions of the well-disposed part of the Creek nation, to give satisfaction to the United States, has been frustrated by the bad men of a few towns, who, dreading the consequence]of what they had done, pushed out immediately to different parts of the frontier of Georgia, and have extended their outrages too far lor the cruets of the nation to be able to give satisfaction; and, therefore, the friendly towns have requested that an army may, without delay, be sent to destroy the following towns and people, as, without so doing, there can be no hope of peace. Those towns having disregarded all advice, and denied all authority of the nation, are now become a riotous, murdering banditti, and will continue so, and pr obably be joined by others, unless severely punished, and that speedily. The towns "dm have injured this country, and are now thrown off by the nation, are as follows: The whole of the Cowetas, T .5 ken Arrow,a part of the Uchees, Usuchees, BigTallassee, and a part of the Chehaws. By theenclosed ' copy of a talk which I received yesterday from Kinnard and others, you will be informed of the disposition of the nation. There is seven-eighths of the Creek nation that is really friendly to us. and will remain so, unless they are injured by parties from Georgia going in. This I dread. ] fear there will be no discrimination,'and. should they fall on the friendly towns, a general war is inevitable. But, if matters are properly conducted, and only the towns I have mentioned struck at, the business will shortly be over: for I am persuaded all the rest of the nation wall sit still, and view with pleasure the chastisement those villains may receive. The good effects of punishing in this way would soon be felt; it would forever after deter parties in the nation acting against the general opinion, and will encourage our friends, and establish our reputation, and give them a confidence in the justice and wisdom of the United States. At this time, 1 see no alternative but that of giving the six towns I have mentioned a severe blow. You may reiy that their number of warriors, of every class, does not exceed four hundred and twenty-five in all. A body of one thousand horsemen, under a cool, prudent commander, to push upon them as soon as possible, would do the business, and secure us peace; if delayed, the flame may spread, and our friends in the nation get discouraged. Permit me to suggest to you the propriety of sending to this frontier an experienced major general on the federal establishment, to take the command of such army as may go against the Creeks. There are generals of experience in our militia, as well as of ability; but I fear most of them w ould go into a war of this kind with ideas that a discrimination of friend from foe among Indians was ridiculous and absurd, and that, if left to them, it will shortly become a general business. This, 1 am persuaded, you will find to be the case; and let me tell those advocates for a general Creek war, that they will find it an obstinate, bloody business, as w ell as a ruinous burthen of expense to the United States. This, 1 know, is unpopular doctrine in Georgia, but I never shall withhold an opinion when I conceive it ean be of service to my country. My candor, and uniform exertions to preserve peace, prevent misrepresentation; oppression, and abuse on the friendly Indians, has drawn the resentment of a certain class of people in this country upon me, and who w ill injure me if in their power; but I care not for them: I have done my duty faithfully, in every instance, which I can make appear to my employers whenever called on. Dreading that the well-disposed in the nation would not be able to obtain satisfaction for the injuries done, and fearing that, in the end, the United States w'ould be obliged to have recourse to arms, I considered it my duty to secure the friendship of as many towns as possible, as', by dividing them, the .work would be sooner effected, and peace restored. All my late letters and talks to the chiefs held up the idea of protection to all friendly towns, and strongly urged their neutrality; and, by the talks now enclosed from them, you will see that it is a desirable object to a great part of the nation. From the papers herewith, you will observe that the Spaniards continue to insult and injure the United States. It is a matter beyond all kind of doubt, with me, that what George Galphin swears to is an absolute fact; and I am further convinced, that the old Tallassee king was employed, from the same quarter, to murder on the Oconee; in short, that they are at the bottom of the whole mischief. The Spaniards are now establishing a strong post on the St. Mary's, at a place called Newhope, twelve miles above Colerain, and four below Trader’s Hill. Colonel Howard (the late secretary) was at my house four days past, on his way up this river. He is appointed to the command on this frontier. I treated him as politely as possible, and, on the 22d instant, I called on him when on my way (by water) to Colerain. He is at present quartered about thirty miles from hence, but he only waits there for the arrival of the troops from St. Augustine, who are momently expected. He made great professions of friendship on the part of hiscountry toward the United States. I cautiously avoided saying a word that give could offence, or create a suspicion; and, in return, made a tender of our best offices whilst he remained on this frontier. On the 18th instant, Mr. Payne, the king, and head chiefs of the Seminole Indians, arrived at Colerain, accompanied by twenty-one of his people; they remained with me until yesterday afternoon. I talked a great deal to them, and gave them such advice as I thought suitable on the present occasion, and state of Indian affairs. 1 am happy in being able to inform yon that I have been able to detach them from every idea of joining the disaffected towns, and of having received from Mr. Payne and his chiefs the most solemn assurance of continuing in peace with the United States. 1 found Payne a very sensible, discreet Indian, and well informed. I paid him every attention, gave him and his people handsome presents, and sent them home well pleased. The Spaniards did all in their power to prevent this man’s meeting me, by telling him a number of falsehoods, and making use of every low artifice to injure us in the opinion of those people. They have been disappointed, and I believe my friend Howard is not a little mortified, as he came post ahead of his troops to meet Payne, and with him an interpreter, which he, with other emissaries, sent to Colerain to meet P. on his arrival, and to lead them astray; but they were discovered, and properly attended to. Payne has determined to remove the whole of his people down to Cape Florida, which is their hunting ground, and there remain, until the present troubles are over. Panton, with two Spanish agents, are, by this time, in the Creek nation, under pretence of making peace between them and the Chickasaws. Probably this is part of their business, but their great object is to destroy our interest with the Indians, and, at all events, bring.on a general savage war. The seeds of the present troubles were sown by McGilhvray and Panton, and they are now coming to maturity, owing, in some measure, to our over delicacy. We have had the means in our power to have made them repent of their unjust interference; and I think it is not yet too late. The humane and worthy Governor O’Neal, of Pensacola, is promoted to the very lucrative government of Campeachy, for his faithful and unwearied services, in distressing us through the savagesi A Major White, who, you may remember, came with Mr. Gardoqui to Philadelphia, is at present Governor of Pensacola. Howard is a man full of intrigue, and a bitter Spaniard. I think we shall find him troublesome. Governor Telfair declares this State in alarm, since the 20th of April, but what measures he is taking, either offensive or defensive, I know not. I have given him regular information at all times, since my appointment, of every occurrence which concerned Georgia to know; but he has never deigned a reply to any of my communications. Brigadier General Gunn has been with me for sometime, making arrangements of the militia, and establishing posts. I was happy to see him here, as he will be able to give you a true and impartial state of matters. He has promised to write you. Major Butler lias also been in our neighborhood some weeks; he will be able also to inform you of our situation. I cannot finish this letter, without again calling your attention to the conduct of the Spaniards, who most undoubtedly are determined to involve us in a general war with the Creeks. It matters not what their professions of friendship to our country are, their actions justify my opinion. Should Spanish intrigue, or the rage of our countrymen, rouse all the Creeks against us, then my advice would be, a decided blow: for, to look to savages, so stated, for peace, before corrected, would be courting insult, and ’in the end prove abortive. The mode of correction, in my humble opinion, would be best effected by a body of troops, under General Sevier, or some other of that country, well acquainted with such warfare, to fall in upon them from the westward. As many as can conveniently be sent from the frontier of South Carolina, under General Pickens, this, with the whole mounted force of Georgia, to march into the nation in different directions, and at the same instant destroying all before them. Five thousand men, thus disposed, will destroy the whole of the Creek towns in one month, and bring them to sue for peace on any terms. Whilst this is going forward, I would advise the whole of the frontier of Georgia to be well guarded, by the foot militia, as well to cover the country from skulking parties, as to secure tlie return of the troops on the expedition, if found necessary. The season when the corn is tit to use, which will be in the fall, would be most suitable, on account of supplies for our horses, and distress of the enemy. Beef is plenty in that country at all seasons. I have, taken measures to keep the Chickasaws and them engaged, until we see how matters go. 'lne Indians in general are extremely alarmed, and if .attacked on different quarters, and at the same time with spirit, mil speedily be conquered. The Spaniards in Florida, and their spies here, give the Indians lull information oi all our movements. It is impossible to prevent this, whilst there is a free intercourse between Florida and Georgia. I have prevented this frontier from breaking up, so far; and, from our exertions, and putting a goodjace on matters, not an Indian has appeared in this country since the murders in March. Much mischief, I find, hsf, and continues _ to be done, on other parts of Georgia less exposed, and much more populous than we are. 1 find, by accounts from Ihe nation, that one Coweta Indian is killed, and two wounded, on the Oconee. Having communicated all that appears material at present, , I remain, &c. Talk from Kinnnrd anil other Chiefs. The Cussetah King, the Mad Dog of the Tuckaubatchee, the White Lieutenant, and myself, have sent you an answer to your talk sent by our friend George Galphin: Hitciieta Town, 16th May, 1793. My Friend: When the Indians killed Mr. Fleming, and some others on St. Mary’s, 1 received a letter from you which surprised me and the rest of your friends very much. We all know very well that when we held the talk with you at the treaty, that if there should be any mischief done on either side, that satisfaction was to be given. But, when the people heard they were to be delivered to you, the Tallassee King raised the affair again, and sent out, and had more killed; so that we could do nothing in it. The heads of your friend towns were determined to give satisfaction; but, after there were so many of your people killed, it was out of our power to do any more with them. The names of the towns that was always against the frontiers is, the Cowetas, Broken Arrow, Uchees, Usecliees, and the Tallassee; there was some of the Chehaws, that done the first mischief, but it was a talk from the Usechees that made them turn out; but they have left their town, and has gone anil joined the others, and what is left of them is all peaceable, and are your friends. I have talked until I am tired, likewise the Cussetah King, and the rest of our head-men, but to no purpose; so that the only plan we have concluded on, is, to send your people up, and give them one drubbing, and burn their towns, and drive what property they have out of the land, and without this is done, you may depend you never will get satisfaction. The Cussetahs is your friends, and lives between the Cow-etas and the lichees, and hope they won’t be hurt, as they mean to lie still. If the white people should come by the Buzzard Roost, they and the Cussetahs are all one town. There is a way to cross above the Roost, straight to the Cowetas, but, I hope they won’t be at a loss for a pilot. There is two men now at the Rock Landing, one Joe Ireland, and one Donnelly, that knows every path to this country. So I would have you do just as we advise you. and not to hurt any that lives at the Roost; and. 1 hope if any should come the road to my house, that they will not frighten our women and children, for they might run into the woods and perish. Now, my friend, I have advised you all I can, and if you should hurt any of my people round about me, I will not think v ell of it. When you semi up to take a brush with these towns, perhaps' there may be some about, that, may want to join them, and if there should be any, and I should be alive till then, I will let you know. The live towns is all that are against you which I have mentioned; there is the Tallapoosa river and the Coosa river are all our friends. lam informed General Clarke is raising men to come against those Indians, and if he should meet any friendly Indians out a hunting I hope they won’t be hurt. You will oblige me very much, when you receive this, to send it up immediately to General Clarke, and the rest of the officers on the frontiers. I hope that they w ill not come this way, that I maybe contented-in my house, as my people are veiy scary. The mad people here says that the white people always says they are coming to drive them, and that they can’t come, they are atraid. 1 shall be glad to hear from you. I remain, &c. Galphin s Deposition. Georgia. Camden County: Before me. James Seagrove. one of the justices assigned to keep the peace of the said county, personally appeared George Galphin. who, being duly sworn, deposeth and sajth,that he was at the house of John Kinnard, in the Hitcheta town, in the Lower Creeks, on. or about, the 9th instant, when5, a certain James Burges, an Indian trader, who lives on the lower part of Flint river, came to said house in consequence of a letter sent to him some time before by Mr. Kinnard, accuisng said Burges of being knowing to, and concerned in, the murder and robbery. at Trader’s Hill, on the river St. Mary’s; said Burges, in’presence of this deponent, endeavored to acquit himself of having any part therein, further than that he knew mischief would be done, as he then positively declared, that three Indians came to his (Burges’) house, who informed him they were direct from Pensacola, and sent by the L/ Governor of that place, and a Mr. Panton, a well known Indian trader, partner of the house of Panton, Leslie. & Co. of Florida, with positive directions from those men to take hair (as they term scalping) from the Americans, living on the river St. Mary’s; and that their orders were not to return to their employers, without committing murder on the Americans. That Burges further declared that those three Indians were joined by a party of Indians belonging to the town where the said Burges lives; and proceeded together to St. Mary’s, where they killed Capt. John Fleming, and Daniel Moffit, and robbed the store of Robert Seagrove: and said Burges also declared, that he saw the three Indians, before mentioned, on their return from St. Mary’s towards Pensacola; that they were loaded with goods, the plunder of Robert Seagrove’s store, and had with them the scalps of Captain Fleming and Mr. Moffit. That Burges also said, he firmly believed that the Governor of Pensacola and Panton were the means of having the said persons murdered, and robberies committed. Burges acknowledged that his brother-in-law. an Indian, was one of the party at Trader’s Hill, but denied that his own son was there. Further this deponent saith not. GEORGE GALPHIN. Sworn &c. this 24th May. 1793. JAMES SEAGROVE. Justice of the Peace. James .dikens Deposition. District of Georgia,} City of Savannah: 5 Personally appeared before nte. James Aiken, late a resident of the Creek nation, who. being duly sworn, maketh oath, that, about twenty-two days since, he left the Creek nation, when the Chehaws and Oakmulgees, and the Hitchetas towns, were in a restless situation, and there w as no probability of the demand of Mr. Seagrove being complied with. Kinnard, the principal man in the district from wdience the perpetrators of the mischief came, pressed them very hard to comply, but the head-men and warriors of the different towns told him in answer, that Mr. Feagrove’s talks, in behalf of the United States, were too hard, and that they had no reply to make, until the nation at large determined the matter. They had proposed to give up the plunder, until Air. S’s talks came, demanding those who had done the mischief and committed the murders, when the Indians turned in to killing the cattle which they had taken. That, previous to his leaving the Chehaw town, where he resided, the Old Far-off King, and the second man of the town, with another, had left it. under the apprehensions of the white people making an attack on them, and taking satisfaction, and that a number of others were preparing to remove also; that the Chehaw’s party alone took upwards of seventy head of cattle, fifty-three of w hich belonged to a Air. Regan, a negro fellow, and a negro wench and child, wearing apparel, and household furniture, and even a bible belonging to the same person, (Mr. Regan:) that the Chehaw party brought in four scalps, but that he has not seen any of the party which robbed Mr. S. as they lived forty miles below- the Chehaws, and were a part of the Seminole Indians; that one of the Chehaw Indians, know n by the name of Savanoeca. and who was one appointed by the Creek nation to run the i— <. fine between the St. Mary’s and the Altamaha, and who, on his return, was asked by the deponent how he had been treated, and replied that Major S. had treated him very well, as Mr. Ellicott had done also, and that he was perfectly satisfied, and had received, to this deponent’s knowledge, two hundred dollars, was one of the party w ho killed the travellers between Setillas and St. Mary’s; that Kinnard desired the deponent to write to Burges, a white man, in the Seminole towns, in Kinnard’s name, previous to Major S’s talks arriving in the nation; that the proceedings of the hostile Indians, of which number Burges’ son was one, was disagreeable to the nation at large, and that, if they persisted, the nation would throw them off, requesting that the property taken might be lodged in his (Burges’) hands, to be delivered to Kinnard, who proposed to return it; that Burges’ answer was, that the principal people who murdered the two persons at Air. S’s store had came ahead of "the rest of the party, (three in number) and had taken the goods they had plundered in a boat, and had hid them in a swamp, and proceeded immediately on to Pensacola with the scalps they had taken, to the Spanish Governor and Mr. Panton: that the rest of the party, as soon as they returned, called at his (Burges’) house, when he made them acquainted with Kinnard’s demand, when they likewise told him they had left the property they had plundered in the woods, but would not agree to give it up; that Kinnard was still faithful to the Americans, and had the United States’ standard flying in his yard when the deponent came oft’, and informed the deponent that he would continue it flying, and that if any American parties came he would receive them with it. A number of others told the deponent also that they would fly to those colors for safety; that he knows nothing more respecting the proceedings in the nation; but after he resided in the settlement of the State, he stayed two days at Captain Harrison’s, near Carr’s Bluff, on the Oconee, when he proceeded down the Oconee, in order to take the Altainaha path in his way to Air. S.; after travelling about tw'enty-five miles, he took up at the house of a Air. Barryhill, and shortly after, being in bed. the family were alarmed by the dogs and cattle in the yard, which they supposed to be occasioned by wolves: but in the morning, when the deponent got up to proceed, he found his horses w'ere gone, with five head of horses belonging to Mr. Barryhill, and, on hunting for them, the deponent discovered the Indian tracks, and followed the Indians about two miles in one direction, but finding they were not to be overtaken, the deponent, and those who were with him, tetumed to Barryhill’s house, and the deponent, going back to Harrison’s house to get another horse, which he had 50 * left there, followed the track of three Indians up to the plantation of Francis Pugh, Esq. where he saw his son lay dead, having been killed, and twice scalped by that party; that there he was informed by Barryhill himself, who was not at home when the mischief was committed at his house, that the night before he was at Harrison’s, and that another party of Indians had also come there, and had taken three head of horses from thence, when the deponent thought it dangerous to return to Harrison’s, and came through the county of Ogechee on foot. JAMES AIKEN. Sworn this third May, 1793, before me. WM. STEPHENS, Mayor of Savannah. The deponent, James Aiken, in continuation, maketh oath, that he was made to understand in the Creek nation, that Major S. had demanded the reasons why the Indians committed depredations on the white people; the Indians informed the deponent it was from talks the Creeks had received from the Shawanese Indians, and what J. Galphin had told them respecting Seagrove and the United States; the deponent is of opinion, that Kinnard is head-man of the Lower Creeks; that an Indian runner came from Panton’s store, in St. Mary’s, requesting the Indians of the Chehaw town to come and get arms and ammunition lrom Panton’s store, on which the heaa-men requested the deponent, being a trader there, to go and fetch such arms and ammunition. JAMES AIKEN. Sworn, in addition to the foregoing, this third May, 1793. WM. STEPHENS, Mayor of Savannah. Timothy Barnard to James Seagrove. Flint River, 9th April, 1793. Dear Sir: Your express, by the two Indians, of the 28th March, was handed to me last evening by Mr. Aiken, who is this far on his way to the settlements of Georgia, as he finds it will not be safe for him to remain at the Chehaws any longer; as it is not improbable, as they have heard of your demand for satisfaction, and as there is so many of that town concerned in the mischief, that they may turn out desperate. Some of them has already said, that it would be good to put Kinnard and myself out of the way, as we are instruments of setting the other towns against them. This was said before your demand was known, and expect it will make them much inveterate against us both. For my own part, as I know their disposition so well, 1 look upon myself in imminent danger. Kinnard is on a better footing. Nevertheless, my attachment to my country’s service still sticks by me, and I shall stand it as long as.I can, and will exert myself to execute your instructions as far as my present dangerous situation will admit of, so as not to throw myself quite into the power of savage cruelty. Mr. Aiken can fully satisfy you, on how ticklish a foundation a white man’s life stands, at this juncture, so near those villains, who know they have no other steps to take to prolong their own lives a little longer than to strive to make the matter general, as they now find the mouths of the heads of the chiefs of the nation are open against them. Long before this, I imagine, Mordecai has reached you. The despatches you will receive by him will inform you, somewhat, of the disposition of the rest of the nation, which, at my meeting at the Cussetahs, seemed to bear every prospect of peace and friendship with the subjects of the United States; some few of the Cowetas seemed a little taintecf with inveteracy, which was owing to the Shawanese talks, and a good deal owing to the frontier settlers driving over.their cattle, norses, and hogs, on this side of the river; but, as I, previous to that meeting, had wrote down to Major Gaither, to obtain such measures, and had his letter to explain to them at the treaty that the stocks were all drove back; by such convincing proofs as these that I laid before them, letting them see that every ofiicer under the President of the United States would readily contribute to remove any acts of injustice done them; that, and through the assistance of the White Lieutenant, of the Oakfuskees, and the Mad Dog, of the Tuckaubatches, I prevailed on the Cowetas to lay still till you came, assuring them that you would remove every reasonable obstacle that prove injurious to the peace of the nation with the United States. Their eager desire for your immediate arrival in the nation will serve to convince you that they were fully satisfied of your good intentions towards them, which, if it had not been for this villanous piece of business of th’e Chehaws, I had not the smallest doubt but you would have had it in your power to have settled every matter to your satisfaction. As to the line, I had fully convinced the chief of the heads, the necessity there was of vx" having it marked, as the intentions of it, I told them, was more for the benefit of the Indians than the whites. I was much more in dread of mischiefbreaking out up ahead than where it did, which made me pay my whole attention to that quarter, as the Shawanese were fixed amongst them; besides, as Kinnard was so near them, and you had put him in authority over them, I had not the smallest idea of danger in that quarter; nevertheless, I, about fifteen days before, started for the Cussetahs, went down there, and there was only two men in the town, the Far-off*King, and one other; I went to the Far-off* King, and as he was not down at the treaty, made him fully acquainted with every particular matter; charged him to restrain his young people from horse stealing, or any other depredations; acquainted him fully with the bad consequences that would attend, if such practices were still pursued. Still, this old villain, I find, was one of the most active perpetrators of this mischief; there was but few of them started from the town, but two villains went oft*each side of the path, and collected men as they went, telling them falsehoods, that all the other towns were on the way out to war. Shall leave you to Mr. Aiken for particulars in this matter, as it is too late to recall what’sdone, so must do the best we can to make matters better or worse. By every information I can get, the Chehaws were returning back with cattle, and had taken no lives till they had passed Trader’s hill, and on hearing what that desperado Galphin had done, then went back and killed and plundered those people near Colerain. I have long dreaded some such consequences from that man, as I always knew him capable ol every thing that was bad. I hope you will not put any confidence in his brother, so as to send him up on business, ashe is not to be depended on; he pressed me to write you in his favor, which you may observe in my letter, as I only mentioned to you to assist him to make his way good to Savannah, as he pressed very hard on me, for which I thought would be as ready a way, as any, to get him clear of the nation, as I was afraid from his situation, if his brother and he got together in (he nation, no good would arise from it. As soon as your talks are made known in the Cussetahs, I snail send Mr. Holmes to Alexander Cornell, in the Upper. I shall endeavor to impress every thing on the minds of (lie heads of the nation, that I can discern will prove any ways effectual to urge your present requisite demand; but, though seasonable and just as it appears in our eyes, some of even our friends will say, that it was too much to demand more than man for man, is what I believe a great many of the heads of the nation will try to effect; but were they even willing to try to give upall, oreven half of the offenders; they would notbeableto.eft'ect it; however, a little time, I imagine, will convince us of our fate in this quarter. I wish I may, and all of my color in this land, live to see an end to the present rupture. Kinnard is doing all he can to urge them to give satisfaction; if a satisfactory one cannot be obtained, and there is preparations making for a march of troops into this land, pray let me be acquainted with it as quick as ever you can. Kinnard, I hear, means to stand his ground, and all the Cussetahs; and a number more of other towns are determined to stay, to separate themselves oft* from those that are determined for war. I think it such a thing can be done, such characters ought to be taken notice of, and some place appointed for them to collect at, where they may save their lives. I have a large family myself, and do not know what to advise them to do, unless some such steps are like to be taken, as I do not know how soon I may be run oft* from them. I have just been informed, of fresh threats from the Chehaws against my life, by Ted Charves, who has half an hour ago just arrived from there. That villain Galphin has done me the injustice to say, that I was the cause of his not being appointed an officer in this land, and said he would be even with you and me both for it; lie told the Chehaw Indians there was several hogsheads of rum in the vessel at Colerain, and that I had stopped you from issuing out to them, and many' more such injurious speeches, which has made those murdering villains so much the more inveterate against me; but all shall not hinder me from trying all schemes to get him taken down to you, if I am obliged to run for my life afterwards. If I see matters likely to take a favorable turn, I shall immediately send oil’ an Indian runner to you, opposite Colerain, on the Spanish side? his signal will be four quick repeated whoops, which you may, or any one there may, distinguish from any other Indian, bail or good. You may expect to hear from me soon. If I am alive and able to stay here, would go in and stay in the Cussetahs, but there is not ten bushels of corn in the whole town, nor not to be bought within eighty miles of it, neither have I any thing left to buy it, as what little goods I had left on hand, have been obliged to expend, sending expresses about by Indians, and buying provisions to support a large family. Should be happy to hear, from you as quick as possible, after you receive this; nave now troubled you with a large letter, and bearer, Mr. Aikens, is just starting, as he seems a good (leal frighted, and not without cause. Mr. Aikens had acted very much like a friend to yourself and the United States, and has had a great deal of trouble ever since he came up. assisting Kinnard: if you have it in your power, he is deserving of every help you can render him in his present situation. I have begged him to forward this to you as quick as possible. No more at present from, dear sir, your distressed friend, Ac. TIMOTHY BARNARD. The preceding six pages is a true copy from the original, in my possession. St. Mary’s, 24th May, 1793. JAMES SEAGROVE, Agent. Timothy Barnard to James Seagrove. Kinnard's Cow-pen, 12 th A fay, 1793. Dear Sir: I arrived here yesterday, where I have met Mr. George Galphin, as I heard he was in the country. I sent in to the Cussetah King to meet me here, and another of the heads; accordingly they have. Mr. Galphin has been so bad with (he rheumatism, ever since lie arrived here, he has not been able to go about ? part of my business here, was to try to get a woman, to have her sent back and her child, that is just, I hear, carried by into the Chehaw town, on the other river? for which purpose. I came by the Chehaw town on Flint river, below me, and brought five or six of them to Kinnard’s, of the heads of the town, to assist in the business, as all that are left there at this time, are they that are for peace, and chief of them friends to us. The murdering and plundering villains are all moved into the Rig Chehaws, on the other river, and carried oft’all their property; therefore, all the violators of peace are very near together, on the river Chattahoochie. The Cowetas are the highest up on the river? the Uchees, ten miles below that? the Chehaws, and the Useechees, both on one spot, three miles below that; which are the only towns 'that have been the cause of all this mischief, and are still keeping it up. The towns below are lying quiet, and will hear no bad talks? the Cussetahs are on the east side of the Chatta-hooche river, four miles below the Cowetas, which have, and are doing all they can. to stop matters, and picked out the men that were to die for satisfaction, before your first talk came up; but the Chehaw villains expected how it would be, and some of them had gone out again-to do mischief, before your first letter came up, which put them to a stand to see what would he done: and they have kept up the game ever since, which is gone to such lengths now, that the heads see that its out of their power to kill man for man. The Cussetah king and Mr. Kinnard has concluded to send Mr. Galphin down to you, and let you know that all that can be done is, for a sufficient number of horsemen to come up, and cross above the Cowetas, and to burn, kill, and destroy, all they can find in them four towns, and that they will be sure to meet with no opposition from any of the other towns, and for impart, I see no other remedy; but there is one thing to be feared; without some very good commander should come, such a one as Major Gaither, the up-country people, w'dllie for making no distinction, and fall on the poor Cussetahs, as they are so near; if they do, it will make the matter general, which would be, 1 think, a great pity that so many towns should sutler for what the villains of four or five towns have done, and the rest are all lying still. Those Chehaw villains sent the war-whoop down to the town below them; they told them not to bring it there, but to go to the Cowetas with it, as they were of the same way of thinking as themselves. The Cussetah king begs me to write to you, to strive to keep Ihe Rock Landing path open from them, and from that to the Buzzard Roost, on to the Cussetah town, as they never mean to lift up arms till the whites fall on them, nor none of the towns in the Upper Creeks, except them rascally Shawanese that lives there, and the Tallassee King’s people, which are now he says, stooped. 'Ihe Cowetas passed a man, shot through the head, the other day, both his ears cut olf, and scalped, and another wounded through the hand. The Cussetah king, and all his town, and Kinnard’s, think the sooner the Cowetas get a rout the better, as they talk of moving oft' the Pea creek, near half r/ay to Pensacola. I was trying if the Cussetah king and Kinnard, if they could not raise four or five towns and fall on those towns, and take satis faction, but they said it was not in their power; as I told them it would he dangerous to bring the white people in their larnl, they seemed to say it could not bo done. There has six people been killed up above the Rock Landing, four below Carr’s bluft', a woman and child carried off from the Hoppees; Captain Milligan immediately sent oft' to me about the woman, by a mulatto that speaks the Indian tongue. I have got the head warriors of the Chehaws on this river, that had no hand in the mischief, to send in with the Cussetah king together, and send her to my place, which I hope w ill be done, and I will send her down well guarded, to Captain Milligan, at Haskett’s bluft; it’s a pity there was not some assistance sent to Captain Milligan before this, as he has but seven or eight people with him there, and sometimes less; I expected daily to hear of him being killed and robbed; it’s very necessary, I think, a station should be kept there, as it is a mean crossing place; they have killed one man within a mile of his little fort. I had letters a few (fays ago, from the Rock Landing, by two Indians that I sent down, to guard Mr. Holmes and Mr. Garvin, and one Hutcheson, which came up to iny house from that quarter. I am informed General Clarke has got two thousand five hundred men ready to start for the nation, and am afraid, if he starts before lie hears from you, lhat he will kill all, without distinction. I wish he may not be started before this; Major Gaither, in his letter to me, seemed to dread some such consequence. 1 wish he may be stopped, till be hears who is his friends; as, if he makes a breach on the Cussetahs, it is all over with peace in this quarter. There is news conic to the nation, that there is three Spanish officers to come through the Cnickasaws, and to come to the Creeks, and Panton is to meet them there, and give out their talks. I would wish to go and oppose them, but there is one thing against me—I have no commission to shew, if I should fall into their hands. The Indians, all over the nation, are much frighted; the offenders are more so than peaceable towns; there is not one out of tw enty or thirty, that will offer to take up arms, if they were sure they and their towns would he spared; you are the.best able to judge what .to do for them. Kin-nard is determined to write you fully what to do with the murdering towms. 1 am, dear sir, respectfully, Ac. TIMOTHY BARNARD. I I certify the preceding four pages to be an exact copy from the original in my possession. JS. SEAGROVE, Agent. St. Mary’s, 24th May, 1793. List of the unfriendly towns in the Creek nation, and those that the friendly chiefs recommend should be punished; also, their number of fighting men. To whole of the Cowetas are our enemies, effective, - -. - - - 150 Big Tallassee, or Old Tallassee King’s people, the most unfriendly of any in the nation - - 120 Broken Arrow, all bad - - - - 50 The Upper, or Big Uchee town, - - - - - - - - 60 Usuchees, all bad; the residence of Bowles and Willbanks; to them have joined a part of the Cheehaws, those who murdered on Setilla, and robbed on Altamaha, and in all 45 425 To these it is probable straggling fellows may join, to the number of 75 In all, 500 JS. SEAGROVE, Agent. The answer of Mr. Payne, the great Seminole and Lackatvay King, to James Seagrove, Agent of Indian Affairs, delivered at Colerain, on the river St. Mary's. River St. Marv’s, in Georgia, 99d May, 1793. Father, Brother, and Friend: I have opened my ears, and heard your talk. Your talk is a good talk, but I cannot answer all you have said to-day. I must consult my people first, and then I will give my talk to-morrow. We Indians don’t know so much as the white people. I have been here some days, me and my people, and your people have used us like brothers; and, as I told you before, I will giv e you a talk to-morrow. Thursday, 23d May, 1793. I am going to talk with you, my father, brother, and friend. The sun is high, and I am near parting with you. but I shall give you my talk first. The man above made us all, and we are one people. I speak to you as having one father and one mother. I have been told by our old people, that the great water covered all the world, and drowned all the people, except a few which was in a house on the water. Whether this is the place where the house was, I do not know. I was told the great water divided the world in seven different parts, and this part (America) was given to the red people. And when the white people first came to this part, the red people was afraid of the white people, but, on seeing them a few times, they ventured to speak to one another. When they got acquainted, the white people planted corn, and agreed that the white people should feed the red people, and be the red people’s fathers; and the white people were to run a line through their country. We are ignorant people; we know nothing, arid had hardly any thing to eat. You have clothed us and fed us a long time. I am glad I have met with such a beloved man as you are. 1 have often heard of you before, and of your good talks, but now I see you, and find it is all true, and I take you by the hand, as you have taken me, and I nope we shall both keep fast hold in peace and friendship. Brother: I am sorry to hear that our red people have done so much mischief against your people. I will send all my people out of the way, and I hope we shall meet sooner than you expect, in peace and friendship, to live like brothers. If you have any thing to give me and my people, we shall be glad to have it. I have nothing more to say, only that I will do as you have told and advised me. I know it is right, and for our good. The speech of Nioctfaw Mico, or Sick King, a Seminole. Mr good Father, Friend, and Brother: You seem to be afraid that we cannot keep our young warriors from joining the mad people, and going to war against you. But you need not be afraid. I am the speaker of the towns, and I shall send all our people out of the way. Our people are not like the people in the mad towns. Our towns never used any white men ill, but always used them welt, and always will. I am now talking with one tongue, and what I say is true. Your talk is a good talk, and it will wot dry up soon unth us. We know it is better to keep peace, as you have told us, and, as we have said before, we will do as you have told us. Taken down as translated to me, by Langley Bryant, sworn interpreter. JOSEPH ELLICOT, Surveyor. I certify the preceding to be an exact copy from the original in my possession. JAMES SEAGROYE, Agent. James Seagrove to the Secretary of IVar. Town of St. Mary’s, 14/// June, 1793. _ About ten days past, a party of Indians were discovered near the post at Colerain, who came in freely and of their own accord. They all appear to be Cussetahs, and are eight in number, viz: four men, three lads from 15 to 18 years, and a little boy about seven years. Two of the men I know to be Cussetahs; they were with me at the Rock Landing for some time. The account they give of themselves is, “ that they have been out from home for upwards of two months, hunting on this frontier, from the Oakmulgee to the St. Mary’s, during which time they have not seen a w hite or red person : that w'hen they left home, it was determined by the chiefs to give satisfaction for the injuries done this country, which they expected had taken place, and therefore went out on their hunts as usual; that they never heard a word of any mischief being done but that on this frontier, in March last, until informed by me; that they are our friends, as is every man of their town.” I am led to believe their account in part is just, but as to their not having seen Indians since being out, I do not believe, as they must have seen and known of parties of Indians coming in and going ou t upon mischief. At any other time but the present undetermined state of matters, and whilst the spirit of the Georgians appears so violent against every lenient measure toward an Indian, I should not have had a thought of detaining those people. But I am well convinced, that, had I suffered them to return home, the clamor in this State would be intolerable, and that all future mischief would be attributed thereto. Considering well those matters, and those people’s coming appearing in rather a questionable manner, and I having found four horses in their possession, which were taken from people of this county within two months past, this, and other matters, has induced me to detain them, as well from a view of preventing reflections on the servants of the Union, as to secure the persons of those people from the resentment of not-headed men among us, and, at the same tune, to prevent them from attributing any mis- chief that may hereafter be done to the Cussetah town people, as those were out on our frontier, and had seen our situation. I do not, by any means, consider those men as prisoners of war, nor shall I treat them as such. They shall be treated with humanity, and want for nothing to make their detention sit light on them. I shall take measures to make their town acquainted with the reason of their detention, and doubt not I can satisfy them that it is meant for their ultimate good. One of them, \vho appeared an obstinate stubborn man, cut his own throat in the night of the 11th instant, in the house where they are lodged. He kept his intentions from his companions, and committed the act so silent, as not to be discovered until expiring. He had a brother in the room, who, with all the rest, agree that it was his own act, and that no one is to blame in any respect. 1 think it proceeded from there being a sentinel placed at their door, and to attend them when allowed to walk out to take the air; this being necessary for their detention and preservation. His brother tells me that he expressed a dislike thereto, the afternoon before, but in a distant way. I am very much at a loss what to do with those people. Should they be called for by the Governor of Georgia, 1 shall feel embarrassed: for, if they are removed from this place, 1 know not what would be the consequence to them. I am not without fears that an attempt may be made by w hite people to take them, in order to destroy them. 1 w ish to receive your instructions what I am to do with them, and as soon as possible. I have written General Jackson, who commands the militia of this division of Georgia, respecting those Indians, and the appearance of more being on our frontier, a copy of which I enclose you. Yesterday the Spaniards evacuated their post.' lately established on the upper part of this river, and have removed to the river St. John's, where, I am told, they are going to fortify. I suspect this sudden movement is owing to their having just received the accounts of a war between them and France. I have not heard of any mischief being done by the Indians on the frontier of Georgia, since my last. James Seagrove to Major General James Jackson. Town of St. Mary’s, X'HthJune, 1793. Friday Morning. 9 o'clock. Dear General: About eight days past, asmaU party of Indians appeared in the vicinity of the fort at Colerain. They first made their appearance to one of Captain Randolph's company, who was out taking care of horses, and came to the fort without hesitation, or the. least appearance of fear. I had them closely examined. I find them to be Cussetahs, eight in number, viz: four men, three lads, and a little boy about seven or eight years old. Three of the men I know to be Cussetahs, having been with me at the Rock Landing. They pretend to have, been from home upwards of two months hunting, and knew of no other mischief being done to the frontier of Georgia, except that on this pail in March last. They did not bring any letters or papers to me from their chiefs, or from my deputy ; and their story and manner of coming at this time appearing to me rather mysterious. I conceived myself justifiable in detaining them. I therefore had them brought to this place, and confined in fort St. Tammany, where I shall keep them dose prisoners until I receive orders to the contrary from the Executive of the United States, or the Governor of Georgia. Although those people may be perfectly innocent as to any bad design against this country, yet such is the situation of affairs at present, that I conceived myself justifiable in detaining them, from a variety of reasons. For three days past, the scouts from Colerain have discovered the. trail or track of foot and horse, supposed to be Indians. I received an express late last evening, from the commandant at the above station, informing, that many tracks had been discovered yesterday morning? some of them within a mile and a half of that place; that lie had sent out tw o parties to endeavor, if possible, to discover them: that the track bore towards the burnt fort, on Setilla, and Lemon’s ferry, a few miles above; from which I must conclude they intend something against Glynn or Liberty. 1 shall despatch a boat with notice to Glynn county as soon as it is ascertained that they have crossed Setilla. Last night, one of the Indians confined in fort St. Tammany, cut his ow n throat w ith a knife which he had secreted in the prison. His companions knew nothing of it, until awoke by the noise he made when suffocating. They all say it was his own act. and no person is to blame, as he had no cause, he, and all of them, being w ell treated. I have also prisoner, a Chehaw fellow, that was taken the day after the murders at Trader’s Hill, and made his escape from the fort at this place. He went into Florida, and was much caressed there. He came opposite to the station at Colerain. and was invited oyer; having heard of some threats he made use of w hile in Florida, I thought it as well to keep him secure. These prisoners may probably biing unpleasant visiters. Be that as it may. nothing shall prevent me doing w hat I conceive to be my duty. I have not a doubt but I shall be censured by some for detaining those Indians, but I have long since been taught to know that it is in vain to attempt to please all. My actions are directed by what I conceive just and light. This I shall invariably pursue, without paying the smallest l-egard to the babbling vulgar, or designing party creature: not even the combined wisdom of the grand jury of Chatham, and their presentments, shall ever alter my purposes. Our duty in this county becomes very heavy on those who are disposed to defend their country. We have a number of disaffected bad men. w ho refuse any assistance, and have taken themselves off to Cumberland island, and others to Florida. Me are greatly in want of arms for those who are willing to do all in their pow er. At least one-third are without a gun. Captain Randolph’s company' of volunteer horse musters now upwards of sixty-five young men. but they partly want swords and pistols. Pray, sir, assist us. if possible, with those articles, as they niayr be the means of saving our country. I shall not close this letter till I hear from Colerain. Friday. 14th June.—By an express, I have just received from Captain Randolph, at Colerain, dated this morning, I have the pleasure to tell you, that the tracks which have been seen for some days, prove, on close examination, tube no other than that of the Indians who are now in confinement at this place. I had a boat ready to despatch to Glynn and Liberty, had the accounts been unfavorable. In addition to all our other misfortunes, the contractor's agent L now without a single pound of bread or flour to issue to the troops on actual duty. Unless supplies arrive in a day or two. it will be impossible for the men to keep together. I hope you will inquire into the cause of such horrid neglect. If this county7 should be obliged to break, Glynn cannot stand, and, of course. Liberty will be much more exposed. There is no provision in the county, or it would be procured. James Seagrove to the Secretary of War. St. Mary's, 6th July, 1793. Sir: I had the honor of writing to you on the 14th ultimo, since which I am without any of your letters. The present will inform you of a very disagreeable affair which took place on this frontier on the 30th ultimo, which is as follows, so far as I have been able to discover. A man of the name of McDonald, who I had sent to the nation with letters, w'as on his return to me, and arrived at the station at Colerain, on the St. Mary’s, on the morning of the above date. He, being well known to the commanding officer, w as questioned as to the news from the nation, and the state of matters there. His replies appear to have been unfavorable and contradictory; and when asked for his despatches, he said some Indians had them behind, who he had left the day before. He told the officer that he had reason to think the said Indians returned back to the nation, and by this, he supposed the Creeks all at war with the States. These accounts appear to have alarmed the officers and men not a little, who were anxious to recover the despatches, and know a true state of affairs. A party of seven horsemen was ordered to go in quest of those Indians, accompanied by McDonald, and to conduct them to the station as friends. The party set off, but about a mile from the station, McDonald declined going forward, and returned; the seven horsemen went on, and about ten miles from Colerain, fell in with four Indians, who it appears made a shew of resistance, upon which they were charged on, and it is said, were all killed. I received advice of this unfortunate affair same evening, about.9 o’clock, and next morning set off for Colerain, to get full information. About twenty miles from town, I met a party of horse, and McDonald in custody. Here I received my'despatches, which were found in one of the Indian’s packs, copies of which I now transmitj by them you will be informed of the favorable situation I had got matters to, and the pleasing prospect of all coming*right ere long. David Cornell, son of Joseph Cornell, who was interpreter at New York, was killed, and a boy. The other two Indians (I have reason to believe) though wounded, have gone off, and made their way home to the nation, as their bodies were not to be found next day. I have McDonald in custody, and shall detain him until this matter can he fully investigated. The killing of Cornell at this critical juncture, may occasion a lit tle more bloodshed; but from the steps I have taken, and the manner I have explained it to his friends, and to the nation, I do not view it in so bad a light as some do. Enclosed you have copies of my letters sent to the nation on this occasion. I certainly should have gone into the nation if Cornell had not been killed, but until I know how they will act thereon, 1 think it would be unwise. As soon as I can have an opening, and a promise from some leading characters of protection, I will be there: the necessity is great. In addition to the preceding untoward allair, the mighty expedition from the western frontier of Georgia lias proved abortive. It appears to have been illy planned, and worse provided and conducted. About 450 horse, and 300 foot, crossed the Oconee near the Rock Landing, under command of a Major General, and three Brigadiers, who proceeded as far as the Oakinulgee, when a mutinous spirit took possession of a majority of officers and men, who left the camp and returned home. This obliged the remainder to abandon their plan of giving a blow to the Cowetas, and other disaffected towns, and to return home. After so much parade and expectation, and nothing being done, it is natural to suppose the unfriendly Indians will represent it in the most unfavorable light. 1, therefore, conceived it a necessary piece of policy to give it as favorable a construction as possible; which you will see in my letter to the nation. I hope what I have said will not be thought improper. It having (I am told) been insinuated, in order no doubt to injure me, that I had concern in Indian trade with my brother Robert, I have sent you my affidavit on that head; my employers and friends only, I wish to satisfy on this and every other matter. As to the malicious attacks of the anti-federal and Yazoo gang of Georgia, I care not; indeed I think; there would be room to suspect me of fidelity to the General Government, if I was spoken well of by them as an Indian agent. 1 have not heard of any mischief having been done the Indians on the frontiers of this State, since Hast wrote you. I am, &c. James Seagrove^ deposition. Georgia, Camden county: Before me, William Mowbray, one of the justices assigned to keep the peace of said county, personally appeared James Seagrove, Agent of Indian Affairs, in the Southern department of the United States, who, being duly sworn, deposeth and saith: That, ever since receiving his appointment as Indian agent, in the employ cf the United States, which was in January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, he, the said agent, hath not been concerned, directly or indirectly, in any Indian trade, or commerce, by himself, or with any person or persons, whatever. And the said deponent further swears, that, whilst he continues in the employ of the United States, as Indian agent, he will not, directly or indirectly, be concerned in anv Indian trade, or commerce. JAMES SEAGROVE. Town of St. Mary’s, 9th May, 1793. Sworn before WILL. MOWBRAY, J. P. Dear Sir: Timothy Barnard to James Seagrove. Flint River, 20th June, 1793. After finishing a letter to you, by request of David Cornell, with respect to his opinion of public matters. I wish here to give you nunc, as near as possible as I can judge by the present situation of affairs. The Upper Creeks-called a meeting at the Tuckaubatchees, of all the Upper and Lower Creek towns; some of the heads from chiefs of both attended; they were concluded by the voice of the whole of the Upper Creeks, and likewise the Cussetahs, that they would take every step in their power to continue at peace with the United States; and, as thev knew there was no step could be taken to effect this, but to give immediate satisfaction for the murders and hostilities on the inhabitants of Georgia, they came to a full resolution to begin on the business; therefore, thought it requisite to begin first, on those that committed the first murders. Men were despatched off’from the Cussetahs to execute the business; but by what I can learn, that old villain Dourouxeaux, who has now turned a Spaniard, and has taken three1 hundred dollars a year for being their interpreter, he joined with some of the Cowetas, and sent outtalks that caused a disappointment in the business. I was at the Cussetahs at the time; I then told them that they must still persist in the matter, and complete it, as that, and nothing short, would make atonement for what was done, so as to preserve their nation from bloodshed. I have some reason to believe there is again men sent off’ on the business-of making a beginning on the murderers—the Cowetas, and Usuchees, and Chehaws, who arc the trangressing towns. It was agreed at the meeting to return the horses, and all the property that has been taken from the settlements of Georgia; but since they returned into the Lower towns, they have altered their tone, and seem to refuse it. The Upper Creeks seem resolved, that, if they still continue obstinate, to strive what they can do by force. How far these matters may be put in force. I cannot take upon me to say, but I am fully convinced the Upper Creeks and Cussetahs arc both serious, and bent to do what they can to settle matters; they have paid little or no attention to the Dons'1 talks, and I am sure they will not, if they can settle matters with the United States. The Cussetahs have collected every horse they can get hold ol to send down. I expect they will be sent to me in four or five days. What has been done seems to have put a stop to any parties going out on the settlements. The Cowetas and Chehaws still seem very obstinate, and refuse giving up any property. If they alone could be made suffer, it would be the most effectual way to make a lasting peace; but if parties arc suffered to come up, and fall on Indians without distinction, it will bring on a general war, in which they will receive every assistance by supplies from the Spaniards, and it is probable the Choctaws, Chickasaws, and Cherokees, will join them. The Spaniards have had eight or ten of the Cherokee chiefs down at Pensacola for some time, nursing them with every favor they can confer. The Spaniards continue to furnish all unfriendly Indians to the States with as much ammunition as they choose, and the obstinacy of the transgressing towns is entirely owing to their advice. The Upper Creeks seem very desirous of your coming up, ami the Cussetahs, as they say that if you were up yourself, any demands you made at' this time would be complied with. I believe if you were to come up with Cornell, you might settle matters, as the whole of the nation seem inclined for it, except those few rascally towns: as to your person, I believe it might be safe, but I will not advise; you are the best judge. I think there vvill be some lives taken for satisfaction before long. David Cornell seems to think-, it you do not come up, that, through the insinuations of the Spaniards, every good intention stands a chance of being knocked in the head. If Cornell is well used, and comes back full handed, it will be of great service to the United States, as he is now inveterate against the Spaniards and Panton. He says they have imposed on him and the Indians. If you come up, Cornell is to send one of his Indians ahead to inform the Cussetahs, who will send a guard to meet you and bring you to their town; from thence theTuckaubatchees will attend you to the Upper Towns; whether you come or not, use this young man well, as he may be useful to our country. His father, James Cornell, the interpreter, who went to Congress, and was much in favor of the Spaniard’s during McGillivray’s life, seems now much opposed to them. Even Melford, their great Colonel, has taken miff at their putting one over him; he says, that, if you were to come up and give him any encouragement, he would soon give you a full proof, from under the Spanish Governor’s own hand, that he had orders from them to set the Indians on the United States. Despatch Cornell back as quick as you can, as it may be of bad consequence to delay him. I am, &c. rimot/iy Barnard to James Seagrove. Flint River, 20th Jane, 1793. Dear Sir: I have been to the Cussetah town, and arrived here yesterday in company with David Cornell, a head warrior of the Tuckaubatchees. He says his business this way was by order of the whole Upper Creeks, after a meeting they had at the Tuckaubatchees. in consequence of your talk by Mr. McDonald. The conclusion of the meeting was, that satisfaction should be immediately given for the murders committed on the subjects of the United States. A number of the heads of the Lower towns were likewise present, who agreed to the same. There was men appointed, and sent off, by the Cussetahs, to do the business of killing five of the murderers; and they got down as far as the Ufewles, near where they were, and would have done the business, but that old villain Durou/.eaux has turned a Spaniard altogether; and has, 1 find, given out some talks, which he said was by that old villain Panton, which, I believe, got ahead of the fellows that went to do the business, and has been the means of disappointing the business for a little while; but that the whole Upper Creeks, and nearly all the Lower Creeks, are determined it shall be done, and all the horses, that have been brought up, gathered. The Cussetahs had gathered nine head before I left the town. The Cowetas were to go about gathering the next day. after I left the town. They have, from the Upper Creeks, sent word to the Chehaws and Usechees, not to offer to dispose of one of the negroes they brought up. David Cornell desires me to acquaint you that the Upper Creeks are determined to make the whole nation take one peace talk, and give up all the plundered property: when he set off from his own town, by order of the whole Upper Creeks, they expected those five men would be killed, before he reached the Lower towns, which has failed for the present, but will not be so, he thinks, long; as. if not completed soon, the Upper Creeks seem determined to take it in hand. There were men again appointed, and sent oft-, to kill some of the murderers. David Cornell had a meeting at the Cussetahs, with several of the heads of the Cowetas present; and they have consented to abide by the talks that are agreed on in the Upper Creeks. David Cornell therefore says, that it was the particular request of the Upper Creeks, that you would come up with him, as you may be sure that, before you get up, that there will be some of the murderers put an end to; and after you get up, they will be ready to pay attention to any other demands you may think fit to make. The Spanish agent is now in the Upper Creeks; but they do not (David Cornell says) pay any great attention to his talks: nor will not, till they despair of seeing you up. David Cornell himself gave him (the Spanish agent) such an affront, that he had his horse saddled best part of the day to leave the nation: the cause of his affront was, lie requested that thirty of the heads of the Upper Creeks would attend at a meeting, which the Dons were about calling on the Mississippi, where the Chickasaws, Choctaws, and Cherokees, were to be assembled; and there they wanted the Upper anil Lower Creeks to go. David Cornell told the Spanish agent that none of the Creeks, Upper or Low er, would or should go there to any such meeting; therefore David Cornell desires me to acquaint you that there is no danger of your person, on your way up; that you, by McDonald, received the white wampum, in token of peace and f riendship, from the Upper Creeks, w hich was to keep the path w hite between them, and you,and General Washington; and which he hopes will remain so still, though some of the towns have misbehaved very much; but, still, he says there is now no fear, but that all w ill be put to rights. He therefore hopes that, when you see him, you will look upon it that you are speaking with one that is a friend to the United States, and one that is representing the whole Upper Creeks, as there was thirty some odd towns met on the same business he has went on. He had some notion of turning back, w hen he came to the Lower towns, as he found the business was not completed, with respect to killing the murderers, lie, however, after consulting with the Lower Creeks, found that it was not dropped, but would still be done; he has thought tit to proceed on, and see you before he returned. He says, if it is the wish of the whole nation fur you to come and see them, that he hopes you will not fail in coming up with him, which, if you do, you may depend on every matter to be settled to your satisfaction before you return. He says,-times has been as bad as this before; and agents has come up from'Charleston, and matters has been completely settled, therefore he hopes you will let nothing daunt or restrain you from coming up, if you wish to have matters settled in behalf of the United States, which will be done if you come up; and if you do not, he shall despair of its being done without, as the Spanish agents are present, and are very diligent in stirring up matters, though in an underhand way. David Cornell requested me to write this for fear he might not get a good interpreter there to aquaint you fully with his business. TIMOTHY BARNARD. ('harks I Teat her ford to James Sea grove. Hickory Ground, Ur per Creeks, I Ith June, 1793. Worthy Friend: Yours I received by McDonald, dated ICtli May last, and am under many obligations for your kindness in my behalf, therefore I have done all in my power to bring matters to a favorable situation. I hope now matters are very well settled in behalf of the United States, as I have left nothing unturned, that I thought would he beneficial, or preserve peace in that quarter. The nation, at their meeting of the Tuckaubatchees, have agreed to put to death five men, exclusive of John Galphjn, which will make six. I hope the greatest part of them are already put to death, but if not, they will before (bis reaches yon. I have made it my business, decidedly, to every one of your requests, and in every respect, to assist you as much as possible in your undertakings. Had there been an appearance of war, you .should have seen me, but, at present, there is a stop put thereto. Your letter I received in an exceeding good time, as the Spanish talks, Chickasaws, Choctawrs, Cherokees, was appointed to be, given out in three days alter their arrival. It was a singular satisfaction to me, to have your orders to attend in behalf of the States; and I have so fully completed the business, thaL 1 hope, for the future, there will be no danger, as the whole of the Upper towns, and a large majority of the Lower, agree to be in peace with the United States. Concerning the Chickasaws, they have met with a very cold reception from the Creeks, as there is some matters of consequence in their own way, which puts a stop to their talk. This, together with the influence used, the Creeks unanimously agreed not to hear what they had to say, relative to peace; and, of course, the war between them will be carried on in a greater degree than ever. As to the Cherokees, there is a part of them who hath endeavored to bring some of this nation to assist them in going.to war, but the Creeks have utterly refused, of course the others are of no consequence, being but a very few in number, as the greatest part of the Cherokees wish to remain in peace. Concerning the Choctaws, their talk, in this nation, is, as yet, not concluded, but, of course, it will be difficult, as the Choctaws have unanimously agreed to assist the Chickasaws, in case of the war continuing. A proposal was made through the Spaniards, that the Choctaws and Chickasaws, also the Cherokees, should meet at the Yazoo, to hold a talk, in order to unite all those tribes in peace with the Creeks. In conformity to your instructions, I have used my influence with the chiefs and head-men, who, to a man, have determined to have no concern with their meeting; and if war comes from that quarter, they are ready to meet it.   'As to the Spanish influence, I am not, at this time, able fully to satisfy you; but I detain Mr. Rawlings for a few days longer, in order to collect some further intelligence concerning them and the Choctaws, as, at this time, there seems a necessity you should have a speedy answer to your last letters. Such part of the Spanish talk as has been given out, speaks of peace; but whether they are sincere, or that it is done through fear, or to deceive, I cannot yet tell, hut will fully satisfy myself, and write you by the opportunity which I detain. 1 have the satisfaction to inform you, that the head-men have agreed to send me down when this business is a little more settled, with a number of the leading men, in order to bring you up to the nation, in order to hear all from yourself. 1 am, &c. The White Lieutenant, Alexander Cornell, and others, to James Seagrove. Dear Friend and Brother: Tuckaubatcuee, Upper Creeks, \4thJune, 1793. We received your talks by Mr. McDonald, which came in a very good time: for we had heard that the white people had killed McDonald, and we were afraid it was so, by his staying so long over the time he said he would be back. We were glad to see him, likewise to hear from you, which was on the 29th of last month, when the broken days were out, for the Upper and Lower Creeks to nieet to hear the different talks from the Spaniards, which was to be held at the Tuckaubatchees, on the tenth of this month. There was twenty-four head-men of the Upper, and eight of the Lower towns present; they all unanimously agreed to take your talk, and hold it fast as long as they live. They all agreed to kill six of the ringleaders in the late mischief; and, when the business is done and completed, we shall send Charles Weatherford down to you. Mr. Joseph Cornell was interpreter for us; by the request of us, he hath sent his son, David Cornell, along with McDonald, that he might go down safe to you. David Cornell wishes to see you, and will tell you a true state of all things in this land. We all mean to give up, to be punished, the people you required; but it is a thing that cannot be done at once, for it must be kept a secret; for Indians are not like white men, that can do a thing directly; but by the nineteenth July, if not done, you shall be informed what steps to take. McDonald coming with your talks at the time the Spaniards was to give theirs, struck a great damp on the Spanish agent; so much, that he was afraid to give his talks out which he had from the Governor of Orleans. We had got all the Upper towns agreed to your proposal, for they always meant to be in peace with their Father of the United States, and all his people. From your friends and brothers, in behalf of the Upper towns. THE MAD DOG, of Tuckautbachee. WHITE LIEUTENANT, Oakfuskees. ALEXANDER CORNELL, CIIA RLES WEATHERFORD. James Seagrove to the Chiefs of the Creek Nation. St. Mary’s, 27th May, 1793. Brothers: Your talk, of the 16th of this month, I have received by Mr. George Galphin, and am very sorry to find that it hath not been in the power of our friends, of your nation, to have justice, done us, and thereby preserve your land in peace. It now appears that all hope of redress, or justice being done by the Creek people to the inhabitants of the United States, for the murders and robberies committed by the former, is at an end. Know, then, you who are our friends, that I have discharged my duty between you and my country; and here finishes all further application, until the sword hath brought bad men to a sense of their duty. I hope and trust that what I have often told you and your people, is strongly imprinted on your minds; particularly when I informed you, that, to be in peace with the United States, would be happy for you; and, to make them your enemies, would be your certain ruin, and total destruction as a nation. The time approaches rapidly; ruin assails your country, in part brought on by your own bad conduct, in not punishing your bad people before matters got to such lengths. How can a nation or people expect mercy, or forgiveness, who have acted as yours have done towards the’United States? It is needless for me, at this time, to recapitulate the unbounded goodness of my country towards yours, you having all of you experienced her kindness; and you are no strangers to the base ungrateful conduct of a part of your nation, in return for such goodness and care of you. It makes me happy to find that so many of my Creek friends have acted like wise, virtuous, honest men, and have determined to take no part with those bad people who have killed our citizens, and robbed our country. Such towns and people as continue our firm friends, will receive our protection and friendship, now, and afterwards: whilst they will see severe chastisement inflicted on the offending towns. Be not discouraged, my friends; all will come right, and you will reap the benefit of having held us fast by the hand in friendship. It is my desire and advice that the Cussetahs, and all the other friendly towns, do call in their hunters, and keep them in their towns, as it is impossible for our people to know the difference in the woods. Keep your people close at home, and do not suffer them to go amongst the bad people, or let the murdering, robbing villains come into any of your towns, or you will bring trouble on yourselves, by our people following them. Should a large army go into your country, it’s probable I shall be with them, in order to befriend your good men. Keep all your cattle and horses near you, and do not let the bad Indians have them, or you will lose them. I have ordered Mr. Barnard to stay with the Cussetahs, and I now desire they will see that no one hurts him, and he will protect them when an army comes. I once, more desire you, as you regard your peace, not to listen to any talks brought into your land, at this time, by the Spaniards, or any others, as you may depend they have your ruin in view, by involving you in a war. I shall send runners to the Oconee, and all over, to tell who are our friends in the nation. We have now made peace with the Northern Indians, so that our warriors have nothing to do there; attend to this, and be wise; sit still, and save yourselves and country, and you will ever find me your real friend. JAMES SEAGROVE. To Mr. Kinnard, the Cussetah King, the Mad Dog, of Tuckaubatchee, 7 the White Lieutenant, of Oakfuskees, ‘ 3 And all the oilier kings and chiefs of the Creek nation, who are friends to the United States, James Seagrove to the chiefs of the Lower Creeks. St. Mary's, May 13//), 1793. Brothers: I received your good talk, with your white wing, which I shall hold last. My Cussetah friends’ talks are always straight and good; I wish the other towns were like them, but some of them are very bad, and are guilty of bad things. I have long expected to have seen the murderers sent in to me, or, at least, to have heard of their being destroyed, as the only means of preserving your nation in peace. 1 begin now to think that it never was intended, or it would have been done. 1 do not blame the Cussetahs, I believe it was their wish; but, as the great mother town, I think she ought to have insisted on it. 1 hope it is not yet too late, and that you will exert every nerve to have justice done, by complying with my demand. I sent a strong talk to you all by George Galphin; T hope you have got it, and are making good use of it. For fear it should not have reached you, 1 now send you a copy of it. Brothers: Should the bad actions of your people bring a war on your land, and which, undoubtedly, will be the case, unless my demand is complied with, I now inform you, in behalf of my country, that all the towns in the Creek nation, who sit still and continue friendly to the United States, that they will not be hurt, but be protected in their persons and property; whilst, all those towns and people who have been killing our citizens, and robbing our country, can expect no mercy. Mv promise to you has always been to warn you of danger—I now doit, and tell you, my friends, how to avoid it. The Cussetahs have always been our friends; we will take care of them, and such other towns and people as they can say are good and friendly. Scarcely a day passes, but I hear of murders and robberies on our frontier by the Creeks; as vet we have not retaliated, as we waited an answer to my demand: I yet expect it, and will continue to look for the delivery of the murderers for thirty days from this time; that is, an equal number to what we have lost. 1 hope you will take care of Mr. Barnard, and not sutler any body to hurt him. 1 am told that the Little Uchee village has behaved well: take them under your care; they shall not be hurt. You see now, my friends, that -what I have often told you, you find coining to pass; which was, that listening to the advice of the Spanish people, and bad white men among you, would bring ruin on your land. Shame, shame—that great men and warriors would suffer themselves to be so abused, by a set of designing villains. Rouse, my friends, and clear your country of all those men; you know them well; they deserve your severe chastisement. 1 hope soon to hear that there is spirit left in your land, to do yourselves justice on those who have given you bad advice; who have encouraged your people to steal, and to murder, and, afterwards, purchase stolen goods. These men ought to,feel your resentment. Attend to what I have said; it is for your good, and that of your nation. Your friend, JAMES SEAGROVE. To the Kings, Chiefs, and Head-men, of the Cussetah town, And all others, of the Lower towns of the Creek Nation. Captain Jiandolph to James Seagrove. Coleuain Station, 30t/i June, 1793. Sir: This day (after our scout went out) Mr. McDonald arrived from the nation; he informed me. that he saw some Indians on the path. He first said that they were six miles, and, afterwards, that they were twenty miles from the station. I immediately sent out seven men in order to discover their trail: they took it, and fell in with I the Indians near Spanish creek. One of the Indians, on coming up to them, snapt his gun at Mr. Steth, (who was / one of the party) within ten steps of him; our people then charged on them, and killed them all, four in number, without losing a man; they got five excellent horses from them, which we wanted much. Alexander Young, Esquire, and Mr. Wright, was here to day. They want to take possession of Bull-head block-house; they have but three men. I think it will he necessary to send a sergeant and six men to assist them. They are in want of ammunition. but am afraid I cannot spare them anv. I am, &c. JOHN F. RANDOLPH. James Seagrove to Timothy Barnard. St. Mary's, 5th July. 1793. Dear Barnard: 1 now address you under great distress of mind, on account of a most unfortunate affair, which took place on the 30th ultimo, and is nearly as follows: McDonald, with my despatches from the nation, arrived at Coleram about noon of that day, and gave Captain Randolph a very confused ami contradictory account of his coining; and, after remaining some time, informed that some Indians came with him, who he |>arted from about twenty miles back; but that, as he had reason to fear it was, by that time, a general war. he supposed a runner had been sent after them, and turned them hack. This made the captain uneasy, especially as McDonald then told him one of the Indians had all the despatches, which were of great consequence. Upon this, seven men were ordered to accompany McDonald, and to go in search of those Indians, and bring them in as friends: but, if they endeavored an escape, or made resistance, then to use force. At a small distance from the station, McDonald turned back, and the party pushed on, and, about ten miles distant, discovered four Indians mounted, who. on being seen, set up a shout and ran; on which, the horsemen followed and came up. One of the Indians then took to a tree, and snapt his gun several times at one of the party. Upon this, a charge took place, and, in an instant, all lour of the Indians (it is said) were killed. On inquiry of McDonald, and on perusing of my letters, which were found in one of the Indian’s bundles, to our very great sorrow and distress, we find that our friend David Cornell was among those that fell, and by the hands of the identical man whose brother Cornell killed last winter, on the frontier of Cumberland. The other three were people who accompanied Cornell. Their horses, &c. I have secured for their friends. Thus, my friend, I have given you a just account of this affair, which occasions me more uneasiness of mind than any thing I ever experienced in a political line. I have lost no time in despatching the bearer, Chorees, to you with the news, that you may take such measures as may seem best for your own security, and that of all our friends in the nation. The business is now done, and it is unfortunate; hut still I have a hope that it may he settled. Every satisfaction shall be made the friends of the deceased, by presents and otherwise, if they will not take any rash steps. They must be convinced it was altogether an accident; and they ought to remember that, when our people were killed by theirs, we took no hasty measures, but applied lor satisfaction in a regular way; and, I expect, they will do the same. If you are obliged to quit the nation, 1 wish you to come to me, where-you will find a home as long as I have one. _ There is another matter which you ought to know; it is the detention of eight Cussetah men and boys, by me, at this place. They came to Colerain near a month past, and told a confused story. The people were disposed to injure them. In order to prevent their being hurt, 1 brought them to this town, and lodged them in the fort, giving them liberty to walk about my house all day, to eat and drink as much as they chose. Another reason for my detaining them was,that I was certain of parties being out all along the frontier of Georgia, and going into the nation, who might fall in with these people and kill them, which would have been considered by their triends as done designedly by me: besides, had I let those people go at the time when robbery ami murder was committing by their countrymen all along our frontiers, the people of Georgia would have had just cause to have censured me, and. perhaps, done worse. These people are very happy, and do not wish to return home, until some settlement takes place. One 51 * of the men cut his own throat, the second night after he came here, in the room with his companions. No blame is laid on the white people. They say it was Ins own act, and no one is to blame; his time to come, anil bis life, were his own. The enclosed letter to Alexander Cornell, and one to the Cussetah king, also to Kinnard, you will forward as you think best. The bearer, Charves, will give you further particulars. The President has ordered the Governor of Georgia to act only on the defensive, for the present; in consequence, the expedition is delayed. I cannot possibly answer your letters by this conveyance: besides, I don’t know that it would answer any purpose. Your own, anil the safety of all our white friends in the nation,is niy object at present. I certainly should have come up, if David Cornell had not been killed. Send Charves back as quick ns you can, and .give notice, as early as possible, of this, to all our white friends in the nation. . I am, 6tc. Brothers: James Seagrove to the Cussetah chiefs. St. Mary’s, 5th July, 1*93. I suppose that, by this time, you have grown uneasy about four men and four boys belonging to your town, who have been from home above tliree moons. About one moon ago. these people fell in on our frontier, near Cole-rain station, and were brought in there, and, as soon as they were known to .be Cussetahs, were treated with every kindness. There being then several parties of horse out scouring our frontier, anil there.being an army going in to punish the bad towns, I thought it would be wrong to sutler these, our friends, to go from this, lest they should fall in with some of these parties and be killed. I consulted with the four old men on the occasion, who were of my opinion, that it was best to remain with me until we could hear how matters were in the nation, or, until the path was clear for them to go home. They are very happy here, they have as .much as they can eat and drink, anil live as well as I do, being at my house every day, and.lodge in a house in the fort, at night, lest any body should trouble them. Langley Bryant stays constantly with them. They live so well that they are in no hurry to go home. You may depend that I shall take every care of them in my power; and you will tell their friends not to be uneasy, as nothing shall hurt them. They shall be sent home, as soon as it can be done with salety to them and us. I am sorry to inform you, that, the second night after they came here, one of the men, named Sullapaye, (from some reason unknown to any body, red or white) cut his own throat with his knife, and died in a few minutes. His brother, Snilape, and all the rest, were sleeping along side of him on the same door, anil knew nothiug of it, until it was done. His brother, and all the rest, tell me that nobody, either white or red, is to blame. He was well used, had every thing he wanted, and no white person was in the house, or near him, when he did it. I am sorry he should be such a fool. This is a true state of the business, and which will be confirmed to you when you see his brother and the ■ rest. Your great father, General Washington, hath forbid any troops going into the Creek towns, until it is fully ^ known whether or not satisfaction will be given, agreeably to my demand; and, in consequence of this, the troops that had crossed the Oconee, to punish the bad towns, were ordered back, and will remain on our frontier, until the final determination of the nation is known. I hope it will be such as to preserve your land in peace, which only can be done by punishing the bad men, and restoring the stolen property. I am, &c. JAMES SEAGROVE. Dear Brother: James Seagrove to Alexander Cornell. St. Mary’s, 5th July, 1793. I I now take up my pen to describe what I conceive an unfortunate affair to you and me, and I fear also to our respective countries; it is as follows: On the 30th day of last month, McDonald arrived at the station at Colerain, and informed Captain Randolph, the commanding officer, that he was from the nation, with despatches from you and the chiefs. He was kindly received, and, after some time, gave the people to understand that four Indians came down with him, part of the way; that lie had come ahead of them; but, as they delayed so long behind, he concluded they had been followed by a runner, and turned back, and gave as his reason for this opinion, that, by this time, it was a general war in the nation; and, no hopes of peace or satisfaction being given, this alarmed the officers and men; upon which, McDonald was asked for the letters, when he answered, that an Indian had them all, who was one of the party. Captain Randolph then ordered McDonald to go immediately out and meet the Indians. He went some distance, anil returned, and a scout of seven men, who were out from Colerain, unfortunately fell in with four Indians, on horseback, some with guns; and, not knowing them to be friends, rode up briskly towards them, on which the Indians set up a whoop and ran. The horsemen pursued, and, being better mounted, came up with them; on which, the Indians dismounted, and took to trees. One of them snapt his gun several times, which convinced the white people that they were enemies. Upon this, they fired, and soon killed all four ol the red people. On examining the letters and papers, it was found they were our friends; and what adds exceedingly to the pain and distress ol myself, and every body here, is, that our good young friend and brother, David Cornell, is among them that fell. This, my dear Alexander, is the most distressing thing I ever met with in my life; to think of friends falling by the hands of friends, through a cursed mistake, is bad indeed; but is now too late to be prevented; we, therefore, as friends and brothers, must make the best of it, and not suffer it to involve us in further trouble. This unfortunate affair hath arose from the stupidity, or villany, of McDonald, who I shall keep a prisoner until the whole is cleared up. I have only to say, my friend, for you and the other relations and friends of the deceased, that full satisfaction shall be made, agreeable to the treaty of New York, anil I have now to entreat of yourself, the Mad Dog, White Lieutenant, your uncle Joseph Cornell, and all others concerned, not to alter their good opinion of us, on account of this accident, or to take any hasty measures in consequence, as it is my determination to satisfy you fully on this business. The horses and other property, belonging to the people killed, I have taken into my possession, and they shall be returned to their friends, as soon as the path is clear. To convince you, my friend, that it is not our wish to hurt any of the Indians w ho are our friends, there are now' with me at this place eight Indians, seven of them Cussetahs, and one Chehaw, who have been here a month, eating and drinking as they please, and walking about my house. They were found on this frontier, and brought in, and as there are a great many parties of bad people out, anil as it was expected troops w'ould go into the nation to punish the bad towns, I advised those people to stay with me? which they nave done, and are very happy. Our great father. General Washington, has forbid the Governor of Georgia, or any of his people, going into the Creek land to war, until I have your final answer. This is the cause of the troops, that had crossed the Oconee, being ordered back. Remember, my friend, that, when the red people killed Captain Fleming, and the rest of our people, we did not take any hasty or rash measure, though the provocation wras great, but sent to you for satisfaction, and have w'aited now four moons without doing any thing. I hope you will consider this, and act as w'e have done. Had notour friend Davy been killed, I should certainly have come up with him, agreeable to request. You have always been out-good friend, and I hope you will continue so. Give your uncle a good talk from me, and tell him he will find me a better friend to him and his family than ever General McGillivray was, and that he shall have every justice done him. Depending on your friendship, I remain, &c. James Seagrove to John Kinnard. St. Mary’s, 5th July, 1793. Brother: 1 have received your talk by George Galphin, and am very glad that all your people continue in peace and friendship with us. Continue firm, and in so doing, you will reap the benefit of it ere long. The Chehaw fellow that is with me is certainly a fool. He lives so well, and walks about this town at his ease, that I am certain if we were to drive him away he would return. I should have sent him and seven Cussetahs, that have been with me upwards of two moons, only that I knew there was a number of parties of horse out from our frontier, and also there was troops going to punish the bail towns only; and as those people might fall in with them and be killed, I thought it best to keep them with me as friends, until the path was more clear or matters settled. They shall be well treated, and sent home as soon as it can be done with safety. The troops from the upper part of Georgia, that had crossed the Oconee, to punish the bad towns, were called back, in consequence of an order from our great father General Washington, not to go to war, until an answer was received from your nation, whether or not they would give satisfaction, agreeable to my demand. Thoscjtroops will remain on our frontier in peace, until this is known, and time given for that purpose. I again repeat to you, that, let what will happen, you or your friends will not be hurt. Do sit still, and mind what I say to you, as your real friend and brother. JS. SEAGROVE. Extract of a letter from James Seagrove. Esq. to the Secretary of liar, dated Savannah, 31 st July. 1793. The instructions and orders of the President of the United States, as contained in your letter of the 30th of April, have received my particular and immediate attention; and the enclosed papers will point out the steps which I have taken, to carry the same into efleet. From the whole of my communication with you, and the chiefs of the Creeks, you will observe that it hath been my wish to be in that nation,' but, that a train of circumstances and unfortunate events, rendered it almost impossible. Whilst General McGillivray lived, I was certain of being opposed by him and his adherents, both in and out of the nation. I was so well informed of the baseness of that man, and bis treacherous conduct to our country, as not to leave a doubt but that he would be guilty of kindling a flame against me, or any person who should endeavor to establish peace and good understanding between the United States, and any of the Indian tribes to the Southward, but more immediately the Creeks. My instructions being to avoid all disputes, or give cause of jealousy or suspicion to McGillivray. in way of rivalship, I thought it most advisable not to press myself on the nation, until I had the assent of a majority of the chiefs in my favor, to that effect. This I obtained, unanimously, from all present, at the conference at Colerain; and the time was fixed by the chiefs for my meeting them to the first of May, in order to arrange and fully understand all matters between their country and the United States. The Indians, who were present at the conference, declared in public that they were imposed on by General McGillivray, respecting the treaty of New York, and many oilier matters; and that they would oblige him to appear atonr general meeting, and answer for himself, or quit the nation. This, no doubt, lie heard of, and knew of my growing influence; and, finding that I would attend as agreed on, he, and his Spanish friends, in conjunction with Mr. Pan ton, formed and executed the bloody plan at Trader's Hill, on St. Mary’s, in March last. This opinion is corroborated by several testimonies I have already furnished, and, 1 think, fully confirmed by the declaration of James Burges, as sworn to by George Galphin. There cannot be a doubt, but the Spaniards and Panton were apprehensive, that, if I was allowed to get. into the nation, it would be unfavorable to their projects; and Mr. McGillivray was convinced that his double dealings would not stand the test; therefore, it was determined by those characters, to have murder and robbery committed on our citizens, in which they have been too successful. This act of violence prevented my going into the nation, although I had made every arrangement, at that time, for the purpose. Since that period, you have been advised by me of the repeated outrages by the Creeks, as well as that they had not complied with my demand of satisfaction. Had it not been for David Cornell’s being killed on the 30th nit., 1 certainly should, at all events, have gone into the nation, and to the Upper Creeks, with him; as, from the letters received from some of the chiefs, it appeared to be their wish. It would have been unwise to have gone immediately after such an event, at least, until it was known how the people of the nation would act in consequence. This I do not yet know; but, from the measures which I have taken, and what I am able to judge from circumstances. I do not think any rash step will be taken by the relations of Cornell. He, in fact, is no great loss to them, having been a turbulent, ungovernable young man, and, but of late that he became a convert to our cause; which you will find by his letter sent you, in mine of the ----, w'herein he acknowledges his having killed Americans on the Western waters, by desire of Governor O’Neal, of Pensacola, and Panton. By the enclosed copy of a letter, received by me the. 20th instant, from the White Lieutenant of the Oakfuskees, and also one from the Big "Warrior of the Cussetahs. together with Tim Barnard’s, of the 2d instant, lam led to believe that I may be able to effect an entrance into the nation: but not without difficulty and danger; all of which I disregard, provided I can accomplish the wish of the President of the United States, and thereby serve our country. You will see, by the letters now'enclosed, that four of the Creek towns are disposed for mischief; and Panton is actually among them, stirring them up to war. He publicly tells them that they are not to fear the United States; they cannot hurt them; that they must not, on any account, consent togive satisfaction by punishing the murderers, or restoring proper!)'. That, unless the Americans remove back to the old boundary, on the Ogechce, not to treat with them. This conduct of Panton’s keeps up a flame in the nation; and as he hath at his command large magazines (both public and private property) of goods, which he distributes among those people, lie is and w ill continue to be attended to. It matters little whether or not Mr. Panton, and others, acting in this way in the nation, are sanctioned by the government they live under—the effect of their doings are equally felt. But, as to myself, I am convinced that they are countenanced and supported in it, or they would not have the audacity—(see the oath of Win. Stringer, before Timothy Barnard.) Every day affords fresh instances to confirm me in this belief. Whilst these thingsare allowed, and tamely viewed, it is in vain that 1, or any other servant of the Union, labor to preserve peace with the savage tribes. The Indians, themselves, begin to see through their schemes. One of the Spanish agents, of the name of Bellue, who was busy practising on the Upper Creeks, was killed by them about a month past. 1 have, therefore, said so much on this subject, that I shall not add at present. Having determined to go into the Creek tow ns, if possible. I shall, in conformity to your desire, repair to the Rock Landing, so as to be there, by the first of next month, to wait the movements of the friendly Indians. But, to accomplish this, there arises obstacles; the greatest is that of making my business known. To keep it secret from Governor Telfair, I may meet w ith censure, if not destruction: for, should his Excellency see fit to send another expedition into the nation, whilst I am treating of peace, the consequence to me is evident. I believe it will be best to acquaint him in confidence, though I have very little hope of his paying any attention thereto: for. I am told, he does not recognise me as a public officer, never having had it announced to liim in form; to this I must attribute his total silence, and want of respect to my frequent letters to him. However illy calculated this State is, at present, to engage in a general Indian war, yet, strange as it may appear, there are many warm advocates for it, some of whom, I have reason to believe, would oppose my going into the Creeks to make peace. As a preparative to my going into the nation, I thought ita necessary step,to send home the Indians, who had been detained by me at St. Mary’s, and, also, their property. This I have ordered to be done, and sent by the person who carries my despatches, which will make them the more acceptable. This step, I doubt not, will add to the number of my enemies in Georgia; but how could I appear in the nation as a friend, whilst I held their people (and those belonging to our best friends) prisoners in this country. 1 have sent to St. Mary’s to have my horse brought hereby land, in order to proceed; should they be lost on the way, I shall find great difficulty to supply the loss. It is a current report in this town, that Governor Telfair hath orders front the President to act on the offensive against the Creeks. This I cannot believe when I view iny orders. It is, however, certain, that his Excellency hath called a council of all his general officers, to meet at Augusta, on the eighth of next month, to commence deliberations, as he terms it. What those will be, it is not with me to say; but, lest his plans and my orders should interfere to the injury of our country, I will give his Excellency timely notice. Letter from Timothy Barnard to James Seagrove. , Flint River, 2r/ July, 1793. Dear Sir: You will receive this by the hands of Mr. Townsend, who will be able to give you every information from this quarter you may require; and as he has been all through the Upper Creeks, has it in his power to inform you fully respecting matters in that part of the nation, relative to both red and white people, I therefore need only mention a litte to you of what’s going on at present, in the Lower Creeks. The Cowetas, Broken Arrow, Usechees, and Chehaws, at a meeting held at the Tuckaubatchees, Upper Creeks, agreed to quit hostilities on the State of Georgia, and give up all the property; as all the towns in the Upper Creeks made known to them that they meant to do as the Cussetahs did; keep at peace with the United States. Those four towns, Cowetas, Broken Arrow, Usechees, and Chehaws, have since declined from what they agreed to at the meeting, and have utterly refused to give up the property, and have said as much as if they still meant to continue hostilities on the frontiers of Georgia; in consequence of which, the head warriors of the Cussetahs, and two more chiefs were sent out to me to send down a talk respecting it; the very day they arrived at my house, an express arrived here from General Twiggs, who had just returned to Augusta, from an expedition against tire Indians. General Twiggs’ taik was to the Cussetahs, which I thought fit, on such an occasion, to explain to the chiefs here present. You will receive a copy of their answer to the General; likewise, a copy of his letter, which, I think, on the whole, the General has not acted imprudently; whether or not his first movements have been by order of the President, or the Secretary of War, I cannot tell; but as a general officer, 1 imagine lie would not take such steps rashly; he has requested of me,to giyehimatrue statement of matters in this quarter, which I think right for me to do, as matters are at this time so critically situated. You will receive a talk from the Big Half Breed, or White Lieutenant of the Oakfuskecs, which differs somewhat from the Cussetahs, but at the same time shews his good intentions towards the United States, and is a man that has full power to execute any thing he says or undertakes, and I cannot but think himself neglected, and not without cause, as I, in consequence of what you mentioned to me respecting him, made hint some promises, which has been out of my power to fulfil. You may be assured, sir, that, m Mr. McGillivray’s life time, it was through this half-breed’s influence thathe swayed best part of the Upper Creeks; this half-breed, when lie wrote this talk, thought that the Cussetahs, and the rest of the Lower Creeks, had executed some of the murderers; which Was concluded on at these meetings at the Tuckaubatchees, which would have been done, as men were sent upon the business, but that old villain l'anton’s talks got spread about among the towns where it was to be done, and made those backward that was to have assisted. Panton’s talk to them, was to give up no property nor satisfaction for murders, till the white people that were settled on the Oconee moved back to the old line, and not to hurt John Galphin; but thathe would send for him, and make him a useful man to the Indians, which I verily believe to be the truth, as he will now be at a loss to excuse his villanous purposes, as he has lost his tool,McG----y; therefore, any one, of even the shallowest knowledge, may see that there will never be a right understanding kept between the Indians and the United States, while Panton has permission to carry on so extensive a trade in the Spanish dominions with the Indians, as every act of his former and present behavior plainly shows, that he would rather see the whole State of Georgia in flames, and women and children massacred by the savages, than lose one hundred deerskins. Whether the Dons have given any prejudicial talks to the Indians at this time, I cannot tell; but they wink at what Panton docs, or he dare not do what he has done, I am informed that Governor O’Neal has left Pensacola, and Colonel White has taken his place, who, I am informed, is a man that acts in an impartial line, and it’s thought will not give Panton the liberties that Governor O’Neal did; therefore, Governor White may not yet be informed of what Mr. Panton has done. I shall, therefore, take the liberty, in behalf of the United States, to inform his Excellency Governor White, what Pan ton has done. I think, if you had long ago empowered some one, capable of acting, in behalf of the United States, in the Upper Creeks, it would have been of infinite service to the frontiers.. Allick Cornell, as a half-breed, has done all in his power, but it cannot be thought that one of his knowledge can see far enough into matters to conduct things as they ought to be. Kinnard, you have put a deal of dependence in, which has done but little. Such men as those may answer particular purposes, but will never be able to do much, without white people is near them to conduct matters. You will be able to judge of matters, when you hear fully by Mr. Townsend, how matters are situated here; the halt-breed seems very desirous of your coming up, and says, if you were to come, matters could be soon righted; this I shall leave to your own opinion. If matters could be settled w'ithout troops coming up, it would be better for both parties, as, if troops should come, and them militia, which are not generally under good command of their officers, and they should tall on some of the friendly towns, as the injuries they have received is full sufficient to agitate them to it, it will be the means of making the matter general; and if so, then they must be drove out of their lands, and must take refuge over the Coosa river, which is unpassable but in boats, and then, 1 fear, what little shallow knowledge I have of matters, that they will be egged on by the Dons, as the Sliawanese are by the British, and will become as lasting, and as troublesome an enemy to the United States, as the Northward nations are. I am sensible they never give an enemy battle that they can be destroyed; and the farther an Indian has to go to fight his enemy, lie is the bolder; besides, the frontiers of Georgia are so extensive, that it will ever be impossible to keep them out, if it was even possible that there could be forts at every ten miles distance; this is only my simple opinion on circumstances better known than I am able to inform. But, as I consider, at this time, that there is not two Indians out of a hundred that are for mischief, therefore, if any steps could be taken to settle matters, without letting the innocent suffer, it would be better. I still tvish that, if matters could be so conducted, as for men to come up and give those towns that have done the mischief a scourging, burn down their houses, and cut down their corn, if there was but a few of them killed, it would be a scare to them in future; and they are very saucy, and say the white people are afraid to come; therefore, they ought to be convinced of their error, as they never u ill believe that the w hites can come up till they see it. They are daily ridiculing the Cussetahs, and telling them that they are slaves to the Americans, which makes the Cussetahs backward in saying any more to them, nor do not care how soon they suffer by the whites, so that they could be sure of safety themselves. I do not make the least doubt, but, if about six hundred good horse were collected at a seasonable time, that they might get some of the Cussetahs to come to the Rock ' \y Landing, and pilot them to those towns that are enemies. There is no way of taking an advantage of them, but by a small company of good horse, and making a rapid march, and not give them time to make off’with their property. I have troubled you 'with a longer letter than there was occasion for, as matters are nearly as I wrote you by David Cornell. I shall hope to hear fully from you respecting every matter, by Mr. Townsend; shall do every thing for the best, as long as I can stand it here. I remain, &c. Letter from the White Lieutenant of the Oakfuskees to James Seagrovc. Upper Creeks, New York, 23d June. 1793. Friend and Brother; I have several times received your letters, and had them explained to me; I have likewise heard your last talks, which myself, and all the head-men in the Upper towns, are determined to stand by, and listen to no others; and, to convince you, I now write you this, that you may know I have you in mind, as I hope you have me. I, as well as all the head-men of the Upper towns, met at the Tuckaubatchees. and came to a resolution, as our beloved man is no more, to hold you fast by the hand, and see the treaty complied with; and, to prevent our young men from stealing, we have come to a resolution to punish them by whipping; therefore, I hope no rash steps will be taken by your mad people, but, if any disputes arise, let them be settled by friendly talks. This, and our other talk, you may' certainly depend on; we now hope to pass and repass into each other's land as friends and brothers, non considering ourselves as one people. The satisfaction you now demand shall be granted, as soon as it can be obtained from the guilty; but, unreasonable it is to suppose it can be taken on the innocent; the bad men shall be killed as soon as they can be found, hut, nothing more than natural, when they heard of their doom, they fled the nation, but am in hopes our good warriors wall soonovertake them, and, till then, I hope you will vt ait with patience. The time you allow is very short; but consider it is not so long ago, since one of my Cussetah friends was killed in his peaceable camp, and another wounded, their camp plundered,and, when we demanded satisfaction, it never was given by your people, nor taken by ours, till twelve moons after the crime was committed. I suppose the murderer was not to be found, and understand by your laws that the innocent cannot suffer for the guilty; therefore, as eldest brother, hope you, will not so much unman yourselves, as to deviate from your own laws, and copy ours. I likewise undertook to inform you of a thing, you, before, perhaps, have been ignorant of, viz: no sooner the talks become a little friendly, but our paths are filled with travelling renegado people,and some families that pretend they are going to the Spanish country; others of them are bad men, who steal from your people, and fly to our land, and impose their plunder on us, and we, though in a state of ignorance, are blamed for it. Our departed friend winked at those proceedings; but I hope/ as you are going to take his place, that you will take such steps as will prevent the like in future; the day never was, before bad men came among us, but we were a happy people; but they have learned our young men their bad ^ ways, and, on account of our not having laws to punish, we, by bad precedents, are become miserable. I always have understood that the Oconee was the line; and that we were both to drink of one stream : if it is otherwise, 1 am kept in ignorance: if so, keep your people on one side, and we will keep ours on the other, unless from traders going backward and forward that live in our land, and people you may think proper to send amongst us on business, unless it should be that some of our hunters should be distressed for some small necessaries, and may take a few skins and buy them, that is all the connexion we wish to have. I likewise take the liberty to intorm you, that it is my opinion that bad men, that live on the frontiers of your country, do your people and ours great injury by getting our drunken people over the line, and buying their property from them, particularly horses, (with rum) the people are then on foot, and, sooner than remain so, go and steal the first man’s horse they come across; this, I hope you will prevent by some early step, as, if suffered, it will tend to bad consequences. My unknown friend, I have very long had a particular desire to see you, and, as all our hopes are blasted by listening to bad talks, and by the death of our wise man, I hope you will revive them, by your appearance in our land; come forward, my friend, and don’t be. daunted; now is the time you can be of service to us. and your country as we are determined to take your talks, and stand by you to the last moment. You now have nothing to contend with but a few vagabonds, which your good advice will soon silence and dismiss. Nine-tenths of the land are your friends, therefore, come forward, or appoint such men as will do you and us justice; give your talks freely, and they shall be received by me and my friends as free. Give your orders, and they shall be executed, and don’t meditate upon a war, for that is out of the question. I, and my Upper town friends, have been always friendly disposed, both now, and in the time of the British war; so have been our Cussetah friends; therefore, should you be backward in advancing, and your mad men forward, and. by that means, bring your friends to the same fate as your enemies, then the matter will become general, and more serious than you are aware of. What depredations are now committed, are entirely out of wanton cruelty; but, should your friends share the fate of your enemies, nothing can be expected but revenge, strengthened by rage and desperation. Your mad men may think that they can tear us upbranch and root; but tell them the woods are large, and the days are not all gone; for true it is, you can overpower us by numbers, but your numbers must have food and raiment; as for ns, we were born in the ashes, and woods, and mountains, and swamps, are our homes; if it should so happen that your madmen Snould make a war, tell them not to think that we are alt fools, and madmen, and that we shall stand and let them take our lives with our lands. No, we will retreat as far as convenient, and then advance as we think it convenient: but I hope these things will all be done away, and our eyes opened for both our advantages. We that are your friends, are men; and tel! your great beloved man that he will find us manly friends; and, should it so happen, desperate enemies. I have nothing more to add; yet, if you don’t come yourself immediately, 1 hope you w ill appoint two men, one as interpreter, and the other as a beloved man, to manage the business for both you and us. Our situation, in that regard, is now deplorable, for we are obliged to apply to both your, and, I believe, our enemj’s interpreter, and give out our talks; therefore, by that means, are kept in the dark, and both parties imposed upon. The bearer of this is a young man, but I think a great deal of him.and can recommend him as a man that I have confidence in. Stephen Sullivan is a man who has' never spoilt his talk with me, nor my friends; him I recommend as a good interpreter; if you think good, and it is your heart to do any thing for us, appoint these two men, and I will protect them; my house shall be theirs, and my town their town; and likewise yours, whenever you think well to come forward, which I hope vyill be shortly, but not at the head of your madmen, for I hope you are a man, and we are men, and can punish our bad people ourselves; and the day shall come that we will do it. 1 shall make it my business to collect all the stolen horses I can find, and send them to the Rock Landing as soon as possible. Please send by the bearer, my horses I sent down to you by Wattalo Micco, as they have been there a long time, but I hope you don’t mean to undervalue me, by keeping them all this time, and sending them back empty; likewise send your talks for me and the towns undermentioned. TUSKENA ATCA.or WHITE LIEUTENANT, for himself mul the: Upper Creeks. STEP. SULLIVAN, Interpreter. Copy of a talk from the Big Warrior of the Cussetahs, and two of the chiefs from the same town, in answer to General Twiggs' letter, delivered by him to Mr. T. Barnard, to be sent to General Twiggs. Friends and Brothers: I came out to Mr. Barnard’s, with a determination to send my friends in that quarter a talk, where I had the good fortune to meet your talk the day it arrived. The Big Warrior says he had just arrived from a meeting in the Tipper Creeks, where they had a full meeting of the heads of all the Upper towns, and likewise the Lower. Tne Upper Creeks agreed to continue in friendship with the United States, which he believes they will stand to; the Lower Creeks consented to the same; but, since he got home, he has heard the Covyctas, and the Broken Arrows, which is one town, as they live nearly on one spot; tiie Chehavvs and Oswitches, which are as one town, they like- wise living oil one spot. He wishes to inform you. that they still mean to continue hostilities, and have refused ttf collect the property that belong to the States, therefore, as he found they were so inclined, and as they were the town that had done all the mischief, he thought it his duty to acquaint his friends the white people of it. The Big Warrior says. that himself, and all the cliiels of his town, have done all in their power to pacify them, but he now finds it is out of their power to get them to agree to give up any property, or give any satisfaction for the murders they ' have committed, therefore, he sees no other step can be taken to bring them to their senses, but for you to come amongst them and subdue them, and their matters may be settled as usual. The warrior says that he and the other towns are still determined to listen to the talks, from time to time, from their friends the whites, which they agreed for, their friends the Americans to drink water out of one side of the Oconee, and for the red people to drink out of the other, in friendship, and they hope it will remain so. He says, as those bad towns have already refused to give up any property, though they had agreed to it at the general meeting, and from what he has heard since, he is entirely convinced that they mean continuing hostilities, therefore, it is his wish, that you, and all his friends the white people, should know it, that you may fake such steps as may prevent their going to too great lengths. The Big Warrior wishes to inform you. that the path you took when you crossed the Oakmulgee, led to the Buzzard Roost, where some of your friends the Cussetahs reside, and as they your friends are all near starving, and are all settled along that path, if you had continued still along that path, you would have driven them from their crops, and perhaps, as your men were angry, might have killed some of them which are your friends. He, therefore hopes, if you should come again, that you will take the Oakfuskee path, and follow that till you come near the Clnatacauce river, and turn to a village where an Indian lives called Short Neck, which is thirty miles above the Cowetas, and from there, all the Indians you find on either side of the river, are Cowetas, as they are settled on both sides of the river as low as the Cowetas; and the Chehaws and Oswitches are settled about twelve miles below' them, on the same side of the river that the Cow'etas lies on, which is westerly. He hopes, before you start, that you will send a private express to him and his town, to let them know', that they may not be surprised «\t your coming, which will convince them that you do not mean to molest them. Those mutinous towns, he says, shall not know of it. He says that his business out here was to bring out some horses that he had collected, that belong to Georgia, to be sent down to the Rock Landing to their owners, and to return back from here, and, as he came out unprepared for a journey, even without his gun. or any provisions, he begs you will excuse his proceeding any further to see you, although he has a great desire to see you; therefore, as it is out of his power for the present, he hopes you will be*satisfied with his talk lie has sent you; and as he this day sets out for Ins town, he will collect the heads of his town, and acquaint them with what he has heard, and with what you say in respect of seeing some of them, which he hopes will be agreed upon, and if it is, you will hear from him as soon as opportunity will admit; but whether or not, he hopes you will consider this as a sincere talk, and from your old friends; those, you know, even when the British were your enemy, and got all the others to join them against you, and paid them well for it, we even then refused to take up arms against you, and likewise refused their goods, and endeavored to keep as many of the other towns back as we could, and were always back and forward amongst you, giving you all the information we could. This, I hope, my friends the Americans will not forget, and always listen to what I say, and not distress us, who never intended to take up arms against them, without they should put us upon a footing with their enemies. In that case, it cannot be considered our faults. He says, that those towns that took the British talks, have all got negroes, more or less, in them, to work for them; but, it is not the case with his town; they have none, but are poor, and obliged to work for themselves; therefore, he hopes their friends will not increase their poverty by driving them from their towns, though they are so near the Cowetas that are enemies, though on the other side of the river, which, as you are not at a loss lor pilots, can be informed of, and you will likewise see your colors in the town. He further hopes, no town may suffer but those that are guilty, as if so, you may raise up more enemies: for, he says he is convinced no other towns are for mischief but those mentioned; neither is there any of your property amongst them.- The Warrior further says, on his return to his town, he and the rest of the heads of the Cussetahs will do every thing in their power to prevent those tow ns from going out to do any more mischief; therefore, if they should go out, he hopes it will iiot be considered their faults. The Warrior wishes his friends the white people to know, that they, the red people, have not laws to restrain their people from doing mischief, neither is it in their power to command each other to take up arms to suppress such conduct. Mr. W. Panton’s talks, he says, is the cause of those towns standing out so obstinately, as he told the Cowetas and Chehaws, not many days ago, not to give up their property. These people, in particular, were called down among the Spaniards, he supposes, for that purpose. He likewise told them not to give any satisfaction for the murders committed, till they would move oft’ from the Oconee land. This, the Warrior says, Mr. Panton does to keep up a disturbance in Georgia, that no deer skins may go that way. He further says, that he and Mr. McGillivray, in his life time, were always giving out such talks, to keep the trade in their own hands. As for the Spaniards, he says they say but little; but, Mr. Panton, whether by the order of the Spaniards or not, has said a great deal; and had it not been for what he said, satisfaction would have been given before this time; but, as he is master of so much goods, those mutinous towns will listen to his talks. The Warrior says, this talk lie has sent, is the voice of his whole town, and he hopes the white people will look upon this as a talk from their best friends, as they have always found the Cussetahs. It is all he can say at this time, and he hopes it will be sent to the great beloved man, General Washington, their father, as he knows he will make good use of it, and not treat his red children rash that do not wish to oftend him, or hurt his people, but still wish to eat, drink, and remain in friendship with all white people. Lower Creek nation, Flint River. Personally appealed before me, Timothj' Barnard, deputy superintendent, to the United States of America. William Stringer, a native of Georgia, and now a resident in Pensacola, West Florida, who, being duly sworn, maketh oath, that he was present and saw' the Spaniard’s public-stores opened at Pensacola, where there was arms and ammunition both delivered to the Creek Indians; and lie the deponent saith, that he heard Governor O’Neal say, that he had told the Indians that this arms and ammunition wans given them to kill the Americans, and that he would give them more if they stood in need of it; the deponent further saith, that Mr. William Panton buys the horses that are stolen from the State of Georgia, and has now' several of the horses in his possession in Pensacola town. Further the deponent saith not. WILLIAM STRINGER. Sworn the 2d May. 1793, before me: TIMOTHY BARNARD. James Seagrove io Hie White Lieutenant of the Oukfuskees. Savannah, in Georgia, 29th July, 1793. Brother: I received your talk by Mr. Tow nsend, and like it well; I am pleased to find that you, and our other friends in the Upper Creeks, are acting in such a way as to restore your country to peace, and to keep the path between you and us white and clear. As it seems to be your w ish that I should be among you, to assist in directing your affairs, and, it, at the same time, corresponding with my own inclination, and the desire of our great father the President of the United States, 1 have come to a determination that it shall be so. For the purpose of accomplishing it with safety. 1 now send Mr. Townsend with this talk to you, and several other chiefs in the nation; requesting, that you and them will take such steps as may seem good to you, in order to my coming. It is my w ish, that as many of my friends as see fit, will meet me at the Oakmulgee, by the 10th day of September, when I will attend you into the nation, for the purpose of establishing a lasting peace and friendship between us and our countries. I shall go from this place to the Rock Landing, where I shall wait until you send Mr. Townsend, or some other trusty white person, with an Indian or two to meet me, and inform of your arrival at the Oakmulgee. Your great father General Washington, President of the United States, ordered back those warriors who had set out from Georgia to punish the bad towns. It is his wish not to hurt any of his red people, that will act justly towards him and his people: and therefore hath forbid war being carried into your land, that you may have time to punish those who have been guilty of murder and robbery on this frontier; another reason for not letting the troops go into the nation at this time, was, from a dread that some of our friends might be hurt, and thereby make our misfortunes the greater. A most unfortunate and distressing affair lately took place, in the death of our friend David Cornell; it was all owing to a mistake and bad conduct of the white man that came down with him. I hope no hasty rash steps will' be taken by his relations or countrymen, as it is my determination they shall have full satisfaction made them, and every thing settled as well as possible. When I come up we will arrange all these matters. My friend, you seem to think hard your horses was not sent back, and I allow you have reason; had they been under my direction, it should not have been so. I applied several times to Mr. Fowler for the horses, in order to send your goods, but never could get them. The goods were ready, and I several times told the white man, who came down with the horses, that they were ready whenever he chose to go; so that you see I have not been in fault; as you trusted your horses under Fowler and Killeyis care. I wrote you some time ago, requesting that you would take into your possession and safekeeping, every thing belonging to the United States, that might be found among Mr. McGillivray’s effects. I am afraid, from what Mr. Townsend tells me, that you have not received my letter. I again request that you will have it done, and keep all safe until I come up. Mr. Townsend takes charge of some few things for you. I have only to say, that it is the earnest desire of the President and people of the United States, to live in peace with the Creek nation, and that, if you are involved in a war, it must be your own faults. I doubt not but, that when we meet, we shall settle all matters; I therefore hope nothing may prevent. I was ready to set off for the nation when the mischief took place on St. Mary's in March last. I should most undoubtedly come with David Cornell, had he lived. Mr. Townsend has my instructions to tell you several matters that I conceive necessary to be done, and I must request that you will attend to him. You will always find in me a true and firm friend and brother, and I shall expect the same in you, being, with respect, Your humble servant. JAMES .SEAGROVE, .‘lgent of Indian Affairs, S. I). U. S. Rear Sir: Jurats Scagrovc to Mr. .Alexander Cornell. Savannah, '29th July, 1793. I wrote you a long letter on the 5th of this month, respecting the melancholy fate of our friend David. I hope my letter reached you, and your wisdom and your moderation hath been the means of preventing any rash steps being taken, as I am determined that his friends shall have full satisfaction. It appearing to be the wish of all the friendly chiefs of your land, that I should come up and be among you for the purpose of settling and directing your affairs, 1 have long been desirous of this, and you know it was a settled plan, when I met the chiefs in November last, on St. Mary's; but the unfortunate matters which have turned up since, lias alone prevented. It is1 the earnest desire of the President of the United States, that I should be w ith you; my regard for the happiness of my Creek friends urges the same; I therefore am resolved to meet you as soon as the chiefs of the nation will say I can do it with safety; having an entire confidence in you and them, I shall cheerfully put myself under their protection. For this purpose, I have to desire that yourself and such of your friends as you think fit, will meet me on the Oakmulgee, by the 10th of September next, when I will accompany you into the nation, and then. I doubt not, we can settle all affairs on a firm footing, I doubt not but the people of the bad towns, and those in favor of the Spaniards, will oppose my coming; but, as I am led to believe that there is a great majority in the nation who are friendly to the United States, I hope they will take such measures, and act with such firmness, as to frustrate and overset all their w icked plans. By the bearer, Mr. Tow nsend, I send back all the horses and property which was taken from Mr. David Cornell, and those who were with him; I have, also, sent you some goods for your own purposes. Do not'fail, my friend, to meet me, with such guard as you think necessary. Send the enclosed to Chinabee, the great Natchez warrior, and tell him I shall expect to see him with you. Let nothing prevent our meeting; that alone can now save your country. It is absolutely necessary that the friendly towns should prevent any parties going out on our frontiers, to do mischief; if they cannot do otherw ise, theyfought to do it by force: for, though our troops will not, at present, go into your land, lest they should hurt our friends, yet I must inform you that large bodies, both of foot and horse, guard the frontier of Georgia from St. Mary's to Tugclo, so that, if any are so daring as to attempt coining in, they may expect to suffer, and more than probable may be followed by parties in the nation, which may be attended with disagreeable consequences to those who wish to remain our friends. It would appear very extraordinary, indeed, should any of the Creeks be allowed to rob or murder, w hilst I am w ith them deliberating for the happiness of both countries, but more immediately theirs. I hope you will prevail on the Mad Dog and your uncle Joseph to meet me. I have so much reliance on your goodness and friendship, that I shall not taLe up more of jour time in pointing out any particular steps for you to take, but submit all to your own discretion, and remain your assured friend and humble servant, JAMES SEAGROVE. I shall go from this place to Augusta and the Rock Landing, having business that way, and I expect I shall receive advice when you will be at the Oakmulgee. James Sea grove to the Mad Dog of the Tuckaubutchee Upper Creeks. Savannah, in Gkorgia, 29th July, 1793. Brother: Had it not been for the death of our young friend, David Cornell, yon would have seen mein tbeTuckaubatchee before this day. Not a man in the Creek land feels more sorrow than I do, for the loss of him; and as I have already wrote to his cousin, Alexander Cornell, that full satisfaction shall be made his friends and the nation, I hope no hasty rash step will be taken by any of them, until they can see me, which I hope will be soon. It has given me great pleasure to hear how much you have been our friend in all the late troubles. I have informed our Great Father, Washington, of it, and yourself, and every chief who have stood firm for us, will be rewarded. I have long wished to see you, and as there seems a great necessity that some person should be among you at this time, who is capable of directing your affairs, and this appearing to be the wish of all the well disposed chiefs, as well as the express desire of the President of the United States, I have come to a determination to come up without delay. But, as it is a matter well known, that we have people in the Lower towns who are unfriendly to us, and do not wish to see peace restored, or any person to come among them who belongs to the United States, it will therefore be necessary that the chiefs that are our friends, and friends to peace, will immediately call a meeting, and then take such measures as may seem to them best calculated to effect this desirable object, and to prevent insult or injury to my person. I have wrote to several of my friends in the nation on this business, and hope they will lose no time in complying with my wish, which is, that as many of the chiefs and warriors as choose, do meet me on the Oakmulgee by the 10th day of September, from whence I will go with them, and not leave or quit, until all matters are settled. It is my wish to meet as many of the chiefs and warriors (that are our friends) as possible, on the Oakmulgee, as it will serve to convince all in opposition of their desire of peace, and attachment to the United States. 1 hope you will do me the pleasure of being there, and that this plan will meet your approbation. All will remain peace with us until we have met, and I hope, when that takes place, we shall arrange all matters so as never again tobe troubled with war. It is our wish to be in peace and close friendship with all your nation, and I live in great hope of establishing it through the assistance of yourself, and the rest of the wise men of your land. This I send by Mr. Townsend, who I request you will treat well. _ _ "   'In full confidence of meeting and taking you by the hand, I remain vour friend and brother, JAMES SEAGROVE, Agent Indian Affairs, S. D. U. S. To Mad Doc, of the. Tuckaubatchce Upper Creeks. James Seagrove to the Kings and Chiefs of the Cusselahs, ami all other friends to the United States in the Lower Creek toions. Savannah, in Georgia, 29th July, 1793. Brothers: I sent you a talk on the 5th of this month, informing you that seven of your people were detained at St. Mary’s; and I therein gave the reasons for such a detention. On the 14th of the same month, I was obliged to leave St. Mary’s, and come to this place on business, at which time all your people were well, and, to every appearance, contented. Since then, have heard that some of them have been so foolish as to run away. I cannot account for their conduct, as I had all along told them, that they should go home by Mr. Mordecai, and have every thing they wanted. I think their imprudent flight must have been owing to' a Chehaw fellow that was with them'. It has given great uneasiness lest any misfortune should befall them before they reach home. They ought to have known better, and have depended on my promise to them. They must allow, that my treatment of them was kind and indulgent, beyond any thing they had a right to expect. They were plentifully fed, well clothed by me, comfortably lodged, and in every other respect indulged as much as was consistent with their own safety. In short, I think they have treated me very unkind in going away in the manner they did, after my repeated promise that I would send them home as soon as it could be done with safety. To convince you of the sincerity of my intentions, and how wrong those have been that went away, 1 now send those that remained, home to you, by Mr. Mordecai and Mr. Townsend, together with all their property, and a number of presents. I wish them safe home, and all I require of them, is, that they tell you the truth, as to their treatment since they have been detained, which, if they do, you will be convinced that the motives for their detention was dictated by humanity towards them, and real friendship for the Cussetah people. Long ere this, you must have heard of the unhappy accident of killing David Cornell. Full satisfaction shall be given his family and friends for his loss, and I hope no rash steps may be taken in consequence of his death, so as to injure the prospect we have of restoring all matters to a friendly footing. The talks in general, which I have received from the nation, give me reason to believe, that a large majority of the towns are desirous of peace with the United States, and are desirous of giving satisfaction for injuries done us. But it would seem, that you stand in need of somebody to direct you in this, as well as all other measures, for your happiness as a people. It is well known to you, that it was my determination to have been with you long ere ,this, had I not been prevented by the had conduct of some of your people. Being solicited by the chiefs of the Upper Creeks, to come among them as soon as possible, and, having reason to believe that my presence will be agreeable to my Cussetah friends and several of the Lower towns. I have come to the resolution of meeting you all, for the purpose of restoring peace and friendship to our countries. In order that I may do this with safety to my person and without insult to my country, it is necessary, beforehand, that our friends in the nation should be informed, that they may take such steps, and form such plans, as will secure the objects intended. This, I think, will be best effected, by all the friendly chiefs having a meeting, and appointing a respectable guard to meet me on the Oakmulgee, by the 10th September next, sucli as will protect me from the insult of our enemies. On this occasion, it will give me great pleasure to meet as many of my Cussetah friends as convenient, together with the chiefs and warriors of the other friendly towns, as their forwardness on the occasion will serve to convince their kind and great father, the President of the United States, that they continue his dutiful children. ■ The great good that may result from our being together, must appear clear to you. . I hope, therefore, that nothing may prevent its being carried into effect. Mr. Jacob Townsend, who is now with me, will inform you of my exertions in your favor,-and that no troops will go into your land till all hope of satisfaction is given over. 1 have received the Big Cussetah warrior’s talk to Mr. Barnard, on the second of this moon. He speaks like a man and a friend. 1 love his talk, and will send it to our Great Father, General Washington. Until we meet, you have nothing to fear, provided your bad people lie still; but should they dare to do mischief on any part of the frontier of Georgia, they will be pursued, as the same is strongly guarded by horse and loot, from St. Mary’s to the river Tugelo. If you wish to prevent blood being spilt, you must prevent those bad people from coming out, even if you arc obliged to use force. Those bad men are making war on you, that is, they will draw it on you, if not prevented by yourselves: for, should they do mischief, and our people follow them, (which undoubtedly will be the case) you, or others of our friends, may suffer, when it is not intended. I wish you to think seriously of this, and exert yourselves before it is too late; much is in your power, and I have great dependence on you. I go from this to Augusta, and from thence to the Rock Landing, where I shall wait for the arrival of my friends at the Oakmulgee. You must send me on an express, letting me know when you will be there. I shall come unattended by more than a servant or two, so that no one need be alarmed. I have only to say that I remain, as much as ever, Your real friend, * JAMES SEAGROVE, Agent Indian Affairs, S. D. U. S. James Seagrove to Charles IVeatherford. Savannah, 29th July, 1793. Sir: Your letter of the 11th June_ last, I received from the pack of our unfortunate friend, David Cornell, whose fate you must have heard before this. His death has given me more real anxiety than any thing I ever met with. It was a cursed stupid affair in McDonald, to leave them twenty or thirty miles behind, when he knew an armed force was kept up all along the frontier, and same time knew all the white people were angry at the unprovoked outrages committed on them by the red ones. 1 do not believe, from my soul, that McDonald intended them harm : but certain it is, he acted unwisely. Poor Cornell is gone, and we must make the best of it. I hope his family has not. and will not, take any rash step. 1 do assure them they shall have full satisfaction if they will act with moderation. As soon as the unfortunate aftair took place. I despatched a runner to Barnard, in order that all our white friends in the nation might take such measures as to them would seem most advisable in the situation affairs might take. I hope, however, no change hath taken place in consequence of Cornell's death, and that the chiefs and people have not altered their opinion of us on this account. Your conduct, m all matters, I highly approve; continue to persevere; firm, determined conduct is every thing, either with red or white. The Spaniards have been our ruin; be a thorn in their side; it is but justice to do by them as they do by us. It appears, from the whole tenor of all information from the nation, that those who wish to restore peace and order, and to have all matters brought to a respectable footing, are anxious for my coming among them. For that purpose, it being also the command of the President of the United States that I should, as well from a full conviction, in my own mind, that good may arise therefrom, 1 have ’concluded, that, if my friends in the nation can form a party sufficient to overpower our enemies, and will be firm in preserving.my person from injury, or my country front insult, through me, I will meet them without delay. I think the time a critical one, and my appearance might have a good effect. I have written several of the chiefs of the Upper and Lower towns, which, doubtless, you will see. My wish is for them to meet me at the Oakntulgee by the 10th September, with a sufficient force to escort me to the Cussetahs, and from thence to the Upper towns. . Though I have little apprehension of danger, yet I think it will have a good effect, and damp our enemies, bysee-ing my friends turn out numerous on this occasion. My dear Weatherford.it is useless in me to make use of arguments with you, to induce your forwarding this very desirable business. I have only to say, I depend upon your utmost exertions, and shall, without fail, expect to meet you at the Rock Landing a day or so before the time necessary for my setting oft’for the Oakmulgee.* Tell Rawlings not to leave the nation till I see him. Bring as many of your head-men as you can. I must refer you to Townsend, and when you and I meet, we will arrange our affairs; until then, I remain vour assured friend, JAMES SEAGROYE. James Seagrove to Timothy Barnard. Savannah, 29th July, 1793. Sir : Having been obliged to come here from St. Mary's, on business, and being absent when your letters of 2d and 3d instant arrived there, Mr. Townsend came on with them to me. As you undoubtedly would receive my letters by Charves, the day after you wrote, you are fully informed of the unfortunate end of David Cornell. 1 hope you sent forward my talk to his friends, and that no hasty rash steps hath been taken by them, and that you have been able to hold your ground, as at this moment your presence seems more necessary in the towns than ever. Your letters, mentioned above, contain full and minute information on the state of Indian affairs. I have transmittsd copies of them to the Secretary of War, also of all the talks I have of late received. I do not conceive the death of David Cornell in so dreadful a lightas you do. I never considered it as very alarming, only as it respected some one or two of our white friends in the nation, or his relations, first getting the news of it. The first gust of their passion once over. 1 think there is no fear but we can settle the business without difficulty. From every appearance of matters, I think there is a favorable opportunity of our now fixing oursel ves firmly in the nation. 'I hat the nation is convulsed, and their counsels distracted, is evident; the cause of which arises, in a very great degree, from want of some person to direct them, in whom they can place a confidence. McGillivray’sdeath gives a favorable opening, and if we. cannot improve it. the Spaniards will. You know my desire in that way. and that I should long since have been there, but could not, with any hope of safety. A majority of the chiefs now feel themselves embarrassed between us. the Spaniards, the Chickasaws, and Choctaws, also other matters pressing them, and appear desirous of my coming among them. Whether they are sincere or not. will soon be seen, as I have determined to give them an opportunity. You will see by the enclosed letters to all the chiefs, that I have determined to meet them on the Oakmulgee, by the 10th September next, and from thence go with them into every part of the nation that they desire, and then and there do all in my power to settle matters to the satisfaction of all. Having received late instructions from the President of the United States to this effect, nothing remains but that you and I strain every nerve to carry so desirable a business into effect. For this purpose, 1 must desire that you do immediately attend the Cussetah chiefs, and, in conjunction with them, call a meeting of as many of the friendly towns, as possible, and adopt such plan as you think best calculated to secure my entrance into the nation, and security there. I am ordered to Rock Landing, where your next despatches will find me, and where I shall expect to see you aday or two before the meeting at the Oakmulgee. You must not give the Indians any expectation ol receiving any presents at our meeting. The thing will be [impossible in the present distracted state of this country. For me to attempt any thing of the kind, would be highly resented. I meet them to serve them, and establish them in peace: when that is accomplished, and all is quiet, I shall attend to their wants; but I cannot help saying, that too much hath been given already to ungrateful Indians. I shall find extreme difficulty, I expect, to carry out a few articles of provisions for myself, for which reason, the Indians must biing their provisions to the Oakmulgee. 1 observe your want of money or goods to enable you to live and carry on the public business. I am sorry that it is not in my power to assist you with money. I have not had a dollar, belonging to the United States, in my possession, for twelve months past; and I do assure you, I have exhausted all my own little resources in purchasing ready money articles, and paying unavoidable public demands. The assortment of goods in the public store at St. Mary's, is much broke. I shall send orders to Mr. Jordan to send you a supply of such as there is, by Mordecai, as I know you cannot do without a little coffee and sugar. I have ordered 25 weight of the former, and SO of the latter, to be put up for you, out of my family stores. When we. meet at the Rock Landing I can assist you with goods. 1 have prevailed on the bearer, Mr. Jacob Townsend, to engage to deliver you this, and to carry up my letters to the Upper towns, where he seems to stand well with the White Lieutenant, and other leading characters. Mr. Townsend promises every assistance in his powrer, and I have no doubt he will do as he says. Let me recommend a good understanding between you and him. I have seen your brother, on Wilmington island, a few’ days past, when on a visit to General Greene’s lady, who has built on the Point, below your brother Robert’s. Your family are all in health. I shall bring, or send, the medicine you sent for. 1 wish you to bring the Kinnards up to meet me, lest that old villain, Panton, gets hold of them. No news of any consequence from the North. I have sent home all the Indians by Townsend and Mordecai; also all the horses and things belonging to Cornell and his party. It is impossible for me to give a rifle to Tobler, or any Indian whatever. I have them not, and if I had? I should not give arms in the present state of affairs. I will order him something as an equivalent. Do not fail to improve on the kindness shown the Indians whom I detained, and the great indulgence in sending them home. You will urge on the friendly towns, not to suffer the unfriendly ones to send out on this frontier, for, as sure as they do, it will create fresh difficulties. I am, &c. 52 JAMES SEAGROVE. Extract of a letter from James Seagrove, agent, to the Secretary of War, dated Savannah, 4th August, 1793. This serves to enclose a copy of my letter to Governor Telfair, wrote and forwarded by yesterday’s post. Since my last, no change or novelty hath taken place in Indian affairs, that I have heard of, which ieaves me only to say, that I am, with all possible respect and esteem, Your devoted, obedient, bumble servant, JAMES SEAGROVE, Agent. To his Excellency Governor Telfair, dated August 3d, 1793. Sir: By the enclosed extract of a letter from the Secretary of the War Department, your Excellency will perceive I have received positive instructions from the President of the United States, to go into the Creek nation, as soon as I shall have made arrangements for my personal safety. This measure is considered and pressed as the only one likely to restore and preserve peace and harmony with those tribes, to effect which, in the present conjuncture of affairs, is a matter of the highest importance to the United States, as well as to this State. In consequence of these pointed instructions, I do myself the honor to inform your Excellency, that I have sent to inform the chiefs and head-men of the friendly towns, of my intentions, and that I shall go from here very shortly to the Rock Landing, and that I wall meet such of them as may choose to come to accompany me, at the Oakmulgee, on the 10th September next; from whence, if I can effect my purpose, I shall proceed to the Tuckaubatchees, where I shall be able to judge in what manner I can best act, so as to encourage and animate our friends, and counteract the designs of those that are our enemies in the nation. From accounts I received from the nation, both in the letters found with the unfortunate young man, David Cornell, and by an express received since, with talks from several of the chiefs of the Upper towns, it was resolved, in a large meeting, to give satisfaction for the late mischiefs done on our frontier, and to invite me into the nation, and David Cornell was sent, in consequence of that resolution, to escort me up. The death of Cornell prevented me from going at that time, which I should otherwise have done. But I have good reason, to believe that that event may be may be got over, and satisfaction still obtained, preparatory to peace, if I can get into the nation. 1 know this will be attended with great hazards, which, however, I am resolved to encounter for the public good. The great number of persons in the nation, whose interest is concerned to keep up the flame of war, if they were apprised of my intention, would exert all their arts and influence to prevent it from being carried into execution. I must, therefore, request your Excellency will please to keep the information I now communicate entirely a secret. I may, perhaps, by this means, effect my design, before those who would defeat it shall have time to lay any plans for that purpose. The critical situation I shall be in, in respect to my own personal safety, will make it essentially necessary I should be early apprised of any military enterprises that may be intended against the nation by your Excellency, or under your authority. I request your Excellency will have the goodness to give me such timely notice as may enable me to provide for my safety. Of the eight Indians detained by me some time ago, and committed to the custody and care of Lieutenant Nichol, of the federal troops, three have made their escape since I came from St. Mary’s. I thought it best, as they belong to one of the most friendly towns, to send home the others, and have given orders accordingly. I thought it necessary to do this, in order to increase and confirm the good dispositions of the Cussetahs, to whose town they belong, and w ho earnestly requested it. Should your Excellency wish to have personal information from me relative to Indian affairs, I will attend at any tinie before my going to the nation, on your giving me notice. I have the honor to remain, your Excellency’s obedient servant, JS. SEAGROVE, Agent Indian Affairs S. D. U. S. Extract of a letter from James Seagrove, Esquire, to the Secretary of War. - Savannah, loth August, 1793. My last respects to you was dated the 4th instant, duplicate copies of which you will find herewith. Yesterday arrived here the person whom I sent with my letters of the 5th July, to the chiefs and others of the Creek nation, respecting the unfortunate affair of David Cornell’s being killed. My letters were delivered in the Upper and Lower towns, and received with more than usual moderation and temper by the savages. They, however. insist on satisfaction for the loss of Cornell and a boy. This ought, and, indeed, must be done; but the mode, and how to accomplish it, so as to please all sides, is a difficult task. The plan I have all along proposed, since, this affair took place, was by way of a discount. Captain Fleming, who was killed at Traders’ Hill in March' last, was a valuable man, and one much respected by the Creeks. Him I intended to place in lieu of Cornell, and Mr. Moffit, who was killed at the same time, for the boy, who was a cousin of Cornell. This I hope still to effect, although the friends of Cornell seem pretty obstinate, insisting on having two men delivered up to them. This may arise, in some degree, from the demand which I at first made; but. as it. hath not been complied with, on the part of the nation, it is forward and ill timed in them to look for any such thing. The demand in itself, I conceive altogether inadmissible; and, therefore, should the Indians insist on it, I know not what may be the consequences. The measures which I have taken for meeting the nation on the 10th of next month, you have been advised of by me. My determination is to meet them at all events, and, though their demands in the affair of Cornell are high, yet I flatter myself I can bring them to reason, and restore pea.ee to our country. Exclusive of the affair of Cornell, all other matters were in a good train of being settled; but this hath given our enemies in the nation, and the Spaniards, fresh matters to keep up the unruly spirit of the disaffected towns, as well as to work on the relations of Cornell, who are numerous, and have influence. My letters from Mr. Barnard, in the nation, are as late as the 25th ultimo. All was then quiet, and not any parties out towards the frontier of Georgia. The Spaniards in Florida have lately had a visit from them. A party of Creeks took oft' all the horses they could find between the river St. Mary’s and St. John. Governor Telfair, with his council of nine generals, have been sitting for eight days; but, what they have determined on, is yet a secret. I have not received an answer to the letter I wrote him the 3d instant. I observe by an Augusta paper of the 8th instant, that a most wanton outrage, hath been committed on the Cherokees by a Captain John Beard, from Governor Blount’s territory. It appears that the attack was made on the Hanging Maw's house, where a number of chiefs had assembled; that several were killed and wounded. I fear this may cause fresh trouble with the Cherokees. This took place on the 12th June last. [enclosures.] From Richard Thomas to James Seagrove, Esq. ■ Yours, dated the fifth instant, came to hand the I6lh. Previous to its arrival, we had been alarmed by a report of the death of our brother, David Cornell. We were in hopes it was without any foundation, but your letter has confirmed the truth of it. The behavior of Mr. McDonald should be a caution to you for the future not to employ any man on such particular business but those whose former conduct has convinced you that they can be depended upon. The man on the scouting party from Colerain has not told you the truth concerning the behavior of our brother, David Cornell, and the Indians with him. It shall be now related to you in the manner we have received it from one of the party, who has returned home. The day after McDonald had left them, they discovered the scouting party riding briskly towards them. David, who was walking before, called to the Indians not to be afraid, as they were friends. At the distance of ten yards, one of the scouting party went a little to the right, and another to the left, and when our brother David, who had no gun, was pulling oft' his hat, a third went behind a tree and tired at him. He immediately mounted his horse, with a view of making his retreat, but was too closely pursued, and fell a victim to the villany of McDonald and his associates. The remaining Indians took refuge in a baygate until your people gave over the pursuit. A boy often years old, that was with David, had, during the conflict, made his escape through the woods. Ilis track was seen afterwards on the way to the nation, but.he is not come in, and we think he has perished on the road. You say our Great Father, General Washington, has forbid the Governor of Georgia, or any of his people, from war, until you have our final answer, which is peace. Mre are certain that peace is preferable to war, for the prosperity of our nation, and mutual benefit of both countries, and were in hopes that a firm and lasting peace would have been concluded on between our brother David and you. This last accident has retanled-it for a while; but, as we put great confidence in your talks, and have not the least doubt but you will give us the satisfaction required, you will consider the peace as re-established, and the paths between us open and clear from all danger: and we desire you to give the necessary orders to yonr people on the frontiers. The talks of our head-men and warriors from the Upper towns in the nation to the Seminole towns, are for peace, and the minds of our young warriors are on the hunting grounds. We hope you will use the utmost of your endeavors, to prevent any of your bad men interrupting us on our hunting ground, and, as it is our wish to have a general peace, we have given orders to our young warriors not to molest the inhabitants of Kentucky, Cumberland, the new State, back parts of South Carolina, or Georgia. The satisfaction required by us is, that you keep a strict guard on McDonald, ami the other two concerned in the business, and, at a time appointed by yourselves, send them under a strong guard to Mr. Tim Barnard’s, where people appointed from us shall be ready t’o receive them, and take the satisfaction. The seven Cussetahs, and one Chehaw, we would wish you to send home, likewise the horses which was with our brother David. The bear skins they had. if of any service, you may keep, and send the value to his mother in goods. I do hereby certify, that the above talk is the talk of the Mad Dog, a head warrior named Captain, and theOtasee King. Captain is uncle to David Cornell. And the above talk was interpreted to me by Mr. Alexander and that it is the same in substance,.if not in word 1793. Cornell. Given under my band, at Tuckaubatchee, this 19th day of July, RICHARD THOMAS. From Alexander Cornell (o James Seagrove, Esq. Your letter of the 5th, came to hand four days ago. I leave you to judge of my feelings on finding the death of my cousin David confirmed, and that, at a time when wo fondly indulged ourselves that lie was with you, and treated as a friend and brother, and that a lasting peace would have been the consequence of your meeting. However, that object, I hope, is not irretrievable. You will see the talks of the chiefs, and, I hope, give them the satisfaction required. You area man that, ( believe, has the mutual benefit of both countries at heart, and I need not inform you, that, without some example is made of those who had a hand in the death ol David, it will be impossible for peace to last long. Along with the letters that David had with him, was one which had a memorandum of some articles I stand in need of, and will esteem it as a favor if you will send them by the first opportunity that oilers. My cousin Davy had on-, when he was killed, a pair of silver spurs; on your making inquiry, I think they may be recovered. I am, sir, &c. ALEXANDER CORNELL. From James Seagrove, Esq. to the Secretary of (Far, dated Savannah, 17th August, 1793. Sir: I did myself the honor of writing you on the I3tli instant, by Mr. Ellicott, but. the ship by which he goes, being detained by contrary winds, gives mean opportunity of informing you that Governor Telfair, and bis council of generals, broke up on the I tth instant, without coming to any decisive measures. I have not been favored with a line from the Governor, but have seen General Jackson, who was present; from him, I understood that the generals and his Excellency did not agree as to what was necessary to be done, and the extent of his instructions; in consequence of which, I believe, the generals have left all with the Governor. From what I can understand, no immediate expedition is to take place, but, that one is in contemplation, whether with a view to strike a blow on the offending towns, or for general purposes, I am not able to say. Am yours, &c. From James Seagrove, Esq. to the Secretary of JFar, dated Savannah, August ittst, 1793. Since writing, on the I7tli instant, by Mr. Ellicott, a duplicate of your letter of the 30th April, reached me, from which, it would appear that you had no favorable opinion of good arising from my conferences with the Indians. My communications with those people v on have regularly been made acquainted with, from which, you must plainly discover, that there was a pleasing prospect of a lasting peace, when the chiefs parted from me at Colerain, in November last. What hath taken place since, to destroy that prospect, you are well acquainted with; I shall not, therefore, intrude on your time, by a repetition, further than observing to you, that7 to the Spanish Government, and their .agents, Mcfxillivray, Panton Co. with others of less note, are we to attribute all disturbance and mischief that hath been done to our frontier by the Creeks, and, that that government and people will continue to_ oppose and distract every measure the United States may adopt, with a view to live in peace with the Southern tribes, should they be allowed to act with impunity, as heretofore. For my part, 1 would not wish any agency in Indian affairs, if such things ate overlooked, or that I am restricted, aS hitherto, respecting those people; being fully convinced, that, in such situation, I cannot render that essential service to my country, that naturally will be looked for, in return for the unavoidable heavy expenses which ever attend communications with savages. On the 25th instant, 1 leave this for the Rock Landing, and shall take Augusta in iny way, that I may give Governor Telfair an opportunity of inquiring into Indian matters, (if he chooses.) I have not had a line Iroin Inin, as yet.. The Indians continue quiet on this frontier. I have advice from tit. Mary’s, as late as the 10th instant; the Indians who had been detained there, were sent off, under care of three white men, who would accompany them home, and a party of horse would see them'clear from all the settlements, together with their property, and some presents which I ordered them. Mr. Townsend, who was charged with my despatches, went in company. I am just informed that Colonel Gaither is in so bau a state of heal th, as to> be obliged to quit fort Fidius, and the upper parts of that country, and is now on his way to St. Mary’s, for benefit of his health; from these accounts I have, I tear his life is in danger. I am very sorry for so valuable an officer. I hope it will he practicable for me to get into the Creek nation; if so, I may be able to reconcile and adjust matters to satisfaction; but, in this I may expect to meet pointed opposition from different quarters. All that I can promise is. that I will do all iii my power to obtain justice for injuries done, and restore peace to our country. Am, &c. James Seagrove, Agent, to the. Secretary of War, dated Augusta, 3d September, 1793. Sir: My last letter to you was from Savannah, and under date of the 21st ultimo, since which I came to this place, in company with Captain Freeman, being so far on iny way to Rock Landing. My motives in calling at Augusta, in my way, was, in the first place, to present myself, as Indian agent, to liis Excellency Governor Telfair, and to cominunicfte such information as in iny power, (if required) and to obtain, if possible, some knowledge of his Excellency’s intended plans against the Creeks; in the next place, to be able to ascertain what I ought, in truth and justice, to promise the Indians, as, from the current reports in this country, and even the publications in the newspapers of this place, as well as from measures already taken by the Governor, a war with the Creeks appears determined on, and that, as early as.the 15th of next month. The Governor hath been at his plantation, about forty miles from hence, ever since, my arrival on the 31st ultimo; he is expected in town to-day. Since I have been here, 1 have received undoubted information that Governor Telfair has had formed, a new contract for five hundred thousand rations; that lie hath called on the Governor of South Carolina for fifteen hundred or two.thousand men, and that three thousand are to be drawn from the militia of this State, one thousand five hundred of which to be horsemen, all of whom to be ready by the 15th of next month to enter the Creek nation, under command of his Excellency. All this shall not prevent my going forward, and, if possible, entering the nation, and using my utmost endeavors to prevent the use of such an army moving. I cannot allow rnyself to suppose, that U Governor Telfair can have orders for what he is now doing, when I view your letter to me of the 10th June last. I am much pleased that you have sent forward Captain Freeman; he will be able, in a short time, to give you an idea of our situation in this country. I have already given my opinion of the ruling principles in Georgia, and I have reason to think you will find I have not been mistaken. To speak of peace with the Creeks, is a crime not to be forgiven, by a very great proportion of the people in this country; and my candid opinion is, that a general war is the object,'however impolitic or unjust. I once suggested (he idea-to the President of the United States, of having a certain number of the most influential Creek chiefs, called to the seat of Congress, and repeat the same every year. I now beg leave to submit to your consideration, that, in case I am so fortunate as to quiet the present commotions,, whether or not it would be well to invite ten or fifteen principal chiefs to Philadelphia, which will be ensuring peace whilst they are in our possession, as well as answering many o.ther valuable purposes. Should this be approved, 1 hope you will lose no time in giving me directions, as, the sooner such voluntary hostages are drawn fi;om the nation, the better. From some recent accounts, it would appear, that the Upper Creeks are much alarmed, on account of a large body of white people, from the Western waters, having joined the Chickasaws, with the intention to attack them. What foundation there is for such report, I know not; but the Creeks go so far as to say, that the Chickasaws are furnished with some pieces of artillery, from Governor Blount’s territory. The enclosed copy of a talk, sent to Major Gaither by Mr. Barnard, on this business, may serve further to explain this matter. 1 do not hear of any injury being done by the Indians since my last. As I have engaged to meet the Indians by the 10th instant, I cannot wait much longer for the Governor’s arrival; should I be able to see him before my departure, I will inform you, with the result of our meeting. With all possible respect, I remain, yours, &c. [enclosure.] .? talk from the heads of the Upper and Imcer Creeks, by order of the Mud Dog, of the Tuekaubatchees, given vat in the Cussetuh Square, at a meeting of a number of Lower Creeks, this 21 st July, 1793—to be forwarded to his Excellency General Jfashington, President of the United States. We, the heads of the Creek nation, wish to acquaint your Excellency, that we are just informed, by a runner of our own people, from the Chickasaw nation, that there was some of the Chickasaws just arrived, who had been holding talks with Governor Blount; they came to Cumberland, and said that they had agreed with Governor Blount to send six thousand men to station at the Muscle Shoals, on the Cherokee river; and that the Cumberland people, had agreed to send five hundred more men to join the Chickasaws, to station at a fort in the Chickasaw nation; and that tne Cumberland people had already sent three pound great guns to said fort, and that the five hundred men were to be there in a short time. We. the heads of the Creek nation, wish to hear from General Washington, whether it is his desire that Governor Blount, and these Cumberland^ people, should go on as they are, or whether or not they are people that are under the Government of General Washington ; this, we, the heads of the nation, would wish to know as quick as possible. We, the heads of the Upper and Lower Creeks, wish to inform the President of the United States, that we have given out talks to put a total stop to all our young people going out to commit any hostilities against Cumberland or Kentucky; therefore, if it is the wish of the President of the United States, that his people and the red people should be at peace, we hope he will immediately restrain Governor Blount and his people from joining the Chickasaws. It is not that we are in great dread of the consequences of those proceedings, but as we have had a long wish to settle all disputes, we hope that our friend and father, General Washington, still remains in the same opinion. We, the heads of the Lower Creeks, likewise wish to inform the heads of Georgia, that, if theybstill have a wish to settle matters with the red people, we hope they will, on seeing this, immediately send to Governor Blount to restrain his people till his Excellency General Washington’s pleasure is known. Cussetahs, July 21,1793. Interpreted by T. BARNARD. James Seagrove, Esq. to the Secretary of JFar, dated at Jlugustu, September 5th, 1793. , Sir: The enclosed is a duplicate of what I had the honor of writing on the 3cl instant. Last evening, his Excellency Governor Telfair arrived in town, and this morning Captain Freeman and myself waited on him. I acquainted the Governor, that I was so far on iny way to the Rock Landing, and from thence into the Creek nation, in compliance with your order of the 10th instant; that I had waited on him to give, such information as in my power, arid to obtain some idea of the plans already adopted, or in contemplation by his Excellency-, relative to the Creek nation. 1 wish I had it in iny power to say, that I received an explicit or satisfactory answer. All I could obtain from him was, that an expedition was determined on against the unfriendly Creek towns; that it was a measure much desired by the people of this State; that the depredations of the Creeks had been such as to irritate the people, so as to make it almost impossible to restrain them from immediate offensive war; that he had entered into a contract for rations, &c. for upwards of four thousand men, on an expedition against the Creeks, which men were to be drawn from South Carolina and this State; but I could not ascertain the time of calling into the field, or term of service. Ilis Excellency told me. in presence of Captain Freeman, that he thought my journey to the Creeks altogether useless; that a war must be hail, and the Indians chastised before peace could be solid or agreeable. I urged the ill policy of entering on a war with the Creeks, that from every appearance would be general; that such a measure, I believed, was very contrary to the wish of the General Government; and, therefore, that I should, in compliance with the desire of the President of the United States, set off to-morrow morning for the Rock Landing, and from thence, to the Creek towns, and there do all in my power to obtain satisfaction, and settle a peace; and requested of his Excellency, that, if he made any movements ol a military nature against the Creeks, J should receive timely notice. At the same time, 1 told him I would give every information of the situation of affairs, or of any change likely to take place. This is the sum and substance of what passed at our interview. You, undoubtedly, are the best judge how far our Governor is right. If I can obtain peace agreeably to the wish of the President, I will do it; and, if possible, obtain hostages for the good faith of the nation. I find the murderer, John Galphin, is taken by the hand by Panton, who has dictated a very insolent letter for Galphin, and sent to'the frontiers of this country. Panton never will let this country be in peace, whilst he hath any thing in his power. There is a report in town, that General Pickens is returned home; if so, I shall hope for some good accounts by him. With every sentiment of respect, I remain, yours, &c. Sir: Augusta, September 6, 1793. Since writing the preceding, 1 have thought it would be well to write this to the Governor, and let him know iny movements, lest I should give room i'or reflection. I have wrote to his Excellency this morning, a copy of which you will find enclosed. I shall remain here to day to give him an opportunity, should he have any thing to say to me. - I am, &c. JS. SEAGROVE. James Seagrove, Esq. to his Excellency Governor Telfair, dated Augusta, September 6th, 1793. Sir: When I had the honor of an interview with your Excellency on the 5th instant, you intimated, that it would be more agreeable to receive my communications in writing: I, therefore, inform your Excellency, that, in conformity to the orders of the President of the United States, transmitted through the Secretary of the Department of War to me, on the 10th of June last, (a copy of which was sent you by die Secretary of War) I am thus far on my way to the,Rock Landing, and from thence, if possible, into the Creek nation, for the attainment of the objects directed in the abovementioned letter of instruction. The time which I have appointed for meeting the Indians in the nation is near at hand, and will not admit of further delay on my part, having been here six days. I took Augusta in my way, that I might have the honor of seeing your Excellency, and of communicating fully on all matters relative to the business I am employed on. I shall now, and at all times, be happy in giving your Excellency every information in my power that may tend to promote the peace or prosperity of our country, and to aid. as much as possible the measures adopted by the General Government for restoring tranquillity to Georgia. Should your Excellency see fit to form any military enterprise against a part of the Creek nation, whilst I am there, 1 shall expect to have notice given me, in time to provide tor the personal safety of myself and the other citizens of tlie United States that may be among the savages. On my part, I shall give your Excellency regular information of my agency on this occasion, and, should any material change take place, you shall know it by express. 1 ain under the necessity of leaving this place for the Rock Landing, on the Oconee, to-morrow morning. In the interim, should you have any commands, shall be happy to receive them, being, with all due respect, yours, &c. Fort Fioius, (.on the Oconee) Sept. 17, 1793. Sir: Since writing you, from Augusta, on the 6th instant, I arrived at this place, in company with Col. Gaither, on the 9 th. 1 could plainly discover, before I left Augusta, that the business of peace, which I was going on, was very disagreeable to many, even in that metropolis, and was informed that I should meet with insult, and perhaps worse, if I attempted going to this place. I treated all this as an idle story; however, when we had reached witlnn thirty-two miles of this place, we were not a little surprised to see Captain Dickinson, with a party of federal troops, meeting us. They were sent, as you will observe by the enclosed paper, it being the opinion of a council of all the officers at this garrison, for our protection, they having received alarming accounts respecting us, especially myself, of whom it was currently said that parties were out, waylaying the roads, to shoot me. \Ve did not meet with any interruption, and got safe here. From undoubted information, which I have every day received since being here, and from the conduct of the generality of those frontier people, I find that it is a matter determined on, by them, that peace with the Creek Indians shall not take place on any terms whatever; that, in order to prevent my meeting the Indians, parties of militia are constantly kept out between this river and the Oakmulgee, to intercept and destroy myself or messengers: and, doubtless, Indians also, whether friend or foe. On the 2d or 3d instant, a party of thirteen horsemen, under command of a Captain Stokes, of the militia, went from a place called Long 11 tuff, on this river, (about thirty miles below this garrison) towards the Oakmulgee, where lie found four Indians cooking on the margin of that river. Stokes’ party fired on the Indians, and, it is said, killed three of them. Certain it is. he brought off three horses, a quantity of deer skins, and four rifles. My informant, a man of good repute, was a witness to the sale and division of this property amongst the captors, after their return into the settlement. It is said that these Indians had stolen two horses from Long Bluff a few days before, and were followed in consequence. This affair, I fear, has prevented the Indians coming forward, agreeably to my request of the 29th July. Not hearing of any of the Indians being at the Oakmulgee, anti being anxious to know the situation of matters, I despatched two trusty persons, in the night of the 11th, through the woods, with a letter to Mr. Barnard, for the purpose of obtaining information. I am not without great fear for the safety of these messengers, or any that may be coming to me from the nation, as several scouting parties of the militia of this country are constantly patrolling between this and the Oakmulgee, in order to intercept either Indians or whites, and to put them to death. Ever since I have been here, spies are kept about to watch my movements, and threats of the most insolent kind are denounced against me, should I dare to oppose their darling object, an Indian war. F'or a week past, an expedition has been forming in the neighborhood of this garrison, and in Greene county, with intention, as is said, of going into the Creek towns. They call themselves volunteers; they appear to be commanded by the Colonels Alexander, Lamar, and Melton. 'Flic party, from the best information, w ill not exceed two hundred mounted men, with provisions for ten days. They crossed the Oconee, near Shoulderbone, on Sunday, the 15th instant. My opinion is, that they do not mean to go further than the river Oakmulgee, where they expect that the friendly chiefs will be coining to meet me. Should it be the case, and these peeplc fall in with them, the consequence will be dreadful. By what authority this party has been raised and sent out I know not: I can only say, that there does not appear any opposition of this Government, to the violent, unw arrantable proceedings of those frontier settlers. Whilst such measures are pursued by the people of Georgia. I conceive it would be highly imprudent in me to attempt going into the nation with a view to establishing any thing of a pacific nature with the Creeks, being fully convinced that those restless people would vender the whole a nullity, if not bring much censure and discredit on the United States and dieir servants, w ith the savages, who cannot clearly discriminate the actions of individual States or people from that of the General Government. The opposition to eveiy measure favorable to peace with the Creek Indians, as well as the pointed disrespect to every person in the immediate service of the General Government, is so conspicuous and general among the inhabitants of this upper country, as, in my humble opinion, to give just reason to fear that the cause proceeds, in a great degree, from a source in this State, which it ought not. The conduct of some of the people of Georgia, viewed with those of other States in the Union, who are unfortunately engaged in Indian wars, is so extremely opposite as to justify an opinion that there is unfair doings here, and deep design in the business. I am sensible that those opinions, if known, would be very unpopular in some parts of this country. I believe them just, and, so long as I am employed by the General Government, I will give my opinion, as an honest servant. ' . ... . I should have wrote Governor Telfair, and requested him to put a_ stop to those parties of his militia from going out against the Indians at this time, was I not already convinced by his conduct, that no kind of attention would be ■- paid to my application on this, or any other, Indian business. I have received every attention and assistance I required from Colonel Gaither, and those under his command. His returning with me to this place, (when his health required a change of climate) in order to forward the orders of the President to me, points out the attentive, faithful officer, which I do verily believe him to be, in every instance; anil, to my knowledge, he has been most cruelly calumniated by the late Capt. McLean and a Mr. Minor, which will be made appear to you. The Indians appear to be perfectly quiet in every direction along the frontier of Georgia, and I firmly believe it is their wish to continue so, if not driven to extremes by the people of this country. I shall continue here, until I can hear from the nation, and know what possibly can be done. In the present situation of matters, I cannot attempt any thing with safety; The enclosed declaration, made by James Aiken, who I sent with my packhorses from Savannah, will serve to acquaint you with the temper of the inhabitants of this country towards federal officers, and the risk we run in doing our duty on this lawless frontier. > You will also find enclosed a certified extract of a letter from Lieutenant Sedgwick, commanding at fort Matthews, mentioning that a Captain Williamson, with a troop of horse from that quarter, had gone toward the Oakmulgee, to intercept me or the Indians. I believe it will be found, on inquiry, that a principal part of those parties, who are now out to oppose me in effecting a peace, are those very militia called out by Governor Telfair, for the protection of the frontier, and who expect to be paid by the General Government. September 22, 1793.— I have delayed sending forward the preceding in hope of hearing from the nation, but, as yet, I have not the least information of what is doing. My messengers having not yet returned, I am of opinion that the chiefs have convened, to come to some determination on my last letter to Mr. Barnard, a copy of which I herewith send you. 'The Captain Williamson mentioned by Lieutenant Sedgwick, went as far as the Apalachee with 70 men, but, as usual, a dissension took place between the commanders, and he. with his party, returned. Report says that Alexander is gone toward the nation, but I believe the Oakmulgee will be his utmost range at this time. By such futile expeditions, as have of late been set on foot from this country, the minds of the Indians are disturbed, arid their confidence destroyed, either as to our prowess in war, or the sincerity of our declarations for peace with them. If such men are allowed to act in the style they now do, it is in vain that any measures are pursued to preserve a peace between this country and the Indians. The motive of such conduct with many of the principal actors, as well as a long train of associates, is so conspicuous as not to require further explanation by me. September 22d, 2 o'clock in the afternoon.—Since w riting you as above this morning, I have received an express from the nation, in answer to my letter of the 29th July, and that sent by Mr Aiken, on the 11th instant. "It affords me exceeding pleasure to be able to inform you, that, from the information I have received, the Creek Indians appear well disposed to comply with my wish of peace, upon terms of equal justice. There appears no obstacle in the way of peace, but the refractory people of this frontier. I shall leave this in four days, in order to meet the friendly clriets on the Oakmulgee, and go with them into the nation, and yet hope I shall live to see peace established. I find the Spanish agents have changed their style of talk to the Indians; they are at present favorable. I wish they may Ire sincere. I have wr ote to Governor Telfair this day, requesting him to put a stop to parties of his people crossing the boundary line. A copy ot my letter I now forward to you. I anr, &c. P. S. 1 am sorry to inform you that the Cherokees have sent, tw ice of late, the bloody club into the Upper Creeks, calling on them to join and war against the white people, in consequence of the injury done the Cherokees by people from Governor Blount's territory, in particular that by a Captain Baird, on the Hanging Maw and others. The Creeks positively refused them, and ai)e determined to sit still. I fear the Cherokees will do mischief ere long. [ex CLOSURES.] At a cuuneil of officers, called for the following purpose, viz: From the information of Mr. Aiken, an express, and a letter from James Seagrove, Esq. that he had sent his pack-horses forward, w hich he recommended to my cafe, and from the information of him, the said Aiken, that Mr. Seagrove would, at farthest, be on here by the 7th instant, accompanied by Colonel Gaither, commandant of the federal troops in Georgia, and Captain Freeman, who is public agent for the United States, who brings on pay for the troops, as can be seen by a letter directed to me, signed Henry Gaither, and dated 29th August,,1793, anil hearing that Mr. Seagrove was in danger of his life in consequence of his going to hold a treaty at the Oakmulgee, with the nation of Creek Indians, and receiving intelligence that the party of' militia stationed at the Rock Landing are fattening their horses at the said Rock Landing, to proceed on the 15tli instant, headed by one Jeremiah Oats, and from Aiken’s know ing that the treaty must be held on the 10th inst. suspecting that some fatal accident has happened, or may happen, to the aforesaid party, we, the officers, do , think itexpedient, from the above communication of the commandant, that he, on calling on us, should be justified in sending out a party of federal troops, consisting of one sergeant, one corporal, and twelve privates, under the command of Captain Dickinson, to afford protection, and guard the party to this post, or gain intelligence; and he is empowered to draw provisions for four days, or money, in lieu thereof, furnished by the contractor; or, if necessary, to send an express to Georgetown, and even can y the party, if expedient, to that place. Given under our hands, this 7th dav of September, 1793. JOSEPH DICKINSON, - . Captain 2d sub-legion, U. S. JOHN BIRD, . Lieut, Zd sub-legion, U. S. P. L. VAN ALEN, Lieut. U. S. artillery. TIIOS. FARLEY, Surgeon's Mate. It. B. ROBERTS, . Captain 2d sub-legion U. S. and Commandant. THO. MARTIN, Captain 1st sub-legion. ■ James Aiken's Declaration, , James Aiken, being duly, svyurn, ileposeth and saith, that, on the 31st of August, 1793, lie parted from James Seagrove, Agent of Indian Affairs, being then on the Augusta road, at a place called Lambert’s tavern; that this deponent proceeded by way of Waynesborough, toward fort Fidius, on the Oconee, with the pack horses and baggage of the said agent, agreeable to orders received from him, having, as an assistant, a free negro man, named Frederick Charves; that they proceeded by way of the White Ponds, in the county ot Washington, where they stopped to refresh themselves and horses; that, whilst at that place, this deponent met with very great insult, and his life was threatened by several of the inhabitants, because he was in the service of said agent, and it was understood by those people that the agent was going to the Creek Nation to establish a peace; that the people at that place, as well as on his way, appeared very inveterate, and determined to injure the agent, or any body acting under him; and declared they would kill the agent as soon as any Indian; that a man, who this deponent understood to be of the name of Randall Griffin, did actually cock anil present a rifle gun at the said negro man called Frederick Charves, and swore, in a very violent manner, that he would kill the said negro on the spot, if he knew with certain!} whether he had ever been in the Creek nation, on business for said agent; the negro made no reply, or gave any cause for such usage; that this deponent verily believes, that, had it not nave been for the timely interference ol the Reverend James Hutchinson, he, the said negro man, as well as this deponent, would have lost their lives; that the conduct of the people of the country through which this deponent passed appeared violently opposed to every thing like peace between tliis country and the Indians; and, that he conceives the said agent in danger of his life, ns he travels through this country; and further this deponent saith not JAMES AIKEN. Extract of a letter from Licutejiant Sedgwick, Commandant of fort Matthews. I this day received information that Mr. Seagrove is to meet some Indians on the Oakinulgee, for to treat with them, and that Captain Williamson, with fifty or sixty militia, was to cross last evening, with an intention to surprise them, if possible. I certify that the above extract is taken accurately from a letter of Lieutenant Sedgwick, commandant of fort Matthews, directed to me as commanding officer at this post, dated September 16th, and received the 17th instant, which I shewed to James Seagrove, Esq. Superintendent of Indian Affairs. Given under my hand, this 23d dav of September. 1793, at fort Fidius. R. B. ROBERTS, Captain 2d Sub-Legion United States, and Commandant. James Seagrove to Governor Telfair. Fort Fidius, on the Oconee, 22d September, 1793. Sir: This morning an express arrived to me from the Creek nation, with despatches. The letters and talks which I have received, contain such expressions of friendship and ardent desire, in the principal characters, of seeing me among them, as leaves not a doubt in my breast that they anxiously wish for a peace with this country, on terms of equal justice. This your Excellency knows to be the wish of the General Government, and I fondly hope that of my fellow citizens in Georgia. 1 shall leave this to-morrow for the Creek towns, where every thing in my power shall be done to obtain full satisfaction for injuries done this country, and to establish a firm and honorable peace. This I send by express, for the purpose of making your Excellency acquainted with the present situation of Indian affairs, and to request that you will, without delay, put a stop to all armed parties of men from this State crossing the boundary line for any purpose whatever. I am sorry to be under the necessity of informing your Excellency, that, since I had the honor of seeing you, and of addressing you on the 6th instant, on the subject of Indian matters, there hath several parties of horsemen from this frontier crossed the Oconee, with intention, as is said, of going into the Indian towns. I will notallow myself to suppose that, after the communications I have had with your Excellency oil this very point, it is possible you should have had any knowledge of such parties going out, or I should have had advice of the same from you. Should such practice be continued from your State, whilst I am in the nation, and any injury is done a Creek Indian, the consequence will be, that every white person belonging to the United States, in the power of the savages, will fall a sacrifice, and a general Indian war be brought on this country. To prevent which, as well as the horrid reflection it would bring on our Government. I doubt not your Excellency will use ever}' exertion in your power. I am happy to say, that, from my information from the Indian nation, a very conspicuous and favorable change, hath taken place in the conduct of the Spanish agents who are among the Creeks; doubtless this is occasioned in consequence of orders from the court of Spain. I find, by my despatches of to-day, that the Cherokees] have called on the Creeks to join them in an immediate war against (he white people, but the Creeks refused them for the present. I apprehend that the N. W. frontier of your State is in danger from the Cherokees in their present temper; and, therefore, would advise the people there being put on their guard as soon as possible. I have the honor to be. &c. From James Seagrove to the Secretary of li ar. Fort Fidius, on the Oconee, 9th October, 1793. Sir: When I had the honor of writing you on the 22d ult. I fully expected the next would have been from the Creek nation, as I then had every thing ready, and should, on the morning of the 28fh, have left this, escorted by twenty-five federal troops, to defend me against the outrage of parties of militia of this frontier, and to continue with tnc until I met the friendly Indians, who were waiting lor me on the Oakinulgee; but on that morning, a Captain Sanford, of the militia, who had just returned from an expedition to the Creek towns, under Colonel Alexander, and others, as mentioned in mine of the 17th ult. came to this garrison, and publicly declared, that their party had pursued the track of some horse thieves toward the Indian nation, and on the morning of the 21st surprised a small Indian town on the Chatahoochce river, called the Little Onkfuskee; killed and scalped six Indian men, and brought off three women and five girls prisoners: that they also plundered and burnt the said town, which consisted of ten houses. This town and its people being among the most friendly of the Creeks, and no way concerned in stealing horses, they being under direction of the White Lieutenant of (he Oakliiskees, it appeared to me an unfortunate event, and much in the way of (he business I was going on. Besides, I have every reason to believe it was done chiefly with a view to destroy all hone of my being able to effect a peace. On the same day, I received certain accounts of three other parties of horse being out from this frontier for similar purposes. Indeed, one of these parties passed this garrison, and crossed this river three miles above, and went as far as the Oakinulgee. The commander of said partv declared to me, that he would destroy all Indians he came across, whether friend or foe; and that he was opposed to peace. Finding such a torrent of opposition in this country against the business of peace, and not finding that Governor Telfair took any pains to prevent those parties going out, but. on the contrary, that they were acting under orders front him and his generals; and not knowing in what manner the friendly part of the nation would view the late outrage, I concluded not to proceed to the nation until I could hear therefrom, as well as to use my endeavors with the Governor to stop his people. On this matter, 1 consulted with Mr. Barnard and three white men from the nation, as also Colonel Gaither, who were unanimous in opinion that I ought not, on any account, to go to the towns until the people of this frontier can be restrained, and until I could have the prisoners lately taken put in my possession, to be returned to their friends on proper terms. From these reasons, I determined to rest my journey, until I can see matters on a better footing. I despatched Mr. Barnard, on the 29th ult. to the Indians who were waiting for me,on the Oakmulgee, with some goods, as presents, and gave him full instruction how to obtain the sense of the nation, and their determination on the late transaction at the Little Oakfuskee, and to transmit me the same without delay, which will govern me as to iny further movements. ' v I now enclose you a copy of a letter, and a set of conditions, which I received from Governor Telfair, and also my letter to him of the 3d instant, which will serve to explain many matters to you, and let you see the opposition I met with. You will find herewith a copy of a letter to me from Major of Brigade Buckner Harris, proving that Governor Telfair did give him orders, to be by him, the said major, carried to General Clarke, ordering offensive operations, as well as defensive, against the Creek Indians. These orders were given by the Governor to Major Harris, in Augusta, two days after I hail seen his Excellency, and remonstrated against such things being done. I shall avoid, lor the present, making any comment on the very extraordinary conduct of Mr. Telfair, not having a doubt but a little time will unravel many matters. I momentarily expect to hear from the nation; not an Indian has been heard of, on any part of this frontier, or any mischief done by them, since my last. ■ I have nothing to add at present, and remain, with every sentiment of respect, Your most obedient, devoted, verv humble servant, .'JAMES SEAGROVE, Agent Indian Affairs. Major General Henry Knox, Secretary of War of the United States. TF. Urquhart to James Seagrove, Esquire. State House, Augusta, 2,6th September, 1793. Sir: The Governor has taken your letter of the 22d instant into consideration, and requires that you be furnished with the enclosed. I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, W. URQUHART, S. E. I). State House, Augusta, 26</i September, 1793. Conditions that will be required on the part of the State of Georgia, on the establishment of peace between the United States and the Creek Indians. The captured property to be restored, and all individual contracts with the citizens of this State fulfilled. The prisoners in captivity to be brought and delivered up within the settled parts of Georgia. The perpetrators of the murders committed in this State, to the number of thirteen, to be surrendered, as objects of retaliation. Ten head-men from the Upper and Lower Creek towns, to be surrendered as hostages to the United States, and to be placed in the safe-keeping of the Executive of the State of Georgia, for the due performance of the several stipulations that respect her. That, under the law of the United States, as well as for the security of this State, the government of Georgia cannot recognise the establishment of peace, without having commissioners at the treaty. Attest, W. URQUHART, S. E. D. James Seagrove, Esq. 1 do certify the above to be exact copies from the original in my possession. JAMES SEAGROVE, Agent. Fort Fidius, on the Oconee, 31st September, being the day received. James Seagrove to Edward 'I'd fair. Governor of Georgia. Fort Fidius, on the Oconee, od October, 1793. Sir: The duty I owe my country, and regard for my reputation, obliges me once more to address your Excellency on a subject, which, to me, is truly unpleasant. By my communications to you of the 3d of August last, from Savannah, and of the 6th of last month, from Augusta, and 22d from this place, as well as by a copy of my instructions, which your Excellency received from the Secretary of the Department of War, you have been fully informed of my intended journey into the Creek nation, as well as the nature and extent of my business. I, therefore, could not doubt, but I should have received every aid from the Government of Georgia, in accomplishing an object, so much desired by the President of the United States, and which tended so conspicuously to promote the true interest and happiness of the people of this State. How far my expectations on this head have been answered, the following statement of facts will explain: After having had the honor ot an interview with your Excellency at Augusta, on the 5th ultimo, and ot writing you a letter next day, I set off for this place on the 7th, in order to meet the friendly chiefs on the Oakmulgee, and with them, proceed to the Creek nation. 1 was not a little astonished, when, on the morning of the 9 th, being then about thirty miles from this place, I was met by Captain Dickinson, with a party of federal troops, whom, it appeared, had been despatched, in consequence of a councd of all the officers at this garrison, held from the repeated alarming accounts to them, that parties of people were out on the roads, in order to intercept and destroy me; those misguided people having heard that I was going to the Indian nation in order to make peace for this country. On my arrival here, I received satisfactory information, that the people on this frontier were assembling in bodies, with declared intention of expeditions in different directions to the Creek towns. I could not, for some time, allow myself to suppose it possible, after the remonstrance that I made to your Excellency, to restrain all armed parties from crossing the boundary line, whilst I wras on the business of peace with the Indians, without my being apprised thereof from you. But all doubts on this head were soon removed, by the expedition which was sent out from this frontier, under command of Colonels Leinar, Alexander, and Melton, who crossed the Oconee on or about the 15th ult. and on the 21st surprised a small Indian town on the Chatahoochee, called the little Oakfuskees; which town was under the direction of the White Lieutenant, who is well known to have ever been friendly to this country. I am informed by one of the Captains, that was of the expedition, that the party before mentioned, killed and scalped six Indian men, and brought off' eight female prisoners, plundered and burnt the town, which consisted of about ten houses; and on the 26th of the same month, the party returned to Greensborough, with the prisoners and plunder. On the 26th ult. a party of horsemen, in the public service, under command of a Captain Carson, crossed the river Oconee, three miles above this place, with intention, as he declared, to prevent my meeting the Indians, and to destroy all or any of the friendly Indians he came across; this party wunt as far as the Oakmulgee, but did not meet any Indians. - r> O At the same time, 1 received undoubted information of two other parties of horse being out on the Indian territory from this frontier, all of them with avowed intention of opposing my meeting the Indians, or effecting a peace. To these things, I am sorry to add. that a torrent of unmerited calumny, and insolent threats, are denounced against me, by many of the people of this country, and no pains taken by the Executive of Georgia, to support a Federal officer in the faithful discharge of his duty. In mine of the 22cl ultimo, 1 informed your Excellency of the very favorable prospect i had, of settling matters with the Creeks on terms of equal justice, and to the satisfaction of our country: and that I should leave this the next day, in order to meet the chiefs on the Oakmulgee. But, on receiving advice of the attack made on the Oak-fuskees, and the alarming accounts of so many parties from Georgia being out. and of their views, 1 concluded it would be best to delay my journey for some davs. in order to give your Excellency time to take further measures for restraining such doings. But. to my astonishment, I have since discovered, that those parties who have engaged in offensive operations against the Creeks, are authorized by your Excellency for what they have done, and are doing in that way. This being confirmed to me, beyond a doubt, I conceived it would have been very improper in me to go into the ('reek nation to treat of peace, whilst your Excellency was actually carrying on a war against them. Whilst in this situation. I received your Excellency's notice, of the 2(5th ultimo, with the " conditions required by the State of Georgia, on the establishing of peace between the United States and the Creek Indians." Whether it is proper or improper, in tiie Executive of Georgia, to come forward at this time, and in this manner, witli such conditions, is not with me to say: that is a matter which, I suppose, will he determined by the General Government. On the 29th ultimo, I sent my deputy. Timothy Barnard, ami three trusty white persons, into the Creek nation, with instructions to use all possible address in keeping the Indians from taking revenge on this country, for the late injuries done them. Barnard writes me from the Oakmulgee on die first instant, " that lie had talked with all the Indians there, who seemed to be disposed still to preserve peace with this country: that he had despatched a principal chief to the White Lieutenant, with a peace talk from me." Upon the whole. 1 am yet in hopes our country may enjoy the blessings of peace, if we choose it in preference to war: provided you w ill restrain the people of this State from acting offensively against the Creek Indians, that are our friends. 1 continue here, in order to receive advice from the nation, and to act eventually. In the mean time. I have to request that your Excellency will give orders, that the eight female Indian prisoners, taken on the 21st ultimo from the little Oakluskee town, be sent to me at this place, where they shall be taken care of. and returned in exchange for any prisoners of the United States in the Creek nation. You will please to excuse my intruding so long on your time, and believe me to be. Your Excellency's obedient very humble servant. JAMES SEAGROYE. His Excellency Edward Tf.lfatr., Governor and Commander in Chief of the State of Georgia. I have compared the preceding letter, and find it an exact copy. Agent Indian Affairs. S. I). U. S. JAMES SEAGROYE. Timothy Barnard to James Sea grove. Esq. Oakmflgee. 1 si October, 1793. Df.ar Sir: I arrived here last evening late, found all well, have despatched, agreeable to your desire, the Warrior king of the Cussetahs off with a talk in writing, as well as a verbal, to the White Lieutenant of the Oakfuskees; have likewise desired him to gather as many of die heads of the lower towns as possible, and tell them how matters are on the frontiers of Georgia. He has promised to be in the Cussetahs in four days from this: in two more the talk to be with the White Lieutenant, and then endeavor to procure an answer to be sent to you. The Warrior king of the Cussetahs has had no news from the nation since I left him: therefore he says ami hopes, if matters are quiet until lie gets up. he will do all lie can to reconcile the Indians, and keep them from being rash in the present matter. It seems it was the Cowetas that stole the horses, and shot at the w hite people and killed their horses. All the Indians that are here w itli me. seem to agree, that those Indians that stole the horses, ought to bear the blame of the mischief done, and suffer for the same. 1 have eneourged'that idea all I can: for. if revenge is but taken on them by the Oakfuskees, who have lost their friends, it will lie the means of stopping all stealing, and the like. I shall do all I possibly can, for the good of our country. 1 have remained here to clay to see all the Indians start oft" for their homes. I am. txc. TIMOTHY BARNARD. James Seagrove. Esq. at fort Fidius. on the Oconee. I certify the preceding to be a just copy from the original, in my possession. JAMES SEAGROYE. Agent. Buchner Harris to J/ajor James Seagrove. Fort Fidivs, 2c/ October. 1793. Sir: I apprehend that the party of militia lately our. and which brought in eight prisoners, and killed several Indians, acted consistent with the orders of his Excellency the Governor of Georgia, as his Excellency told me. about the eighth of September last. " that lie had given orders to the different officers on the frontier, that they should pursue all parties of Indians that came in and committed any hostilities', or stole anj horses. He also told me to inform Brigadier General Clarke to keep up the line of defence, and for the Indians to lie pursued wherever they might he found on the frontier, committing any outrage whatever, and kill them."I have the honor to he. See. B. HARRIS, Brigade Major 1st Brigade 3d Division. Delivered by Brigade Major Harris, in presence of HENRY GAITHER. Major. I certify the above to bean exact copy from the original, in my possession. JAMES SEAGROVE. Agent. I I hereby certify, on honor, that the information contained in the following lines, 1 received on my way to fort Matthews: Ninety-one men, including officers, set off on Sunday morning (14 th instant) on the trail of some horses that had been stolen about a week before, aboye Greensborough. As soon as the horses were missed, five men pursued them as far as the Oakmulgee. The Indians had encamped at die mouth of a creek, and waylaid their own trail, or, in other words, lay in ambush. As soon as the party had passed them, the Indians fired in their rear, mortally wounded two ot their horses, and obliged them to make a precipitate retreat into the settlement. In consequence of this defeat, the above party set out, headed by Colonel Alexander. Colonel Melton. Colonel Lemar, Major Fauclic, Major Adams, and several subaltern officers; they were to rendezvous at the High Shoals of the Apala-chy. Colonel Alexander expressed a wish to waylay the path between the Oakmulgee and fort Fidius, to intercept any Indians that might be coming in to treat with Major Seagrove. Colonel Melton rather wished to follow the trail into the towns, and destroy tliat to which it went; from the course of which, they think it almost certain to be one of the Cussetali towns. They were to settle this difference on their arrival at the Appalache. Mr. Adams (near Shoulder-bone) expressed a great wish that Major Seagrove and his deputy, Mr. Barnard, should be both sacrificed; that, instead of pacifying the Indians, they were only encouraging and paying them to destroy our frontier inhabitants; and, as Congress are a set of rascals, and the Secretary of War an enemy to his country, if lie had it in his power, he would drown them in the sea; observing; at the same time, that he was confident, the Executive officers of the Federal Government wished that the Indians might destroy the whole State of Georgia. The Federal troops, lie supposes, arc of no service in protecting the frontier, and laughs at the two hundred men which the Governor is authorized to raise, and put under the command of Major Gaither. One of Adams’ sons is a spy or ranger, who patrols over the river. I asked Adams, in his sou’s presence, whether he supposed any of the spies would kill an Indian or party of Indians, either coming in with a flag, or to hold a treaty of peace with Major Seagrove, by order of the Federal Government? lie answered me, they were determined to kill any they saw, let their tribe or business be what it would. I considered the silence of Ins son as a tacit acquiescence of the declaration. I inquired by what authority they went out? They told.me it was recommended by Colonel Melton. Mr. Armour (of Greensborough) also confirmed the substance of the above—particularly as to Colonel Alexander’s intentions. Done at Fort Fidius, this twenty-fifth day of September, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three. FRED’K DALCHO, Surgeon's Mate in the Legion of the United States. Attest, JAMES SEAGROVE, Agent Indian Affairs. James Seagrove to the Secretary of JVar. Fort Fidius, on the OcOnee, 14th October, 1793. Sir: This instant, I am honored with your letter of the 16th ultimo, by which I observe, you had received my letters as far down as the 17th of August. My communications to you, since then, have fully explained, and, 1 hope, satisfied you, that I have, thus far, done all in my power to accomplish the desire of the President of the United States: and that my being here, at present, is owing entirely to the unruly conduct of the people of Georgia. 1 have said so much on this in my letters of the 17th and 22d ultimo, and 9th instant, that I shall not take up your time at present, on so very disagreeable a subject, more than I am obliged. From information which I have from people of this country, 1 have reason to believe that' there are two expeditions on foot on this frontier, against the Creek towns, which will go out in six or eight days; report makes these parties formidable, but, if two hundred men can be got out in each, I think it will be the utmost. One party goes from Greene, the other from Washington county. I am sorry to say, that I do not find any measures taken by the Governor of Georgia, to put a stop to such unwarrantable doings: on the contrary, it appears to be encouraged. By the enclosed cony of a letter, received yesterday from Timothy Barnard, you will observe, there is a great hope of getting over tlie late horrid affair on the Oakfuskee village, and it is brought to a pleasant issue for this country, if revenge can but be taken on the Cowetas by the Oakfuskees. for the lives tliey have lost. But I fear the conduct of the people of this country will destroy all hope of good arising from any measures I have taken. I shall, notwithstanding, embrace every opening to do my duty, disregarding the malignant breath of all the anti-federal and land speculating tribe in this country. Enclosed, you have a cony of what I wrote Governor Telfair to-day. All is quiet on the whole frontier of Georgia, as to the Indians, which must serve to satisfy you that a war is very disagreeable to the nation, or they would have been out, long ere this, to take revenge. If Barnard gives me favorable accounts, and no parties go from Georgia, I shall be ready to push into the nation on the shortest notice. So soon as I have further advice from the nation, you shall be informed. I remain, most respectfully, &c. JAMES SEAGROVE, Agent. Hon. the Secretary of the Department of JVar, United States. Copy of a letter from Timothy Barnard to Major Gaither. Flint River, 5th October, 1793. Sir: This is the fourth day since I arrived at home. Have had no news from the nation worth relating, as yet, but it seems to be the general opinion of the Indians, that those fellows (the Cowetas) that stole the horses from the frontiers, will be the objects of revenge, for those fellows who lost their lives at the Little Oakfuskee village, by the party that went up there. If this should be the case, it will be of good effect. Captain Millegal) arrived here yesterday, from Georgia, forks of Altainaha, and proceeds on to Kinnard’s, injeompany with Mr. Aikcns and Charves. I have given Mr. Aikcns instructions to be here in six days from this, at which time I expect to be ready to send him oft' with full accounts from the nation. However, as no one at present can positively say what may be the event of this matter, that has been done in the nation, 1 think it would be proper that you give out orders that the people be on their guard, and do not expose, themselves on the river, as, if any of the relations of the injured tribe should take it into their heads to take satisfaction, injury may be done, when not ex;pected or intended by the nation. You and Major Seagrove will consider this, as to both, for reasons I need not mention. I am, &c. Taken from the original by JAMES SEAGROVE. Fort Fidius, 14/A October. 1793. James Seagrove to Governor Telfair. Fort Fidius, 14th October, 1793. Sir: Yesterday a letter was received by Major Gaither, from Mr. Barnard, an extract of which I now enclose your Excellency, by xvhich you will observe tnat there is a prospect of the Oakfuskees taking satisfaction from the Cow-etas, for the injuries done the former, by people from Georgia. 1 hope time will be given them for the purpose, and that no act of the people of this country may prevent. I take this opportunity to inform your Excellency of the report which is current on this frontier, and which I have been made acquainted with by respectable men in this neighborhood, w hich is, that a party of militia are assembling in Washington county, and another in Greene county, with avowed designs of expeditions into the Creek towns: and that they will go out in six or eight days. I will not absolutely say this is the case; but, I think well to apprize you thereof, that not a moment be lost in putting a stop to such unwarrantable doings. J, therefore, hope your Excellency will issue your proclamation, strictly prohibiting any person crossing the boundary line without proper authority. I have not heard of an Indian having been seen or heard of, on any part of this frontier, for live weeks past. I hope this will continue long to be the case. With respect, I remain, &c. James Scagrove to the Secretary of War. Fort Fidtus, on the Oconee. 21si October, 1 "93. Sir: Last evening I received an express, with letters from Mr. Barnard, as late as the seventeenth and eighteenth instant, copies of all which I now send you. in order that you may be as minutely as possible informed of the present temper of the whole of the Creek nation, and the favorable opening there now appears, of placing all matters on a favorable foutiug, between the United .States and them, if the people of this country could be prevented from going into (he Creek territory, and committing depredations. I mentioned in my last, that two parties were going out from this frontier, against some of the Creek towns. 1 am now enabled to say, with great certainty, that about two hundred mounted militia crossed the Oconee, from Carr’s Blurt', about twenty-live miles below this place, on the eighteenth instant, and are gone to the nation. As to the party from the upper part of this frontier, 1 am not able to inform, with any degree of certainty: but from report, I believe they are about going, or gone, at this day. It is said that they are to be under the command of the Colonel Alexander who I have had occasion so often to mention to you. What will be the consequence of these parties going out. is impossible to determine at present, further than that it can answer no good purpose, and will probably be attended with many bad ones. 1 have wrote Governor Telfair to day, on this subject; a copy of my letter you have herewith, as'also one received by Major Gaither, from Lieutenant Van Vilen, of the Federal troops, on his way to fort Telfair. You will also iind enclosed, a letter which I received from a Major Flournoy, who lives tbout twenty-live miles above this station. This letter I send, as it breathes the prevailing sentiment and language of this country. Flournoy is a man who has been an officer in the Georgia State troops, and is a man of some influence and property. Enclosed is my answer to said letter. Should the parties that are now out from this country, return without doing any injury to the friendly Indians, or working any very material change in the present temper of those people, I shall, as soon as Barnard gives me notice, push into the nation, and do all possible to establish peace. I am perfectly of your opinion, that a few of the ruling people, sent on a visit this winter to the President and Congress, will be attendee! with the best of consequences. 1 shall therefore labor to accomplish it on your principles. A report prevailed some time since, and which was published in an Augusta paper, that a party of upwards of one hundred Creekspvere gone to war against the Southwestern territory. lam happy' in being now able to say' that it is without foundation. This being all that offers at present. I remain, with due respect, <S:c. Copy of a letter from Timothy Barnard, to James Sea gr ore. Flint Rivf.r, 17th October, 1793. Dear Sir: Since my arrival in the nation I have done everything in my power to reconcile the Indians, and I think they seem at present more inclinable for peace than they' have been this summer past: and I think that, if the militia could be stopped from coming out to search for Indians, on this side of the Oconee, matters might soon be settled for the benefit of both parties. The Indians have now, 1 am convinced, stopped all stealing parties from going out; this I think you may rely on, therefore the inhabitants need be in no great dread of hostilities being committed. The whole nation seem to have a desire to have you up to settle matters, (how far you can proceed in that business you are the best judge) as the winter draws on fast, and the Indians will be soon going into the woods. 1 do not know when I shall be able to come down, as I have been very sick for some time past. The Spaniards and Mr. Panton have advised the Indians strongly to be at peace. Those circumstances, and the small fright they have lately got. will, 1 fancy, keep them quiet. 1 shall expect to hear from you, by Mr. Aikens, how the country is disposed towards the Indians: for, if they still mean to be coining over the Oconee, searching for Indians, it is useless for me to try to bring about a peace; which, if it could be made on good terms, would be more for the good of the country than a war at this time. There never was a better opportunity to settle a peace than at this time. I shall, however, abide by your instructions on this business, as I am convinced you act up to the instructions you have from the President and General Knox; therefore, I think the inhabitants of Georgia, if they studied the good of the country, they would not wish to make a war, contrary to the President's wish: if they do, and have to light the Indians without the assistance of Congress: they, i fear, will find it a hard task to subdue them. Nothing more occurs to me at present worth mentioning, therefore, wish you health, and I remain, dear sir, yours, S;c. Fort Fiotvs, 21s/ October 1793. Copy from the original. JAMES SEAGROVE, .Agent Indian .Affairs. Copy of a letter from Timothy Barnard to James Scagrove. Flint River, 17th October, 1793. Dear Sir: . Yon will receive this by Mr. Aiken, whom I send off express, informing you as nearly as possible of the situation of matters in this quarter, as I judge, before this, you must be very uneasy to know. The Tussekee Mico, or Warrior Ring, of the Cussetahs, that was at the Oakmulgee with me, since our return home he has been very attentive in striving to reconcile matters, which I am informed by three men that came out from the Cussetahs to me three days ago, that lie has nearly effected. On his arrival in the Cussetahs, lie called a meeting of the Lower Creeks, as I desired him. and acquainted them fully of the danger they were in; which I considered would be of more service from him. (the Warrior king) than me. I likewise wrote to the White Lieutenant, with which die Warrior King himself went up to the Tuckaubatchees, and called a meeting there, and sent for the White Lieutenant and chief of the heads of the Upper Creeks, which, by what I can learn, are all for peace: and they all wish much for your arrival in the nation, to settle matters; and I think there is a greater prospect ot having it completed, if you come up* than there has been for some time past. One of the heads of the Usechees was out with me about seven days ago, and assured me there should be no more hostilities committed on the frontier by his town, and that his whole town were determined to do every thing they could to settle matters. The Cowetas are likewise promised to lay quiet, which I think may now be depended on, as I think what has been done by the party that was in the nation. They have given them a fight, and it has been of infinite service. They talk strongly of killing some of the Cowetas, that stole the horses, that, got the White Lieutenant’s people killed, as every one that are killed and taken are Ins town’s people; he sent a talk down to me. which was brought out by one of the heads of the Cussethas, to beg you would get the prisoners into your possession, and hoped to see them when you come up, but I fear it cannot be done. 1 expect the Warrior king out in four days at farthest, to go down to conduct you up to the nation, as there is less danger of your being molested than there was when I was with you last; as even the Cheliaw people and Usechees are desirous of your coming up, as they all begin to be scared. Mr. Aiken can give you information how they are disposed about Kinnard’s; by what I can learn, ail theChehaw people, that live about there, are sorry for what they have done, which I am fully informed of. by one of the heads that has been with me these two days, and lias given me up a negro wench, that was taken oft' when young Gerrideau was killed, belonging to a Sir. Smith in Newport, and, 1 intend to send her down in a few days, by Captain Milligan, who I expect here every day, on his way home, from the nation. One of the women that was taken is the White Lieutenant’s own relation, and wife_ to a head-man of the town. They say there is ten women and children lost, which, if there are but eight carried in, the other two must have been killed, and perhaps burnt in .the houses you can inquire into this matter, as there are certainly that number missing. I have been afflicted with a third day ague and fever, a complaint I never had before in this country. I was very bad all last night, and am hardly able to set up to write, my head is so giddy; therefore shall refer you to Mr. Aiken for further information, and conclude with wishing you health, and remain, dear sir, yours, &e. Fort Fidius, 21s/ October, 1793. A true copy. JAMES SEAGROVE,Agent Indian Affairs. Copy of a letter from Timothy Barnard to James Seagrove. Dear Sir: Flint River, 18//i October. 1793. After I had finished my despatches to you. yesterday, late in the evening, a man I had sent in to the Use-chees, arrived after dark, informing me that the Warrior king of the Cussetahs had returned from the Upper Creeks, Tuckaubatchees, where he had a very full meeting with the Upper Creeks, and that all the towns in that quarter were fully determined to do every thing they could to settle a peace with the white people, and that, to show their sincerity on the business, the White Lieutenant, and several more of the heads, were making ready to come down to the Cussetahs, to join the Warrior king of the. Cussetahs, to go on as far as the Oakmulgee, to conduct you safe into the nation. They have likewise sent me word to be ready in four days from this, to start with them, which, if my indisposition does not prevent me, shall be with them. Mr. Townsend, 1 hear, is to be with them. When we arrive at the Oakmulgee, either Mr. Townsend, me, or Mr. Mordecai, will be in with you. The White Lieutenant has again sent out word to me, to beg of you to have the prisoners, women and children, ready to come up. Those towns that have committed depredations on the frontier, are all declined, and seem fully convinced of their error, and I think, I can venture to say, that there will be no more mischief done this winter, as I have had now four of the heads of the Chehaws and Usechees with me, and have all assured me that none of their young people will commit any offences more. The chief part of them are turned out a hunting with their women and children towards the head of St. Mary’s, Stangesbre, and left the head meu in to settle matters when you come up. The Cowetas and Broken Arrows have likewise agreed with the Cusetahs, firmly to do no more in the horse-stealing way; as they have spilt none of the white people’s blood yet, they hope, they say, they can make matters up, by returning what horses they have still in their possession. There is, likewise, strong talks sent down to all the Seinmoles, on no pretence to commit any hostilities on the frontiers of Georgia. All I can say, is, that if the frontier inhabitants can be governed, and kept from crossing the Oconee, there never was a better time to settle matters than now, as the Cnsse-tahs, our best friends, are so earnest to come out a hunting, as they have been detained in all this summer past, by request of their friends the white people; and when they do get out some of them, as they are so confident in the white people’s friendship to them, they will be coining down near the Oconee, or perhaps to fort Fidius, as the want of salt, and the other little necessaries of life, is so great amongst them. And if any of our Georgia rash scouting parties should fall in with them, and destroy them, it would overset every good intention, therefore, I think, on receipt of this, it would be necessary for you to acquaint his Excellency the Governor how matters are situated, and perhaps you may prevail on him to issue out his strict orders for none of his militia to cross the Oconee river, as I believe I can take upon me to assure him that no Indians will cross more on this side this winter, to do mischief; so that if his people cross, it will be only to strive to create a war. If any tiling should happen, it will be entirely I through the means of that rascal John Galphin, who now begins to find his case grown desperate, and is upheld by a few rascals like himself, which I hope will soon be at an end, when you get to the nation. I have two or three Indians now sitting round me, pestering me with their discourse, which has been the case ever since I have been up; besides, I am very unwell, therefore, can hardly collect my sentiments, to write you as fully as I could wish. I shall leave you to Mr. Aiken for further particulars, and remain, dear sir, yours, See. Copy from the original in possession of Fort Fidius, 21s/ October, 1793. JAMES SEAGROVE, .Agent Indian Jiff airs. Extract of a letter from Lieutenant V. .Allen, of the Federal Troops, to Major Henry Gaither. Galphintox, on OGtecHEE, 18th October, 1793. Sir: Yesterday morning, about forty or fifty horse collected at Mr. Hutchinson’s store, at the White Ponds, 20 miles from fort Fidius, under the command of Captains Kitchin, Carson, Wilbern, and Hampton, on their way to Carr’s Bluft', the place of rendezvous, where they were to be joined by Captains Harrison, Stokes, and Irwin,making in all, two hundred men, to march against the Chehaw town. In order to justify this excursion, I am told that two or three of them took their neighbors’ horses, and brought them over the Oconee, and then propagated that horses were stole, and that their trail appeared toward the Indian country. General Irwin, I am told, ordered them to return, hut they paid no attention to him. I am, &c. Copied from the original. JAMES SEAGROVE, Agent. Major Robert Flournoy to James Seagrove. Green Countv, October 5th, 1793. Sir: ’Tis generally supposed that a treaty is likely to take place between the Indians and yourself, as agent for the Federal Government; which is disagreeable to the people of this country, for one only reason, to wit: They believe you will be deaf to their interest, whilst, you strictly adhere to that destructive principle of our Northeast- wardly politicians. Make peace on any terms say they: it is that disposition in our Northern brethren, which was so plainly discovered to the Indians when they were at New York, that has brought all the evils on this country which we have since experienced. The time is at length come, when justice may be demanded—when justice may be had. 'Tis reported that those intrepid young men that has so lately burnt one Indian town, has brought from thence, eight prisoners, which ought to be exhanged on no other terms but that of the Creeks restoring all the property and prisoners they have taken away; if they have sold any part to the Spaniards, let them go and steal them from those, as they did from here. I do not wish to be understood as a man that would presume to dictate to one of your understanding, but as a sufferer, I have a right to speak my mind. It has only been six months since my old father was attacked on the Kentucky road by these very people (on their way. as it is supposed, to join the Northern tribes) when he, and four others, were killed and scalped; and I have at this time, I believe, a young negro fellow in the Creek nation, who formerly waited on me, in quality of a servant. lie ran away from my store, on the 4th of September last, and was assisted across tlie river by an old man and his son, who are living at this time one mile above Old Toin]sPath, (four miles above fort Fidius.) I have not, as yet, brought him to his deserved punisluneiP, for want of positive proof; but if you will do me the favor to demand him amongst others, you w ill, 1 believe, put it in my power to punish those that conveyed him off-, and lay me under obligations to yourself, which I shall ever glory in acknowledging. The fellow is nineteen or twenty years old, slim made, with remarkable small legs, branded on the breast I S, scarcely visible; he is-very black, and lias a down look; I call bis name Cooper. I am, Sir, &c. James Seagrove in answer to Major Robert Flournoy. Fort Fidics, 15th October, 1793. Sin: I have just received your favor of the fifth instant; in reply, permit me to assure you, on my word of honor, that no treaty is even in contemplation between the United States and the Creek nation. I am sorry to find my fellow-citizens very generally possessed with the idea of a treaty. T will "go so far to satisfy you or any other gentleman of this country, by declaring, that my orders from the President of the United States are expressly to obtain full satisfaction from the savages for all injuries done this country, as a preliminary to all measures to peace. This, I should suppose, if generally understood by the people of Georgia, could not fail to give satisfaction; but, it is to be lamented, that our Governor, who is possessed of, and has full power to promulgate, those matters, has not done it. Respect for the Government of Georgia hath hitherto prevented my interfering. I attend to what you say respecting your negro boy. Duty, as well as inclination, leads me to do all in my power, oil that head. The manner in which you have been deprived of your respected father, is truly affecting, and I sympathise in your feelings on the occasion/ I shall ever be happy, either in the line of my duty, or, as a private gentleman, to render you, or any of your friends, any agreeable service. And am, with respect, yours, &c. James Seagrove to Governor Telfair. Fort Fidius. 2Is/ October, 1793. Sih; 1 had the honor of writing you on the 14th instant; since then, this frontier has continued free from any Indian depredations; not an Indian hath been heard of, on this side of the Oakmulgee, for several weeks. It is w ith pleasure I am enabled-to inform your Excellency, and the citizens of Georgia, that, by an express which I received last evening from my deputy, Mr. Timothy Barnard, 1 have very favorable accounts of the disposition of the whole of the Creek towns at tliis time, and that they are very desirous all matters should be immediately settled. Tiic friendly towns have brought those who have been doing mischief to desist altogether, and to deliver up all the stolen iiroperty, and make other satisfaction. There is a very great prospect that the friends of those people who were tilled at the Qakfuskee village, are about to take satisfaction on the Cowetas. The Oakfuskees declare they will not trouble the white people on that account. The white Lieutenant of the Oakfuskees, and other principal chiefs, are very desirous that the prisoners you have, should be sent home as soon as possible to their friends. I hope your Excellency will see the good policy of such a measure, as those prisoners belong to some of our best friends in the nation. As I have already asked for them, 1 hope they are on their way to this place. Your Excellency may rely that an equal number of prisoners (if as many in the Creek nation belonging to the United States) shall be delivered for them, as well as every other arrangement favorable to this country that rests with me to do. Enclosed you have extracts from Mr. Barnard’s letters to me of the 17th and 18th instant, which will serve to point to your Excellency how favorable the present moment is to give peace to our country; and how unpardonable it would he not to embrace it by every just means in our power; and how much more so to throw any impediments in the way. I am sorry to be again obliged to inform your Excellency that. I have reason to believe several companies of horsemen, from the county of "Washington, are gone on an expedition against some of the Creek towns. The enclosed extract of a letter from Lieutenant Van Allen, of the federal troops, to Major Gaither, will further explain the business. _ That such things should be done alter the express order to the contrary, which hath been received from the President of the. United States, is truly unaccountable. I hope, for the honor and happiness of Georgia, that your Excellency will soon be able to put a stop thereto, and that we shall once more enjoy peace. I shall hope for your Excellency’s answer by the return of the express, and that I shall he informed the prisoners are on their way to me at this place. I am, &c. Letters from Major Henry -Gaither to the Secretary of War. Fort Fidius, April 7th, 1793. Sir: The Governor of this State is often calling on me to order out the militia to guard the frontier, and mentions murders and depredations committed by the Indians, that I cannot hear from any other person; I have not, neither do I mean to order them out, unless I know them to be within our limits, and in force; 1 have forwarded three of the Governor’s letters, and two of Timothy Barnard’s letters to me from the Creek nation. The complaint of the Indians is at this time groundless; I have, during my command, given to the Indians that came to me on business, ninety-five rations, forty pounds of tobacco, and twelve gallons of rum. I expect a friendly visit from McGillivray, The Mad Dog, and Joseph Cornell, in three weeks; what their business is, I cannot learn; but have heard the Creeks and Chiekasaws are at war, and all the Upper towns are our friends, except the Cow-etas, and Savannahs, or Old Delawares. 1 have the honor to be, &c. HENRY GAITHER, Major. [enclosures.] From Governor Telfair to Major Henry Gaither. State House, Augusta, 4th March, 1793. Sir: The recent outrages committed by some whites and Indians, are such, as render the situation of many innocent defenceless families on the frontiers, critical and dangerous; under this expression, I feel every obligation to afford the best possible protection from savage barbarity; and to this end, I have to require of you, full information with regard to the number of militia now in actual service, the place or places at which they are stationed, and the tour of duty assigned to them. In addition to which, it now becomes necessary, that ten foot militia, under the command of a sergeant, be stationed at each of the following places, viz: Norris’ Station, Bush’s Station, Hillhouse’s Ironworks, and at a Station between fort Mathews and Greensborough; which, I trust, will suffice as a temporary defence for the present emergency, or until further communications from the President of the United States be received on this subject; which I have reason to expect in a short period. I am, &c. EDWARD TELFAIR. Governor Telfair to Major Gaither. State House, Augusta, 28th March', 1793. Sir: I have received information of the Creek Indians having committed murders and outrage in the county of Glynn; I have, therefore, to call on you for an explicit declaration of what aid can be obtained on the part of the General Government, in order that I may be more fully enabled to make arrangements for the emergency. I am, sir, yours, &c. EDWARD TELFAIR. Timothy Barnard to Major Henry Gaither. Buzzard Roost, 18th February, 1793. Sir: I have not the honor of your acquaintance, but the present situation ol affairs in this quarter dictates to me, that it is truly necessary you should be informed of that, which, if not obstructed, may shortly prove of very fatal consequence to the frontiers of Georgia, which is as follows: I have certain information that the inhabitants on the'upper frontiers have drove over a number of cattle into the fork of the Tullapatche, which ground the Indians look upon as theirs; therefore, are determined to go down and drive off all the stock they can find there; and if they meet with any opposition, will kill those that oppose them, as you may be sure there will go a body large enough to execute their designs. I have prevailed on the head-men to restrain them for twenty days; and am setting oft- to the towns to do the same there; and am in hopes they will be stopped that long, till the people can get their cattle back, but there is a great probability that the hunters in the woods may collect and endeavor to drive them oft’; if so, those people that have put their cattle over must abide by the consequence, as they have no right to carry on such irregular proceedings. I am amazed at the heads of the country, that they will not oppose such measures at this critical juncture. There is now ten Indians from the Northward nations trying all they can to set the Creeks on the frontiers of Georgia, and such proceedings as these will be the effectual means to make the Creeks take their talks, besides ever putting it out of the power of any person to have a boundary line; I have to beg, as it is for their own good, assistance for the settlers on receipt of this, to drive their stock back; if they do not, I have now discharged my duty, and.they must abide by the ill consequences that may and will attend. I am, sir, &c. TIMOTHY BARNARD. P. S. The bearers of this, three of the head-men of the Cussetahs, beg they may have a keg of rum a piece, and some corn and tobacco, to bring with them, as I have got them to take down these letters. If you give them a few articles, the Governor will not be against paying for it, as I can assure you, if those cattle are not removed soon, the owners will lose them all, and some of their lives too; it is in vain to strive to keep the peace, when the white people go so head-long to work, before the boundary line is settled. Timothy Barnard to Major Henry Gaither. Cussetahs, March 4th, 1793. Sir: You will receive this per Mr. George Cornell, son of Joseph Cornell, who w'as linguister for the United States, upon business from the Mad Dog of the Tuckaubatchees, to this town, which is much in favor of the States, to mention that the Upper towns were of the same opinion respecting the Americans, as they were, and not to be deluded with the Shawanese talks, as they were such as would bring destruction on the land. As there might not be a linguis-ter with you, I thought proper to acquaint you who he was, and that he is, with several white people, going into Georgia, upon business of their own. As this man is of considerable note in this country, his being well treated w ill be much in favor of the States; and should he be in want of provisions, &c. hope you will not let him want. The minds of the people here seem much agitated, owing to many different talks among them, particularly of the gangs of cattle being drove into the fork, which is in dispute; but hope that matter is cleared up before this, as I have wrote down to you upon that head. Should the cattle not be drove back ere this, I fear the .consequence will be serious; as they are determined to drive them off’, and should they meet with opposition, perhaps blood may be spilt I will thank you to inform his Excellency of this; that there are many talks in the nation, but cannot determine what steps they may take. The. Cussetah king says, he hears there are many horses stole from your quarter; but may depend upon it, that its none of his people, but must be Coweta people; he also says, the white people have threatened the first man they find, to kill him, after losing their property; but hopes that; you will be aware of such proceeding, and not let the innocent suffer for the guilty, especially those who have always been, and are still, your friends. I myself look upon this as a necessary precaution, and hope there will be proper attention paid. I am, sir, yours &c. ^ TIMOTHY BARNARD. N. B. All the hunting camps near you are the people of this tow‘n; those that do the mischief are in their towns. Letter from Major Henry Gaither to the Secretary of War. Fokt Fidius, 17th April, 1793. Sir: Since I had the pleasure of writing you last. I have had certain accounts of the Indians having murdered two white persons, and robbed a store of goods, at Trader’s Hill, on St. Mary’s, and that Mr. Seagrove has demanded of the head-men and warriors of the Creek nation, not only the murderers, but the whole party concerned in this mischief; and that the Indians of that nation appearat this time much divided on account of the demand made by Mr. Seagrove. I have had a message lately from Timothy Barnard, advising me to stand well on my guard, until I may hear from him again; this I have wrote to General Clarke, and other militia officers in this State; and this day sent back the express to Timothy Barnard. I have enclosed Barnard’s two letters to me. I have the honor to be. &c. [enclosures.] From Timothy Barnard to Major Henry Gaither. Flint River, 8th Jipril, 1793. Sir: I was honored with your letter of the 21st February, at the Cussetah tow n, which I explained to the heads then assembled, which proved of no small service in convincing the Indians how far the leading men of the United States were from wishing to encroach on their territories. I did myself the pleasure to write to you from the Cusse-tahs, but am under some apprehension that my letter has not reached you, from what has happened since; at my meeting the Cussetahs, with a number of the heads of the Lower Creeks, and some of the Upper, every matter seem to conclude with a lair prospect of peace, between our red brethren and the United States; as the voice of the nation was for me to send oft'an express for Major Seagrove, to be up in thirty two days from that time w ithout fail; from the last day of the meeting, intwodays after, Iarrivedat my own house on Flint river, and next day was preparing to despatch an express off' to Major Seagrove, which, before I had finished, came the dreadful news up to me from a town below me forty miles, on Flint river, that two parties out of said town, and four or five villains from a town a hundred miles below, that had just arrived from St. Mary’s and Settilla, with four or five scalps from that quarter,■ ' and a great deal of plunder; those that have committed those violations, are settlements near Jack Kinnurd’s, and thg part of the nation that Major Seagrove has given Kimiard instructions to endeavor to govern, which I cannot say but Kinnard has made use of every means in his power to keep them quiet; but the talks they get from this villain Will-banks, and from those Northward Indians, has put some of the Indians, I believe, nearly out of their heads. Willbanks, at that very time expected a vessel in, where he just at that time went down to meet her, ami assured the Indians all along as he went, that she would arrive, w hich I could never have believed, that people would have been so mad, as to send goods on such uncertain plans; but, to my great surprise, am fully informed, that the vessel arrived on the coast with several Indians on board, that went to Providence to protect her from the insults of the Spaniards, but nevertheless the Dons acted as any other Power in such a case would, and ought to have done; took the vessel, goods and all, and conducted her to St. Mark’s garrison, and it seems, bound some of the Indians fast for two or three days, which I imagine were a little insolent; they have since sent them home. A lucky circumstance for our frontiers tins vessel was taken, or I fear it would have been the means of more hostilities on our frontiers. What’s happened, wil1,1 now hope, put an end to that business, and disannul all hopes of ships landing on that quarter. Poor Captain Fleming, at Captain Robert Seagrove's store oil St. Mary’s, fell a sacrifice to savage cruelty, and the store plundered of every thing they could take off; one other young man fell at the same place, and who he is, I cannot learn; and three more on Settilla’s, near Mr. Cashin's store; that store, I hear, remains unhurt. I make no doubt, but before this you have more particular account of matters front that quarter than I can render you. Kinnard has sent oft’an express to Major Seagrove, respecting the business; at the same time I forwarded the peace talks from the heads of the nation, from which Major Seagrove will be able to judge, that what has been done, is far from being the voice of the whole nation. Since those villanous murderers arrived at their own towns, they have been bullied and despised by all that were in the town; Major Seagrove will, I immagine, first demand satisfaction; what wijl be the result I cannot take upon me to say; however, I think the inhabitants in your quarter may still remain quietly on their farms, as yet without danger, as it would be very distressing for them to break up at this time of the year. 1 need not, sir, have wrote you so particular, as the bearer is a very intelligent man,and a citizen and friend to the United States, and will give yoa every information you may stand in need of, from this quarter; and as he w ished to go down that way, 1 thought it would be better to employ him to take this to you, than an Indian. The Indian \\ bite Fish king, as I find he styles himself to you, was desirous of going back w ith letters to you, but he is such a noted liar and a villain, I did not choose to trust him. Any favors you confer on the bearer, Mr. Garvin, w ill be gratefully acknowledged by Sir, yours, See. TIMOTHY BARNARD. Flint River, 10th April, 1793. Dear Sir: Since I finished the enclosed to you, I have received an express from Major Seagrove, demanding satisfaction for the violations committed on----; and as he has made a large demand, though no more than just, 1 do not know how matters may turn out; therefore should not wish the frontiers to lay too much unguarded lor a while, as a short time will determine howr matters are to be in this quarter; the bearer, Mr. David Garvin, can inform you with particulars, relative to this matter; nothing more, but remain, Yours, &c. TIMOTHY BARNARD. From Major Gaither to the Secretary of li ar. FoRTFtmus, 19th April, 1793. Sir: Since writing you last, 1 have received certain information from the Bird king, and the Cussetah king, that the Half Way king and his warriors are actually out, and determined to spill human blood before they return. On this information, which I received late yesterday, 1 wrote and sent expresses to the militia officers, informing them of their dangerous situation, and desiring them all to be well on their guard, and wait for orders. Some of them came voluntarily and offered their service, and are now out on a scout with orders not to cross the river. There are many fires now in view' on the Indian side of the Oconee. I mean this night, to send a spy for information. I have sent a copy of this letter from the friendly kings, which, if real, is truly friendly. The soldiers are as healthy as I could expect them any where; and perfectly reconciled and attentive to their duty. I have got all the stores from the Rock Landing, and ordered the guard from this place to join me to-morrow. I am, yours, &c. . IIENRY GAITHER, Major-commandant. Dear Friend and Brother: [enclosure.] Cussetahs, April 13th, 1793. I heard that the Half-way king was going to do mischief, but I did not believe it; but this day I am informed, and I know it to be the truth, that he is gone. I have been talking to the head commander; which the commander told me, if I should hear any thing respecting the nation, to inform him. The warriors arc out upon the Oakfuskee path; whether they fall above, or below, I cannot tell. You may think it was the wish of the nation to be at war, but there is no such thing; it is only one town, the Half-way house king, and obstinate mad persons, that will not hearken to advice. We all hold the talks that were delivered to us last, and mean to abide by them still, until Major Seagrove comes up, when we expect matters will be settled upon good terms, both for yourselves and us. You may think, they divide themselves, the warriors, in two parties, (there is two towns) but that is not the case. I am your friend, and always have been; if any thing was to happen, Twas to inform you; and, if any thing was to happen your side, you was to let me know likewise. 1 have sent you this talk, and wish you to send the talk to your brother officers, above and below you, that they may be upon their guard against any thing that may happen. The three rivers have talked, and wished for peace, and to have things settled to the satisfaction of both sides. It is only this one mad town, that is led astray by their obstinate king, which is not to be governed, nor advised. It is a pity that our nation, and your country, should suffer by a party of bad people. I send you now, to let you know my talk, that you may expect bloodshed in a few days; which I advise you to guard yourselves as much as possible, and. if they should do any mischief, punish them as you think proper; fight them, but do not come over this side the river, unless yon find them coming upon yon. Friend, Brother, and Father: TheCussetah people are your friends, and are always passing backwards and forwards a hunting, and do not wish to be troublesome to any person. We have,not taken any bad talks. If there should be any blood shed, we have no hand in it: neither will yon find us to join them, is our determination.' My young people are out upon this side the Oconee; if you should see any of them,.they are my friends, do not hurt them. ..... . My town, anti all the other towns, are sitting still, waiting the talks of Major Seagrove, when he comes up. This one mad town has brought us into this trouble, and you likewise. From your friends and brothers, BIRD KING, CUSSETAII KING. Allick Cornell , Tuckaubatchees, wishes, as he has two brothers at the Rock Landing, that you will be kind enough to send them safe up; George, and little Tommy. To Major Henry Gaither, Commanding Officer, Hock Landing. Major Henry Gaither to the Secretary of War. Fort F'idius, 6lh May, 1793. Sir: Since I had the honor of writing, the nineteenth of April, we have been frequently alarmed by the inhabitants, and without real cause. The Indians have stolen horses, and crossed the river about one mile above the fort; they have killed a family of six in number, within five miles of fort Matthews, and have killed the son of a Mr. Pugh, about twenty miles below this. 1 have enclosed the last accounts from Timothy Barnard; the one without a date, the bearer informed, was wrote the 2Gth April. 1 am often called on by the inhabitants to call out militia; and those I called, suffered their horses to be stolen by the Indians, and no alarm given. I have the honor to be, &c. [enclosure. ] Timothy Barnard to Henry Gaither. Major commandant. Flint River, April 20th, 1793 Sir: 1 received yours a few days ago by George Cornell; I now forward this to you, by way of the Buzzard Roost, to be conveyed down by Captain McKenzie and Mr. Hutchinson, who. I hear, are now there. I should have sent an Indian off express, but, on hearing of their being at that place, thought it a better opportunity. 1 have to inform you, that mattery here seem to have a much worse appearance than when I wrote yon last, by Mr. Garvin; not but that there is more than three parts out of four of the nation, that seems fully determined for peace, and say. that if those who have committed violations on the frontiers still continue, that they must defend themselves against the white people, as they are determined not to take any part with them, in a war with the United States. At a meeting the other day, held at Cussetahs, in conjunction with some of the Upper Creeks, they have concluded to give satisfaction for the murders done on St. Mary’s, and have pitched on the men that’s to die foi it. Mr. John Galphin, who was a principal hand in the business, is one; and I fully believe, had it not been for him, there would have been nothing of it. I have a white man now here with me, from the Upper Creeks, sent express from the heads of the nation in that quarter, down to Major Seagrove. to allow them time to fulfil his demand respecting satisfaction, as they say the time he fixed on was too short; those two towns of the Upper Creeks, that slipt out to do mischief on the frontiers of Georgia, was done unknown to the other Upper towns, as they were off,and two days’ inarch on their way, before it was known. I sent oft" men from the Cussetahs to stop them, which I find they have effected with one party; those that went after the others, are not yet returned, but am in hopes they are stopped. Should have immediately sent oft’ an express to you respecting the business, but was in hopes of their being stopped, therefore, did not wish to give too great an alarm to the country; besides, expecting from what had been before heard and done, would put the frontiers sufficiently on their guard. I was likewise informed, yesterday, that a party of the Cowe-tas was discovered doing mischief on the Oconee, near where the Upper trailing path crosses. They were seen by the Buzzard Roost people, who brought me this information, and. say that the. Cowetas mean to commit hostilities on the frontiers, and make off toward Buzzard Roost, on purpose to get the white people to kill some of the Cussetahs; which is to get the Cussetahs to take part with them, which the Cussetahs seem fully determined not to do; and has requested of me to mention to you, to speak to the officer of all the scouts, that if any mischief should be done, and the trails come towards Buzzard Roost, that they may be sure it’s not the Cussetahs, and not for any one at the Buzzard Roost to be molested; as they say they hope the white people does not mean to punish the innocent with the guilty, and, if they find this takes place, are determined to lay neuter. 1 have, therefore, assured them, that. I was convinced that you, and every officer in that quarter, would endeavor to make a distinction with them, which I think would be very necessary, as the Cussetahs are daily expecting themselves to pacify and stop all violations, and give me every information of what's going forward. They have run Mr. Willbanks out of the nation; and he has cleared out towards the Clierokees, and. I imagine, means to get to Detroit. All I can say at this time, is, for the frontiers to be as well guarded as possible, as, from one thing to another, it may grow worse. Those that went out from the Upper Creeks, it’s thought, was through the persuasion of a white man in that quarter, which, the heads of the Upper Creeks say, if proved on him, shall be killed for it. These times makes the young, wicked in- dined, turn out and steal horses, and there is no stopping them, which. I fear, will he a principal means of making matters worse, as some of them will, before long, undoubtedly get killed, as I hardly know how they have escaped it so long, as what’s been done is unsufferable; a little time hence will convince us how matters are to be, war or peace. I have done all I can to open the eyes of those short-sighted wretches, but it seems all to be in vain with some of them, after so much lenity shown them by the President of the United States. There is near on two thousand gone out in one body, against the Chickasaws, of the Upper Creeks, which, 1 imagine, will give them a hard stroke, though we hear the Chickasaws are all forted, at a place called the Chickasaw Bluff, on the bank of the Mississippi. Ain at present much hurried; just sending off to Major Seagrove. Shall be punctual in sending you every necessary information in my power. You have all here that occurs to me at present worth mentioning. Sir, yours, &c. TIMOTHY BARNARD. Timothy Barnard to Henry Gaither, Major Commandant. Sir: » Since I wrote the enclosed, and sent it up'to the Buzzard Roost, to go down with Mr. Hutchinson, times are much altered for the worse. On finding that Mr. Hutchinson w'asgone, and knowing that there was information gone to you of what was going on in this quarter, deferred sending till I could find what part of the nation were like to take. Mr. Hutchinson is again arrived here with Mr. Garvin, which, I think, was very imprudent in him, when he knew the danger he had just escaped. I have now got two Indians to conduct him, and Mr. Garvin, and Mr. Holmes, down to the Rock Landing, whicli is the only safe course they can take at this time, as there is several parties now out against the frontiers; and am afraid they mean to continue committing violations till they are checked by an army coining against them, as I am afraid matters are gone to too great lengths to lie checked in this quarter by giving up the oftenders, as there are too many concerned in the business. Therefore, it cannot be expected that the United States will put up with such unprovoked insults without revenging the cause of their injured, peaceable citizens. I cannot say that the matter yet, has any appearance of being general, as there are, as yet, only four towns in the Lower Greeks, and two in the Upper, that are concerned in the mischief that has been done; the rest seem, as yet, very quiet, especially the Cussetahs, who are determined to have no hand in the business, which they have desired me, repeatedly, to mention to every commanding officer on the frontier; and say they hope that, if the other wicked inclined towns should, by their bad doings, as they are in a fair way for it, provoke the United States to march an army against the nation, the Cussetahs hope there will be a distinction made betwixt their towns and those that are enemies; as they have now called in all their young people, and mean to keep them together, that they may not join with any of the offenders. I am apt to think, that if an army was to come soon, if there should be a necessity for it. that a number of the towns would lay still, and not take up arms, if they could be sure of not being molested by the white people. fThe Mad Dog of the Tuckaubatclies, Upper Creeks, and the head-men of the Thirteen Towns, from that quarter, have sent a very good talk down to Major Seagrove, informing him, that they are determined to remain in peace with the United States. The express, I expect, will reach St. Mary’s this day; as I sent two Indians, by order of the heads of the Upper Creeks, from this quarter, to guard the w hite man down with it. I have just had a man arrived here from the Cussetahs, who informs me that there was a large party of the Cowe-tas had set off to do mischief on the frontiers, but that the Cussetahs had sent after them, and turned them back, and, that they had now agreed to lay still. By the best information I can get, there is still a large party, from one town in the Upper Creeks, which are gone high up the Oconee. There are likewise several small parties out from this quarter: therefore, the inhabitants cannot be too much on their guard, as those villains that began the mischief, will strive to keep the matter as long as they can. There are now near upon two thousand of the Upper Creeks gone out against the Chickasaws. The bearer of this, Mr. Garvin, has agreed to proceed on to St. Mary’s with an express to Major Seagrove, as I think it necessary he should know how matters are going on here. Therefore, have to beg you will give him every necessary assistance he may stand in need of, for that journey, as far as Newport. Should be glad of a small hint of your opinion, what steps, you imagine, will be taken with respect to retaliating on those savages for what they have done; whether you think, if an army conies, that there will be a possibility of making a distinction between friends and enemies? as I have assured the Cussetahs they may expect it, and what few of my own family that are about me; and, if I thought it would prove to the contrary, should be sorry to deceive them. I have enclosed you a copy of a talk I gave the heads of the nation, from myself, at a public meeting, for your perusal, for your own satisfaction. This I told them, and a great deal more, at the same time, and at every other opportunity, for their good. I have let the wretches want tor no information, respecting their downfal, if they would have listened to it. I am, sir, See. TIMOTHY BARNARD. Major Henry Gaither to the Secretary of War. Fort Fidius, 23rf May, 1793. Sir: _ \Ye are and have been in alarm ever since the 18th April; many of the inhabitants, on the frontier of this State, have left their homes; the most industrious of them are forted on their own soil; many of them I have furnished with arms, and die militia generals have ordered them rations; the contractor for supplying the federal troops issues to them about two thousand rations per day; the male negroes, in some of those families, are included in the provision returns. I have been called on to certify those issues by Major Habersham, which I refused to do, for these reasons: I expect there will be great abuses in this business, and not knowing whether it will be a State or general charge. Governor Telfair, 1 am informed, will, in a few days, form an encampment at the mouth of Shoulderbone, on the Oconee, which is about 20 miles above this. After getting the militia there, lie means to advance into the Indian country, with those that will go voluntarily. I am in a very disagreeable situation here, occasioned by a suspicion, among tiic people, that I have power to call the militia into service, and afford them protection. If my conduct, during my command here, has met your approbation, I care not what those people may think or say; otherwise, it is my wish to be relieved as early as may be convenient. I am, sir, Ac. HENRY GAITHER, Major Commandant. Major Henry Gaither to the Secretary of ll'ar. Fort Fidius, 9th Jane, 1793. Sir: Major General Twiggs, with Brigadiers Irwin, Clarke, and Blackburn, with about GOO inferior officers and privates, the half of them mounted on good horses, crossed the Oconee yesterday at this place, and marched this day against the hostile Indian towns. I believe the General means to avoid all those towns that have sat still this summer, and proved friendly to us. On my first hearing of this intended expedition, I informed Mr. Seagrove, and this day received his answer; shortly after the troops marched, I immediately sent Ensign Sedgwick after the 54 * General, with the names of the six inimical towns, which Mr. Seagrove sent me; I expect Ensign Sedgwick will get up with him this night. - - I have the honor to be, &c. HENRY GAITHER, Major Commandant.'June 11 th, 1793. Sir: Since the departure of General Twiggs, which I mentioned the 9th, I am informed the General don’t mean to discriminate between the friendly and inimical Indians, the Cussetahs only excepted; should this be the case, I fear he will do much mischief to the United States on this expedition, as many of his command have been in open rebellion against the General Government, ever since the first of November; in violating the treaty with the Indians, firing their rifles at the sign of the President, and publishing the most barefaced falsehoods against the virtuous citizens of the Union, &c. &c. I have the honor to be, Sic. HENRY GAITHER, Major Commandant. Fort Fidius, June \4th,>\793. Sir: . The. expedition, under Major General Twiggs, returned to this place yesterday; they only crossed the Oakmulgee, and laid out a fort, and the most of the command mutinied and returned.   The General informed me he saw very little sign of Indians on the march. I have heard lately of two families, in Franklin county, being killed by the Indians, but those reports so often prevail here, without foundation, that I am fearful of writing to confirm them, until the)r are properly authenticated. I have the honor to be, &c. . HENRY GAITHER, Major Commandant. Fort Fidius, July 15th, 1793. Sra: ...     * 1 I have the pleasure of informing you that no recent depredations have been committed by the savages^ and I hope that the frontiers will enjoy a peace. The last accounts of hostilities being committee! by the Indians, I received from General Twiggs, on the 8th ultimo, who informed, that three families, to the amount of thirty, had been killed in the upper part of the State, not far distant from fort Matthews. I have very strong reasons for doubting the veracity of this report; there is no talk of it in the country; and Lieutenant Bird, who has just been relieved from fort Mathews, knew nothing of it. The militia are not yet discharged; the whole of the frontiers are lined with them. I have been informed that a party of militia are to set off this day for the Creek nation, and are to cross at the Old fording place, above the mouth of Shoulderbone;. but it is so great a secret, that I cannot hear who is to command them. I have the honor to be, &c. HENRY GAITHER, Mcjor Commandant. Major Henry Gaither to the Secretary of I Car. . Fort Fidius, July 3,0th, 1793. Sir: . ... There is nothing new in this quarter, more than is contained in two letters from Mr. Barnard, which I have the honor of enclosing you. The militia of this State are yet in arms, and I cannot hear when they are to be dis charged. The Governor has published an order he has received for raising one hundred militia cavalry, and one hundred infantry, both to be under my immediate command, for the defence of the frontier of this State. This, I think sufficient, provided they are judiciously posted, and arranged agreeably to a hint I have already received. The militia officers are by no means pleased with this order. They say the numbers are' not sufficient to cover them, and why give the command to a federal officer? I suspect they will not allow the twohundred men to be raised, if murmuring will prevent if. I have the honor to be, &c. . , HENRY GAITHER. Timothy Barnard to Major Henry Gaither. Flint River, 21st June, 1793. Sir: .... I am under the necessity of sending down to your station, therefore think it my duty to give you information of the situation of affairs in this quarter, which is as follows: I arrived here four days ago, from the Cussetahs. The head-men of the Cussetahs, and likewise head-men from chief of the towns in the Lower Creeks, had just come from the Tuckaubatchees, principal town in the Upper Creeks, where they had a’full meeting of all the whole Upper Creeks, and may say Lower, ami it seems their conclusion was, to take every step in their power to make a peace, and settle matters with the United States. They fixed on the men that were to die for satisfaction for the murders done on the frontiers of Georgia. There were men sent off to execute the business, and I believe it would have been done, had not that old villain Panton sent up some talks, which were immediately spread about by some of his friends, which has, for a while, put a stop to it; but, the heads of the Upper Creeks seem determined to pursue what they begun. There was one of the head- men of the Upper Creeks set off yesterday from my house, down to Major Seagrove, to receive his full instructions, to know particularly what he would nave done. He wants, likewise, to strive to get Major Seagrove to come up with him, if he can; but Ido not imagine he will venture up, though, if he was to come up with that man, he would be perfectly safe. The Indians, at their meeting at the Tuckaubatchees, agreed to gather ^ all the horses that have been stolen from Georgia, that they might be sent down to their owners, to the frontiers of Georgia. But, the Cowetas and Chickasaws, as soon as they got back to their own towns again. I find have refused to comply. Those two towns are the chief offenders, and them it was that began all this disturbance. The Upper Creeks and Cussetahs seem determined to force them to give up the property. If they still refuse, how far they may proceed in that business, a little time will bring about. This resolution that the Upper Creeks and Cussetahs have fell into, seems to have put a stop to hostilities fora while, as I do not find that there has any parties gone out for some time past to do mischief on the frontiers. '■ There may be a horse-thief or so, out, but no gangs as I can hear of, I have gone out, or going, for war. How long it may hold so, I will not take upon me to say; but, I am apt to think, that if Major Seagrove was to come up himself, that matters might still be settled, and he would get almost any satisfaction he could demand. The Spanish agent and old Panton are very busy in the Upper Creeks. I have said all 1 ^ could say against them, and would have gone up there and faced them, but have been very unwell for these twenty days past. 1 have been taken down with a head pleurisy, attended with a violent cough, which has reduced me very low, and have not yet got better of it. Besides. I labor under one very great disadvantage, and that is, that I have no commission from the President of the United States, nor from none that is in authority under him; therefore, if I was by chance to fall into the power of the Spaniards, they would show me no quarters. Besides, the Indians are daily threatening to kill me, or rob me of my property, which, if they should only rob me, it would be hard upon me to lose what I have, on account of my services to the United States, and nothing to show that I was in that service. I am under some apprehension that I should not be made whole, as the appointment was verbal from Major Seagrove. at which time, he told me that a commission would come on from Congress to me, which was in November last, and have not had a scrape of a pen from him about it since. Reason must dictate to you, sir, that such neglect as this is enough to make any man backward in risking his life and property to pursue the country business, especially one that has before, by paying attention to the service of the unthankful State of--, at the risk of my lile, and got nearly mined by it, and never any retaliation made me. I have likewise sent to Major Seagrove for a few goods to support me, and to defray public expenses that I have been under the necessity of borrowing goods to defray, and, I think I find myself somewhat neglected in that part, as I ha\e never had a rag of goods sent me since I left St. Mary's. I was obliged to borrow part of the goods the other day, to relieve this poor woman that I now send down to you, from one of the Spanish subjects, a trader in Cussetah, Thomas Carr, who, I must give the character of being a good friend to the united States. You will see, when this poor woman gets down to you, whether she was in a situation to stay long in this quarter. I have been trying to get her ever since she has been up, which has been a month, and never could effect it till about seven days ago, and was then obliged to get two head-men out of the Cussetahs, and one that came down from the Upper Creeks, to go down to the Chehaw rascals that had her. and demand her, besides paying a great deal for her, and still they were loath to give hemp. 1 could wish those five towns, the Cowetas, Broken Arrow, which live nearly together, within a mile I may say, as partly one town, the Cussetahs and Chehaws, which are twelve miles below that, and on the same side of the river, which is three miles above, the Chehaws, on the same side, west side of the river, if they could be made to sutler, it would be the most effectual means to settle a peace. But, if men come up and fall on, without distinction, and kill any of the Cussetahs, which are still our steadfast friends, it will bring on a very hot war, and make the matter general. Besides, as all the Upper Creeks are laying quiet, it would be a pity to {Hit all on a footing, which would be the case. That, if they are drove out of these lands, they would move over the Coosa river, which is never fordable, and get down amongst the Spanish territories, where they would not be easily come at, and would then be desperate, and the Spaniards would make the Choctaws and Chickasaws join them, and then they would become a worse terror to Georgia than the Shawanese are to the Northward States, f was informed a few days ago. that some of the scouts from the upper parts, have come out as far as this side of the Oakmulgee, on the Cussetah path, which has frightened the Cussetahs a great deal. They have begged of me to mention to you to speak to the caplain of the scouts not to trouble any one along that path, as they are their friends, except any parties should do mischief, and crane back that way; in such case, to follow then), and do as they please with them, as they may know then they are Cowetas that does it; as none of these people will offer to fetch a liorse, or do any mischief, hut not to fall on any hunting camps about on this side of the Oaknndgees, as these people are so much distressed for provisions, they are obliged to go out that way to hunt. 1 shall leave yon to the bearer, Mr. Mordecai, for further particulars, and remain, sir. yours, &c. TIMOTHY BARNARD. Major Henry Gaither. Flint River, July 7, 1793. Sir: This goes by express by Carr's bluff, by General Twiggs' man, that arrived here several days ago on business to me, who I have fully informed of matters in this quarter, which, 1 think, has a worse appearance than when I wrote you last, chiefly owing to a rash piece of murder I expect is committed on the body of David Cornell, a headman of the Tuckaubatchees, a friendly town to the United States, as was nearly all the whole Upper Creeks. This young man was sent down by the whole Upper and Lower Creeks, on important business to Major Seagrove; the thirteenth day after he passed my house, two of the men that went with him. returned back to my I muse, naked, and almost perished, and informed me, that when they got within about thirty miles of Major Seagrove's station, on St. Mary’s, the rascal of a white man, one McDonald, that conducted them down, pushed off a-head, and left them still to proceed on, four of them in number, David Cornell, and an Indian boy, and those two men that made their escape back, which informed me, that when they got within three miles of the station, they discovered a company of horsemen riding up towards them; Cornell never halted, but, as he was on horseback, foremost, rode on. the boy was just returned, driving three pack-horses; neither Cornell nor he had a gun in their hands; as Cornell had no gun when he past my house, which could not appear to be enemies; the other two fellows were a small distance behind, a-foot, and say, that when the white people came up within thirty yards, that those that were a-head began to speak out loud, and one man lit oft’his horse and stepped to a tree, and presented his gun at Cornell, who stood still till the gun fired, and then turned his horse about and ran, and the boys followed him; the whites pursued them past; pursued those two that were a-foot; but they both got to a branch that was thick, and saved themselves. One got a small cut on his arm by a sword, as he entered the thicket, and was fired on as they entered the swamp: one says, as he lay concealed, he saw one of the white people come riding up to the rest, with Cornell’s hat in his hand, which was easily known, as it was stuck full of white and read leathers; from those circumstances, we may judge he is no more. This business lias been done, I judge, by some of Major Seagrove’s enemies, or by some rascals that want to bring on a war with the Indians, and then will run oil’and never wait to see the end of it. This piece of cowardly, shameful muider, it can be styled nothing else, 1 fear will prove of serious consequence to the United States, as I fear it will make some of our best friends our enemies; and it will, likewise, give full room to these four mischievous towns to do as they please, as the town Cornell belonged to was taking every step to make them all lay quiet, which there was a great probability of their effecting. A general war with those Indians may’ appear trifling to uninformed men, but, it is my shallow opinion, that, if it’s once seriously begun, there will not be an end to it for several years; but what the State of Georgia or South Carolina both can do, that will put an end to it, as once they come (o be drove from these quarters here, which may soon be done, they will move over the Coosa river, near the Dons, and will by them be supplied with every implement of war they stand in need of, which they are obliged to do as their allies, and according to treaty ten years ago. which is what ’they do daily; they will then be ever an impassable stream, except in boats, near the Spaniards, Chickasaw?, and Choctaws, which, by the Spaniards, will be forced to join them, as the Spaniards have the command of these supplies; being drove from these lands, they will then become desperate, and without the Dons are routed out of that country, there will be an endless savage war. This. I know, the heads of affairs in our country are better acquainted with than I can be, but it is not the opinion of our land hungry men in the State of Georgia; they will be better acquainted with the matter when there comes to be a trial of it, which, 1 fear, is now in a lair way. It is useless for me to try to pacify matters, when such rash steps are taken to destroy every good intention ol t he Indians; though the Indians has done some murders, they have been set on by a set of worse savages than themselves to do it, and whether or not we are not savages to copy after them, to take revenge on the innocent. .This, 1 hope, will serve to inform you how matters are here, that you may be a little more on your guard, as I fear some of them will be turning over to do mischief soon. I am, sir, yours, &c. TIMOTHY BARNARD. Major Henry Gaither to the Secretary of War. Augusta, 28th August, 1793. Sir: There were eight or nine Cherokee Indians came to the store of Mr. Whitney at Ward’s Mill, about the 25th of October last, in order to trade off skins and procure winter goods for their families. Alter being there four or five days, they were fired on early in the morning, by unknown white men, three of them killed, and one squaw wounded, the other Indians escaped. This very much alarmed the inhabitants, and caused many to move their families, expecting the Indians would take satisfaction on some of them. The first of November following, David McClusky, with fifty-eight men, advanced into the Cherokee nation, and in the morning of the fifth attacked the town Chinstotee, killed three or four Indians, plundered and burned the town, returned and reported this to me at fort Matthews, the 8th. This gave the inhabitants a second alarm,'and caused fifty-six frontier settlers to leave their homes. On the Governor’s hearing this, he sent express to me to call out the militia. This I forwarded to the fountain-head, the 19th November, 1792. I waited on the Governor, and we concluded that Captain Fauche, already in service, (by the Governor’s former order to me) and Captain Williamson, and Captain Woods, should be called into service, until (he inhabitants got over their panic. These three troops were ordered to fort Matthews, and there take orders from Captain Roberts, who was by me instructed to'arrange and provide for them. Captain Woods never raised his troop, and Captain Phinize ottered his service to Captain Robei’ts, who received and continued him in service instead of Captain Woods. I have enclosed a letter from the Upper and Lower Creeks to the President. There are now, and have been the greatest part of the summer, about one hundred and eighty horse, and about five hundred infantry, of this State, in service, by order of the Governor, and who is, or pretends to be, at this time preparing an army to go against the Creeks; this army is to consist of four thousand five hundred men—one thousand cavalry, and fifteen hundred infantry, from this State, and two thousand infantry from South Carolina. v I have the honor to be, &c. HENRY GAITHER. ■ , [enclosure] A talk from the heads of the Upper and Lower Creeks, by order of the Mad Dog of the Tuckaubatchees, given out at the Cussetah square, at a meeting of a number of the Lower Creeks, this 21st of July, 1793—to be forwarded to his Excellency General Washington, President of the United States. We, the heads of the Creek nation, wish to acquaint your Excellency that we are just informed, by a runner of our own people, from the Chickasaw nation, that there was some of the Chickasaws just arrived, who had been holding talks with Governor Blount, and that, from Governor Blount, they came to Cumberland, and that they had agreed with Governor Blount to send six thousand men to station at the Muscle Shoals, on the Cherokee river; and that the Cumberland people had agreed to send five hundred more men,' to join the Chickasaws, to station at a fort in the Chickasaw nation; and that the Cumberland people had already sent oft’ three pound great guns to said fort, and that five hundred men were to be there in a short time. We, the heads of the Creek nation, wish to hear from General Washington whether it is desired that Governor Blount, and these Cumberland people, should go on, or whether they are people that are under the government of General Washington or not. This we, the heads of the nation, would wish to know as quick as possible. We, the heads of the Upper and Lower Creeks, wish to inform the President of the United States, that we have give but talks, to put a total stop to all our young people going out to commit any hostilities against Cumberland or Kentucky; therefore, if it’s the wish of the President of the United States that his people, and we, the red people, should be at peace, we hope he will immediately restrain Governor Blount and his people from joining the Chickasaws; ’tis not that we are in great dread of the consequences of those proceedings, but, as we have had a long wish to settle all disputes, we hope that our friend and father, General Washington, still remains in the same opinion. We, the heads of the Creek nation, likewise, wish to inform the heads of Georgia, that, if they still have a wish to- settle matters with the red people, we hope they will, on seeing this, immediately send off'to Governor Blount, to restrain his people, till his Excellency General Washington’s pleasure isknowh. Cussetahs, Sd July, 1793. Interpreted by TIMOTHY BARNARD. Major Henry Gaither to the Secretary of War. Fort Finius, September 23d, 1793. Sir: _ r On my way from Augusta, from which place I wrote you last, and in company with Mr. Seagrove, within thirty miles of this place, we met with Captain Dickinson, with a detachment of soldiers from this post; on inquiry of him, I was informed Captain Roberts had received information of our being on the way, and, supposing Captain Freeman to be with us, with a large sum of money, and Mr. Seagrove on his way to meet and treat with the cniefs and head-men of the Creek nation, and hearing that the ungovernable inhabitants of Georgia loudly threatened Mr. Seagrove’s life, induced Captain Roberts to order out this party for our protection. However, we arrived without molestation, and found the soldiers healthy, and all in peace. I have since been informed that Colonel Alexander crossed the Oconee, with about one hundred men, at the old trading ford, one mile above the mouth of Shoulder-bone, the 15th instant, and the same day Captain Charles Williamson, with his troop, crossed the Oconee, near fort Matthews: both those parties, I am informed, are looking out to intercept Mr.. Seagrove’s despatches to and from the nation, and to attack the friendly Indians that may wish to treat with the superintendent of Indian affairs, and thereby prevent a treaty. These people have been (as they say) in the .service all the summer, and expect to be paid by the General Government for doing mischief. I do not mean to muster, or take any notice of them, nor any other militia, unless I call them, or know that they were called by proper authority from .the United States, without I am instructed so to do. The assistance I expect from Captain Freeman and Mr. Whitney, is truly pleasing to me, and by them promise myself great relief. I have twice waited on his Excellency Governor Telfair, and requested he would appoint the officers, and give orders to raise the one hundred cavalry, and one hundred infantry, agreeably to the President’s orders, to which I could not get a direct answer. This induced me to write the enclosed letter to his Excellency, and to this I have not been favored with a reply. I have the honor to be &c. HENRY GAITHER. \ * * » - 1 1 [enclosure.] Mqjor Henry Gaither to his Excellency Governor Telfair. Augusta, September 7, 1793. Sir; ... . . The militia now in service on the frontier of Georgia, I have long considered more than is actually necessary for its defence, and I am yet of opinion, the addition of one hundred cavalry, and one hundred infantry, to the Federal troops I have the lionor of commanding, if properly managed, would be sufficient to guard and protect the inhabitants thereof. The above addition has long since been ordered, by the President of the United States, to be raised by your Excellency, and put under my command. There have been no appointments yet made by your Excellency, nor any measures taken in compliance with the President’s order, neither can I get an answer whether there will be any or not. You promised me yesterday an answer in twenty four hours, which I have not yet had the pleasure of receiving; but hope your Excellency will answer me this day, as my business calls me elsewhere to-morrow. 1 have the honor to be, sir, HENRY GAITHER Major-commandant. Major Henry Gaither to the Secretary of JVar. Fort Fidius, Wth October. 1793. Sir; Yours, of the 5th ultimo, I have received, and shall strictly attend to the contents thereof; rest assured I never had the most distant thought of acting contrary to my instructions, neither had Governor Telfair any right to intimate any such thing: for, he well knew I would not obey him in any order contrary to the orders I have heretofore received front the General Government. There are no preparations yet made bv the Governor, for raising the hundred cavalry and hundred infantry, so long ordered; neither do I expect there will, from his letter to tne, dated the 7th September, which I have enclosed. We are all in health and peace, at present. I have the honor to be &c. HENRY GAITHER. State House. Augusta, September 7, 1793. Ordered, That Major Gaither be notified, that the critical situation of the frontier settlers, at this period, wi not admit of any departure from the present arrangement. Attest, W. URQUHART, S. E. D. Extract of a letter from Major Gaither to the Secretary of JVar, dated Augusta, September 3, 1793. The militia now in service appear to me to be improperly called bythe Governor, and in a greater number than is actually necessary. I have urged the necessity of making an experiment for the defence of the frontier with the Federal troops, and the hundred cavalry and hundred infantry ordered to be raised and put under my command, by the President of the United States: and, should that number prove insufficient to guard the frontier, then to call out as many militia as would be thought necessary. These measures did not meet with his approbation, nor has he made, any appointments, arrangements, or any attempts to raise that number of men. Therefore, 1 do not wish to have any thing to do with the militia now in service, unless they are subject to my orders. Communications from Constant Freeman, Jun. Sir: Jlgent to the Department of JVar, in the State of Georgia, to the Secretary of JVar. Augusta, September 4, 1793. I I informed you, in my last, that the arms and ammunition intended for the militia of this State were put on board a flat for this place. They may be expected to arrive in about ten days. On the road from Savannah I met with Major Gaither, who was going to St Mary's for his health, lie returned with me, and, to-morrow, he will accompany Mr. Seagrove to fort Fidius, to assist him in his proposed interview' with the Indians, on the 10th instant, at Oakmulgee. I have not had the honor to see the Governor of this State; lie is now in Burke county, and will not return until to-morrow. I cannot, therefore, inform you of any measures being taken to pay those militia dragoons, whose pay rolls I have brought with me. As soon as I shall have placed the money for this purpose, in the hands of the paymaster who may be appointed, and concerted with the Governor and Major Gaither measures for the future musters of the militia now in service, 1 shall proceed to fort Fidius, and pay the regular troops, agreeably to your instructions. I am informed, that there are, at this time, about six hundred militia in service, who are distributed upon the frontiers. I am not able to transmit you a return of them; I shall request one from the Governor when he returns, and forward it to you. The hundred cavalry and hundred infantry which you, some time ago, authorized the Governor to call into service, have never been raised. I cannot assign the reasons why your orders have not been complied with. I have not heard anything of consequence relatively to Indian affairs. Mr. Seagrove assures me. that the Indians _ have not committed depredations upon the frontiers for these two months past, and that the majority of the Creeks are well disposed, and desirous of continuing at peace with the United Slates. But, sir, it is proper I should inform you, that the Executive of this State thinks differently. Preparations are now making to march into the Indian country a powerful body of militia,' to chastise the refractory towns. In consequence of your letter to the Governor, of the tentn of June last, he called a council of general officers of the militia, which was held on the eighth ultimo: the result was, that an expedition should be carried on this autumn against the Creeks. Accordingly, five thousand men are to be ordered for this service, in the following proportions, to wit: one thousand cavalry and fifteen hundred infantry, from this State, to rendezvous on the Oconee, at a place called fort Twiggs; one thousand cavalry and fifteen hundred infantry', from the State of South Carolina,“to rendezvous at Petersburg, at the junction of the Broad with the Savannah liver. As the contracts for supplying the troops in this State with provisions, &c. is confined to the limits of the same, the Governor has, in the name of Major Habersham, entered into a new contract for the purposes of the intended expedition. The same price is to be allowed for the ration as heretofore, but the transportation is to be at the expense and lisk of the United States, after the militia shall have crossed the Oconee. I will endeavor to procure a copy of this contract, and transmit it by the next post. The time fixed for the rendezvous of the troops is the fifteenth of next month, and the term for which they are to be engaged sixty days. It would have afforded me satisfaction if I could have given you the above information with greater certainty; but, as I have not seen the Governor, I am obliged to send the best I can procure; you will undoubtedly' receive it more perfect through other channels. Mr. Seagrove apprehends that little good can be expected from his intended meeting with the Indians on the Oakmulgee, while these preparations are making to carry on war against them. The expedition is the subject of conversation in all parts of the State, and appears to be a very popular measure. I am induced to believe there must be some mistake in this business, for I do not, sir, recollect that you mentioned any thing of the kind to me before I left you. - Perhaps, the posture of affairs in this quarter may require some farther instructions to me: particularly I should be obliged to you to inform me, whether it will be expected that I should accompany this expedition. I have the honor to be, &c. Augusta, 11th September, 1793. Sir: _ I had the honor to write you by the post, on the fourth instant, a duplicate of which I forwarded by the way of Savannah. ' ' , I have since had an interview with the Governor, and have laid before him all the necessary information, relative to my business in this country. I expect that, in few days, a paymaster will he appointed by him for the militia, and that orders will be given for the mustering those now in service. The same numbers, sir, are posted on the frontiers, as when I wrote you last. I have not been able to procure a return of the number employed. The Governor thinks that it is absolutely necessary that the present force should be kept up, and that, if he were to reduce it to the hundred cavalry and hundred infantry, required in several of your letters to him, that the people on the frontiers would leave their habitations, from fear of the Indians. I informed you in my last, that it was then contemplated to march a large body o( militia into the Indian country. Your letter to the Governor, dated in July, which I handed to him, has put a stop to any further preparations for this expedition. The Governor informs me, that Major Habersham has forwarded to the Secretary of the Treasury, a copy of the contract which had been made on this occasion. On the seventh instant, Mr. Seagrove proceeded to fort Fidius; on his way to the Oakmulgee, accompanied by Major Gaither and Mr. Whitney. The Governor is fully of opinion that no good will result from his meeting with the Indians, and declares that nothing but chastisement will bring the Creeks to reason; he therefore strongly advocates an expedition into their country, and asserts that this is the very moment, and ought not to be neglected. This would certainly be very grateful to a majority of the people of this State. There are, however, some who differ in opinion from his Excellency, and assert that it would, in the end, prove ruinous, should such an expedition fail of the most perfect success. The Indians have lately been troublesome on the frontiers. On the first instant, they stole two horses from Long-bluff, Washington county; the next day they were pursued by Captain Stokes and thirteen.men, to the Oakmulgee, where he came up with them. He fired upon them; the lire was returned. The whole of the Indian party, consisting of three, were killed, the horses retaken, besides three rifles, and other booty. They have also plundered a Mr. Cribbs and a Mr. Hill, in Greene county, and stolen ten horses; this information was given to me yesterday by the Governor. I have the honor to be, &c. , CONSTANT FREEMAN, Jr. ,   ■ , ■ v Augusta, 18th September, 1793. Sir: ’ _ The Indians have been quiet since the depredations mentioned in my last. It has been reported here, that a trail of forty has been discovered on this side the Oconee; but we have not yet heard of any misenief done by them. I received, the day before yesterday, a letter from Mr. Seagrove, a copy of which I have the honor to enclose you. I5y this, sir,'you will learn what hopes there are of keeping the Indians quiet, by any negotiations he can have with them. I would wish to believe that his apprehensions ot personal danger, and his opinion of the opposition of the frontier inhabitants to pacific measures, are rather exaggerations. The people might possibly offer violence to him, but they cannot be so mad as openly to oppose the Government. It is certain, that a war with the Creeks would be veiy popular, and that not a few are disappointed that the late intended expedition did not proceed . It is, however, an unfortunate circumstance, that Mr. Seagrove is not a favorite with these people. He says, it arises altogether from his being an officer of the Federal Government, and because he has, at all times, shewn himself zealous'in preserving peace with the Indians. I shall not attempt to give an opinion upon this dispute. I have thought it my duty to transmit a copy of his letter to me, that, if there should be any real foundation for his fears, you might have timely intimation thereof; and I have, also, for the same reason, mentioned to you the relation in which Mr. Seagrove stands with the people of this country. I know, sir, that I may write to you in the most- perfect confidence. If it were to be known that Mr. Seagrove had written the above mentioned letter, the whole State would be inflamed against him. Since writing the above, the western post has arrived, who reports, that a Mr. Alexander has gone out, with ninety men, with the determination to prevent Mr.- Seagrove having any communication with the Indians; and the people on the frontiers are generally opposed to any meeting with them. I have the honor to be, &c. ' CONSTANT FREEMAN, Jr. Jatnes Seagrove to Constant Freeman. t Fort Fidius, 1 lth September, 1793. I have this moment heard of a wagon going to Augustaj and therefore shall just tell you, that vye arc all got safe here, notwithstanding the plans meditated for my destruction. I was informed, whilst in Augusta, that it was determined I should not reach this place alive; that I was a most dangerous man; that I was taking measures to keep this country in peace. This may be considered by some, a crime of the deapest dye; but, as such, I did not conceive it, and therefore determined to pursue my direction to that effect. We got' on very quietly, and without any great appearance of danger, until within thirty miles of this station, when we were met by Captain Dickinson, with twenty continental troops, detached by the officers, in consequence of information that parties of villains were out on the road, determined to destroy Colonel Gaither and myself. The officers here hail, I have reason to think, just ground for their fears for our safety. We, however, left the troops, and arrived at the garrison about' 7 o’clock on the ninth instant. I found every body here well, but the country in a most determined state of opposition to all Federal measures. There are several parties of horsemen out, to prevent my having any intercourse with the Indians. They publicly declare, they .will oppose every attempt that can be made to peace. Some parties of horse have actually had the insolence to appear before the garrison, and forbid any person going to the nation.' I shall, hovyever, despatch Aiken and the black fellow, this evening; to go forward to meet the Indians, and know their determination. I do not, yet, know whether or not the Indians are coining on to meet me. I have not time to be particular: I give you this unconnected line, just to let you'see what a blessed situation I am placed in. . . * , , - I am, &c. JAMES SEAGROVE. Sir: Augusta, September,25, 1793. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 5th instant, and to enclose a duplicate of mine to you, of the eighteenth. . I am happy that I anticipated your orders, as far as I was authorized, in not concurring in any arrangements for invading the Creeks. From the moment I arrived in this State, and heard of the late intended expedition, I gave it a9 my opinion that nothing contained in your letter to the Governor, of the 10th of June, could justly be construed as authorizing him to carry on an offensive war against the Creeks, hv marching an army into their country. This I did from a conviction, that, had any such invasion been contemplated by you, you would not have suffered me to have left Philadelphia entirely unprepared for such an event. I do not recollect that I ever saw your letter, above alluded to. As you could not, sir. foresee that I should be called upon to act in a business of this nature, you have not instructed me to interfere in any measures concerted by the Governor upon Indian affairs. I have, however, though' myself authorized to declare, that the true construction has not been put on your letter, and this also has been the opinion of several of the general officers who assisted at the council, mentioned in mine to you, of the 4th instant. I have endeavored, sir, to transmit you the best information on public business. What I have written relatively , to the force and destination of the militia who were to have been employed against the Creeks. I had from a general officer, one of the council before mentioned. Mr. Seagrove's letter to me, of the 11th, is the only authentic communication I can make relative to the state of the frontiers. Reports circulate, which confirm, in part, what he has written. I am induced to believe that his person is really in danger. One of the Governor’s secretaries, who has lately returned from the frontiers, informs me, that, from what he heard, while he was there, he makes no doubt that, should Mr. Seagrove attempt to go to the Indians, he would lose his life. It is certain that the people have great prejudices against nim. They entertain an opinion that he has misrepresented the state of Indian affairs ; and that, while the Indians were making depredations, he has reported them as peaceably disposed. Mr. Seagrove appears to me to have great zeal in the public service; he may, however, have erred in the measures he has pursued. It will not. however, be in his power to preserve the peace by any interview he may have with the Indians; and his.attempts, for this purpose, will fail, because of the strong disposition which the people of this country, generally, and of the frontiers in particular, have to a war with the Creeks; and it cannot be long'before the flame will break out. It is with'difficulty the people are now restrained; they had calculated upon the late intended expedition; that failing, their disappointment is excessive, and should any Indians unfortunately tali in their way. they would be sacrificed. The Indians are continually making depredations; and though I do not hear of their killing any person, yet scarce a day passes but we are told of some theft committed by them. These exasperate the people; they are generally pursued, and yvhen overtaken, killed. Add to these causes of discon ten t'and animosity, the intrigues of certain malicious whites, who reside in the Creek nation, and who are continually instigating the Indians to acts of hostility, and misrespresenting the conduct of the United States toward them. This seems to be the present state of the frontiers. The militia have not been reduced since I have been here. I have made frequent applications to the Governor for a return of the force at present in service, but without effect: he says that the Adjutant General has not yet made his returns to him.' It doth no.t appear that it is his intention to raise the hundred cavalry, and hundred infantry, for the present, but to continue the force now employed. He urges the necessity of this measure, to protect the inhabitants from the depreciations of the Indians. I have the honor to be, sir, &c. Augusta, 2d October, 1795. Sir: Mr. Seagrove lias communicated to the Governor, that, on the 22d of last month, talks had been received by him from die Creeks, expressive of their desire to have a conference with him, and to treat upon the measures of preserving the peace, lie complains to the Governor against the parties of volunteer horse, who have gone over the Oconee, to prevent him from fulfilling this important object. He also informs him that the Cherokees have inc ited the Creeks to join them in a war against Cumberland; and that the northern frontiers of this State are in danger from the former. And he requests the Governor to suggest to him any thing he may wish to be made an object at his proposed interview. In consequence of this letter, the Governor has written to him, and pointed out the particulars,.for which he is to insist, on the part of Georgia, as preliminary, conditions to a peace. I have the honor to enclose you an attested copy thereof. When the Governor gave me this paper, he observed to me, that he had made the demands high, but that he did not expect they would all be complied with. You will he pleased to observe, by the enclosed extract of a letter from Major Gaither to Mr. Meals, of this place, that Mr. Seagrove intended to set oil' from fort Fidius on the 29th ultimo, and that the danger from parties of militia has been altoge ther ideal. In my letter to you of the 18th of last month, I have mentioned that a certain Mr. Alexander had gone out with a party of militia, to prevent an interview between Mr. Seagrove and the Indians, and that a trail of forty had beei discovered on this side the Oconee. I have mow to communicate you the true state of these reports. It appears by a letter from Colonel Melton to General Irwin, dated 27th ultimo, from which I have extracted what follows, that, on the 7th, the Indians stole five horses front Greene county, near fort Clarke, above the Rock Landing; that they were pursued by a party of five men, whom the Indians ambushed, and obliged to return without their object, and with the loss of their horses killed: that, on the 11th. Colonel Melton, with Captain Fauche’s dragoons, and Captaii Milton’s riflemen, crossed the Oconee, at the Skull Shoals: that, on the lGth, near General Clarke’s battle ground, on Jack creek, lie was joined by Colonel Alexander, of Wilkes, with eight men, and Lieutenant Colonel Lamar, of Greene, with twenty-six men, chiefly officers. Fauche had his Cornet and thirty-six non-commissioned and privates; Captain Milton had fourteen: the whole party, including the commanding officer, amounted to eighty-eight: that they proceeded on the trail of the aforesaid Indians until the 21st, when they were stopped by a large river, and'from the sound of bells and .the crowing of cocks, they supposed themselves near a town; with some difficulty a ford was discovered by Major Adams, of Lamar’s regiment: that, just before day,.they crossed the river, and inane an attack on the town, but not before the Indians had taken the alarm, and fled to a neighboring swamp. Six warriors were killed ; the number wounded unknown. Eight women and children were made prisoners and brought off The militia lost one killed and one wounded. The town was destroyed. That, on their return at Flint river, they left a talk for the Indians, whose town they had destroyed, a copy of which the Governor transmits you by this post. The prisoners report that a number of warriors bad gone from the Creeks against Cumberland. One hundred and five warriors were in the town when it was assaulted. It is not ascertained what town has been destroyed: it is supposed to have been the Upper Cowetas, on the Chatahoochee river. I make no doubt but this stroke will put a stop to any meeting with Mr. Seagrove. The Governor thinks, that Colonel Melton lias acted conformably to orders heretofore issued, for repelling the Indians. He has ordered the prisoners to he sent to this place. ' [enclosures in the foregoing letter.] Copy of the conditions to be required of the Creeks, as preliminary to a treaty. State House, Augusta, 26th September, 1793. A letter from Timothy Barnard, Esq., dated Creek nation, the 18th instant, and also a letter from James Seagrove, Esq., of the 22d instant, were received this day and read: Whereupon, it is Ordered, That each of them be served with the following: Conditions that will be required on the part of the State of Georgia, on the establishment of peace between the ■ United States and the Creek Indians. The captured property to be restored, and all the individual contracts with the citizens of this State fulfilled. The prisoners, in captivity, to be brought and delivered up within the settled parts of Georgia. The perpetrators of the murders committed in this State, to the number of thirteen, to he surrendered as objects of retaliation. Ten head-men from the Upper and Lower Creek towns to be surrendered as hostages to the United States, and to be placed in the safe keeping of the Executive of the State of Georgia, for the due performance of the several stipulations that respect her. That, under the law of the United States, as well as for the security of this State, the government of Georgia cannot recognise the establishment of peace, without having commissioners at the treaty. > - . Attest, J. MERIWETHER, Secy E. J). Extract of a letter from Major Gaither to Mr Joshua Meals, Merchant, Augusta, dated at fort Fidius, the 9.9,th of September, 1793. “ Major Seagrove, it is probable, will leave this to-morrow for the Oakmulgee, where the chiefs and head-men of the Creek nation are now waiting for him. There are, at this time, several parties of militia now out, that have threatened the lives of those concerned in making peace, and any Indians they may fall in with. I mean to furnish the agent of Indian affairs with a guard, paclc-horses, &c., and very probably accompany him to-morrow. I should write Captain Freeman, but having reason to believe he is on his way to this place, I have declined it.” Augusta, 7th October, 1793. Sir: . s , . I have had the honor, to receive a duplicate of your letter of the 5th ultimo.- Enclosed is a duplicate of mine to you, of the 2d instant. I received, on the 3d instant, a letter from Mr. Seagrove, dated at fort-Fidius, the 28th of last month, which confirms the account of the militia having destroyed an Indian town. He differs from Colonel Melton in the relation of the affair. 1 should rather suppose the account of the latter ought to be the most relied on, as Mr. Seagrove has obtained his information at second hand from the Indians. I enclose you extracts from tins letter. It appears from the reports of several persons from the Westward, that Mr. Seagrove has not gone to meet the Indians as he proposed, but that he remains at the fort; and that, since the return of Colonel Melton, many of the frontier settlers have removed, and that all are putting themselves and their stations into a state of defence. Wemay expect every day to hear of the Indians having made retaliation, though it is generally believed that they will be quiet as long as their women and children are detained prisoners. There is not, however, any prospect of peace, and this country may now be considered as in an actual state of. war. I am extremely sorry that the intelligence I have hitherto communicated has been of the disagreeable kind. I forgot to mention to you in my last, that the conditions to be required on the part of Georgia, on the establishment of peace between the United States and the Creeks, have been published in the newspapers of this part of the country. It does not appear to have been done officially. I have the honor to be, sir, &c. [enclosure.] Extract of u letter from James Seagrove, agent of Indian affairs, to Constant Freeman, dated at ■< Fort Fidius, 98th September, 1793. I am most unpleasantly situated with respect to the business I set out on. I find that I am opposed by the armed force of this frontier militia, in my endeavors to give them peace. Parties are continually out between this and the Oakmulgee to intercept me, or any Indians or messenger from or to me. As yet, they have not been successful. 1 have received expresses from the nation since I have been here, and, from the appearance of matters in that quarter, I am led to believe I can settle matters to the satisfaction of the General Government, if not counteracted by the bad conduct of the people of Georgia. A party of about one hundred men, under command of Colonel Alexander, and others, went from Greene county on the 15th instant, and, on the 20th, entered a small Indian village on the Cha-tahoochee river, about forty-five miles above the Cussetah town, killed one Indian man, and brought off-, as prisoners, one man and four women. This information I have received from Tim. Barnard, whois_now here. He had it from two Indians who were sent express after him, and overtook him on the road the 27th instant. I cannot find that the white party lost any men. I cannot discover by what authority those parties are sent out, but I think it very unwarrantable. I have wrote Governor Telfair to put a stop to such practices in his State. But, as usual, 1 have no reply to my request, or any notice taken of so serious an application. There is a number of Indians now waiting for me on the Oakmulgee, who came forward .with Barnard and Allen to escort me into the towns. I shall leave this to-morrow, with a guard of federal troops, and hope to have Colonel Gaither’s company as far as the Oakmulgee, from whence I will write you, if I have time, by the return of the troops. The conduct of the Spanish agent in the nation is much changed in onr favor. Fort Fidius, October 14th, 1793. Sir; _ lhave the honor to acknowledge tbe receipt of your letter of the 18th ultimo, which I received this day by express from Augusta, and to enclose you a duplicate of mine of the 7 th. instant. I arrived at this post in the evening of the 10th. I found Mr. Seagrove had not gone to the Indian country, for the reasonswhich he has assigned you in his letters upon the subject. 1 have very little news to communicate to you upon Indian affairs. The agent of this department has transmitted all the information to be.obtained. I must, however, sir, observe, that a'war with the Creeks is inevitable. Such is the spirit of the frontier inhabitants, unless the General Government should, in some public and decided manner, express their disapprobation of the measure, it is dangerous to advocate the cause of peace. t The success of Colonel Melton’s invasion has given the people a strong desire to penetrate into the Indian country, in hopes of destroying their towns, and bringing off prisoners. For this purpose, we are informed that there are now two parties making preparations to cross the Oconee. I cannot vouch for the truth of these'reports, but it would be extremely unfortunate if they should take place, as all accommodation with the Indians would then be at an end. They seem at present greatly embarrassed what measures to pursue, but are rather inclined to peace than war, as appears by Tim Barnard’s letter to Major Gaither, a copy of which Mr. Seagrove transmits you. I am induced to believe that the Governor would forbid the above mentioned parties -from entering the Creek country, if he should be informed in time of their intentions; for though he conceived that Colonel Melton could be justified by the general orders he had heretofore issued for repelling the Indians, as I wrote you on the 2d instant, yet he would not countenance any further expeditions, unless authorized by the General Government. The Indian prisoners have been ordered to Augusta, where they arrived on the 12th instant. v - ‘ I have the honor to be. &c. Fort Fidius, 21s/ October, 1793. Sir: An express arrived last evening at this post, from Timothy Barnard, Mr. Seagrove’s deputy in the Creek nation, by whom we learn that the Indians are very well disposed to renew the peace with the United States, and that nothing can, at this favorable juncture, prevent perfect reconciliation, but the lawless conduct'of the frontier inhabitants of this State. I mentioned to you in my last, that parties were preparing to cross the Oconee, for the purpose of breaking up the Indian towns, it is now reduced to a certainty, that one of these parties has crossed the river, tour days ago, about twenty-five miles below this post, at a place called Carr’s Bluff. It is to be hoped that they may be prevented from doing any mischief. Mr. Seagrove will communicate to you fully upon the present state of Indian affairs. Agreeably to your instructions I have requested Major Gaither to appoint some fit person to inspect and muster the militia. He says that, if there areanv now in service, under the authority of the United States, he is ignorant thereof, and that he cannot pretend to appoint an inspector until lie shall have been regularly and officially informed that those now on the frontiers have been called into service in pursuance of such authority. He aUo informs me that he has written to you upon this subject. I have, in several of my letters, informed you, that I could not obtain a return from the Governor, of the force actually employed for the defence of the frontiers, although I had repeatedly made application to him lor the same, and that no measures hud been taken to comply with the orders of the United States, relatively to the one hundred cavalry and one hundred infantry, which he had ordered the Governor to bring into service. I should presume that it cannot be the intention of the United States to pay front four to six hundred men, when two hundred are the extent authorized. It isjalsonecessary to observe, that Captain Fauche, and several others, who were with Colonel Melton in his expedition against the Indians, are considered as in the service at the expense of the United States. If that expedition was a violation of the President’s orders, they certainly ought not to be paid for any such service. I therefore, sir, request that you will be pleased to give me the most ample instructions on this interesting subject, and that Major Gaither may be directed how far he is authorized to muster the militia now in service. I shall communicate to the Governor the result of my demand to Major Gaither, and inform him that I shall wait your further orders before I proceed in the business. I have the honor to be, sir, &c. Letters from the Secretary of Jf'itr to TUiUiam Blount, Governor of the territory of the United Slates, south of the river Ohio. War Department, 8th February, 1793. Sir: The President of the United States is highly desirous that John Watts, the Little Turkey, and as many' others of the real chiefs of the Cherokees as you may judge proper to form a real representation of the tribes, should ■ pay a visit to this place, where I hey shall not only be abundantly supplied with such articles as they maj require, themselves, but also for their nation, lie wishes you to accompany them. He conceives that the result of such a journey would have a powerful tendency to remove all causes of hostility, and prevent the repetition of such a crisis as has existed for some time past. As to the presents promised at the proposed meeting on the 17th of' April, the true cause maj be assigned why their chiefs may choose them at Philadelphia. If the meeting actually takes place, some expense must be incurred. These must be regulated by your judgment, you being considered as responsible that they shall be as small as the nature of the case will possibly admit. Perhaps you may make a new arrangement, and obtain the deputation of a few of the most respectable chiefs, without the expenses which must attend a conference with a great number; but you must be the judge of this proposed alteration. The general measure, however, of obtaining a number of chiefs to repair to this place, and for you to accompany them, is considered as highly proper, and even indispensable. For their expenses, or other indispensable expenses in the case of the conference, you may draw bills, for which you will be held accountable; hut I trust the amount will not be large. 1 hope you have directed the militia to be regularly mustered, according to your instructions. The pay abtsraets ought to he formed immediately. 1 hope soon to forward the agent mentioned before. If tlie formalities of the Indians, and their mode of doing business, would allow it. the meeting proposed to be had with the Cherokees on the 17th of April, might, on account of the expense, be dispensed with altogether: for, if the most influential characters in different districts are designated, and the interpreters sent to them individually, with an invitation to come to the seat of the General Government, about the time the treaty is holding with the Western Indians, say the middle of May, of which you were informed in iny letter of the 25th ultimo, all the purposes, unincumbered with the expense of that meeting, will be equally well answered; but whether such a mode of proceeding comports with their customs and manner of doing business, or whether characters designated by us, would be considered by them as a representation duly authorized, without a forma) ratification of their own, is a query of importance,and ought to he well ascertained. I have the honor to bo, &c. Governor Blount. W ar Department, 14/A JSIay, 1793. Sir: Vour several favors, by Mr. Allison, were received some days past, and submitted to the President of the United States. The affairs being in the train as stated by you, it seems unnecessary to reply particularly to your several letters, as the hope is indulged of seeing you in this place so shortly. But Colonel Winchester, who has been here, and who has presented a memorial to die President of the United States, from the inhabitants of Mere district, seems to rentier it necessary to write to you upon the subject of defence of the citizens in that quarter. You have been fully informed of the difficulties which have existed to prevent the President of the United States from giving orders, in consequence of your representations, for the most vigorous offensive operations against the hostile Indians. , If those difficulties existed while the Congress were in session, and which it was conceived they alone were competent to remove, they recur, in the present case, with still greater force: for all the information received at the lime Congress were in session, were laid before" both Houses; but no order was taken thereon, nor any authority given to the President of the United States; of consequence, his authority remains in the same situation it did on the commencement of ihe last session. It is indeed a serious question, to plunge the nation into a war with the Southern tribes of Indians, supported as it is said they would be. But, if that war actually exists, if depredations are repeated and continued upon the frontier inhabitants, the measure of protection is indispensable: but that protection can only be of the defensive sort. If other, or more extensive measures shall he necessary, they must, probably, result Irotn the authority expressly given for that purpose by Congress. Hence, if it shall be your judgment that the Cumberland settlements require the assistance of the militia of the other parts of your government, you will impart it to them for such time, and in such a degree, as shall be commensurate with the occasion, always taking care to report the number actually called into service, and the time for which they shall be engaged, and that they be dismissed as soon as the danger shall cease. Perhaps, if Captain Kerr’s company, or part of them, (although it would be prejudicial to their dicipline to separate them) were ordered to Cumberland, it would be judicious. Doctor Williamson has repeatedly spoken of the danger of the communication between Washington and Mero district, and that it would be obviated, in a degree, by a small post at the crossing of Cumberland river. Tins, however, and all other points of defence, must be referred to your judgment. 55 * Colonel Winchester represents the great want of amis and ammunition. May you not, with propriety, send part of those you have to General Robertson, taking care to guard the return of them, asvnentioned in my former letters on this subject? I enclose yon a retum(a) of stores which General Wayne lias been directed to send to the Chickasaw®, in consequence of your representation, and as an evidence of your friendship for them. Your arrival will still be anxiously expected, and that you may be able to bring with you the heads of the Che-rokees. Be assured, sir, that, if you can quiet the troubles in your vicinity, by pacific measures, you will render a most acceptable service to your country, and great honor to yourself. Of every important event you will render information: for the solicitude is great which is excited for the security of the inhabitants of your government. > I have the honor to be, &c. Governor Blount. [enclosure.] * (a) Supply for the Chickasaws: 500 stand of arms, 1,500 bushels of corn, 2.000 pounds of powder, 50 pounds vermillion, 4.000 flints, 100 bushels salt, 4.000 pounds of lead, 100 gallons whiskey, 1 armorer and tools. War Department, 26/h June, 1793. Sin: My last letter to you was dated the 14th ultimo, and transmitted by Colonel Winchester, a duplicate of which is enclosed. Since which, I have received your several letters, dated the 9th, 23d, and 24th ultimo. The measure of ordering Major Beard's party to the Cumberland settlements, for their protection, appears to have been highly proper, and, it is to be hoped, will be attended with salutary effects. It is difficult to foresee the precise result of the late unprovoked and unexpected outrages of some of the Lower Creeks, on the frontiers of Georgia. Mr. Seagrove had excited a very different expectation. The Governor of Georgia has ordered into the field a considerable force of militia, but, as it is presumed he will only act.upon the defensive, and the frontiers only be invaded by small parties of savages, it is probable lie will find one hundred horse, and the same number of infantry, which he has been authorized to call into service, under the orders of Major Gaither, as sufficient for defensive purposes as a greater body of men. It really seems as if no permanent arrangement of peace could be made with the savage tribes, liable as they are / to the impulses of bad men, and to other policy than that of the United States. The very Indians, who no longer ago than the last autumn were prevented from suffering the extremes of hungeiyby the bounties of the United Stales, were, by information, of the number who have recently been either stealing horses or murdering defenceless women and children. Although these hostilities may be attributed to a particular cause, yet there are reasons of a powerful nature, as connected with the present state of European politics, which prevent a public development. Among a number of inevitable evils, the least is to be chosen. But the time may arrive when both the interest anil dignity of the United States may render it expedient and proper to unfold the causes of the evils which are at present suffered by our frontier citizens. In the mean time, it is the part of wisdom to accommodate to present circumstances. It may be depended upon, that the President of the United States has the protection of the exposed parts of the frontiers near to his heart, and that it will afford him great satisfaction when they shall be in perfect security. Humanity would rejoice were this security to be the effect of pacific arrangements with the Indians, founded upon the principles of justice and humanity. The commissioners appointed to treat with the Northern tribes, at Lower Sandusky, arrived at Niagara the latter part of May; but they received information that the Indians would not be ready to assemble until towards the first of July. This detention, among other causes, has been probably owing principally to the desire to wait the arrival of the Shawanese ambassadors. What will be the event of this treaty cannot be conjectured at present; nor will it he known until some time in September. If the Cherokees shall certainly have refused to enter into the confederacy, as well as the Upper Creeks which you mentioned, it may have a good effect to induce the Northern Indians to be moderate in their conduct. _ It would probably be attended with tire happiest effects should you be able to persuade the principal chiefs of the Cherokees to repair to this place. And at no time has there been so fair a prospect of their compliance, as at the time you wrote. If you are so fortunate as to effect this object, you will give me timely information of the visit. As Mr. Allison will shortly return, I propose to transmit you by him a sum of money, to defray the expenses of the journey of the said Indians. The persons who fired on the friendly Indians, near your house, deserve, and I am persuaded will receive, severe punishment; at least it is to be expected that nothing within your power will be omitted to bring them to the punishment which the laws shall decide they merit. I have the honor to he, &c. Governor Bi.ount. W ar Department, August 2,6th, 1395. Sir; _ . I am instructed,by the President of the United States, to express to you his extreme concern at the late violent and lawless inroads of several parties of whites, from the Southwestern territory, into die peaceable part of the Cherokee nation. He requests that you would, upon your return, make known his sentiments on the occasion, and that you would use your highest exertions, that the authors and perpetrators of such disgraceful outrages should be brought to immediate trial, and receive the punishment which die law shall direct. Unless such crimes be punished in an exemplary manner, it will be in vain for the Government to make further attempts to establish any plan or system for the administration of Indian affairs, founded on the principles of moderation and justice. Treaties will be at an end,; and violence and injustice will be the arbiters of all future disputes between the whites and the neighboring tribes of Indians; and, of consequence, much innocent blood will be shed, and the frontiers depopulated. It will, therefore, behove every man in the Southwestern territory, who wishes to live under a government of law and order, to exert himself in obedience to the directions you may issue for the trial and punishment of the offences, which have' been recently committed against the Indians. If too many of the inhabitants of your government have not been concerned in the outrages in question, and, if it be possible for the majority to persevere in a reasonable line of conduct, it will then become a subject of your deliberation to pacify, if possible, the injured" Indians. If the laws should condemn the offenders, and the powers of government should be sufficiently strong to execute the laws, it is possible the Indians may be satisfied, because they would then see that the promises made to them were not mere delusions. But, if this should not be the case, you will be constrained to have recourse to other expedients, which, although it is highly proper they should be tried, the result may be doubtful. In order, therefore, that you may avail yourself of any favorable disposition of the Indians, David Allison, the storekeeper and paymaster, has been furnished with the quantity of goods you have estimated for this purpose, amounting to five thousand seven hundred and eighty-four dollars and seventy-one cents. It is, however, to be understood, that you are not to issue these goods to the Indians, unless it shall be apparent to you that it will have the effect to pacify the relations of the murdered Indians, and thereby prevent further hostilities. The Executive ol the United States are anxiously desirous of a peace with the neighboring Indian tribes, for the many reasons, which hare been given to you, both verbally and in writing. But, if the United States are constrained to enter into a war with any tribes, it ought to be under the auspices of justice, as it is not to be supposed for a moment that they will support the expenses of a war brought on the frontiers by the wanton, blood thirsty disposition ol our own people, or any other unjustifiable conduct. You will please to be frequent in your communications of all circumstances necessary to be known to the President of the United States, and you will please to bear strongly in your mind, always, that nothing can be more satisfactory to him than peace with the Indian tribes, founded in humanity and justice. Letter from the Secretary of JVur to Daniel Smith, Esq. Secretary of the Territory qf the United Stales south of the river Ohio, dated 27th August, 1793. Sir; Your several letters of the 17th June, 19th'. 27th. and 30th July, with their several enclosures, have been submitted to the President of the United .States. The excesses which you state, are a subject of extreme regret to the President of the United States, and seem almost to preclude the hope of establishing order and peace, upon the frontiers, between the whites and the Indians. Your situation must have been painful indeed, to have been a w itness of such lawless violence, without possessing the power of remedying them. However, your good intentions, and the approbation of the President of the United States, must be to you a great consolation. It is unnecessary to be particular in replying to your letters, as Governor Blount, who wall be the bearer of this letter, will be charged with instructions from the President, to endeavor, by' every possible means, to establish order in his government. Message from the Secretary of War to the Hanging Maw, sent by Governor Blount. Brothers: Your father, General W ashington, the President of the United States, has directed me to acknowledge the receipt oUyour message, dated at Uoyatee. the 15th of June last. Be assured, Brothers, that the misfortune that has befallen you, has deeply afflicted your father the President, w ho desires that his reel children should be treated with the same humanity and justice as his white children. He expresses his highest indignation at the base attack which has been made upon you during the moments of peace: lie has directed Governor Blount to endeavor, by the course of the law, to bring the perpetrators of that wicked affair to full punishment. It is sincerely desired by the President that those bad men should not escape the law, and that you should sec or know, from evidence upon w hich y ou could rely, that justice has been done you and your nation. But, Brothers, while the laws are the protection of all good men among us, yet, sometimes, the bad escape unpunished, by the cunning of the criminals, or for want of strong evidence. In such cases, we do not permit an individual who has been wronged to be his own avenger. This is never allowed among the w hites, w hen the society is well regulated. _ _ (Now, Brothers, listen! If the laws should not condemn the murderers of your friends, is there no other mode by which you could be satisfied? Governor Blount w ill talk to you upon this point, and endeavor to find some mode by which we shall still be friends. It would afford your father great satisfaction to shake you by the hands, this fall, in Philadelphia, and, he hereby, strongly urges you, and the other chiefs of your nation, to undertake the journey. lie will direct that you shall be comfortably accommodated on your way, and farther, upon your arrival here, he flatters himself, that, by being face to face, the remembrance of all former injuries will be. done away, and that w e may establish a firm and lasting peace and friendship. Given at the city of Philadelphia, this twenty-seventh of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three. II. KNOX, Secretary of War. Letters, with their several enclosures, from Governor Blount to the Secretary of JVur. Knoxville, January 14, 1793. Sin: The better to be understood, in reply to several parts of your letter of the 26th. November, 1 beg leave first to quote them. “ It is considered that, in the minds of the Indians, there must be some pretext for the enmity of the Indians to the Cumberland settlers. I find that the Little Turkey and the Bloody Fellow, when here, and a letter from Mr. McGillivray, of (lie 9th of October, all unite in complaining ot that part of the country;”and request me “ to define explicitly what. ! know on the subject of their claim.” I am happy in having anticipated, in part, the answer to this question, in my letter of the 8th November, and shall now give what information I then omitted, or since obtained on that head. At the beginning, and previous to the late Revolution, the Cherokees lived in towns, either on the head waters of the Savannah River, (Keowee and Tngelo) or on the Tennessee, above the mouth of Holston. At that time, the country which now forms the counties of Franklin and Elbert, in Georgia,, several of the western counties of South Carolina, several of the western counties of North Carolina, the district of Washington, in the territory south of the Ohio, and a part of the district of Washington, in Virginia, were a part of their hunting grounds; the remainder of it was down the Tennessee, on the south side; they very rarely went on the Cumberland waters, and when they did, they considered themselves as hunting on grounds not their own. At that time they had no need of the Cumberland country to hunt in, forthey had enough of a much more open and agreeable country. That, in the year 1776, General Williamson marched an army Irotn South Carolina, and destroyed the towns on the Keowee and Tugelo. among them old Seneca, a very principal one, and erected fort Rutledge on its ruins. That General Rutherford marched another, from North Carolina, and Colonel Christian, a third, from Virginia, and destroyed most of the principal ones on the Tennessee. That, shortly after the return of these armies, two treaties were held with the Cherokees, one at Duet’s corner, by commissioners appointed by the States of South Carolina and Georgia, at w hich a large tract of country was claimed by these two States, and ceded by the right of conquest. The other at the. Long Island of Holston, by commissioners appointed by the States of North Carolina and Virginia, at w hich also a large tract of country was ceded to these two States, are facts with which you cannot be unacquainted. The lands by these, treaties ceiled, are those above mentioned, on which the western counties of Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, and the district of Washington, in this territory, are formed. The Cherokees being thus burnt out of their towns, and by these treaties very much curtailed in their hunting grounds to the eastward and northward, shortly began to erect new towns, lower down the Tennessee, and on the waters ol Mobile river. The most bold and active part settled on a creek called Chickamauga, 100 miles below the mouth ol Holston. The whole of this party being averse to peace, attended neither of the treaties. This afforded a pretext to the parts ot the nation that did. to say, whenever injuries were done to the citizens of the United States, commit them who would, that it was the Chickamaugas, and would often add, as a proof of their sincerity, why did not the white people cu them oil? they were murderers and thieves, and they who treated had nothing to do with them. In the year 1782 they abandoned Chickamauga creek, believing it was infested with witches; some returned to the old towns, others went lower down the Tennessee, 40 miles, and laid the foundation of the five towns, now generally called the five Lower towns on the Tennessee, to which since have repaired and settled, the young and active, more or less from every town in the nation, and have now become the most formidable part of it, not only from their disposition to commit injuries on the citizens of the United States, but from their ability to perform it. Every move made down the Tennessee was so much nearer the Cumberland settlements, which were formed in the year 1780, consequently the Cumberland lands became more an object with them, and especially so, as they had ceded such large quantities, which were actually their own: that is, unclaimed by any other tribe at the before mentioned treaties. I have given this account of the settlements of the Cherokees at the commencement of the. Revolution, their then hunting grounds, and the progress of their settlements since, down the Tennessee, to shew the inprobability of their claiming the Cumberland lands at that time, and the probable reason why they have since done it, I shall now oiler some reasons, shewing that the right to the Cumberland lands, at the time the Revolution commenced. lay in the Chickasaws, in preference to the Cherokees. 1st. The Chickasaws, prior to the Revolution, (how long I do not know) lived a considerable part, if not the whole, (and which I know not) on the north side of (he Tennessee, at least fitly miles lower down the Tennessee than the present lowest Cherokee town. The greatest contiguity to hunting grounds, and the prior use of them, seems to be the best claim Indians can establish to them. 2d. The Chickasaws claimed and ceded the Cumberland lands at the treaty held by Bonnelson and Martin, (I believe) under the authority of Virginia, in the year 1782. 3d. They did the same by the treaty of Hopewell, as well as the Cherokees.- 4th. They did the same at the late conference at Nashville, in presence of the Cherokee agents, who did not deny their claim; they only said, they did not know before, that red people divided land like white people. 5th. That, when the minutes of the conversation that passed at the late conference at Nashville, was read at Estanaula, the Cherokees there present admitted the Chickasaw claim was just. James Carey, the interpreter, first gave me this information, as it has since been confirmed by George Paris. Paris bore a captain’s commission in Brown’s Florida rangers, and is a man of veracity. 6th. A Cherokee chief, at the treaty of Long Island of Ilolston, expressed himself in the following words: “ You, Carolina Dick, (Richard Henderson) have deceived your people; you told them we sold you the Cumberland lands; we only sold you our claim; they belong to our brothers, the Chickasaws, as far as the head-waters of Duck and Elk rivers.” For this quotation I am indebted to Colonel Tatham, of Richmond, who recorded the proceedings of that treaty. It will be observed that the line here described well agrees with that described as bounding the claim of,the Chickasaws, by the Mountain Leader, at the conference at Nashville. Against the claim of the Cherokees to the Cumberland lands, may be ottered, that the Northern tribes have ceded all the lands north of the Tennessee, by two or more treaties, to the crown of Great Britain. By the Little Turkey’s complaint, ( understand you to allude to his speecii made in the council at Estanaula, in June last, because I have neither seen nor heard any thing else of or from him that could be so understood. I have since asked John Thompson, the interpreter, and the Little Turkey’s bosom friend, what he could mean or intend by such a speech, adding, that he certainly must know the President could not grant him the line lie asked. Thompson answered, yes, the Turkey knew it very well; he only meant to please the young warriors, who were always grumbling that the old chiefs had sold their land, and they had none to hunt on. The nature of the Indian government, or, more properly, the total want of it, often subjects the chiefs or headmen to the necessity of acting as the Turkey appears to have done on this occasion. There is ever among them, young warriors, wishing to rise into consequence, and nothing so like to effect it as complaining against chiefs tor having sold their hunting grounds. This, at once, pulls down the chiefs, makes way for themselves, and gives them popularity with the young and rising part of the nation, with whom alone popularity is of any worth; and such is the tear of the head-men of losing their consequence, that it is very rare that one of them, on such occasions, will declare they did sell lands: and, if they do admit they did, to save their consequence, will say they were wrong advised by some bad man, or deceived by the purchaser, and, in either case. Indians do not consider the bargain binding. I will recite, a circumstance within my own knowledge: At the return of the head-men from the treaty of Hopewell, finding the ceding of lands to the south of Cumberland was displeasing to the young warriors, they declared that the Cumberland river was the line, and that they had ceded no lands to the south of it; and at the treaty of Holston, the Hanging Maw, who was a signer to that of Hopewell, had the assurance, in council, to deny, in iny presence, who was a witness, that the Cherokees, by the treaty of Hopewell, had ceded any lands south of Cumberland, and to insist that the Cumberland was the line, and alter, in private, confessed to me that lie knew the line did go to the soutli of Cumberland, as I had asserted, but, he was obliged to deny it before the young warriors. Under these circumstances, it is not to be wondered at, that the .young and rising generation should claim the lands which their predecessors have fairly ceded. They ever have, and probably ever will, while their present want of government exists. I shall now make some observations on (lie speech itself of the Little Turkey. He only expresses a wish that the line should run as he described, not upon the principles that he claims the land such a line would give, but on the score of pity, and in consideration of the Long Island of Holston, to which, he says, lie has a just claim, and which he would give in exchange. At the treaty held at that island, the Cherokees certainly reserved it as a place to hold beloved talks forever, although they ceded a body of lands lying below it. At the treaty of Hopewell, where lands were also ceded lying below* that island, they made no exception, nor said any thing about it, until the treaty was signed. At the treaty of Holston, Watts spoke of the claim to it, and I believe would not have signed the treaty, had I not promised him that the matter should be stated to the President, and he would do what was just on the occasion. 1 conceived that I had complied with my promise by forwarding the minutes, or journal, of that treaty, and, in the additional annual allowance of five hundred dollars, I had supposed a consideration for the island was intended by the President. That the Bloody Fellow complained against the Cumberland settlers, when at Philadelphia, I was never before informed. Upon what ground M’Gillivray can found his complaints, I am at a loss even to conjecture. Unquestionably, the Creeks have no claim to the Cumberland lands, nor from any thing I have ever heard, to a foot of land on the north side of Tennessee. There is not a Creek village within less than two hundred miles of the Cumberland settlements, and M’Gillivray himself, who may be said to live in the centre of the Upper Creeks, is at least three hundred miles distant from Cumberland. The facts respecting the Cumberland settlers and the Creeks, are, the Creeks, since the treaty of New York,'have killed many of the Cumberland settlers in their houses, and about their ordinary business, regardless of age or sex; that they have carried into captivity Miss Thompson, a young lady of handsome fortune, and Mrs. Cafray, and her child, whom they treat as slaves; and, that they have stolen hundreds of their horses; that the Cumberland settlers have never done the Creeks any injury, except in defence of themselves, or in immediate pursuit of such as have injureil them. In this, I see no cause of complaint on the side of the Creeks. Enclosed is a copy of a letter from M’Gillivray tome, in which he expresses his approbation of the treaty of Holston. If the Creeks had claimed any part of the lands ceded by the Cherokees, instead of approving, would he not have disapproved, both of the treaties of Hopewell and Holston? You will recollect I have forwarded to your office copies of two letters which I wrote him; the first by your order, on the subject of the injuries done the Cumberland people by the Creeks, both of which have been delivered to him, but to neither have I received an answer. This is mentioned to inform you that he has failed, on his part, in that friendly correspondence you recommended to us. t .*93.] THE CREEKS. CHEROKEES. AND OTHERS 40-J Is it known to you that the Cherokees, constantly, and without interruption, and sometime? a part of the Creeks, hunt on a large space of the best hunting grounds in America, containing at least from live to six millions of acres, which the}' have long since ceded, that is, the unsettled country between Virginia and Kentucky, and between Kentucky and Cumberland? This is an indulgence for which they ought to be thankful, instead of complaining, without a cause, of encroachments. To conclude on this head, I declare that I hat e never heard, or been informed, of any complaints from the Cherokee nation, or any part or member thereof, against the Cumberland settlers, except the speech of the Little Turkey may be so understood. Again you say: “ The number of militia which you appear to have called into service, might probably, at the moment oi* danger, have appeared to be necessary, and justifiable by the occasion, but it is of the highest importance they should not have been in service any longer titan circumstances render indispensable.' This is a point to which I am directed to request your serious attention. ‘‘ Rut prior to the expected invasion in September, it has appeared, at this distance, that rather a greater force has been kept up than the danger rendered indispensable for defensive protection.” To the last paragraph, as it is first in point of time, I 'hall first reply. That you may perfectly understand the situation of Mero district, which this force was principally kept up to protect. 1 will give you a description of it. The settlements of Mem district extend up and down the Cumberland river, from east to west, about eighty-five miles, and the extreme width, front north to south, does not exceed twenty five miles, and its general width does not exceed hall that distance, and. not only the country surrounding the extreme frontier, but the interior part (w hich is to be found only by comparison with the more exposed part) is covered generally with thick and high cane, and a heavy growth of large timber, and where there happens to be no cane, with thick underwood, which afford the Indians an opportunity of laying days and weeks in any and every part of the district, in wait near the houses, and of doing injuries to the inhabitants, when they themselves are so hid or secured that they have no apprehensions of injuries being done in return, and they escape from pursuit, ev en though it is immediate. This district has an extreme frontier of at least two hundred miles. The protection of that district, the most difficult to protect in the Union, of its size, as well as every other part of the territory south of the Ohio, was confided to me by the President. This placed me between the Government and the people of the territory, answerable to the Government that I did not incur too great an expense in giving protection to the frontier inhabitants, nor yet suffer them to be killed or robbed of their property: and to the people themselves, who looked to me, from the nature of my appointment, that I should not Miller them to be murdered and robbed. A recurrence to the list of killed and wounded, forwarded to your office with my letter ot the '28th November. I trust, will afford sufficient evidence of the indispensable necessity for keeping up the force by ine ordered prior to the invasion: and. comparing the protection given by the Federal Government, to the frontiers of Georgia. Virginia, and Pennsylvania, with the sufferings of their citizens. I conceived mysell not only justified in giv ing the protection I did, to the frontiers of this territory, but that it was my indispensable duty so to do. The greatest force ever afforded the exposed and suffering frontiers of Mero district, at one time, was two hundred and twenty-five. Besides the example of the protection given to the other frontiers by the Federal Government, and a knowledge of the sufferings of the people of Mero district, was the clamor c.f the people against the Government for not giving protection, which alone appeared to render the degree of protection I gave that district indispensable. I can truly say. all faith appeared to be lost in Government, until Sharpe's battalion was ordered into serv ice. If the observations, on the little u?e of block-houses, or stationary troops, are intended to point out the impropriety of my disposition of the troops ordered into service for the protection of Mero district, I beg leave to request your attention to my order to Major Sharpe, by which you will see. that the persons at the block-houses were directed to patrol and reconnoitre. &c. which was done for the protection of the frontiers: and. as a justification of my disposition of them, to inform you that it met the approbation of the people they were intended to protect. The blockhouses were only intended ns barracks for them, and to give an advanced situation from the frontier houses, from which they could range with more advantage than from the frontier houses. Morgan's and Nash's companies, who immediately preceded Sharpe's battalion in service, ranged from the frontier houses, and. it was believed, had not afforded so great a degree of protection, as they would have done from block-houses more advanced on the frontiers. The necessity of a Major or field-officer, in preference of independent companies, was. that the troops w ere from Washington, altogether unacquainted with the frontiers of Mero district. Major Sharpe was of Mero district, and perfectly acquainted with the frontiers: and. besides, there appeared to me a necessity for such an officer, to pass from station to station, to see that the officers at the respective stations did their duty. I come now to reply to the first paragraph; by which I understand. I am called upon to assign reasons for ordering and continuing in service the militia, commanded by Brigadier General Sevier. The time when ordered into service, and when discharged. I have already informed yon: their greatest number, as appears by General Sevier's monthly report, was eight hundred and thirty. My reason- for ordering them into service were, that I had received authentic information, contained in the letters of the Little Turkey, other principal chiefs, the interpreters Thompson and Carey, and in the narratives of Jo. Deraque. and Richard Finnelson. that the five Lower Cherokee (owns had declared war against the United States: that they would be joined by a large number of Creeks, and that, with their united force, they would immediately attack the frontiers of this territory, and that both were supported by the Spaniards. My reasons for continuing them in service, were to give protection to the people of this territory, which had been confided to me, in their persons and property, against a numerous body of Indians, who had declared war against them, not only in words, in a more formal manner than Indians ever did. to my knowledge, before, but by a powerful invasion of a part of the territory, by at least seven hundred warriors, headed by the bold and enterprising John Watts, and by many other acts of hostility. Let it be supposed I had discharged the militia, and the party who had declared war, and from whom I had no right to expect any tiling but war. had fallen on the unprotected citizens, should I not have deserved, and received, the heaviest censure of the Federal Government, and the execrations of the people? It is a received opinion, that nothing inclines people at war more readily to peace, than a belief that the adverse party are also prepared; this afforded another reason, and, I trust, the effect will be found to justify the measure. It will, no doubt, be observed, that General Seviers brigade of militia is not equal to a regular regiment in numbers, consequently, that there must have been an over-proportion of officers. In reply to this I have to inform you, that the militia were called out under the militia-law of North Carolina, and I conceived it essential to form them into a brigade, otherwise I could not have had the services of General .Sevier, whose name carries more terror to the Cherokees, than an additional regiment would have done. I have the honor (o be, Stc. MeGiUivraf s letter. enclosed in the foregoing. Little Tallassee. 50th July, 1T91. Sir: I had the pleasure of your letter, by Captain Heth. _The Little Turkey sent in a copy of the treaty, for my information; in return, I sent him a talk approving of the same, with some advice to have the same observed, and which will be given out in the beloved town of Estanaula. where a general meeting is to be held in next month. I observe what you say respecting the establishment of a post on Rear creek. Such a measure would immediately give discontent to the Indians, as they would suppose it was a beginning of the intended settlements of the Georgia company; so, in my opinion, it had better be deferred for a time. Young Thompson informs me of some conversation that happened between you, respecting his acting in a public capacity. lie is of a considerable family, and well liked by the Turkey and his party. I therefore take the liberty of advising to put him in office. I am, with respectful regard, &c. Knoxville, January 24th, 1793. Sir: I enclose you minutes of a conversation between Captain Handley and myself, as information respecting the strength and disposition of the five Lower towns of the Cherokees, and of the disposition of the Upper Creeks towards the Cumberland settlers. It appears, the party that attacked Captain Handley on the 23d day of November, on Cumberland mountain, on his way, with forty-two men of his company, to the district of Mero, there to act on the frontiers, for the defence thereof, consisted of fifty-six Cherokees, Creeks, and Northwards, mostly of the former, commanded by the Middle Striker, a signer of the treaty of Ilolston. They treated him very roughly, after their manner, until the thirteenth day of his captivity, when it was determined in council, at Will’s town, on the third day of its sitting, that his life should be spared, and after, in a most brotherly manner, from the Lower to the Upper towns, he was escorted, by the Middle Striker himself, and eleven other warriors, who went from the Upper to the Lower towns for that purpose; to each of whom I have thought it good policy to give, at this critical time, four covers, a blanket, a shirt, a pair of leggins, a flap, and binding for the two latter. "Watts committed his answer, to my letter of the 26th day of December? to an Indian who came up with Handley, with orders to deliver it to the_Hanging Maw, and lor the Maw to bring it to me, which, as yet, he has delayed to do, owing to his being too indisposed to ride. But, from the information I have received from Captain Handley, and Arthur Coody, who lives in the lower towns, and came with him, the same who was interpreter at the treaty of Hopewell, and before a British interpreter, and John Thompson, who is also here, I have the most sanguine hopes that the measures I have and shall take, will bring about a peace with the Cherokees. Coody agrees with Captain Handley in the account of one hundred and fifty Creeks having lately gone against Cumberland. I have the honor to be, &c. Minutes of a conversation between Governor Blount and Captain Handley, just returned from captivity among the Cherokees. Governor Blount.—During your captivity with the Cherokees, in the Lower towns, did you become acquainted with John McDonald? * Captain Handley.—Yes. G. B.—Did you become acquainted with Alexander Campbell? t C. If.— Yes. G. B.—Did you experience any civilities and friendship, from both, or either? C. H.—Yes, very great from both—all their situation admitted of. G. B.—Do you suppose they wish peace with the United States? C. II.—1 am confident they both wish it. G. B.—Did you hear buth, or either of them, say, whether or not the Spanish officers had encouraged the Indians to go to war, or whether they gave them ammunition? C. H.—They at first denied both; but afterwards, in conversation, they acknowledged they had learned that the Spanish Governor told them, that he did not bid them go to war, but, if they were imposed upon, then he would furnish them with arms, ammunition, and men, to recover their country to the old line—the line made by the British. G. B. What do you suppose to be the numbers of the five Lower towns? C. II. Messrs. McDonald, Campbell, and Adair, compute them at seven hundred, exclusive of old men; that Watts had had a list drawn, and'that appeared to be the number. G. B. Did they appear to be well armed? C. H. Yes; taking them collectively, better than I ever saw the same number of militia men. G. B. Have they any powder and lead in store? C. II. Plenty. G. B. From whence do you suppose they obtained their ammunition? C. II. From the Spaniards, so they say. G. B. Did you understand that the Indians had formed any companies of cavalry? C. H. Yes; three companies. G. B. Who commands them? C. II. John Taylor and Will. Shory command two, the third I do not know. G. B. Did you see any swords and pistols among them? C. H. Yes; I saw some. The pistols and holsters were new, the swords were of the British dragoon kind. G. B. During your captivity did you see or hear of any parties of Creeks passing through the nation, for war against Cumberland? ' 'C. II. Yes; I heard of several, particularly one of 150 lately. G. B. "Was it understood in the Lower Towns, that the Creeks were at peace with the United States? C. //. No; it was understood the Upper were at war with the United States. G. B. Do you think Watts is sincere in his overtures for peace? C. II. Yes; except as to Cumberland. It is my opinion that small parties of Creeks and Cherokees will continue to infest that district. i Knoxville, February 1, 1793. * Sir: I have the honor to enclose you a copy of my order to Lieutenant Colonel Kelly, of the 23d, of my proclamation of the 28th, and of a letter from Colonel White, of the 30th ultimo; by which you will be informed, that a second attempt lias been made by a number of people to invade the Cherokee country, and the result. Previous to the issuing the proclamation, great exertions were made by myself, and every influential character, public and private, that I could move on the occasion, not only at Gamble’s, (where I was in person on the 27th) but in every other suspected part of the country, to prevent the people from collecting together; otherwise, there is abundant reason to believe, there would have been at Gamble’s at least three hundred, instead of eighty or one hundred; and, admitting “ a mistaken zeal to serve their country” had been the cause of their gathering, I am apprehensive they would not have dispersed before they had destroyed as many as they could of the Cherokee towns. I can * McDonald was a deputy superintendent under Colonel Brown, now certainly has a perfect knowledge of what the Spaniards say to the Cherokees, and possesses much of the confidence of the Lower towns. f Campbell is an old British trader, who possesses a large share of the confidence of the Lower towns. truly say, my feelings were never more agitated than they were on this occasion. I considered my reputation as an officer, in a great measure, the reputation of the country over which I have the honor to preside, and my prospects of returning peace, all at stake upon the event. Besides giving orders to Colonel AN hite to order out part of the infantry of his regiment, to act eventually in case the party persisted in their determination to invade the towns, I found it necessary to order a lieutenant of cavalry and fifteen men to range from Holston to Little river, on the frontiers. This destroyed one of their strongest arguments, “ that they had no protection.” Two such bold attempts to violate the existing treaty between the Cherokees and the United States, seem in strong terms to point out the propriety and necessity of some tribunal being established in this country for the trial of offenders against treaties. The judges of this territory have informed me they have no authority to try offenders of that description. I have the honor to be, &c. Order to Lieutenant Colonel Kelly. Knoxville, January 23, 1793. Sir: I have heard and lament the killing of Pate as much as any man. Captain Ted ford informs me, the people in the neighborhood where he was killed, are so incensed, that they are determined to fall on the near towns, for, what is foolishly termed, satisfaction; the folly and ill consequences of such conduct must be evident to you. It would be punishing the innocent for the guilty; it would be bringing on a general war at a time when I have no force in the field, and when there is not provision to be had to support one, and will be a daring insult to Government, that must not go unpunished. You, sir, on the receipt of this letter, will consider it as my order for proceeding without delay to Captain Joseph Ted ford, and from thence to such place or places on the frontiers, as you shall judge most proper, to prevent any citizen or citizens of the United States, living on the frontiers, or elsewhere, from going with arms into any town or towns of the Indians, and from crossing the river Tenuessee. You are, as a civil and military officer of the' country, to forbid their crossing the Tennessee, or entering any Indian town. 1 intreat you, as you value peace, order, and the good of the people at large, and particularly of the party attempting to go into the nation, that you use your influence and authority to prevent them from going into the towns. I am, &c. By William Blount, Governor in and over the territory of the United States, South of the river Ohio: A PROCLAMATION. Whereas I have received certain information, that a number of disorderly, ill disposed persons, are about to collect themselves together, with an intention to go into the Upper Cherokee towns, on the Tennessee, to destroy the same^ and kill the inhabitants thereof, regardless of law, human and divine, and subversive of the peace and order o! Government: Now, 1, the said William Blount, Governor in and over the said territory, do hereby command and require the above described persons, and every of them, immediately to desist from such their intention, and to disperse, and retire peaceably, to their respective abodes, within one hour from the moment of the promulgation of this proclamation: and I do, hereby, command them, and every of them, not to go within the limits of the country guarantied to the said Cherokees by the treaty at Holston, which is in full force and use, as they will answer the contrary at their peril. And I do command all officers, civil and military, to exercise and exert that authority, with which, by law, they are vested, to prevent so daring a violation of the law, and of the existing treaty with the said Cherokee nation. Given under my hand and seal, at Knoxville, in the said territory, this 28th day of January, 1793. WILLIAM BLOUNT. Letter from Lieutenant Colonel White to Governor Blount. Knoxville, January 30th, 1793. Sir: On the 2Sth instant I returned, agreeable to your order, to Gamble's station, accompanied by Lieutenant Colonel Kelly, Captain Singleton, and William Hamilton and John Hackett, justices of the peace; where I found a number of persons, from eighty to one hundred collected, well armed, and plentifully provided with corn for their horses, and provisions for themselves, avowing their determination to go and destroy as many Cherokee towns as they could, and declaring that they momently expected to be joined by a much larger number from different, parts of the district of Washington, offering for reason, that people were frequently killed, and horses daily taken by Indians, while they were unprotected by the Federal Government, and not permitted to take any satisfaction. Upon Mr. McKee's arriving with your proclamation. I read it with a loud voice, to which great attention was paid, and no insult was offered, either to the Government, the proclamation, or the officers of Government. They did not disperse within an hour, as the proclamation required, but determined in the evening that they would, and on the morning of the 29th, actually did, and returned to their respective homes. It is a justice due to these people to inform your Excellency, that the greater part of them appeared to have assembled upon a mistaken zeal to sen e their country, not foreseeing the consequences that would attend such conduct. Pursuant to your order of the 25th, I found it necessary to call into service Captain E win’s company of militia, to have acted eventually in case the party had persisted in their determination of invading the towns; but I am truly happy they did not, and believing they are. returned home perfectly sensible of their error. I have the honor to be, &c. Knoxville, February \clth, 1793. Sir: 'I'lie enclosed list of depredations was received last night from General Robertson, of Mero district. They, in all probability, must have been committed by the Creeks, mentioned as having passed the Tennessee on their way to Cumberland, by Captain Handley, and no doubt aided by a part, of the Lower Cherokees. The General speaks in strong terms of the distress of the people, of that district on the occasion, which I consider unnecessary to repeat, as it can as easily be conceived as expressed. Since writing you on the 1st instant, I have despatched Mr. John McKee, a particular friend and acquaintance of Watts, to him, to stay with and about him, in order to use his influence to the establishment of peace; Mr. McKee stands also high in the esteem of the other chiefs of the Lower towns, and is a man from whom every thing may be expected by the Government., that can be expected from any man in such a character, and the better to enable him to succeeil in the objects of his mission, I furnished him with some Indian articles, to be disposed of as from himself, to Watts and other leaders of the war party. To have given them directly from the Government would have appeared in the eyes of those who had behaved friendly, as a reward for murdering and stealing, and might encourage or provoke them to do likewise. I have the honor to be, &c. d list of murders and depredations committed by Indians, from the 16th to the ‘■26th January, 1793, in the District of Mcro. I()//;.—Colonel Hugh Tinnan, badly wounded on the north side of Cumberland, not far from Clarksville. 18th.—Major Evan Shelby, brother of Governor Shelby* James Harris, and a negro of Moses Shelby’s, killed, and a number of horses taken on the north side of the Cumberland, near the mouth of Red river. ‘ 10th.—Two boys fired on in a canoe on the Cumberland, near Clarksville, of the. name of Davidson. 22d.—Captain William Overall and-----Burnet killed on the track from Kentucky to Cumberland, at the Drip- ping spring. The flesh was cut from the bones of Overall and carried oft'; nine horses loaded with goods and whiskey, were taken at the same time. They were pursued as far as Cumberland river, without being overtaken. 24th.—A salt boat from Kentucky and a French pirogue, were tired on, on the Cumberland, at the mouth of Half pone. In the salt boat, killed Malachia Gaskinsand David Crow: wounded John McLugen in five places: his life is despaired of. Robert Wells, his arm broke; St. Clair Pruet, shot through the knee; since dead.- In the French boat, two killed and one mortally wounded. 26th.—Thomas Heaton and Anthony Bledsoe, son of Colonel Anthony Bledsoe, both shot through the body, but are yet living, on the north side of Cumberland, near Nashville. Knoxville, March 20th, 1793. Sir: The enclosed report, and information of James Carey, one of the interpreters of the United States for the Cherokees, and a copy of a letter from a Mr. Townsend, contain the last information I have received from the Creek and Cherokee nations. The information they contain, is of so important and alarming a nature, that I have, judged it necessary to forward it to you express by Mr. Carey himself, who can more fully explain to you verbally, the grounds on which he has given his answers to my questions, than could possibly be done on paper. Truth, in all inquiries, is hard to obtain, and, in none in which I have been engaged, so much so as in what respects Indians. Of all people, they use the most deception, and are greater masters of it: but Mr. Carey, from his long and intimate habits, understanding their language, and connexion with them, has a perfect knowledge of their present intentions, and from the many proofs I have had of his veracity and his firm attachment to the United States in preference of the Spaniards, although I have every reason to believe greater offers have been made him, induce me to pay full credit to what he says. Enclosed,also, is a list of the murders committed near this place, on the.10th and 18th instant, and lately on the Kentucky road. _ I have not heard from Cumberland, Mere district, since my letter to yon of the 12th February, enclosing a list of murders and depredations, from the 16th to the 26th of January, a duplicate of which is enclosed.- My apprehensions for the unhappy, exposed,ail'd too defenceless people of that district, founded on the information of Carey, on similar information respecting Cumberland from the Hanging Maw-, on the delay of an express, (James Donelson) to'return to me, and on the non-arrival of several parties who have been expected here, since the 25th of the past month, are very great, and truly distressing—I mean as to what they must have already suffered. The two young men killed on the 19th, were no doubt killed by the party mentioned in Carey’s answer to my dth question. Oneof thalparty lives next door neighbor to the Hanging Maw, within thirty miles of this place. If there is a friendly Indian in the Cherokee nation to the United .States, it is the Maw-, and lie is a very great beloved man. Yet, his next neighbor, with others of the nearest towns, have killed Uvo innocent, unarmed young men, or rather lads. This affords a strong proof, that the old men, w ho are, ostensibly, the rulers of the nation, have no real government over the young warriors. These recent murders, committed on the frontiers of the counties of Jefferson and Knox, have induced, I may say compelled me, to order out rangers for the protection thereof. Notwithstanding which, several families have quitted their habitations and crossed the French Broad, and such as have not, are generally collected'at stations or blockhouses, for their common defence. In fact, such have been the fears of the frontier inhabitants, who, generally, from a variety of concurrent circumstances, understand the true disposition of the Indians, that they have not left the stations to which they collected, immediately after the declaration of war in September. Tim compulsion to turn out rangers, beside the absolute necessity for defence, was the quieting the people, whose sense of injuries is such, that it is with the utmost difficulty they can be restrained from embodying, going and destroying the Cherokee towns, as many as may be in their power, and, particularly, about the time these murders w-ere committed. John Tipton, heretofore Colonel of Washington county, was actually using his endeavors to raise a large party, for that purpose, and boasted that he should be joined by at least nine hundred. His rendezvous was Jones-borough, about seven miles from his ow-n house, on the 10th instant, where only five men appeared. This so discouraged him, that he did not proceed towards the frontiers only a few miles. But, had he have come on at this unfortunate moment, it is to be feared that he would have been joined by a number of the frontier people. The judges, upon my causing proof to be made of the intentions of Mr. Tipton to disturb the peace and order of government, have issued a warrant for apprehending him, which is probably, before this, executed. They have also issued warrants against several other turbulent characters, who appeared to be engaged with him. What is to be the future fate ofthe unhappy Cumberland settlers, judging from their past and the prssent impending danger, is a very serious question, not only to themselves, but to me, to whom their protection is confided. My first step will be, to give Gen. Robertson notice of the danger that awaits the district, and the necessary orders for the best possible state of defence that the number of the militia and the exposed and dangerous frontier will admit of. And, should I not receive information, that the intended invasion is desisted from, I shall order a body of cavalry or mounted infantry from the district, to their relief, to rendezvous at Southwest Point, between the 10th and 15th of the ensuing month, and to march in such direction as to intercept the Indians on the track that leads from the Lower towns to Nashville, as they advance, or to pursue them so closely in their rear, to the Cumberland settlements, as to afford those distressed and much injured people relief. At this time, I am informed of----Taylor’s being killed this morning, at Pidgeon, Jefferson county, by Indians. Many guns were tired at him; ,so many, that those within hearing of them, thought the adjacent station had been attacked in force. Before this reaches you, I presume Mr. Shaw will have arrived at Philadelphia, whose conduct will be placed in its due point of view to you, by the report of Mr. Carey, and such other information as he can give you touching his transactions since he left Philadelphia. I shall also say something on that head in my own justification. When I received your letter, authorizing me to discharge him from the service of the United States, if he was guilty, as he had been charged to you, of inebriety and great want of prudence, he was at this place, and the- contents of your letter was made known to him. He pled, that he was here among strangers, without money, without clothes, and without a horse, and, that the two latter were at Seneca, General Pickens’, and assured me lie would immediately return to this place. Motives, as they respected Mr. Shaw, which required a better return than he appears about to make, induced me to lend him a horse and twenty dollars, to enable, him to regain his clothes and horse, and return to this place. The next I heard from him, was a letter, of which you have enclosed a copy. Finding he had returned into the nation, and, that his father-in-law, a fellow called the Half-breed, of some consequence, was attached to him, as tvas natural enough, I thought it imprudent to remove him at so critical a time, and wrote him a letter of instructions on the 8th January, a copy of which you have also enclosed. The [original was delivered him by Mr. Carey, as he will inform you. Whether Mr. Shaw’s conduct will prevent Mr. McKee from engaging a number of chiefs of the war party, to accompany me to Philadelphia, as yon had instructed me, I cannot positively say, as I have not heard from him since his departure, but judging from his conduct, Mr. Carey's information, and the many recent murders and depredations, I conceive no hopes are to be entertained on that head. I have the honor to be, &c. I also enclose you a copy of my letter to Mr. Shaw, of the 7th February, the delivery of which can also be proved by Mr. Carey. e_______ Report of James Carey to Governor Blount. Knoxvii.i.e, March 19th. 1793. Sir: With your letter of the 8th January last, addressed to the head-men and warriors of the Cherokees, the Standing Turkey, the Big Fellow, the Warrior’s Son, George Paris, and myself, proceeded to Estanaula, where the head-men of that part of the nation were assembled, and it was read and explained to them, and met their approbation. They also desired, as you had instructed me, that it should be forwarded to Watts, and the chiefs and warriors of the River towns, meaning the towns situate on the Tennessee. This gave a hope, that the nation would have come into the proposed measure of a conference. Motives of preservation prevented my going with your letter to Watts, but George Paris, the Standing Turkey, the Big Fellow, the Nettle Carrier, the A\ arrior’s Son, and the Broom, went with it, and met Watts at Willstown, where, for want of some person to read it, they could do nothing until Mr. Shaw came, after which, the letter was handed him to read, which was done, and explained to "Watts, who appeared to be satisfied with the contents, as well as the young warriors, and all present. Shortly after, Watts asked Shaw, what he thought o( Governor Blount’s proposals? Shaw answered, that he did not know that the Indians had any right to go to Governor Blount, as he was only a servant of the United States, as he himself was, and, that he ought not to mind Governor Blount or his letters; that they had better apply to Congress, for he knew that the United States, as soon as they had heard rightly how Governor Blount had wronged them out of their lands, he was satisfied they would restore them to the Indians again, and send commissioners to ran the. line to their liking. If you go to treat with Blount, you will be as far from getting your lands as ever; but can't you see. how your lather, the President, wants to treat with you? for times are so with Congress and foreign Powers, that they will treat with you on good terms, and restore you all your lands again. Observe how much better the Lower Creeks are treated than you are; that is because they have got a good man to do for them; that is more than you have got; but this is still unknown to your father the President, who loves all.liis red children; therefore, I request you all not to treat with Governor Blount. You know I was sent here by your father the President, to do you justice, and justice you shall have, as far as in my power; I am sure Congress does not know how you are treated by Governor Blount, neither was the matter fully explained by the Bloody Fellow, and others, when they went to Philadelphia. See how Governor Blount has run the lines, without your knowledge, or being present; heretofore I could notact as I would have wished; Governor Blount prevented me, though I know my authority is as great as his; but I will no longer be controlled by him. I will go to Congress, and recover ■your lands for you, to the old line; which I can easily do, as the lines of Hopewell and Holston have never been run, and I will bring commissioners with me to ran the old line. Upon this, Watts jumped up and took Shaw by the arm, saying, are you an officer among us all this time, and never before told us that our lands were recoverable to the old lines? Your offering is good to us, and we wish you to go to Congress and do it for us; although you arc a i stranger to us, and we to you, yet. if you do that for us, we will then take you by the hand as a brother for ever. Shaw then requested that they would be still during his absence, which would be seventy-live days, and do no injury to the citizens of the United States, but hold themselves in readiness; if he did not get that line, he would return to them, and share the same fate with them; that something must be done, and they ought to be in readiness for the purpose. Shaw toldt hem they ought not to war with each other, for perhaps they would want each other's assistance when he returned; provided he could not recover the lands for them, they must then do the best they could; he would keep nothing hid from them, and would join them in protecting their country. Watts then gave him his word that nothing should he done during that time. Watts then commissioned the Broom, as ambassador from himself and the Lower towns, to go with Shaw to Estanaula, and consult with the Badger and other chiefs there, as to the place where the line should be. AY hen they came to Estanaula, Shaw opened the council, telling them that Watts was opposed to treating with Governor Blount, and urged them to be also of that opinion, mentioning the Governor’s running the line, as cause of the inducement thereto; to which they also agreed, and described the old line to Mr. Shaw, which he has in writing, and taken with him to the Secretary of War, and to which I subscribed as interpreter. It is a justice due to the Indians, who accompanied me, to inform you, that they entered on the business of their mission with great zeal and warmth, and - expressed in strong terms in council their disapprobation of Mr. Shaw’s advice and conduct, and urged the Indians to pursue the wish and proposed plan of Governor Blount, as more advantageous to their nation. The King Fisher, Captain Dick, the Old Prince, and Captain George Miller, joined them in this opinion. They accompanied me as far as Chota, and would have come to this place, had not the recent murders excited an apprehension of danger to their persons from the frontier inhabitants. They will wait at Chota, until they hear from you in expectation of the promised rewards for their services. 1 am, sir. &c. Information by James Carey, one of the interpreters of the United States in the Cherokee nation, to Governor Blount. Knoxvii.i.e, March 20, 1793. 1. Governor Blount.—Have you heard, or do you know of any parties of Cherokees, or Creeks, going lately to Cumberland,to kill or steal? James Carey.—Yes, both; since the 25th February, as many as live parties, one from the Running Water, of eight Cherokees, and six or seven Creeks; another from Long Island village, of Cherokees and Creeks, the number not particularly known, not exceeding sixteen; two other parties from the Look-out, of five Cherokees each; the fifth headed by Tuckalateague or Double Head, consisting of a number not certainly known, but there were eight from Cusawatee, and the remainder from the Look-out. 2. G. B.—Have you heard of any other parties being about to go to Cumberland for war? C.—I have heard, and believe it is true, that forty Creeks had arrived at "Will’s town, thirteen days past, on their way against Cumberland ; and I saw and heard of several small parties, consisting of from three to six, going to that quarter. 3. G. B.—Do you suppose these Creeks will be joined by any Cherokees? J. C.—There is reason to believe they will. i 4. G. B.—Have you heard, or do you know of any Indians, Creeks or Cherokees, intending to commit murders, or steal horses from the district of Washington? J. C.—Yes, I know that nine Cherokees passed the Tennessee at Coyattee on Sunday last, the friends of the Buck and Black F'ish, who were killed at their attack on Byram’s station, declaring they were going for satisfaction for the Buck, and the Black Fish; that they would take hair and horses from the frontiers, towards Clinch, and proceed on and join the Northern nations for war. 50 * 5. G. B.—In what town did these nine fellows live? J. C.—Three are from Hiwasec, one the next door neighbor to the Hanging Maw, one from Toquo, and the others from Chilhowee. (3. G. B.—Did you hear of no other party? J. C.—Fourteen Cherokees lately passed the Tennessee at Chestowee, declaring their determination to take hair and horses on the frontiers of Washington district, and on the Kentucky trace, and proceed on and join the Northern tribes in war. 7. G. B.—From what part of the nation were these fellows? J. C.—Part of them from Coosawattce, some from Hightower, Salicoe, and Long Swamp or Newtown. 8. G. B.—Have you heard or been inlormed of any Creeks coining against the district of Washington, and what part? ./. C.—The head-inau of Hiwasee informed me, that four had passed just before me, intending to take horses and hair on the head waters of the Little river, Knox county. 9. G. B.—Do you know who killed James and Thompson Nelson, on Pigeon, in Jefferson county, on the 10th instant? J. 6’.—The party consisted of six or seven Cherokees, headed by Towaka, of Nickajack, and the Breath's nephew, the same who killed Richardson’s family, near that place, in January last, at whose house they left the war club now in your office. 10. G. B.—Do you know, or have you heard, who it was that killed two people near the Dripping spring, on the road from Kentucky to Cumberland, in January last? They had with them whiskey and other articles, which the Indians who killed them took; the two persons above named, are Captain Overall, and--. ./. C.—Yes, Double-head, and Bob Benge, the Iled-headed half breed, nephew to Watts, and other Cherokees. 11. G. B.—I have heard, that when Double-head, Bob Benge, and others, carried the scalps of these two people into the nation, that war dances were held at several towns. Is it true? J. C.—It is true, first at the Look-out Mountain, then at Will’s town, and lastly at the Turnip Mountain, as there were fellows of the party from each of those towns. 12. G. B.—If the inhabitants of the towns in which these war dances were held, had been opposed to war, or disposed sincerely for peace, would they permit war dances to be held in them in the manner these were held? J. C.—No, they would not. 15. G. B.—There has been a number of murders and depredations committed in the month of January last, on Cumberland, besides the killing of Captain Overall. J. C.—I know that a white man and a negro were killed at a hunting camp, by Cherokees of the Running Water, and that other scalps, and five negroes, have lately been brought into the Lower towns, by Cherokees. 14. G. B.—Do you know, or have you heard of any horses being lately brought into the nation, I mean such as you suspect to be stolen from Cumberland or Kentucky, by Creeks or Cherokees? . 'J. C.—Yes, I do. They may both, with great truth, be said to be in the daily practice of horse-stealing, from those countries. 15. G. B.—In what manner do the Indians dispose of stolen horses? J. C.—Generally they sell them to the traders for a trifle, who run them out of the nation in a diiferent direction to that from whence they came, and barter them of!' for negroes, or articles of merchandise. 16. G. B.— Do you know, or have you heard, in what manner the Creeks received the Shawanese ambassadors, meaning the nine fellows, and the white man who passed the Lower Cherokee towns? J. 'The Creeks have built a new square, in honor of them, to receive their talks, and mean to introduce diem into it, on their backs. 17. G. B.—In what part of the Creek nation is this new square said to be erected; is it in the Upper or Lower Creeks? J. C.—In the Lower, neara town called the Broken Arrow. 18. G. B.—Have you heard whether the Shawanese have given out their public talks to the Creeks, or when they will do it? J. C.—From the best information I have received, they were to deliver them on the 7th or 8th instant, at the new square. 19. G. B.—From what you have heard of their conduct, since they have been among the Creeks, what do you suppose will be the object of their public speeches? J. C.—To excite the Creeks generally for war against the United States, particularly against Cumberland. 20. G. B.—Is it yet expected by the Cherokees, that these Shawanese will return through their nation, and hold a public council? ./. C.—Yes, that is agreed on, and will take place in sixteen or seventeen days from this time at farthest, probably at Will’s town. - 21. G. B.—Have you heard any intimations from the Cherokees, as to the probable objects of the Shawanese, in holding the council with them? ./. C.—Yes, to lay a plan for a general war against the United States, and to commence it by a powerful attack upon the Cumberland settlements. 22. G. B.—From your general knowledge of, and long acquaintance with, the Cherokees, do you believe, if that should be the proposal of the Shawanese, that they, the Cherokees, will accede to it, and go heartily into the war? J. C.—Yes, I verily believe that the whole of the Lower towns, and the young warriors of the nation, generally, will. 23. G. B.—What tlid the Cherokees say, when they were informed from me, that the Northwards had determined to treat with the United States this summer, and that a number of their chiefs had arrived at Philadelphia, on a visit to the President of the United States? J. C.—That it was a lie; and immediately dispatched five warriors to the Northern tribes, to inquire into .the truth, who are to be back by the first hoeing of corn. 24. G. B.—Have you heard any thing of the disposition and determination of the Upper Creeks, as they respect the United States? J. C. I saw at Estanaula a Natchez warrior, who lives in the Upper Creeks, in company with several Creeks, about thirteen days past, and conversed with him fully on that subject; (lie spoke Cherokee.) He said the Upper Creeks had held a council shortly before his departure, and had determined to march in great force against Cumberland, in such time as to arrive there aboutyhe full of the ensuing moon, (26th of April) that they would pass through the Cherokees, and expected to be joined by a large party of the Cherokees in the invasion of that country; giving, for reason, that they were going to take satisfaction for the injuries sustained at the attack and repulse at Buchanan’s station, in September last, and that, in the mean time, small parties would be continually out on that quarter, for mischief. 25. G. B.—What credit did you pay to such information? . ./. C.—lverilybelieved .it. 26. G. B.— I have heard that the Upper Creeks have lately sent a war club to the Lower Cherokee towns. Is it true? , _ J '. J. C.—Yes it is, and now it remains at the Running Water. 27. G. B.—Did you understand in what manner this club was received by the Lower towns? J. C.—With gladness; saying they would take hold of it, join the Creeks in war, and would take it with them to Cumberland. , 28. G. B.—Have you heard any thing from the Lower Cherokees,'since their conference with Seagrove, at St. Mary’s? J. C.—Nothing, except their having built a new square for the reception of the Shawanese ambassadors. 29. G. B.—What do you think as to the disposition of John Watts—is he for peace, or war, with the United States? ./. C.—In my opinion, he will not oppose the wish of the young men, who undoubtedly generally wish a war: and rather than lose his consequence and influence with them, will joiu and lead them to war. 30. G. B.—Have you heard what is the disposition and determination of the Northern tribes towards the Cumberland settlers? J. C.—1 verily believe, that they mean, if the Creeks and Cherokees will join them, to cut oft' the whole of those settlers this summer. 31. G. B.—Do you know, or can you conjecture, the cause for attacking the Cumberland settlers with such vengeance? J. C.—All parties claim it as their hunting grounds; and say these people are in their way, and interrupt their communication with each other, and that they are determined to destroy them, and seize their property. 32. G. B.—Have you heard the Indians ever say, what they supposed were the reasons why the United States so patiently and tamely bore the injuries they had done them, without retaliation? ./. C.—Yes, often; they suppose that the United States must be so situated with foreign Powers, that they dare not enter into a war with them, or they certainly would not be offering and begging peace, in return fur murders, bloodshed, and robbery, daily committed on their citizens. This, say they, convinces us of the truth of what the Spaniards have told us, that the United States had not money to carry on a war, and that we need not fear to do them injuries. 33. G. B.—I have heard that the Northern tribes, while the Bloody Fellow, yourself, and others, were at Philadelphia, sent to the Cherokees the war hatchet—was it true? ,/. C.—Yes, it. was. 34. G. B.—What has become of it? J. C.—When we returned from Philadelphia, it was at Estanaula, and the Kingfisher, fully impressed with peaceful sentiments towards the United States, destroyed it. 35. G. B.—In what light have the Cherokees viewed this act? ./. C.—Highly censured it, and, since the arrival of the Shawane.se ambassadors, a new one has been ordered to be made, as near like the one. destroyed as possible, and is completed, and is now at the Running Water, to be produced to the Shawanese ambassadors on their return, as an evidence of their disposition to join them in war. 36. G. B.—Have you heard any thing of a war between the Creeks and the Chickasaws? J. C.—Yes, there was a talk of it, and they have killed of each other, but I believe they are about to make it up: the better informed of the Creeks and Cherokees, foreseeing the danger of such a war, interposed to put a stop to it. 37. G. B.—Have the Bloody Fellow, John Tavlor, Fool Charles, the Bold Hunter, and the Breath, returned from their visit to the Spanish Governorat New Orleans? ,/. C.—They have not, but Moses Price, who went with them, is, and he reports that they, at the request of the Governor, are returning through the Chickasaws and Choctaws, and, that the Bloody Fellow has with him a commission of superintendent, for Mr. McDonald. 38. G. B.—From your long acquaintance with the Cherokees. and knowledge of their .dispositions, manners, and customs, and their present disposition towards the United States in competition with the British and Spanish Governments, do you believe, if the United States were to give up the land, (their land as they term it) to the old British line, that it would induce them to desist, for six months, from killing the frontier inhabitants? ,/. C.—1 believe, verily, it would not. No price, in my opinion, would induce them to de.-ist from assisting the Northern tribes, if they continue the war with the United States. 39. G. B.—What can have raised the Cherokees to such degree of insolence and hostility with the United States? ./. 6'.—The promised support of the .Spaniards, the expected support ol the British, and the victories obtained by the Northern tribes, over the armies of the United States, in which numbers of their nation have acted their part, and returned, boasting their feats. 40. G. B.—I have heard that some Cherokees were engaged in the attack upon Major Adair, near fort St. Clair; do you know whether it is true or not? J. C.—It is true. I saw two of them who had returned to the nation: they say it is nothing to light white people in regimentals—they are such men as Grant brought manv vears ago against the Cherokees. JAMES CAREY, Knoxville, March 20, 1793. Jacob Tow ash end to Governor Blount. Estanaula. February 15, 1793. By these, 1 can assure you, that every thing seemed favorable in the Creek nation, in respect to the United States. A firm peace was agreed upon by the whole of the Lower townand a Virginia man became a favorable character, and would have remained so, had not the Shawanese chiefs arrived, and made it to the reverse, by their designing insinuations; their great talks as yet are a mystery to tire world, but will be given nut. in public in the full of this moon, and if the most strenuous a.ml early steps are not taken to confound their designs, I fear they will be attended with the most dangerous consequences to the frontiers of the United States. The Upper Creeks, by the had management either of the superintendent or his express-carrier, were not in (joe time invited to the treaty, therefore never appeared, and felt themselves a little neglected by that piece of disappointment, will both be a handle for those ambassadors and Spaniards, whose bad talks have been the cause of all the bloodshed on the frontiers; fop their superintendent, without any reserve, told the Indians to go and shed blood. The particulars of their talks may be procured tor you, if you wish to have them collected, and you may depend that they are insufferable, and ought to be resented by the injured and bleeding States, who, it appears to me, are afraid of the consequence that might attend public retaliation; but if this be really the case, it would be easy to take a private one. by the following opportunity, and it would be done with a trilling expense, viz: there is a character that was the fictitious General Bowles" Captain, who, let the Spaniards do what they will, or say what the}' will, lie contradicts, and keeps Bowles" party still ripe for satisfaction; he by no means is an enemy to the States, neither (Iocs lie take any step towards their prejudice, but rather wishes to get in their favor; and, would some mail of distinction give him a little encouragement, with a little assistance, and promise him an asylum, he would fall upon them immediately, and that would be the menus of their attention being drawn from doing the Stales any injury for some years. This, you may depend, might, have been completed long ago, if the superintendent at St. Mary’s would have taken abroad hint. This character I have been mentioning, is a man of good opportunity, and, undoubtedly, a man of trust; for, since General Bowles was judaised by the Spaniards, he has had his letters and papers in possession, which the Spaniards and Panton have taken every method, both of bribe and entreaty, to get from him, but all their efforts have been in vain. The person’s name is Willbanks. He is now down at Oakalocknea, on the sea-board of West Florida, a-building houses to receive goods brought in British bottoms, for the supply of the Creek nation: has hoisted a standard of English and Indian colors mixed, which he lias been supplied with for that purpose, but bv whom, it is asyet a secret: but this far is certain, that he is constantly receiving packets from the Bahamas, which lie tells the Indians are from their Great Father over the water, which has so far influenced the Indians in his favor, that the Spaniards are alarmed, and know not what to he at. His proceedings at the present, make a great noise, and puzzle the greatest politicians, to think what is coming upon the carpet. Even MeGillivray, about a month ago, demanded Bowles’ papers, but he gave him so satisfactory an answer, that I believe he was sorry he had made such a demand. However, let his plan be what it will, he undoubtedly is a sworn enemy to those Spaniards, who, I believe, are the last of the Lord’s creation, and will at any time, let the consequence be what it will, take any step to help the Lord away with them, or to drive them on the west side of the river Mississippi; for, among rational beings, they ought not to live. These, and the like, will ever be the sentiments of your Excellency’s unknown humble servant, JACOB TOWNSHEND. His Excellency William Blount. N. B. There is an absolute demand made upon General McGillivray. The question is, will or will you not fill the commission given you by the United States? When the letter arrived, he was absent; the answer is not yet made, but I was informed by his friends, that he'intends resigning every commission, and retiring to private life. If so, something must be done in time by the States. , ; On the back of the foregoing letter is endorsed as follows: Knoxville, March 20, 1793. Upon inquiry, 1 find Mr. Townshend, the signer of this letter, to be mi Englishman, about four years in America, and the last six months a resident among the Creeks, at a town called New York, at the house ol Steven Sullivan, a man who perfectly understands the Creek language. Mr. Townshend carried his goods into the Creek nation from St. Mary’s. lWM. BLOUNT. .7 list of murders and depredations committed on the frontiers of Jefferson and Knox counties, in Washington district. February 26.—The Indians stole ten head of horses from Coy.by's creek, in Jefferson county, from William Mc-Kissack and Peter Every. March'd.—James Nelson and Thompson Nelson, (brothers,) were killed and scalped by Indians, on Little Pigeon, about twenty-five miles from this place. The Indians had formed an ambuscade, on a path near Mrs. Nelson’s house. These young men were struck by eight balls, from which it is conjectured there were that number of Indians, at least, and was headed by a fellow called Towahka, who also beaded the party that killed Richardson’s family. March 18.—Two young men by the name of Clements, ■were killed and scalped about sixteen miles below this place, by nine Cherokees from the Upper towns. These young men had just left their father’s house, unarmed, in search of cattle. They likewise earned off twelve head of valuable horses, the property of Captain Amos Byrd. March 20.—On Pigeon, in Jefferson county, thirty miles from this place,--------Taylor was fired on and killed, by a party of Indians, who had formed an ambuscade on a path he was travelling, near a station. The number of guns tired by the Indians at that time, was such as to induce the people out of the station to believe it was an attack by a powerful party. On the Kentucky road, in an early part of the month of March, a man and woman were killed, and a child taken prisoner, supposed to be done by the Cherokees. Taken from Lowe’s station, about twelve miles from this place, about the 19th instant, two horses, which were enclosed in a pen, within three or four poles of the door, by Indians. Governor Blount to Leonard B. Shaw. Knoxville, January 8, 1793. Sir: My public address to the head-men and warriors of the Cherokees, of this date, will show you the spirit and wishes of' the United States. I have only to instruct you, to act in conformity thereto. * I shall expect to see you at the appointed time and place of meeting, namely, at Southwest Point, on the 17th day ol April. James Carey’s endeavors in favor of the Cherokees, deserve their particular notice and thanks, and so you will please represent him to them. Speak to James Vann, and tell him, 1 depend on his exertions to restore peace and good order, which is the earnest wish of the United States. I am, &c. Leonard I). Shaw to Governor Blount. Sir: When I left Knoxville last, I expected to have been back in about three weeks; but, several circumstances, that I shall now relate, put it out of my power to fulfil my intentions. I had to perform a tedious journey of two hundred and fifty miles, over the Bald mountain, before I reached Seneca. Just before my arrival, the Georgians had committed their first murder, which, together with their subsequent exploits, rendered it madness to think of visiting the nation. I employed myself as actively as I could, in endeavoring to deter the insurgents from t- such conduct in future, and was not sparing in denouncing the vengeance of the United States against them. I was supported by the most respectable characters, and, for the purpose abovemeutioned, spent a considerable time on the frontiers of Georgia. On my return, I despatched an Indian into the nation, with letters from General Pickens anil myself, at the same time ordering him to bring out my horse and some of iny clothes, that I had left at Allejoy. On the return of my messenger, 1 received intelligence that a runner was on the road from Estanaula, with letters from the Indians, that I afterwards, on perusal, found contained suspicions respecting my dismission, that ought not to be suffered to remain. The letter I will shew you when convenient; the Indians pressed my return, and I flattered myself that it might have a happy tendency, in keeping the people on the frontiers more quiet. Besides, I could think of no plan so eligible to return your horse, as taking him through the nation. About this time, likewise, I was informed of General McGillivray’s return, and I instantly resolved to visit him, let the danger be what it would. The Charleston papers had given information of the pacific state of the Creeks, and that three ships, loaded with goods, had ascended the St. Mary’s. I then found I had been every way unfortunate in my communications, and (if possible) felt my feelings more particularly hurt, from the last idea, than even the communication you made me. To inquire into the affairs of the Creeks, has for a long time been my favorite idea; now, that I have it in my power, and my official veracity is called in question, go I certainly will. I thought proper to give the negative to the idea circulated amongst the Indians, that I was broke; on tjiat point I shall make no comments—my motives will readily suggest themselves to your Excellency. It is my intention to return to Philadelphia, as soon as I possibly can; but I shall certainly see you before I go; when I do, I fancy you will be satisfied of the propriety of my conduct. I shall endeavor to acquire an accurate knowledge of every thing necessary to be known, respecting the Creeks, the Spaniards, and Bowles. My journal you shall see. My situation is distressing, to a degree you can form no idea of. I rush into danger to avoid disgrace, and feel that sullen kind of courage that makes a person despise life, and ardently desire some honorable occasion to throw it away. How I came into my present situation I will not pretend to determine, and long, long could I wish to defer the discussion; but, when once engaged in it, I hope I shall discover integrity and firmness, if not ability, or strict prudence. I thank you, again and again, for the kindness I experienced Irani you when last at Knoxville, and, I assure you, I have suffered not a little, from the idea of abusing it, by detaining your horse so long; but, 1 believe you will suffer my situation to plead my excuse. Should I never return from the Creeks, be so good as to communicate the motives of my journey to the Secretary of War, lest malice and ill nature, which have so severely persecuted me, should subject me to unmerited censure, by ascribing motives to me foreign to my heart. Mr. Carey will tell you the news. Your horse, I expect will, by him. be returned. I hope he will arrive safe; I assure you I took much pains to keep him in order. 1 have the honor to be, &c. Governor Blount to Leonard D. Shaw. Knoxville, February T, 1793. Sir: Peace with the Cherokees, is the object of the United States, as I have before informed you, and, I repeat again, use your efforts to that object. Mr. McKee comes in with Thompson, with letters, on his way to the Lower towns, who will be able to render some assistance in the restoration of peace and order, as Watts has much confidence in him. The enclosed proclamation will inform you how the President thinks of the destruction of the Cherokee town, by the Georgians, and the difficulty I have experienced in restraining the people of this quarter from committing a similar outrage. I am, &c. Knoxville, March 9.3d. 1793. Sir: Yesterday my expected express, James Done!son. returned from Cumberland; his delay was owing to the waters of that river being very high, for many days nine feet above what was ever heretofore known, by whom ] received a letter from General Robertson, of the 12th instant, and a letter of the 13th February, from the whole of the chiefs of the Chickasaw nation, copies of which you have enclosed, together with a list of murders and depredations committed in Mero district, from the 1st of February, to the 12th of March. Three Chickasaws started with James Donelson, to come on to this place; one arrived with him, and two lost their horses at Bledsoe’s station, who will probably be up in a few days. The object of their visit to me, is to obtain a supply of a part of the articles mentioned in their letter of the 13th February, and to know from me, in decided terms, what part the United States mean to take in the war against the Creeks; and, as I am without the honor of your instructions on that head, 1 shall endeavor to detain them at my house until I shall receive such as you may please to give. The Chickasaw who is with me. gives the following particulars of the cause of the war against the Creeks. Four Chickasaws were in the hunting grounds fifteen miles from the towns, where a party of Creeks fired on them, and killed one, and, besides scalping him, as is usual, they very much hacked and mangled his body, and threw it into a pond of water. The Chickasaws immediately called a national council, and, on the fourth day, which was the. 13th February,.,. unanimously determined to make war against the Creeks, and Tatholah. or the confidant of the Mountain Leader, the same that was with me last spring, on the 1-4th, marched in search of the Creeks, with forty warriors. The hacking and mangling the body, is ever intended as an insult to the nation of whom the deceased was. At this council, the Bloody Fellow. John Taylor, and the Bold Hunter, Cherokee chiefs, on their return from Orleans, were present, and endeavored, with all their address, both by persuasion and threats, to prevent the Chickasaws from their declaration of war, to which the Mountain Leader, in one of his replies “ desired them to desist; that he was so determined on war, that his very breath was bloody? that they might go home, and join the Creeks, if they chose it, as he supposed they would, for he knew they had both long been at war with his friends, the people of the United States, though they pretended peace and friendship.” Should Government give the Chickasaws the supplies they ask. for themselves and Choctaws, it will be observed they wish them delivered at the Chickasaw Bluff, on the Mississippi, and the best conveyance to the Bluff will certainly be down the Ohio, in preference to the Tennessee. If the Cherokee chiefs do not agree to go to Philadelphia, of which I have no hope, I shall feel myself at liberty to come on to Philadelphia, under the condition contained in your order forme to come on, in case they did. I wish much to see you, and to have the honor of a personal interview with the President. I could certainly explain more fully the state of Indian affairs, and of the government committed to my charge, than I can, otherwise, possibly do. I have the honor to be, &c. Extract of a letter from Brigadier General Robertson, dated Nashville, Mero District, March I2t/i, 1793. Sir: When I had the pleasure of receiving your Excellency's letter and orders, there was great need for the additional protection your Excellency had permitted. I have ordered out a company, including those I mentioned before, for one mouth: if the times seem favorable, I shall dismiss them, and order no more into service until there should be particular need. I shall strictly observe your Excellency's orders to save expenses in Indian affairs. The people of this district were much dissatisfied on hearing that a treaty with the Lower towns of Cherokees was on hand, well knowing no faith is to be placed in any assurances they will or can give. They consider themselves as in an actual state of war, and daily feel the effects, whatever may be said of peace elsewhere. But their spirits are much raised, supposing that, if the Chickasaws and Choctaws are assisted and supported, that the Creeks will have sufficient business to do at home, and policy will direct them to let us alone, at least until peace takes place between them and the Chickasaws and Choctaws, and, I suppose, these two nations may accomplish that at any time, if they will join in war against the United States. I cannot suppose the Creeks will ever behave as friends, otherwise than Mr. Seagrove observes in his publication in the Georgia papers, that nine-tenths are desirous of peace, which is, in other words, a kind ot war that is most to be dreaded. I do not doubt that Mr. Seagrove had sanguine hopes that the nine-tenths he spoke of, would govern the other one-tenth, for I know those kind of people are capable of deceiving any stranger, be their abilities as they may. Your Excellency will find by the enclosed, that the Chickasaws and Creeks are actually at war; they, the Chickasaws, make no doubt but the United States consider the Creeks as enemies, hearing so many scalps and horses have been taken by them last fall and winter. From the best, information, the Creeks have done us the greatest injuries, and we are yet so apprehensive ot hourly receiving death from their hands, that we venture out of doors with great caution. I hope the Chickasaws and Choctaws will be supported, as I have told them, at all times, that the President did not desire them to war with any nation; but I believed he would not let them sutler by being friends. Such speeches I have often made, in the time I knew other nations were importuning them to join in a general war, and, 1 have not the smallest doubt, could the Chickasaws and Choctaws have been persuaded to have joined, but all the Indians between the Mississippi and the Apalachian mountain, would have been at war with the United States. Bob Thompson, his son, and a fellow called Colbert’s uncle, is directed by the chiefs to visit your Excellency, and give assistance in taking down such articles as you may think proper to send. Piahacha,and five others, stay at my house until I hear from your Excellency. Piahacha is a chief, anil is to conduct the corn down; they insist to have one white man in each boat, and, at least, they must have three boats. I have let them have six hundred bushels before; if they should want a hundred or two more than I have, I wish to know whether I have your Excellency’s permission to purchase. I can get of the merchants at one third of a dollar per bushel; I shall not do it if I can well get over it. The public boats were all taken oft'and lost, in the time ot our being invaded, except two. I must give corn, or purchase otherwise; as to the salt, I think they are extravagant; your Excellency will direct that; I have engaged six bushels, at four dollars and one half per bushel, to send by the corn boats, and, as tobacco is cheap, without your Excellency forbids, I shall send it. Two white men came in with these Chickasaws; one is at my house, John Burrell, who says that the four days the Chickasaws were in council on war, or to take other steps, that all the traders, and two men from the Spanish Government, with letters, were courting their friendship, and promising them corn, to be brought up the Yazoo, and endeavored to prevent war, but could not get it effected. They unanimously refused receiving corn, as they said their friends, the Americans, had, and would let them have corn, and every thing they stood in need of. Burrell saw the Bloody Fellow of the Cherokees, and another old chief, and a half-breed that spoke English, then on their way from Orleans. The half-breed told said Burrell, that the Spanish Governor was a good man, and had given the Cherokees land on the Washataw river, which is a fork of lied river, emptying in the Mississippi above New Orleans, on the west side. This intended settlement is above Natchez, and some distance southwest from Ozark. The Bloody Fellow is promised that a batteau shall meet the Cherokees at the mouth of Tennessee river, with arms and ammunition, and pilots to carry them to the new settlements. 1 have my suspicions, they will give us a heavy blow on their departure. It is said by a Frenchman, lately from New Madrid, that two thousand troops are expected there this spring. As the Indians here, are directed to stay until I hear from your Excellency, perhaps you can send me an answer and directions soon. I hope your Excellency will have it in your power to send arms and ammunition to the Choctaws, as well as the Chickasaws, as that will convince them they may-be supplied. The Spaniards have furnished the Choctaws with corn;.yet I understand they speak well of the United States, and that Ben James hath taken an active part in favor of the United States. The Chickasaws are jealous there is a design to fix a garrison at the mouth of the Tennessee, or in some place above, as repeated applications have been made to them by the Spanish Government, to obtain their permission for such an establishment. The Mountain Leader is determined to take the batteau, if in his power. The Spaniards sent him a horse and saddle, to induce him to visit them; but he, at all times, has refused to any connexion with them; he has sent by Piahacha, desiring me to ask your Excellency for two good rifles; one for himself, and the other for his son, as he cannot visit the President as soon as he expected. I have bought one swivel and three blunderbusses, to send down with the corn boats, likewise a plough, clevisses, and bther irons, necessary to send to George Colbert, one quarter cask of powder, a pot, skillet, and two axes, to send down with the boats, as they applied lor some to cook in; the chief, a hat and two shirts; those that go to you, hats and some other things. I have sent the whole account in, and promised those who come to vou, that you will give / them clothing as much as they want. I have bought for them two horses to ride, and directed that they be delivered to you. 'They arc young, and I expect will sell for the money, or near it, if you have not use for public horses. The account is high, but I knew not bow to get over it. I have engaged for forty gallons of whiskey to send down, at one half dollar per gallon. The Chickasav: Chiefs to General Fobertson. Chickasaw Nation, February 13th, 1795. Erien'd and Brother: 1 received a letter from you some time ago, when you mentioned to me and other head-men, to caution our young warriors not to regard the threats or persuasion of the Creeks, in warring with the United States. You said the President well knew his friends, and would not let them suffer. On thataccount, I am, my brother, now sending you an answer. Our talks always was. to love and esteem one another. We heads have held you fast by the hand, and told our young warriors they must do so, and they will, as long as they are able to lift a hatchet. From the friendship we have experienced, you have spoke well. I have sent you a war club; when we both take hold, we can strike a hard blow. Although we wish to be at peace with all, the Creeks have spilt our blood, and we desire you will despatch expresses to every head-man in America, particularly to General Washington, the Secretary of War, Governor Blount, and the head-men at Kentucky, on fort Washington, and General Pickens, to let them know that our agreement was to be as one man, in regard to our enemies and friends; that, if one was struck, the other was to feel the blow, and be one cause. My Brother, you must know it is on your account that we are struck, for the last talk sent to us by the Creeks, when we told them we were perfect friends with the United States, and would listen to no talk of vvaragainstthem; their answer was, the Virginians were liars, and no dependence in them; that the Chickasaws were fools not to join all other Indians to cut off the Virginians, and that the Chickasaws would know their errorbelorelong, as they, the Creeks, and Northwards, vvould fall on them, then let the Virginians, your great friends, help you; you will see what they can do. But all their talk did not alter the minds of our people. When you get this talk, speak strong to your young warriors, and letus join, to let the Creeks know ivhut tear is. You make whiskey: If war, it is good to take a little at war talks; please send me some, and L will do the same, as the red people that have long been at war with yours, have struck ours on your account. I hope, my brother, we shall now find what you have always told us, true. I believe the Choctaws will join us, and hold you and us fast by the hand.   I have sent to them. The Creeks have killed several of their Virginians among them. We are now standing in the middle of a great blaze of fire. ■ When you receive this, I hope you will be as expeditious as possible to give us assistance, as red people are not long preparing for war. ’ . We nave not ammunition enough, neither have the Choctaws; therefore, if you can send a supply immediately, we desire you will do it, likewise guns for the Choctaws, as there are many ol their young men nave none. Such as muskets, rifles, and smooth-bores, will do; and flints we want, six swivels, ten blunderbusses; as it is now a war, I desire you will now send a blacksmith and tools, to keep our guns in order, likewise a bombardier to work our swivels. ■ When you receive this, we desire yon will send an express to General Washington, to let him know that we are now at war with the Creeks, and the path is now stopped from our traders; as we were very scantily furnished with stores of war before, therefore I hope he will find means to send us goods, or furnish our traders, so that the Creeks may be disappointed, otherwise we soon shall be naked, and more in their power. As we made no crop last year, we are all in a starving condition. 1 hope you will send a further supply of fifteen hundred bushels of corn, two barrels of flour, about one hundred bushels of salt, one hogshead of tobacco, fifty bags of vermillion, which is fifty pounds, as it is greatly wanting in war. Please to send me some whiskey by the boats. George Colbert gives his compliments to General Robertson, and desires that he will send him a good plough and one bushel of wheat. Sir, I desire when you send down the river, you may send a strong and sufficient guard with the boats, as far as the bluffs. All our nations are desirous that General Washington will erect a garrison at the Muscle Shoals or Rear creek, or where he may think best to establish a trade. We have sent you a long talk, and depend you will exert yourself on the occasion. We remain, your friends and brothers. JOHN BROWN. THOMAS BROWN, and twenty-six others. A list of murders committed by Indians, from the 1st February to the 1 ‘2 th March, 1793, in the district. February 17.—Two negroes killed belonging to James Clindennon, in his field, within one hundred yards of his house: same day took or killed a negro belonging to----Parker. Same day wounded Thomas Bledsoe, son of the late Colonel Anthony Bledsoe, and pursued him within fifty yards of the stockade at Greenfield. February 22.—Fired on two boys, sons of Colonel Sanders: both fell and were scalped: one dead on the spot, the other survived several days and then died. February 24.—-Captain Samuel Hays killed, within three hundred paces of John Dune! son’s house. The number of horses stolen, not ascertained. It is believed the high waters were friendly, otherwise more murders would have been committed. Knoxville, March 28. 1793. Sin; _ 'Mr. McKee has returned, without succeeding in the objects of his mission; namely, that of inducing the chiefs of the war party of the Cherokees to accompany me to Philadelphia, and to obtain assurances of the peaceful disposition of the young warriors. His report, which will be a very full one, upon the present appearances among the Cherokees, and will also afford proof of the hostile disposition of the Creeks, towards the Cumberland settlers, he has not had time to complete from his journal. I shall take the earliest opportunity 'to forward it to you, or bring it myself, as I now contemplate the setting out for Piladelphia in ten days. One circumstance, respecting the Creeks, I conceive essential to mention now, that, on the first of March, fifty-five were at Willstown, on their way against the Cumberland settlements. 1 am. sir, yours, &c. Knoxville, April 9th, 1793. 3m: The information contained in the enclosed report of John McKee, and the examination of David Gilliland, added to that forwarded by James Carey, had induced me to despair of further attempts to get forward to Philadelphia a representation ol the Cherokees, and to determine to have sat out myself on a visit to the President, on the 5th instant. On the 3d instant, I had the honor of your letter of the 8th February. On the 4th, Joseph Sevier, whom I have had employed as a spy in the nation, in which he generally resides, arrived Irom Cliota, w ith a message from Watts, that lie was at the Maw’s, and wished to visit me at Knoxville, but, if lie could not come up with safety, he would hi' glad to see me elsewhere.” ! immediately sent him for answer that I would meet him on the 6th, at Henry’s station, twenty three miles from this place, and within seven of the Maw ’s, where he, lire Maw, and about sixty other Indians, accordingly met me, and a conference took place, the minutes of which you have enclosed. It will be observed that Watts speaks of the determination of the Creeks for war, as a thing certain, and I am assured, upon the authority of a public trader, Mr. Riley, who is considered a man of veracity, and upon that of a Mr. Springston, a resident among the Cherokees, that, in the latter part of the past month, upwards of five hundred Creeks passed on, in difl'erent parties, through the Cherokees, for war against the United Slates, declaring they should bend their principal force against Cumberland, and that a part would fall on the frontiers of this district. It is inv opinion-that the Visit to Philadelphia, of a full representation of the Cherokees, as requested by the President, will depend upon the success of their deputies to the Creeks: and, if the spirit of that nation for war is as general as represented to me, it cannot be expected that they can extinguish it—the. most that can’be hoped is, that they will partially retard their operation for a time, perhaps a moon or two. All the information, herewith forwarded, respecting the Creeks, goes in confirmation of Carey's, and it is highly probable that, about the next full moon, the 25th instant, is the time their murdering and rapacious hands are most to he dreaded. Upon receiving Carey's information. I forwarded an order to General Robertson, of which you have enclssed a copy. As yet I have gr.cn no order for any troops of this district to march to the relief of Cumberland, nor shall, for more than a company of mounted infantry, for a tour not exceeding a month; unless I should receive accounts of additional numbers of Creeks Inning gone against it. These alarming accounts have induced me to order out additional guards to the district of Washington, in all not exceeding two Lieutenant’s commands of infantry, one for Knox and the other for Jefferson county, and thirty two mountedlnfantry, officers included. By the minutes, it does not appear that I was more than one day with Watts. The fact is, I was two, but spoke only on the sixth about public business; the other was devoted to eating, drinking, and jocular conversation, of which Watts is very food. The expenses of this conference amounted to one hundred and a third dollars, owing principally to the quantity and price of the whiskey, of which I considered it the interest of the United States to he as liberal, as Watts and his party were thirsty. He appeared truly friendly, and with his usual cleverness, and is unquestionably the most leaning character of his nation; and though he would make no promise; even to use his endeavors to carry a full representation of his nation to Philadelphia, yet I have no doubt but he will; but, as I have before said, that event will depend upon the determination of the Creeks: for, the chiefs will not think it safe or prudent, however much they may wish peace, to leave their nation, their houses, and their families, while they know the Creeks are daily passing through their country, to and from war, and while they know that a great number of the junior part of their own nation will join them in the war. But, he the event what it will, it will be known to me by the 28th inttint; and if the determination is, that a representaAm will visit the President, I shall make immediate preparation for attending them, and I now believe it will be most prudent to shape the journey thrdhgh South Carolina, via Hopewell, Salisbury, Richmond &c. If the contrary, I shall consider myself at liberty to set out on a visit to the President, with whom I very much wish for a personal interview, on the subject of Indian affairs, early in the succeeding month, unless I should receive such orders from you as may prevent it. In a former letter I informed you of my having sent a Mr. Douglas to Pensacola in search of information as to the conduct of the Spanish officers towards the Indians. I have now to inform you, that he was killed, on his return, by Indians in the Chickasaw nation, through mistake, for a man who had stolen a horse; on discovering the mistake, the nation much lamented his death. I have just received information of killing of Adam Green and William Massey, by Indians on the frontiers of Hawkins county, whose names are contained in the enclosed list of murders. I have the honor to be &c. Mr. McKee’s Report to Governor Blount. Knoxville, March 28, 1793. Sir: On the 8th day of February last, I left Knoxville, accompanied by Mr. Thompson, under your instructions to proceed to the Lower towns of thd Cherokee nation, for the purpose of using my best endeavors to restore peace between the United States and that part of the Cherokee nation which had declared for war. On the 10th, we arrived at Chota. where we were informed that the Hanging Maw was then at Chilhowee, at a council of the people of that town ami Tallassee. We immediately set out for Chilhowee, where we found a large assembly of Indians, to whom I communicated the objects of my coming into the nation, and begged them to exert themselves in assisting me in so good a work. The object of the Maw in this visit, was, to dissuade a party of young fellows, belonging to these towns, who he had understood were for war, from prosecuting their intentions. He informed me, that tour fellows from the vallef towns, had crossed the Tennessee, a few days before that, to take satisfaction (that is, hair and horses) for a relation killed by the people of Georgia, but, that he had sent a runner after them, who, he expected, would overtake and bring them back. I admonished him and the people present ol their danger, in case that, or any other party, should kill or steal from the white people on the frontiers, near their towns, and advised them to be vigilant in discovering, and active in stopping such parties. I made them sensible of the difficulty with which your Excellency had prevented the white people from coming and killing them, and destroying their towns, and that a few more murders would put it out of your power to prevent their destruction. The next day we went to the Maw's, where we were detained turn days by snow and rain. During my stay, I repeated to him the objects of my mission, to which he expressed his good washes for my success, with his doubts, saying it was an useless and dangerous journey. He advised me to desist, and warned me, that if I* persisted, I went to the Lower towns at the great risk of my life. On the 13th, we proceeded towards lliwasee, where we arrived on the 14th, and were informed, that, on the preceding day, five Creeks had been seen passing under an adjoining mountain, towards the settlements of Washington district. I was afterwards informed, that these were not Creeks, but Cherokees—two from the beloved town of Estanaula, and three from Celicoe. From this place we proceeded on to a small river called Amoe, ten miles below Hiwasee; here Mr. Thompson left me, and on the next day I was overtaken by Will. Elder and Unacata, two Indians from Toquo, whom I had requested to accompany me on my tour, and as I have since been informed, were ordered by the Maw to attend and protect me. At this place I was detained six days by incessant rains, and high waters, during which time, Nontuaka, who lived at Cheestowee, about seven miles distant, visited me; he charged me very earnestly to return, and to proceed no farther toward the Lower towns; that, if I did, I would probably never return, that the people below were very cross. 1 asked him what he thought was v the cause of their crossness; he answered, that it was their land. I told him I had my suspicions, that land was not the real cause. I asked him if he had ever known an instance of Indians recovering land by war, or whether, on the contrary, he had not observed, that the loss of land wasalways the consequence of going to war. He replied, that Watts had received a letter from your Excellency, in which he and his people were requested to open their ears; and that Watts had answered, that the white people had stopped theirs with land, and requested the white people to open their own ears, and move oft" the land. I observed, that no white people, to my knowledge, had settled on their lands since the treaty of Holston; that at that treaty the Cherokees agreed, that the white people on the frontiers should remain in the peaceable possession of their plantations until the line should be run, which die Cherokees had not attended to, at the time appointed by your Excellency; that, instead of meeting the commissioners of the United States, they had gone to war, and would not listen to the voice of those who loved their nation, and knew their interest; that in going to war. they had nearly stopped the ears of all their friends with blood, and nothing but a speedy cessation of hostilities would open them. He asked me concerning Southwest Point, whether your Excellency called that place your own? I answered no; that you had taken possession of it through necessity, as the most advantageous place to keep troops, lor the protection of the frontiers; that you considered it as the property of the Cherokees, and that, as soon as the necessity for keeping up troops, for the protection of your people, ceased, you would restore the point. 1 remarked to him. that the Cherokees had always held up, as the ostensible reason of their going to war, that the white people had robbed them of their lands, but, that I did not think that was the real cause; it was my opinion there were too many young fellows among them, emulous ol ranking themselves amongst the warriors of their nation, and that, whilst the scalp of an innocent white man, killed in time of peace, or that of a woman, or child, -could entitle them to that honor, so long there would be war. If they wanted their land, why did they not, in a peaceable manner, apply to your Excellency, and inform you where the white people had encroached on them: that you would examine into the matter, and do them justice; but, instead of that, they had assembled and gone to war; that they had attacked a house within four miles of Nashville, when even that part of the nation which went to war acknowledge, they sold the land for seven miles round that place. To this lie made no answer, except that the Spaniards had .encouraged them. I told him I was apprehensive the Cherokees had been deceived abuut the Spanish talks: that the Spaniards were the friends of the United States; butthat, if they had encouraged them to go to war, their former conduct towards Indians afforded reason to suspect, they were actuated by other motives than a wish to better the situation of the Cherokees. I asked him if he thought the Lower towns would join the other parts of the nation in making a peace this summer: he answered, that he aid not know; he had been informed that Mr. Shaw had given out bad talks there, but he had not heard good what they were. In the course of conversation, he informed me of sixteen Cherokees being out from the Lower towns for war; they were relations of those who had been killed at Buchanan's, and he believed their destination was against the. frontiers of Clinch. Washington district. He then charged me, in pointed terms, to return to Knoxville, and when I refused, told me he would write to your Excellency of my obstinacy. He appeared with his usual good nature, except being displeased at my refusing to take his advice to return. I then proceeded with my two Indian friends, Will. Elder and Unacata, as conductors, and John Walker, a half-breed, who speaks English; and, through heavy rains and deep waters, in three days we arrived at Chattooga, a small village, about twenty miles from Will's town, the residence of John Watts. About fifteen miles from tins village I met Mr. Benge, who has lived long in the nation. He informed me, that Will. Webber, a half-breed trader, had been lately in Will's town, two days, interceding with Watts to have me put to death. At Chattooga, 1 was advised not to proceed immediately on to Will' s town, but send some trusty person on to Watts, to inform him of my arrival; the reason given was, that a white man from the territory would be unsafe in going into the town without Watts first knowing of it. I sent off’ the lellows who accompanied me. Will. Elder returned in two days, on die 28th of February, with Watts; Unacata had lost his horse,'aud could not return. John Walker had gone on to the Look out. Watts met me with every appearance of his former personal friendship. The first question he asked me, was, for the welfare of your Excellency, and then some others of his friends in the territory by name. He informed ine. that at AVilCs town he had left fifty-five Creeks, fifty of them on dteir way to Mero district, and five destined for Washington, for the avowed purpose of killing white people, and stealing horses; that he had sat up the'preceding night, endeavoring in vain to dissuade them. I asked whether any of the Cherokees had, or would join them; he replied, that none had joined them, but he supposed some would, though he did not know. He talked jocularly of his trip to Cumberland, and of his wound; lie said the people of Nickajack had sent a runner to him, to know whether his wound did not Hurt him yet, (meaning would ne go with them to war.) He sent for answer, that it did not. They replied they did not expect it would have been well so soon. The Creeks, lie said, had also urged him to go to war, but that he had told them he was determined not to go. I informed him that the Creeks, last fall, had been on St. Mary’s river, and had received presents, to a large amount, from the United States', through the hands of Mr. Seagrove; that they had promised p.eace, and that they there said, all the murders and depredations committed by the Southern Indians on the citizens of the United States, was by the Cherokees; that it was believed by Congress, that the Creeks were in entire peace with the United States, and every part of their settlements. Watts replied, it was strange that Congress should think so: for, ever since his remembrance, the Creeks had been killing white people,-and had never been chastised. 1 had here an opportunity of purchasing a few gallons of rum, which, I thought, might be necessary to the acquirement of information from Matts, whom I plied with it until he was intoxicated, from which I reaped no other advantage, than a conviction, that neither war, nor the solicitations of Webber, had lessened his friendship for me. His professions on that head were more extravagant than I had ever heard from him before; lie assured me of safety whilst with him, but that I might on no consideration go any further, for he could not always be with me, and i might be killed by some bad young fellows. I then proposed to him. with Talotiska, and other chiefs, to meet ine in six days at Spring Hill, a village newly settled by Indians, and white people from the Look-out. He promised that he would come in six or seven days, but that Talotiska was not at home, nor did he expect him in that time. I requested him to bring most of the principal chiefs, that i wished to know their sentiments respecting the proposed conference with your Excellency. During my stay at Chattooga, and whilst Watts was with me, a Mr. Grunter, an Indian trader, arrived from Charleston, and with apparent exultation informed the people present that the Indians were safe; that no State could declare war against the Indians; that, let them do what they would, your Excellency could not do them any injury in return; that the people of the territory were very anxious to have a war, and that they were the cause of the past disturbances. I told him that that information, communicated to the Indians, without also informing them of the solemnity with which the General Government has pledged itself for the protection of the territory, as well as every other part of the United States, would be attended with evil consequences; it would tend to impress on the minds of the Indians a belief, (which I was of opinion they already began to conceive) that the only business of Congress was to bind the hands of her citizens, whilst the Indians butchered them: that it was a truth that no part of the United States could declare war. without the consent of the whole; but, that any part might call forth a portion ol its own militia for the purpose of defence, and that I thought justice and humanity would construe it as a defence, were the inhabitants of a country to pursue home, and chastise, an army that had invaded them; that the people ol the territory were unjustly accused of wishing for a war; that, since the treaty of Holston. more than one hundred and fifty of its citizens had been killed, or made captives, whilst about their lawful business, and I believed they had not killed a single Indian except in defence of their lives or property; that I myself hail seen the Warriors Son, and others, at Major Craig's, on the very night on which Black’s block-house (not more than four miles distant) was attacked, and three men killed and one wounded, and these Indians, though they remained at Craig’s till ten o’clock next day, did not meet a single insult, even from those who. the evening before, were witnesses to the catastrophe at Blacks. This did not appear, I thought, as if Ihe people of the territory were disposed to enter imprudently into a war. I remarked to him, that such information made to the Indians, would induce them to continue their hostilities, which would undoubtedly end in their own destruction. March 8X/i—(the day I appointed to meet Whitts) 1 went to Spring Hill, and there waited until the lGlh. without hearing any thing from Watts. I then despatched Jack Sivils to the Look out, to know the reason why W atts and the other chiefs had not met me as they promised, and if he was not coming at all, to invite the Glass, and the other chiefs of that town, to come over and see me. On the 18th, he returned, with information that Watts was prevented from coming to see me. by a great ball play, which was to be in a lew days, (here it may not be improper to call jour attention to the absurdity of the excuse, for he was to have met me on the 8th, and the ball play was on the 2G(h) but that he had sent a runner to me, who had lost his way. He (Jack Sivils) told me the Glass and two other chiefs would be over that evening. Here I was informed by M illiatn Burges, a hall breed,_ that, on the arrival of Goody, eight Cherokees came to his canoe, expecting I had come down by water.(as you had informed them I would) with the intention of killing me. by the instructions of Will. Webber; that Tu«kegatche, a young warrior, the brother of Richard Justice, had ordered them to go home, and be ashamed of their intention. In the evening, the Glass, Scantee, the Spider, and others, came. They met, and treated me with every mark of friendship, f addressed them in the following words: “Friends: 1 am glad to see you. I hope you are as anxious as I am to see peace established between your nation and the United States. A prospect of its taking place shortly, would afford me a singular pleasure. It is of great importance to your nation, that a peace, should be soon concluded : for, if your people go on to kill and rob the citizens of the United States, I am afraid it will be worse times in this land than it ever lias been. Such conduct will undoubtedly at last oblige your father, the President, to give out war talks in his turn, and then he will certainly have paj' for every one of his citizens that have been killed by your people. If, as your people hold out, it is land they want, why do they not come forward to Governor Blount, in a peaceable manner, and have the line rim agreeable to the treaty of Holston? (for which purpose Governor Blount appointed a day last summer, but your people did not appear) and alter that is done, you may rest assured that every white man who is on your land will be moved oil’. Vou will never recover one. foot of country by war, and those who tell you to go to war, are your greatest enemies. They may make advantage of it, but you never can. “ You certainly must discover that the United States do not wish to injure you, but, on the contrary, that they wish to make you a people like themselves. 1 wish your nation was possessed of a reciprocal friendly disposition; but it is evidently not the case: for, whilst your people are admitted to the honorable rank of warriors lor killing white people, you, no doubt, have heard, that the white man, who, with a partyof men, came into your country, and killed some of your people, and destroyed some of your towns, is loaded with irons; and if you do not stop the ears of your father, the Tresident, with the blood of his people, that man will lose his life. I wish your people would be at peace, and sutler the United States to do something for them, which they never can whilst they are at war. “ At Chattooga, John M'atts informed me that fifty-five Creeks were then (18 days ago) at M ill’s town, on their way to war against the United States, and endeavoring to engage some of the Cherokees to join them. I hope they will be disappointed. These Creeks passing through your towns.do you much injury. They have lately been in the United States, and declared they were for petite. They are afraid to go to war openly, and own it. They go through your country, and tell the United States that it is your people that do till the mischief. I hope your finer, the President, will soon be undeceived, and they will be obliged to leave off their depredations, or meet the reward of their treachery and theft. “I have heard that M'ill. Webber lias tried hard to have me killed,since I came into the nation. Does he wish it because I have always treated him and all your people well? He was afraid to come himself, and therefore sent others to kill me. It is such cowardly rascals as he is, that does your nation more mischief than any others. They get rich by war, and getting those killed to whom they are indebted. I am not afraid of him, nor of dying in this land. I was sent by a Government that is able to protect me, and if I should die, the United States will not suffer my death to pass with impunity.” The Glass said he wished tor peace, and had from the beginning; but that, from the Creeks passing daily through their towns, perhaps some of the young fellows might join them, and he did not know how it might end. I told him, if these young fellows could not be restrained by the chiefs of the nation, it would be useless talking of making peace: for, it never could be kept inviolate, whilst it was in the pow er of one man to break it with impunity. That, if they did riot cease their hostilities, and meet your Excellency, it must be taken for granted that it is not their land they want. I asked him whether he thought of meeting your Excellency. He answered, for his part, he would be’willing to go; but, that he was but one among many chiefs; that there must be a general meeting of the headmen, and they would then decide on that point. I asked him, if they did meet your Excellency, whether he thought 446 INDIAN AFFAIRS. [1793- Nickajack, Long Island, and Crow town, would come in. He answered, perhaps they might, as most of the bad young fellows had gone to the Shawanese; fifty had started a lew days before, and that more were about to start in fifteen days, and that soon, most of the bad young fellows would be gone to the Northern tribes. I told him, that, if to go to war against the United States was their object, I did not think they would be permitted to stay there, as the Shawanese were about to make a treaty with the United States. He said it might be so, but that, at that time, there were eight Shawanese chiefs in the Creek nation, endeavoring to stimulate them to way against the United States; that these Shawanese had informed him, as they passed along to the Creaks, that their people hail been expecting the approach of the federal army, and had been assembled in large bodies to receive them. I then spoke of the propriety and necessity of stopping the Creeks from passing through their towns to do mischief. That, he said, was impossible, without involving themselves in a war with that nation; that he had often, to no purpose, entreated them not to pass through the towns. lie asked me to write a letter for him to General McGillivray, in which lie complained in a A ery spirited manner of the injuries the Creeks had done theCherokees in passing through their country; that when they failed getting horses from the white people, they took them from the Cherokees; that it appeared as if the Creeks wished to make little of his people; that he did not understand such conduct, and wished to know what they meant by it. He said he knew the Creeks were fools, and lie then told them so. Previous to my departure from this place, I wrote Watts a letter, of which I have the honor to enclose you a copy. When I was about to set out, the Glass requested that I would obtain from your Excellency a paper that would protect himself. Scantee, and the people who lived at that place, as he, with them, intended to live there, and neither to '''join in a war nor suffer any that M ould do so to live with them. I observed to him, that such a'paper Mould be unnecessary, as i had the strongest hopes of a peace taking place immediately; that such a request seemed asif he thought his nation was for war. ■ He, without assigning any reason, repeated his request that I Mould procure such a paper. ; assured him I Mould. On the 19th, 3 set out on my return to Knoxville, and. on the 21st, arrived at Amoe. where I overtook John Walker. who had left me. at Chattooga, and had been to Williamstown, and by way of the Look-out. He informed me that it was not the ball play that prevented Watts from meeting.me at Spring Hill, but a quarrel between Talo-tiska and him on account of Ins having visited me at Chattooga; and that, though he told me Talotiska wS» abroad, he M-as, nevertheless, at home, hut M’ould not come to see me, nor Suffer that I should come into town, as he did not wish to see the face of a white man at that place. Walker also informed me, that a number ofthe young fellows had gone to the Shawanese, and that a number more would soon set out, amongst which number be had thoughts of going; that a number of Creeks, consisting of small parties of from two to eight, had come as far as HiM'asee, but that all, except one party of three, one of whom had lived nine months in HiM'asee, were dissuaded from pursuing their intended route, to the frontiers of Washington district, by the Long Fellow and Tiekakiska, and the other chiefs of that place: but that it was Lis opinion that the path to Washington district would soon be full of Creeks; that he had been informed, in the Cower towns, that the Creeks were determined, this summer, to carry on a general war against all parts of the. United States, except such part as bordered immediately on their own nation. 1 received a letter from Mr. Goody, Minch confirmed me in my opinion that it wais not the ball play that prevented V» ats from coming to see me at Spring Hill, and a copy of wliicli I have the honor to enclose with this. It owe it to W ill. Elder and Unacata, my conductors, to acknowledge, that my most sanguine expectations did not equal their exertions for my security, particularly Will. Elder, m!io never left me, except when i sent him for Watts, and who, I verily beleive, would have defended my life at the risk of his own. Unacata’s assiduity and friendship M'as equal to Will's, w'hilst he M'as with me, but, a lien he went to Will's town, he ran a knife through his foot, and lost his horse, which prevented him from overtaking me again. My intimate acquaintance with Watts, as well as many other chiefs ofthe Lower towns, and the desire of peace held out previous to my going into the nation by some ot the party, who had been for war. justified the anticipation of a report more favorable to the prospects of approaching peace. It is, however, due to the nation to acknowledge, that, though the prospect of a lasting peace is, at this time, very uncertain, it is my opinion that the majority of the nation are anxious for it, and w'oukl accede to almost any terms of accommodation. M ere it not for the bias the Creeks and Shawanese have over all their councils. I beg you. sir, to believe, that, although I have failed in the completion of the objects of my mission, my zeal and exertions were equal to your most sanguine w ishes on the occasion; and that I am, with very great respect. Yours, Ac.'Information given Governor Blount by David Gilliland.—April 2, 1793. 1. Gov. Blount.—-I have understood you went from this place, on the 8th February, with Arthur Goody, in a canoe, and arrived with him at Look-out Mountain town creek on the 14th. Is it true? David Gilliland.—It is true. 2. G. B.-—In what towns did you make your principal stay? D. G.—At the Look-out Mountain tcnrn. 3. G. B.—How long did you stay'there? D. G.—About six weeks. 4. G. B.—During your stay did you see any scalps, or horses, brought into that town? and by whom? D. G.—About the 18th March, a party of Creek* consisting of thirteen warriors, returned from'Cumberland, with one scalp and fourhorses. A few days after, twenty Creeks returned from Cumberland, with turn white scalps, two negro scalps, and an old negro fellow prisoner, (w'ho said his master’s name was Parker) and four horses, among which was Drumgold’s roan race horse. There were also brought into the nation, by Cherokees, two or three scalps, and three horses, a few days before my arrival. 5. G. B.—Did you hear the names ofthe Cherokees who brought in the scalps? D. G.—Yes, Double-head and Pumpkin Roy were two of them. fi. G. B.—Did you see Double-head and Pumpkin Bov? , B. G.—\ res, I did, and M’as generally with them. 7. G. B.—How did they treat you? IJ. G.—Very well, were my best friends; and I have reason to believe. they prevented me from being’put to death in the Lower towns. 8. G. B.—Did you see any parties of Creeks going to war against the United States?. 1). G.—Yes; I saw two parties, one of upwards of fifty, and the other of three, Creeks, wel I armed: declaring they intended to divide, and a part attack Cumberland, and part the northern frontiers of Washington district, and the second party waylay the Cumberland trace. 9. G. B.—Do you suppose, if Mr. McKee had gone to the Lowrer towns, that Ids person would have been safe? I). G.—No. 10. G. B.—Do you believe he would have been put to death? I). G.—I do, verily. 11. G. B.—YVhat did yoil hear M'hile you urere in the Lower towns ofthe Creeks? that is, did you 'near whether they were for war or peace with the United States? I). G.—In the Lower Own's, it was generally understood, by traders and Indians, that the Upper Creeks had declared war against the United States, particularly Cumberland. Mr. Underwood, the interpreter between the Creeks and Cherokees, himself told me this u’ould be a bloody summer with the Creeks, immediately after he had done speaking to them. 12. G. B.— Do you know' whether any Cherokees joined the Creeks? D. G.—I do not: but I heard Dick Justice express his fears on that head. 13. G. B.—Did yon hear of any parties of Cherokees having lately gone to join the Northern tribes? D. G.—Yes. three different companies. 14. G. />.—Did you hear of any of the Northern Indians, who reside among the C'herokees. going for war? D. G.—Yes. three: and they mean to strike on the frontiers of Clinch. 15. G. ]>.—What appeared to be the coining! of Arthur Goody towards the United States? friendly, or otherwise? D..G.—Pretendedly friendly; but the general tenor of his conduct tome appeared otherwise: in particular, he appeared dissatisfied with your Excellency, complaining you had not made him presents equal to his services. 16. G. B.—Can you tell what Coody did with the goods I sent by him to deliver to John McKee? D. G.—Yes: he traded part of them for stolen horses, with the Creeks, and sent the rest to Mr. Mc'Kee. by Jack Sivils. DAYID GILLILAND. I, Joseph Greer, a justice of the peace for the county of Knox, and territory south of the Ohio, do certify, that David Gilliland this day appeared before me, and made oath to the truth of the’above answers by him given to the above questions, stated by Governor Blount. Given under mv hand and seal, this 2nd day of April 1793. ' JOSEPH GREER. Minutes of a conference held at Henry's Station, on the 6th February. 1793. between Governor Blount and John Halts, the Hanging Maw. Double-head, and many others of the C'herokees—Susanna Spears interpreter. Governor Blount.—I am happy, on this occasion, to speak to you on public business. What I have to say is diort. and will he concerning things that are yet to come, not about what is past. 1 have lately received a letter from the President, a part of which I will read to you. It is as follows: "The President of the United States is highly desirous that John Watts, the Little Turkey, and as many of the real chiefs of the C'herokees as you may judge proper to form a real representation of the tribes, should pay a visit to this place, where they shall not only be abundantly supplied with such articles as they may require for themselves, but also for their nation. He wishes you to accompany them.” 1 want to know your answer to tins request of the President: if you are not prepared, take time, withdraw, and consult each other. 1 will go with you any road you may choose to travel. The President supposes, if a full and complete representation should visit him. ail matters of difference maybe settled. I think so too. In this invitation which the President makes, he gives the greatest proof of his friendship, and I hope you will accept it. Hanging Maut.—I am willing to go: but. there must be a consultation of the chiefs. You must not think ihe time long before we get ready, in case we conclude to go. [Here he. Watts. Double-head, and Tuskegataliee. withdrew: and. returning. John Watts said:] You are oar father: you have told us you want us to go to Philadelphia. There are no head-men here but tin: Hanging Maw and tny»e1f. I can speak but little, and can give no answer to the business you propose. I must first consult our chiefs, who are gone to the Creek': perhaps, when we get back home, they may be returned. All the nation will assemble, in twenty-one nights, at the Running Water: then all things will betaken into consideration. You shall hear the result. The business of our chiefs, who are gone on to the Creeks is to try to stop them from going to war. They are the Glass, the Turkey. Kittagiska. Dick Justice, llovalta. Charley. The Water Hunter, The Breath, The Drunkard. Double-head, (not him of the same name present) The Person-striker. Tue Spider, Chulcoah, their linguister. My own nation is at war: (he Creeks and Chickasaws also. I want all these to be at peace, then I will take you by the hand and go to Philadelphia. John Taylor* and Talotiskie are gone to the Northward to sell a negro, who. for some time past, has belonged to John Taylor. My people wanted me to go to the Creeks, but I chose to come and see the Hanging Maw and yourself. Those of my nation, who are gone to the Creeks, are gone even to their Lower towns, to use their influence to stop them from war. Governor.—What is the reason the Creeks go to war. as they have so lately been treating with Mr. Seagrove at St. Mary's? J Vat is.—1 hear the Creeks have said they will heat war with the Cumberland people the longest day they have to live, on account of the land. My people,have gone to bring them into measures of peace. Governor.—Some Creeks commit depredations on the frontiers of M adiington district. Watts.—‘Tis fellows who live single, not in towns, who are bad off for clothes: they steal horse' to supply themselves. Governor.—Have you heard from Mr. MeGillivray? Halts.—I have heard lately that he sickened and died at bis own house. I am not going to tell you any lies. I know who do all the mischief: 'tis the Creeks. They are about at this time. Yet, 1 agree that some few of my young men .go with them. Fifty Creeks, whom I- saw. went out some time since, and many small parties.of threes and fours have gone more lately. Governor.—You say ’tis twenty-one nights till you are to meet and consult at the Running Water. Immediately after you have had your consultation, you should let me know the result thereof, that I may inform the President whether he is to expect you or not. Will it be agreeable to you that John McKee should accompany you? he can write and do business for you. . JVatts.—Your own sort of people like McKee as well as we do. but he must wait and go down with Hanging Maw. Governor.—I shall now go home and write the President, letting him know what has passed between us. and that I believe you will send a representation to Philadelphia. Watts.—J want no lies told, it is uncertain, it will depend on the result of the council. I want matter.s settled first. Governor.—To go there is the right way to settle matters. If you should not go, the President will think you are angry, as lie promises goods for yourselves and the nation at large. It is a long journey, and will be expensive; therefore he wants not too great a number to go: yet he thinks all the head-men of the nation ought, i hope the business, when done, will be lasting, and done for ever. JVatts.—I cannot promise how long it may be before I go._ I want matters settled first. Governor.—You have much influence in the nation, which you cannot serve better than by using it, so as to induce a representation to visit Philadelphia. The President writes me, all the Northwards are to hold a treaty in forty-five days. Do you think they are in earnest? JVatts,—i cannot tell. Governor.—The Northwards, who went to the Creeks, I suspect, cause the Creeks to be cross. Halts.—What is Carey gone to Philadelphia for? Governor.—To carry letters; and he also promised Mr. Shaw to meet him there. Halts.—We do not like Carey's doings: lie seems not to act fairly. Governor.—I cannot help your liking or misliking Carey; you know him best; you introduced him to me as a linguister. 'J Vat Is.—The Upper towns are scarce of provisions, and my family and friends are numerous.   I want you to .end me. to Coyatee, some flour, bacon, and salt, to support us home: and two kegs of whiskey, for my warriors to drink your health when ! get there. It will have a good effect. Daniel Carmichael will deliver them to me. ” This John Taylor is the same who lately returned from Orleans, with the Woody Fellow, by way of the Chickasaws; and Talotiskie, since his invasion of Cumberland, ir. September, has taken every occasion to give? proofs of his disposition for war. This gives reason to suspecL selling the negro is only the ostensible business. Governor.—You shall have them. Watts.—I have one thing more to say to you. There is a person of my own blood among the white people, and his friends want to see him. Governor.—I have never heard of him. Where is her or when {lid you hear of him? ' Watts—He was carried, when a small hoy, and committed to the care of Colonel Anderson, by his friends, and we lately heard he was there working. Governor.—I shall inquire into it, and let you know. If’tisas you say, he shall come down, that you may see him. Letter from Arthur Goody to John McKee.—Mctreh 10, 1793. Dear Sir: I am sorry you could not come to see me at present, for the Indians are much confused. If you had sent the letters to me, 1 could have been better able to satisfy them: for I am here just with my empty hands. If you have the letters, send them by the bearer hereof. I shall send your goods up by John Walker, to meet you at his house, in four days from this; and, when you come again, bring with you the Long Fellow, the Hanging Maw, the headman of Chota, and John Boggs. I have taken seven pair boots, (leggins) for the head-men, that you must charge to the public. John Watts is offended, by some of his people, is the reason that he will not come to see you. I shall go to see him, and settle that point with him. Richard Justice is going to see the Governor, and Mr. Ogdon, to see'if he can commence a trade from that place, in order to bring about peace; through my request, Double-head and his brother were coming up likewise; but they are stopped from going at present. There are ten Creeks, I expect here this day, with one negro prisoner; and they have killed two men, and one or two negroes besides, from Cumberland. You will send the letters to his Excellency as soon as you can, for I have more than I can do without more help: for I have to work against the Spanish, French, and Creeks, and the best part of my own country. I shall leave nothing undone for you to come in safety, when you come again. So no more at present, but remain your dear friend, ARTHUR COODY. Letter from John McKee to Colonel John Watts. Sprixghill, March 18, 1793. My Good Friend: I anxiously waited for you at this place, in hopes to have had an opportunity of communicating to you, personally, my sentiments respecting the approaching meeting with Governor Blount. I wish you, and some of the chiefs, had come over. I wish your nation happy. I have always loved your people, and have had thoughts of living amongst you, which I cannot do till you make a strong peace with the United States. It is undoubtedly your interest to be at peace. Let me advise you to try it, at least for one or two years, and see what the United States will do for you. I tell vou they will do more for you than you think. But it is impossible they can do any thing whilst your people are killing theirs, and stealing their horses. ’Tis this that stops the ears of Congress, and your lather, the President; and will, if not put a stop to, undoubtedly ruin your country. Meet the Governor as soon as possible, the sooner the better. Send talks to the Creeks, and tell them, if they want war, to tell the United States of it. Tell them not to pass through your towns to bring trouble on them. If they are your friends they will take some other course. I will see you again, perhaps before you meet Governor Blount. I am, &c. JOHN McKEE. A list of murders and depredations, committed on the citizens of the United States, by Indians. On Thursday, 19th of March, 1793, Nolan was killed on the waters of Little Harpeth, ten miles from Nashville; many horses taken, but the number not ascertained. Since the killing of Thomas Ross (the post) on the Kentucky road, information has been received of two parties being attacked on that road, and several killed: but the particulars are not so well ascertained as to be able to give them. William Massey, and Adam Green, on 31st March, 1793. on the frontiers of Ilawkins county. Knoxville, April 11th, 1793. Sir: I am just informed, that the house of a Mr. Gallaher. on the south of Holston, eighteen miles from this, was burnt by Indians on the 9th instant; Gallaher himself, and his family, were at an adjacent station. The families, in general, on the frontiers, are collected at stations; at one, which I lately visited, (John Craig’s) there are 280 people, men, women, and children, living in a miserable manner, in small huts. I am. Sic. Knoxville, April 12th, 1793.'Sir: I have the honor to enclose a copy of the information this morning received by Mr. William Macklin, and of a letter written to his Excellency Isaac Shelby, Governor of Kentucky, in consequence thereof, and to be, with very great respect and esteem, &c. Minutes of information given by Mr. JVilliam Macklin, April 12th, 1793, at Knoxville, to Governor Blount. That on the 4th instant, he met with Colonel Buford, a resident of Kentucky, and who had just then arrived from that country, who informed him that General Logan was raising a party of Kentucky militia volunteers, for the purpose of making war on the Lower Cherokees. That the number of their party was expected to be from 150 to 250. That a party, commanded by Major Whitley, which had been in search of the Indians who had done the late mischief on the road, were to join General Logan’s party. That they intended to proceed to the Tennessee, which they would cross, and attack the towns, unless, on their arrival in its vicinity, they found reasons to the contrary. That Col. Buford must have left Kentucky, on or about the 1st instant, and that he believed General Logan and his party would commence their operations in a few' days from that time. WM. MACKLIN. Governor Blount to Governor Shelby. . . Knoxville, April 12, 1793. Sir: The enclosed information was communicated to me this morning. Mr. Macklin, my informant, is a man of veracity. Colonel Buford I do not personally knowr, but he also has ever been represented to me as a man of veracity. The President lias instructed me to invite a full representation of the Cherokees to visit him at Philadelphia, and directed me to accompany them. The object of the invitation is. the settling all manner of difference between the United States and Cherokees. On the 6th instant f held a conference with John 'Watts, the Maw, and other chiefs, and made known to them the invitation of the President. They expressed their own willingness to comply with it, would give no assurances on the part of the nation, but promised that an answer should be made up in a full council, by the 26th instant, and that it should be immediately made known to me. It is my opinion that the other chiefs, as well as Watts and the Maw, wish peace with the-United States, and that they will accept the invitation of the President. But, sir, should General Logan go on with his attempt, as reported by Mr. Macklin, on the information of Colonel Buford, you, from a knowledge of the defenceless state of the frontiers, and mode of warfare from incensed Indians, can readily judge the consequences. Supposing this information true, I am much at. a loss how to account for it. Surely, if General Logan is authorized by Government, a knowledge of it would have been communicated to me by Government, and it would seem as if no general would raise and march such a body of men without it. But, be it which it will, he has no right to pass the limits of the territory oyer which I have the honor to preside, as Governor and Commander-in-chief, without my permission, and trust he will not. I am, Ac. Knoxville. April 13///. 1793. Sir: Letters, of which the enclosed are copies, are this moment handed to me, express, from the Hanging Maw. I shall instantly order out two companies of mounted infantry, to the relief of Cumberland, from the district of Washington. I mean, two in all from that district. I am, &c. Information received since the writing this letter, that Blackburn's house was burned yesterday by the Indians. Blackburn's is about fourteen miles from this place, on the north side of the Holston. John H alts to Governor Blount. Covatee. April lUh, 1793-. Friend and Brother: Now, it is six days since I talked with you. I told you the truth about the Creeks, for they say that they never will be at peace with Cumberland, nor talk about peace in that land. Now you have warning of the Creeks. It don’t look like war in our land, when we send you word of your enemy coining against you. I have only heard of the Creeks passing in large quantities, but to what part I don't know, so take care every where, i told you that the head men had gone to the Creeks, but they have not gone; they have sent. There is so many bad talks, they do not know what to do. Tell Mr. Alexander Carmichael to make haste and meet us. I am, &c. Arthur Goody to Governor Blount. Look-out Mountain, April 5th. 1793. (One of the Lower Cherokee tow ns.) Dear Sir: This comes to inform your Excellency of the Creek Indians passing by me to war against Cumberland settlement. 29lh March, came by 64, and last of March, came by 14, and the 3d day of April came by 38. and the 4th, came by 501, and they gave an account of 100 coming behind them, all against Cumberland. These individuals wish for you to be convinced that they are lor peace. They have sent to the Creeks to tell them, if they have a mind to beat war with the United States, to go against Georgia, and not to come this way to bring trouble on them, for they have put by all war for two years, to see if the white people will be as good as their words to them. Dear sir, Mr. McGillivray is certainly dead; he died about the last of February, and these Indians have sent Captain Justice, and the Tattle Turkey, and another chief, to make, peace for all nations. I have these Indians in a better way for a peace than they have been for live years past. The most .of these Indians are out hunting by water; there are none gone by land as yet. I tell them not to go over this river any distance, for fear parties, following the Creeks, might come across them. 1 am, &c. Note.—Arthur Coody is a half-breed Cherokee, who reads and writes English, and whom I have engaged to give me information. There can be no doubt of the truth of that contained in this letter. WM. BLOUNT. Knoxville, April 13///, 1793. John Boggs to the Hanging Man'; forwarded by the Maw to Governor Blount, 13th April, 1793. (This letter has Ho date nor place, but was written from some one of the Lower towns of the Cherokees.) Dear Friend: This comes to inform you, and rest of our friends, that Mr. McGillivray is dead, out of this world, and about the Creeks passing by us daily to Mar. Since the 29th March, to the 5th April, have passed by no less than 247 Warriors. \\ e have sent to their nation to make peace with the Breed Nation, and to keep the Creek Indians from coming through our land to war. If they will be at war with white people, to go against Georgia, and not to come and bring trouble on our hind. If they will come through our land, we shall not take them as our friends; so no more at present, but remain. &c. 1 could wish for the settlement people to be careful, for what I see I can believe. I have thought those people told lies about the Creeks, but I-find it too true to make a laugh of. Note.—John Boggs is a fellow of as much veracity as any in the Cherokee nation, and as noted a friend to peace and the United States. WM. BLOUNT. Knoxville, April 18, 1793. Sir: . The enclosed copy of a letter to John Watts and the Hanging Maw, will inform you of the death of Noonday, a.Cherokee of Toquo, one of the Upper towns, and the circumstances attending it. He was a fellow of very bad character, and his death, as respected himself, is not to be. lamented. What his business on the frontiers was, does not appear. 1 am, sir, &c. Governor Blount to the Hanging Maiv and John Watts. Knoxville, April 17, 1793. Friends and Brothers: Noon-day was unfortunately killed by mistake lor a Creek, as he was off the path, with a gun on his shoulder, by the people who were ranging to protect the frontiers. If they had known him to be a Cherokee, they would not have injured him. This.'you may know, is true; because, since they have been ranging, they have often seen Che-rokees,”and some with guns, off the path, and did not injure them. There is another proof they did not mean to kill him, that is.'when they found that they, by mistake, had killed a friendly Cherokee, they did not scalp him, as they would have done had lie been a Creek. It was so late in the evening, that the mistake was easily made. 1 am sure, my brothers, you will recollect what I said to you at Henry’s station, on the 6th day of this month. I there told you that rangers were on the frontiers to protect the citizens of the United States against the Creeks, and that it would be best for the Cherokees to forbear to come on their lands on the north side of Tennessee with guns, for fear they should be mistaken for Creeks, and be hurt or killed. I desired, in case any of your people wan ted to come into the settlements about business, for such to come along the path to Henry’s station, without guns; or, if any wanted to come into the settlements to get their guns repaired, for them first to go to the Maw, and get his pass to come in, and to keep the path, then they would not be injured. That James Ore, who lived at the Maw’s, would write the passes for the M.tw. The Noon-day was himself to blame, because he knew all these things. Many innocent people have been killed; many on our side and some on yours. Let us forgive and forget what has passed, and endeavor to make and keep peace for the future. Watts’ advice to the young men, not to go and take satisfaction, as they proposed, convinces me lie is a friend to his nation, and to peace. And the peaceful manner in which your people came out the next day, and inquired into the manner and cause of Noon-day’s death, does them credit. It was following the good example of the white people, who have borne many similar injuries without retaliation. I hope, my good Brothers, this unfortunate mistake will in no degree destroy or retard our pleasing prospects of returning peace. But, it may be that Noon-day’s friends will not be content without satisfaction; and if they will not, and will take it in goods, I will pay them, and send the goods for them immediately to the Maw’s. I hope, my Brothers, you will let me hear from you before you go down to the running water to the council; and when you are at the council, I begyou to explain every thing fully to the chiefs. I am, &c. Noon-day was a Cherokee of Toquo, one of the Upper towns, and was killed in the dusk of the evening of the 15th instant. Knoxville, April QOth, 1793. Sir: The enclosed is the copy of John Watts’ answer to my letter of the 17th instant, already forwarded to your office. I am this morning informed that, on the 18th instant, on the east fork of Little Pigeon, Jefferson county,'thirty miles from this place, Joshua Tipton, and-Matthews were killed', and-----Shields wounded, by a party of twelve Indians. 1 am also just informed by a gentleman from German creek, that a party of travellers had arrived there through the wilderness from Kentucky on the 18th instant, (Thursday) who reported that, shortly before their departure from Kentucky, a station was attacked by Indians, who killed three of the inhabitants, and made eighteen prisoners, whom they carried into the woods and killed. They also reported that, on the 15th. (Monday) the day they left Kentucky; another station was attacked by Indians, but had not heard the result. As they passed the station on the trace at Rock Castle, the houses were on fire. It is supposed they had been previously evacuated. I have the honor, &c. i Friend and Brother: John Jiatts to Governor Blount. Cgyatee. April 18tin 1793. I am going now to tell you the truth. 1 sent your people word of the Creeks being at the Hanging Maw’s, and as they returned from the pursuit of them, one of the men got drowned. I suppose that was the reason of Noon-day’s being killed; and, as I wish peace, let both go together—Noonday for the man that was drowned. Noon-day was my brother in our way of kindred. Noon-day was a good man, and they wanted to kill him. They knew verv well it was not Creeks, for they took his gun, and belt, and knife, and garters. At the talk at Samuel Henry’s, Major Craig wanted the bad people to come to his house; and Noon-day went to Craig’s, and got. killed. Noon-day’s own two brothers was very cross, and wanted to take satisfaction at once, but 4 went to them yesterday, and told them to stop; they promised me that they would. I hope they will listen to my talks. We all wish for peace. I hope the white people will do the same. Noon-day is dead, and it can’t be helped. We must try to make peace, and hold our peace talks fast. To-morrow I start for the Running M ater to the talk, and the Hanging Maw. 1 .wish Mr. McKee to come on as fast as possible. Mv good brother, you must send a talk to Craig, and his bad young men, to take care not to do any more mischief. When the talk is over, I will come and let you know .all our talks. The wife and children of Noon-day has no corn, and if you will find them some to live on till-corn comes, I shall be glad. Your friend, &c. Knoxville, April 2.5th, 1793. Sir: - . The enclosed extracts from two letters yesterday received from the Glass, a Cherokee chief, and Edward Adair, contain additional proof of the intentions of the Creeks to commit hostilities against the United States. 1 have not heard from Cumberland since the first instant. It is hardly necessary to add. that I am in painful expectation of hourly receiving very disagreeable information from that quarter. Mr. McKee is gone down with Watts to attend the council alluded to by Adair and the Glass, now near at hand, and will give me the earliest notice of the result. My object in sending him, is to use his influence and address to the interest of the United States. The mounted infantry, ordered from the district of Washington to.,the Mero district, have not turned out with the readiness I expected. They will leave Southwest Point on Monday, the 29th. 1 have the honor. &c. Extract of a letter from Edward Adair (1) to Governor Blount, dated Spkinghill, in the Cherokees, April 13th, 1793. The head-men have done all in their power to procure peace with you, by restraining their young people from the doing of mischief to the United States. They talk of nothing but of going out a hunting. They have likewise sent Richard Justice, and some other head-men, to the Creek nation, to endeavor to put a stop to their coming through , this land to commit hostilities upon the United States; and if they do not quit such .practices, that they shall look upon them as their enemies, and not their friends any longer; There was ninety Creeks passed this place a few 1 (1) Edward Adair is an influential trader, who lives at fnring- Hill. THE CREEKS, CHEROKEES, AND OTHERS. 451 days ago, on their way to Cumberland, and killed six cows, belonging to Mr. Burges, («,> and said they would take as many as they pleased: afterwards went to the Look-out Mountain, and behaved in a very rude manner there. They continue daily taking horses from the white people and Indians of this land, which enraged the inhabitants much. These people have a talk to be held in fourteen days from this date, from the Chiekasaws and Choctaws, which we believe is a good peace talk, but much against tiie Creeks, as theyfb) declared themselves in favor of the Chickasaws, by Richard Justice, and those others that are gone to the Creeks lor such purposes. Extract of a letter from the Glass (2) to Governor Blount, April 15th, 1793, from Spring hill of the Cherokees, near the Lower towns. A few days after he (Me Kee) left this, there were, ninety (4) Creeks passed this, and killed six cows, belonging to one of our people, (Mr. Burges.) They altenvards came to the Look-out, where I was. I asked them who was the head of their going to war. They told me it was the Spaniards that caused them to be at what they were. I told them it was but nine nights since I had letters from the Spaniards, and they told us to be at peace. This, I assure you, is the truth, and I shall not keep any thing hid from you. I have sent talks by Richard Justice (3) to tell "the Creeks to desist from killing the Chickasaws, and coming through this land; if not, we shall he spectators (6) to see our red brothers the Chickasaws murdered so. In fourteen nights1 from this date, all the head-men of this nation are to meet. (5) at which time I expect our people w ill be returned from the Creeks. As soon as the talks are over, you shall hear it the same as if you was present yourself. . ' Knoxville, .April 25th, 1793. Siu: Since writing you of this date, 1 have received a letter from the Little Turkey, of which you have enclosed an extract. Contrary to my expectation, Mr. McKee was the hearer of it. The reason of his return, the enclosed report will explain. I have the honor, &c. Extract of a letter from Little Turkey to Governor Blount, dated New Seneca, (commonly called Turkey's town) .April 21 st, 1793. It is well known I am a man that love« peace, and would do my endeavor to make peace between any set of people. Yet the Creeks are passing by every other day with scalps and horses from the frontiers. I have told them not to pass through my town, but they tell me it is what they will (d) to pass any where. John McKee to Governor Blount. Knoxville, .April 25th, 1793. Sm: After accompanying John Watts as far as Wockoe, we met a runner from the Lower towns, with whom Watts and the Maw held a long talk. Watts then informed me that the council would not meet as soon as hy had informed your Excellency. That, since his departure from the Lower towns, talks had been received from the Chickasaws, and / Choctaws, and Creeks, each soliciting the aid of the Cherokees against the other, which had much agitated the minds of the Cherokees, and these talks would he taken up first and decided upon; that the Maw and myself might return, and lie would come up and conduct me to the council in which the President's invitation would be taken ito consideration. When we were about to part, lie desired me to inform your Excellency that the Cherokees. at all events, would not take part with the Creeks. 'The small presents you sent for himself and his wife, he received as particular marks of your notice and attention to him. Din ing iny continuance with him he appeared, and I believe is, sincerely desirous of peace between his nation and the United States. Upon parting he did not express the particular time when he would return for me, but, from my knowledge of the distance, anu the delay that generally attends the transaction of Indian business, it probably cannot he less than fifteen days. I have the honor, &.c. Knoxville, May 9th, 1793. Sin: The enclosed copies of letters and orders to General Robertson, and of my order to Major Beard, will fully inform you of the steps I have taken to relieve the district of Mero from the invasion of the Creeks. I have not yet heard from that district, since die 1st of April, nor from Major Beard, since he left southwest point. It is to be feared that my express. James Donclson. who left this on the 14th of April, is cut off: as he had my order to return without delay. The Cherokees appear generally disposed for peace, but they' have not yet determined whether they will accept the invitation of the President to visit him at Philadelphia. This delay, in my opinion, is owing to the embarrassment they must feel on account of the war between their neighbors on all sides. I am informed by a letter, dated 30th April, at the Look-out,* that two parties of Creeks had passed that place between the 25th and 30th, for war against Cumberland, one of twenty-five the other of eighteen, and that, on the 26th, a party returned from Cumberland, with hair; how much was not mentioned by my informant (Arthur Goody.) Governor Shelby assures me the report, respecting General Logan, as mentioned by Colonel Buford, is not well founded. 1 have the honor to be, &c. Governor Blount to General Robertson. Knoxville, March 28th, 1793. Sue. You will order out a company of mounted infantry, or cavalry, to range on the frontiers of Mero district, for the protection and defence thereof, to commence service between the 14th and 18th of April, and on or before the (re) Mr. Burges lias been-a resident among the Cherokees upwards of 20 years, and is considered as one of themselves. (b) They, that is, the Cherokees. (2) The Glass is a chief of the first consequence in the Lower towns. (3) Ui chard Justice is a chief of the same description. (4) This 90 must he the 100, as said by Coody, were to he expected. (5) This is the same council to which. Watts and the Maw referred the President’s invitation for consideration. (6) Judging from the habits of intimacy heretofore between the Creeks and Cherokees, implicit faith cannot be paid to the declaration of the Glass’s, but the truth will be known immediately after the rise of their council. fdj “ What they will.” is an Indian phrase, meaning, they will if they please. * One of the towns of the Lower Cherokees. 14th May to be discharged, unless the danger should be so imminent as to render their services indispensably necessary to the protection of the country.; and, in that case, you may continue them, in service until the 14th June, or discharge them, and call out an equal number, to serve until that time. I am, sir, &c. Governor Blount to GeneraI Robertson, Knoxville, March 2S//i, 1793. Sir: Your letter of the 12th was handed me by James Ilonelson, express, enclosing the talk of the Chickasaws, both of which were immediately forwarded , by James Carey, to the President, who was just prepared to set out as an express with other information, respecting the hostile disposition of the Creeks and Cherokees—that is, of the Upper Creeks and Lower Cherokees, towards the United States, particularly Cumberland. At, or about, the next full moon, (the 25th April) it seems you may expect the greatest danger from them, and, to guard against them, you will order into service a full company of mounted cavalry, or infantry, that is, to consist of eighty men, exclusive of commissioned officers, to way-lay the Indian paths leading to the settlements, and to explore the woods where their principal camps may probably be formed, wherever it may be, whether on the lands of the United States, or within the limits of fifty miles from the settlements, and if they find Indians within these limits, to treat them as enemies, women and children excepted. It appears to me that this company of men had best be divided into three parties, to be commanded by the different commissioned officers; but, this is submitted to you. Let the officers be of the most active and enterprising, such as you can best depend on. and may be cavalry or infantry officers, and so may the privates be, of either: but be they of which they will, they must go well armed, with a firelock in addition to such other arms as they may choose to carry. This number of active enterprising men, advanced into the country through which the Indians have to pass, before they can reach the frontiers, would either check their incursions, by intercepting some party or other, or by intimidating them by the sign of the horses, by which they would discover the settlements were alarmed, and on-their guard. In either case, you know it is probable they would retreat, and leave your frontier in security. You will order this company to commence this service between the fourteenth and eighteenth of April, and discharge them on or before the 14th May, unless the danger should continue so imminent as to render their service indispensable for the protection of the frontiers; and in that case, you will continue them in service, not exceeding two months, or may, if the danger continues imminent, discharge this company, on or before the 14th May, and order out another, as the succeeding moon is approaching the full, for a month's service. These troops are at liberty to pursue incursive parties, not only to the limits of fifty miles, but even to the Tennessee, and punish them in the severest manner. I shall order out, from this district, another.company, at least to pass at Southwest Point on the 18tli April, turn oft' Cumberland mountain, to the southward of the trace, cross the Cany fork high up, and strike the traces that lead from the Lower Cherokees to the'Cumberland settlements, and scour the country down to Nashville. Mr. John McKee is returned, and gives no assurances of peace with the Lower towns. Watts met him at Chatooga, against the wish of Talotiske, and the warriors, and when he returned to Will’s town they insulted him so that lie determined’to leave that town, and actually did pack up, and go oft'fourteen miles, and.the young warriors sent and persuaded him back. Small parties of Creeks are daily passing and repassing the Lower tow ns. They carried along the scalps of the people kdled in February, bn Cumberland, both white and black. Small parties of the Lower Cherokees are equally engaged in the business of killing the citizens of the United States, and stealing their property. I am glad to hear of the certainty of the war with the Chickasaws and Creeks, but what paid the United States will act, is not in my powrer to determine. I shall not feel myself at liberty to take any part in it, nor grant any part of the supplies they ask, until ordered by the President, therefore, shall endeavor that the messengers shall be \J detained here until advice is obtained from him. As to corn for the Chickasaws, you must supply them with such quantity as is necessary for their support, on the cheapest and best terms you can; you bad best_ postpone giving any positive answer to them, until I hear from the President. J shall set out for Philadelphia, in eight or ten days, if General Smith arrives sate, of which I hope there is no doubt, in winch case you know, by the constitution, the Government devolves on him. I am, &c. Governor Blount to General Robertson. Knoxville, April 14///, 1793. Sir: Enclosed is a copy of my letter and order of 28th March, by James Deraque, which I hope is to your hands days past. Yesterday I received undoubted information, which goes in confirmation of that on which iny order of the 28th was founded, that, previous to the 5th instant, and since the 29th March, six hundred and seventeen Creeks have passed the Tennessee, in four different parties, declaring their intentions for war against the United States, and principally against the district of Merov This number of Indians, to be sure, appears truly alarming; but, when it is recollected that their mode of warfare is never to risk their persons, I flatter myself the company already ordered will have the effect either to repidse or deter them from invading your frontiers. Hut, should you judge another company of mounted infantry or cavalry is indispensably necessary for the protection of your frontiers, and for the repelling those hostile and savage invaders of your country, you are at liberty to order it out, subject to my instructions of the 28th March, for a tour not exceeding one month. Permit me again to repeat to you, that these companies, whether one or two, to be entitled to pay, must actually range in advance of the settlements, as directed in my letter of the 28th March. From one hundred and sixty to five Hundred mounted infantry will march to your relief as soon as possible, by the route as pointed out by my letter of the 28th March. I have lately seen John Watts, and had a conference of two days with him, and other chiefs, among them Double-head, in which I made known to them the wish ot the President that a full representation of the Cherokees should accompany me on a visit to him at Philadelphia. They replied that a full council of the nation was to be held on the 27tli instant, when the President’s request should be taken into consideration, and an answer given me. Watts appeared very friendly, and to him and (he Ma'w I am indebted for the information respecting the Creeks; and not only him, but the Cherokee nation in general, appear opposed to the conduct of the Creeks, and sincerely wish peace. It would seem as if the visit of McKee to "Watts, and other measures taken by Government, would have the desired eftect, so far as respects the Cherokees—the restoration of peace. It has been reported, on the authority of Colonel Buford, of Kentucky; that General Lo"an was about to raise a party to invade the Lower Cherokee towns. Such a measure would be totally destructive ot the plans and measures of the President, and would destroy.the hopes of returning peace. Should he attempt to march a body of men through the district of Mero, it will.be your duty to command him, in positive terms, to desist from his object of invading the Cherokee towns, and to warn him oft! he evil consequences that will attend such a measure. This you may do, verbally, if you please, but you must also do it in writing for your justification. I have written Governor Shelby on (be subject. In this I do not mean to prohibit the General from ranging the woods, as far as permitted by my orders of the 28th March, nor from chastising Indians within those limits. I am, sir, &e. 1793.] THE CREEKS. CHEROKEES, AND OTHERS. 453 Governor Blount to General Robertson. Knoxville. .ipril 18//s. 1793. Sir: Major Bearil, oil his arrival at Nashville, will receive orders from you (which let be in writing) as to his operations to relieve the district of Mero from the invasion of the Creeks, and to the route he shall return to Southwest Point, provided he is to be permitted to return to that place in thirty one, days from the time he leaves if. He will shew you my orders of this date to him. I ant, sir, &c. Governor Blount to Major BearJ. Knoxville. * Ipril IS Ik. 1793. .Sir; The object of your command is to relieve the Cumberland inhabitants, Mero district, from a powerful invasion ef the Creeks, who passed the Tennessee for war against the United States, particularly that part thereof. To effect that object, you will march from this place, and proceed, without delay, by way of Southwest Point, and the southern, or upper waters of the Cany fork, to the paths which the Creeks generally pass to war against that, district, and to the woods in which they form their camps, and from which they annoy the inhabitants oi Cumberland in smaller parties. You will have with you. for your guide, Richard Finnelson. a Cherokee, who is perfectly acquainted with both, and on whose fidelity you may fully depend. On your arrival at either of the before described paths or woods, you are to consider all the Indians you come across therein. or on the paths, or in the woods on the waters of Cumberland river, as low down as the mouth of Red river. Creeks aim enemies, unless the contrary appears, and treat them as such, paying regard to the most humane rules and customs ,»f war. I repeat, again, you are to consider all Indians found on the waters of Cumberland river as Creeks and enemies, and treat them as such, unless the contrary appears. But, should you come across Chickasaw's, Choctaws, or Chcrokees. and know them to be such, you are to consider them as friends, unless they give you proofs of their hostility, and then, as enemies. It is probable you will find none of these three last described tribes to the eastward of Nashville, and you will not goto the west of it, except you are so ordered by General Robertson. On your arrival at Nashville, you wri!) receive the orders of General Robertson, in writing, both as to your operations during your stay in the district, and the route you are to return, to which you are to pay strict obedience. You will take your route to Nashville from the upper southern waters of the Cany fork, in such direction as you shall judge proper, and in such time, keeping in view the object of your command, which can be best effected by falling on and destroying the principal camps of the Creeks, on the Cany fork, and the other southern waters of Cumberland river,and by intercepting, or purvuing on the paths, incursive parties. You are not to go to the southward of the Cumberland waters, except in pursuit of a Hying enemy, and. in that rase, you may, if you judge it prudent, pursue even to the Tennessee. I am. sir. &c. May 9, 1793.—The number of men under the command of Major Beard, officers inclusive, is 125. They marched from Southwest Point on the 29th April. Knoxville. May 12. 1793. Sin: Yesterday evening my express, James Donelson. returned, via Kentucky, (being afraid to venture the nigh way) with letters from General Robertson, who lives near Nashville, dated 25th April, ami with others from other officers, who live more to the eastward, that is. on his road to this place, as late as the 29th: from which the enclosed list oi' murders is collected. Donelson adds, that, before he left the Cumberland settlements, he was informed that a station had been attacked near Nashville, after his departure from it, but did not learn the particulars. The enclosed extracts from General Robertson's letter, wall inform you of the supplies lie has made to the Chickasaw’s. There are various reports in circulation respecting the war between them and the Creeks, but none that can be depended on as certain. Among others, it is said that the Choctaws have joined the Chickasaw*. It is not certain, though i believe it. The Cherokee chiefs have not yet informed me whether, they accept the invitation of the President to accompany me to Philadelphia, nor have I heard from Major Beard, since his departure from Southwest Point, on the 29t!i April. I have the honor to be, &c. .Qpril 9th. Col. Isaac Bledsoe, killed in his field, near his own liousel by a party consisting of twenty. 10th. The house of Mrs. Simpson was set on fire in the night, but the flames were extinguished by men who were in the house. 1 Ifh. John Hannan and-----Dowdy were killed near the mouth of Sycamore, in Tennessee county. 14///. Henry Ilowdeshell and Samuel Pharr, killed, near General Rutherford's. IS///. John Benton, killed, on the road between Captain Reese's and Col. Winchester's mill; the same day two men were killed on the road to Kentucky. 19///. Two men were killed near Clarkesville. 26///. Richard Shaffer and---Gambeel were killed, ami James Dean wounded. 27///. A party of Indians, at first supposed to be sixty, but since, on good grounds., believed to be two hundred, attacked the station at Greenfield, and killed John Jervis, and a negro fellow belonging to Mrs. Parker. This station was saved by the signal bravery of William Neely, William Wilson, and William flail, who killed two Indians and wounded several others. 28///. Francis Ramer was killed near the Dripping spring, on the trace between Cumberland ami Kentucky. \ number of horses have been killed and taken, no particular account of which w as taken. Extract front General Robertson's letter. They (the Chickasaw’s) are perfectly pleased: I furnished them with sundry articles of clothing, and answered a number of requests from the chiefs, LB as sparingly as possible. These requests were for axes, smoothing irons, hoes, drawing knives, handsaws, nails, and other small articles, such as files, &c. I sent seven axes, two handsaw’s, six smoothing irons, a number of other small articles, one small barrel of nails, fifteen bushels of salt, as the chiefs informed me that the Mountain Lead® requested a quantity of that article might be sent, on account of the war, and the scarcity was so great they would he obliged to kill a number of their cattle, and have muc h of each spoiled, if I did not send salt. This made me semi more than I otherwise would. I shall not think myself af liberty to furnish any other articles than provisions, hereafter, without your Excellency's instructions. I engaged with Dir. John Hynes to carry 1100 bushels of corn to the Chickasaw Bluff, for which I am to give one hundred and fifty dollars: and I furnished three hands to assist in taking if down: if is in a flat bottomed boat. I could not get it down lower, and to have sent it in pettiaugers, would have cost much more, for it would be a large one-tlnt would carry 200 bushels, and would require three hands to man her. At this time I cannot get hands under thirty dollars the trip, f j-ent one large pettiauger manned with two of the Indians and two white men. Knoxville, May 15tli, 1793. Sir: Enclosed is a copy of a letter I yesterday received from Mr. James Ore, with my notes subjoined thereon. Mr. Ore is a man from whom I have received many communications, respecting both Creeks and Cherokees, and have ever found him correct. He has traded, and has good sources of information in both nations. It is my opinion that the Cherokees will not he brought to join the war; but a few days will determine. I do not mean to say that I believe none of the young Cherokees will join in the war, for I have no doubt that some of them arc now out with the Creeks, and many have gone northwest of the Ohio. When it was found that corporal M‘Donald, and the two privates who deserted with him, were among the Cherokees, 1 considered it essential to the service of the United States to bid a reward above the sum authorized by the act of Congress, for their recovery. Their escaping to the Indians, and continuing with them in security, would have encouraged others to desert, and their continuing with the Indians, spreading the most injurious falsehoods, would have been attended with the worst of consequences to the United States. It it due to Lieut. Richards to inform you, that his conduct is invariably so marked with propriety, and perfect sobriety, that they were without the shadow of complaint against him as the cause of their desertion. They express they had no cause. The inducement was a desire to pass down the river to the Natchez, where they hoped to obtain forty dollars per month for their services on the public works. „ I am, &c. Sin: Il\NT.iNc, Maw’s, May 13th, 1793. 1 send you McDonald* by four of Lieutenant Telford’s men. He was brought by the Ovcihill Indians, for which I promised them twenty dollars; and they insisted for a keg of whiskey, which I gave them. This day the Northwards! and Cherokees hold a great talk at Will’s town. The Hiwasee head-man has gone to that talk, and promises to let the Maw know what is done at it. The Northwards urge them to war, and tell them they will assist them to take Cumberland. I am informed that the Lower Creeks have taken the Shawanese talk, and that the Creek nation is all rushing for war. Five days ago three Creeks were seen on' the north side of the Clinch; and they said they would cross, and take horses and hair.t John 15oggs§ has not yet come. I shall send you the news as soon as possible, of the result of the council between the Lower towns and Shawanese. P. S.—1 am also informed of seventy Creeks going against Kentucky: fourteen days ago they passed the Running M ater. I think the Shawanese will kill as they go home. ’ Knoxville, ff/i/t/23, 1793. Sin: Arthur Coody, of Look-cut Mountain town, of the Lower Cherokees, with several other Cherokees, and two Chickasaws, arrived here on the 20th instant, by whom I am informed that two parties of Creeks, one consisting of twenty-eight and the other of forty-two. had lately passed his house, on their return from Mero district, (Cumberland settlements) with scalps and horses. The first party hail one scalp, which they boasted was that of a great warrior. Colonel Bledsoe. The second party must have been the same that attacked and were repulsed at.Green-iield station. The two admitted their joint loss to he one warrior killed, another killed or taken by a party of Major Beard’s mounted infantry, and three wounded. The meeting of the Cherokee chiefs with the Shawanese ambassadors, (the same who were with the Creeks) was about to take place at ‘Will’s town, when Coody left the Lower towns, but lie adds, the Cherokees will not engage in a war against theUnited States. The next object of the Cherokee chiefs will be to take into consideration the invitation of the President to visit him; and I now have hopes that they will determine to accept it. Mr. Willbanks will go on to Detroit with the Shawanese ambassadors. The reason he has given for leaving the Creeks, is, that three hundred dollars were offered for his person, and he was apprehensive of being delivered up by the Indians. I am without official information, from Mero district, since the 25th ultimo; but I have been informed, by some travellers from there, that, on the 8th instant, three children were wounded; one of them scalped, and a fourth killed, near Nashville, by Indians. The same travellers informed me of the arrival of Major Beard at Nashville, without having fallen in with but one party of Indians, of whom they killed one, and wounded another. The Creek and Chickasaw war does not go on with the ferocity and spirit that might be expected, owing, as it .is said, to Mr. Panton having informed the Creeks, that, if red people went to war with each other, he would withhold all supplies of arms and ammunition, adding, that was all the United States could wish, to see red people at war with each other, and then they could take their land with more ease. The Bloody Fellow brought a letter, addressed to the Cherokees, from the Baron dc Carondolet, recommending peace to them with the United States, and all other nations, so Mr. Coody informs me, whojias often read and interpreted it to the chiefs. He also brought to the nation, and lonvardcd to me, a very friendly and polite letter, from Governor Gayoso, in which he declares, that, if any of the Spanish officers, of Louisiana, have encouraged the Indians to go to war against the United States, it is unknown to him, and that, for his own part, he has ever acted friendly towards the United States. Nevertheless, my doubts are, by no means, removed, respecting the conduct of Governor O’Neal and Mr. Panton, but I am lately led to believe their object was mercantile, rather than national. A war between theUnited States and the Southern tribes, would throw the trade ol the Indians engaged, into Panton’s hands, at Pensacola, as in time of the British war. Governor O’Neal is said to be interested with Panton in trade. Coody informs me that, notwithstanding the number of Creeks, who have been to war lately' on the Southwestern frontiers, the Creek chiefs, in council, declined taking hold of the bloody hatchet, presented them by the Shawanese ambassadors, as to the United States, but received it as to the Chickasaws; and were about to set out in great numbers against them, and were stopped by Panton’s message, as before mentioned. The Spaniards being the friends of theUnited States, it would seem, that they could not consistently cherish and support, in the very bosom of their government, a refugee lory, (Mr. Panton) whose interest and inclination is to keep the Southern Indians, more or less, in a state of warfare against the United States, and whose inlluence and address put the gratification of both in his power. I wrote you, and forwarded (he letters by post, (via Hawkins Court House) on the 9th, 12th, and 15th instant. I have the honor to be, &c. Knoxville, May Q4th. 1793. Sir: I am under the painful necessity of informing you‘of a horrid attempt of three persons, yet unknown, to kill, near my house, three Indians, two Chickasaws, and a Cherokee. The circumstances are: To-day, about three ' \ * Corporal McDonald, a deserter, Vho had taken refuge among' the Cherokees, and who had told Ihem a variety of falsehoods, to the injury of the United States, the better lo recommend himself to t)1 e’r notice and protection; and actually had address enough to induce a part of the nation to protect him against such confidential fellows as were sent from Chota, by the Maw, after him. I The same ambassadors, from the Shawanese, who passed the Lower Cherokee towns in the early part of the spring, and went on to the Lower Creeks, of which repeated mention has been made in former communications. , Bishop’s fifteen horses, which were taken on Saturday, lltli instant, were very probably taken by these three Creeks. $ John Hoggs is an honest half-breed, of Chota, who has been some weeks down in the Lower towns, trailing, and for days past expected home. o'clock, the three above described Indians were out in the woods, about six hundred paces from mv house, unarmed, and unsuspecting any injuries being offered them, in search of their horses, when three armed men approached them, tired upon them, wounded one of the Chickasaws (John Morris) with a ball, through the body; hit the other two with balls in the clothes: pursued them some distance, and actually caught the other Chickasaw by the hunting-shirt, but happily it was old and tender, and lie. as well as the Cherrokee, escaped unhurt. It is doubtful whether Morris' wound is mortal or not, I incline to believe it is not: but perhaps my belief is founded too much on my wishes. This Morris speaks English well, and has repeated!}' been at my house, and is well known and respected in the town and neighborhood; and the other Chickasaw was his brother, and one of those warriors who joined General St. Clair with Flamingo. I instantly went to John Morris, whom his brother, and the Cherokee who escaped, reported to be killed, and. in a short time, about thirty people from this place appeared highly exasperated at the horrid attempt; and ten of them were immediately mounted on horses, and went in pursuit, or rather search, of the murderers; but, as yet. no circumstances have transpired, by which any opinion can be formed as to who they were. Considering it essential, to the honor of the Government, that such atrocious offenders should be discovered and brought to justice, I have offered a reward of one hundred dollars, which I hope will meet the approbation of the President, and shall, in the morning, issue a proclamation accordingly. Upon examination, t.uee of the horses belonging to the Indians are missing, and certainly stolen by the persons who tired on Morris. i have the honor, Ac. Knoxville, May 5.8th. 1793. Sin: 1 have now to inform you that my hopes of the recovery of John Morris, the Chickasaw, were not well founded; he dietl the day after lie was wounded. A variety of circumstances led to a suspicion that Jacob Clement and Daniel Sleekley (two Dutchmen^) w ere two of the party who tired upon him; and yesterday they were brouglit before two Justices of Knox county. (Colonel White and Air. Green) and, upon examination ot thirteen evidences, such proof came out as affords violent presumption that Micaijah Carter, David Loveless, and Davis Stockton, were the persons who fired upon Morris, and against whom a warrant lias issued. One reason why the suspicion fell on Jacob Clement, was, that he had lately lost t\vo sons, killed and scalped by Indians, and had said he would take satisfaction. 1 have before informed you of the killing of his sons. It is a general opinion, that the persons who killed Morris intended to kill a Cherokee.against whom the frontier people, in general, are very much exasperated, for the many injuries they received, or believe they have received, from them, since the treaty at Holston: and, on the other hand, they are generally very friendly to the Chickasaws. v> I caused Morris* to be buried with the military honors due to a warrior of his friendly nation, at the usual burial-ground of the w hite people, and walked myself with his brother as chief mourners. The inhabitants of the town and adjacent country, generally, attended, and I can truly say. that I have rarely seen more sorrow expressed at a burial than at his. 11 is brother and grandfather (an old white, man eighty years of age) returned on .Sunday , (the 26th) to the Cherokee towns, with Coody—the Hanging Maw and the other Cherokees apparently well satisfied, that is. convinced that Morris was killed either through mistake fora Cherokee, or by some disorderly person, contrary to the wishes and order of Government, and determined not to seek satisfaction. Morris, himself, expressed his wish that no satisfaction should be taken for him, just before he expired, except on the person who injured him. when discovered. Rob Thompson, and his sou Tom, the two Chickasaw runners, who have been with me since the departure of Carey, appear also well satisfied, and highly pleased with the attention paid Morris in his burial. A brother of the Noon-day was one of the party who came up with the Maw and Coody, to whom, as well as the brother of Morris. (James Anderson) I considered it politic, nay essential, that pretty liberal presents should be given, the more effectually to bury their sorrows: and at this critical time, I thought it the interest of the United States to give some, presents to the other Cherokees, who were of the party, and to the old white man, the grandfather of Morris. On the evening of Saturday. (25th) Air. Ore arrived here from the Maw's, who informed me that, on the 24th, Rob M. Clcmore, a warrior of W atts'party, had arrived at the Maw's, as a runner, with a message from Watts, in tlie following words: “That the council of Will's town, with the Shawaneseambassadors, had broke up. and thati all was straight; that he himself (Watts) would be up in five nights, and give the particulars, and with him Talotis-ke, the Bloody Fellow, and other chiefs: that he neither wrote nor sent the particulars of the proceedings at "Will's town, for fear of some mistake." By “all being straight," 1 understand at least, that the Cherokee chiefs are for peace with the United States. Immediate!}-after the council broke at Will’s town, the Shawanese amhassadois, with Willbanks, proceeded to the Northward. I shall not permit Watts and his party to come here, as he w ishes, but meet him at the Tennessee, or at Henry’s, (the frontier house) lest some other untoward circumstance may take place, and at once destroy the hopes of returning peace, that has already cost much trouble, time, and expense. Many of the Creeks, in different parties, have recro.ssed the Tennessee, at the Lower Cherokee towns, and returned home with some scalps, not as many as might have been expected, and many valuable horses. The saddle bags, with the letters belonging to Ross, the post-rider, who was killed on the Kentucky road, are in the Lower Cherokee towns, carried in by the Shawanese who reside there. On Saturday, the 18th instant, ten horses were stolen from Pigeon, Jefferson county, and carried to Chilhowce, by Cherokees. from three very poor men, who have not even another left to draw their ploughs. 1 have demanded them from the Maw , and other chiefs of the Upper towns, hut I am very sure they have not power or influence sufficient to have them restored. In the morning of Saturday, the 25th instant, Thomas Gillum, and his son James Gillum, were killed and scalped, by Indians in the Racoon valley, near Clinch, eighteen miles'from this place. The people who buried them, judging from the sign, report the number of Indians to be twelve. On the same day the sign of several other parties of Indians were discovered in that neighborhood, making in the whole upwards of thirty; and more than twenty horses were stolen, which were traced to Clinch. 1 have ordered Captain John Beard to give immediate pursuit, with fifty mounted infantry, and to scour Cumberland mountains in search of them, where it is supposed their main camp is formed, limiting his tour to fifteen days. In giving this order, 1 was governed, not only by the justice of punishing the offenders, but, by the policy of keeping (if possible) the frontier people satisfied, under their many sufferings: that is, so far so that they may not openly in-ult Government; and a pursuit by so numerous and powerful a party, even if the offenders are not overtaken, will teach the Indians to know that their repeated injuries are no longer passively to be borne, and intimidate other parties from committing depredations on that part of the frontiers. You, sir, can more readily conceiv e, than I express, the feelings and munnurings of a people in the habit of frequently seeing their friends and relations killed and scalped, and themselves robbed of their property, without the hope (as they declare) of seeing an end to their sufferings, except in their own deaths, or by abandoning their houses and homes on the frontiers. My situation is that of daily hearing their complaints, without the power of redress. Two war clubs Jeft by the mangled bodies ot Gillum and his son, of a form unlike any remembered to have been seen among the Cherokees, induce me to believe that it was not Cherokees who killed them; but people in general are so prejudiced, that they believe every murder is committed by Cherokees, commit it who will. I have the honor to be, &c. ;s in: Knoxville, June 4th. 1793. Yesterday Major Beard returned from the tour of duty, for the relief of the district of Mero (Cumberland) under my order of the 18th April, a copy of which lias been transmitted to your office, lie appears very literally to have complied with it: fount! many camps formed by Creeks, which are easily distinguished from the camps ot oilier Indians, and lately abandoned; but was so unfortunate as to fall in with only three small parties, of which he killed two, and wounded, as is known of to a certainty, three, and it is believed more. The mounted infantry, of Mero district, killed one Creek. 'At one of tire Creek camps, which Major Beard saw, there had been just before one hundred and thirty-nine warriors, and at many others from twenty to sixty. My object in ordering these troops to range in search of the main camps of the Indians, in preference of immediately on the frontiers, was to intimidate the Indians, as well as to kill them: and from the little damage don& the district of Mero, compared to what might have been expected, from so powerful a number, I am led to hope that object lias, in a great measure, been effected; and even in tuture they will not feel themselves easy on these grounds, lest another party of horsemen should be on them. Letters from General Robertson, by Major Beard, inform imy that, on tlie morning of the 16th May, Moses Brown, in his cornfield, four miles from Nashville, and in the evening' of the same day, Mr. Mullen, at the cotlQp.jnanufactory, were killed by Indians. By the same conveyance, the General forwarded a letter from the Chickasaws to Himself, of which von have enclosed a copy. On the date of that letter, the Choctaws had not joined the Chickasaws. The reason is believed to_ be fear, that, if they do, the Spaniards, on whom they are dependent for their trade, will stop it. Yesterday, arrived here express, Mr. Woodward, from the Lower towns, by way of Estanaula, by whom I received several letters from the Cherokee chiefs, and white people residing among them, from which you have, enclosed, an extract from the Glass, and a copy of that of the chiefs, affording fresh assurances of the peaceful disposition of their own nation, and additional evidence of the hostile disposition of the Creeks. Mr. Woodward informs me, that, on the twelfth day of May, he saw at Hightower. one of the southern Cherokee towns, sixty-five Creeks, on their way for war against the frontiers of South Carolina or Georgia, or both, about Ttigelo and Keowee. and that party informed him, that two other parties of Creeks, equally strong, had gone against the frontier of Georgia, more to the southeast. On Saturday, the first instant, a party of ten Indians attacked Holmark’s station, on the Bull-run, near where Thomas and James Tillum were killed; but it was relieved by a party of Captain John Beard’s mounted infantry, just in readiness to pursue the murderers of the Gillums. At this ’moment, I have an express that two small parties of Indians were yesterday seen near die same place, and that several families are to-day moving in for security. Davis Stockton, David Loveless, and Ephraim Carter, have been to-day examined before three justices, touching the murder of John Morris, the Chickasaw, and violent as the presumption of their guilt appeared, on the examination of evidences against Clement and Stickley, their innocence now appears. They proved an alibi. So secret has this unmanly, inhuman, and impolitic murder, been executed and concealed, that now, no conjecture can be formed as to who were the authors of it. I have the honor to be, &c. Extract of the Glass’ letter to Governor Blount. Springiiill, May 20III, 1793. Friend and Brother: 1 received your letter of the £4th ultimo, by Mr. Woodward; likewise, 1 heard the other letters directed to Watts, and the other head-men, at Will’s town. You desire me to let you know concerning the Ci-eeks. They are much the same as they were, daily passing to Cumberland. You likewise want to know what time we shall be ""-ready to go to Philadelphia. We have not, as yet, our affairs properly settled, and it will take some time before we shall get our affairs properly settled; but the Bloody Fellow, and Scantee, and some others, will start for the Hanging Maw’s, in five nights from this date; you and they will see each other, and they will let you know the news much better than writing. , Chickasaw chiefs to General Bobertson. Friend and Brother: Chickasaw Nation. April 29th. 1793. I some time ago sent you u talk in great haste. I now send you another, to confirm what I wrote you before. I am well acquainted with you, and many of your head-men, and used often to go and see you, and talk with yon; but I don’t know when the time will come that ever I shall see you again. This is a clear, bright day, that I am now talking to you in; but I don’t know whether I shall survive "ten (lavs longer, as I am informed of a large army of Creeks that are coming against this nation. Nevertheless. I have taken every regular step, and made every preparation to receive them. I hope, when you receive this, you will think of the former promises to assist us against that, or any other nation. - . I am, your friend and brother. PIAMINGO. My Father: I call you Father; I’ve a right so to do, as I received my being from one of vour nation. I am, therefore, to acquaint you, that it is the friendship of this nation to vour people that has caused this war to fall on us. Now, I would be glad to know whether you will assist us. or leave us to fight and'suffer by ourselves. You have been a long time threatening the Creeks, and sending us word that we should hear of your guns firing in the Creek nation, but the Creek guns have fired on this nation, first; therefore, I hope you will immediately assist us. The Creeks boast that your people are not rnenj for my part, I think otherwise, as I have often heard of your bravery against the Northern nations. Their reason for boasting is, because you never went against them. I hopeyou will, when you receive this; that you will make ready immediately, and go against them: for, let a man be ever so small, let him have a big heart, and that makes the man. I am your son, WILLIAM GLOVER. Friend and Brother: I am to inform you that I have just now arrived from the Creeks, where I very narrowly escaped with my life. They killed three Chickasaws while I was in that nation, and I expect they have killed more since I left it, as there is a village of Chickasaws in their land.. ’Therefore, it is my request of you to make all despatch you can to assist us against that nation. WILLIAM COLBERT. Friend and Brother: It was General Pickens’ request to me, that, in case a war should arise in my nation, that I should personally acquaint him with it. Now, the Creeks have opened war against us, and, I am informed by a certain Creek half-breed, by the,name of Alick Cornell, that General Pickens has treated with the Creek nation for a peace. It is the voice of every head-man in this nation, that you will think of the promises of assistance you often made tfiem, in case of a war with any other. Now, tins confirms a war with us and the Creeks. So we all unanimously require and desire your assistance. I hope you have, by this time, sent the provision and ammunition we wrote you for: Brothers: The Creeks killed Long-hair and his son, some time ago. but they have just now put that’fresh in our memory, and as it was always the request of the white people that we should seek satisfaction for these two men. now the time is come that we shall seek that satisfaction that you desired us. You told us that, if any war should arise in this nation, that you would send your warriors to the Muscle Shoals. You mentioned in your letter, that, if any of our leaders, and their warriors, would go to Cumberland, your young warriors would accompany them against the Creeks. When your son conies in, that is, goes from hence, there shall a party accompany him to Cumberland. I send you this now, and shall, in a few days, send you another. I desire that, when you receive this, you will despatch an express to the President, as quick as possible. As I am now engaged in a war with the Creeks, and it teas their own beginning, I am determined never to make a peace while I am alive. PIAMINGO, THOS. BROWN, and six others, Knoxville, June 6t/i, 1793. Sir: I have the honor to enclose you a copy of a letter of yesterday's date, to the chiefs of the Cherokees. and an extract of a letter from Mr. John McKee, which will inform you of the state in which I leave the Indian business. I set out for Philadelphia to-morrow morning; shall pass through the upper part of North Carolina, but shall make no delay in my journey. 1 am, &.c. Governor Blount to the chiefs of the Cherokees. Knoxville, June 5th, 1793. Friends and Brothers: 1 have received your letter, dated at Estanaula. May 23d, by the bearer. Mr. Woodward, in which, you inform me that your nation are determined for peace. This letter has given me great pleasure. Now, it appears, that both you, and your beloved Father, the President, wish peace, nothing remains but for you to go on to him at Philadelphia, as he has requested yon, where all things will be settled, and where, upon all things being settled, the chiefs who go, and the nation at home, will be supplied with goods. All this I told Watts, and the Hanging Maw. at Henry’s. I have several times so informed you, by letters, and I now repeat it. The happiness of both parties consists in peace, and I beg you to accept, without delay, the invitation of the President. It is good for your nation that you should. Now, my Friends and Brothers. I have to tell you. that, on Friday, that is, the day after to-morrow. 1 must set off myself to visit our common Father, the President; 1 did hope that you would have gone with me. but you delay so long that 5 can't stay for you, and, when you do go, you will go slow, and I must go in haste. 1 shall inform our Father of the good conduct and intentions of your nation, and of the cruel and unprovoked war the Creeks are carrying on against the poor, defenceless, frontier people, who never'did them any injury. I do not say the Creeks will be punished, because it is not with me to say what shall be done with them, but with your Great Father. But, I assure you, in great truth, that I believe he will punish them severely, that is, I believe he will send armies and destroy their nation. He has borne with them until he can no longer bear to see his innocent children killed, scalped, and robbed. Take care, my good friends, and keep your young warriors from joining, on any occasion, these Creeks, for fear your nation should get into difficulty if they do. I wish your nation peace and happiness. You have heard that I have sent strong parties of horsemen, well armed with good rifles, to the. relief of Cumberland, from the invasion of the Creeks, and that many strong parties have been sent out from Cumberland. a great way to the Southward; other parties will be sent out into the same woods and mountains, in search and pursuit of Creeks. This information is given you that your people may not go into these woods or mountains, for it will be impossible to distinguish your people, if found in these woods or mountains, from ihe Creeks. In my absence. General Smith, whom most of you know', will act as Governor, and to w hom you will attend, in the same manner as to myself. ! have before informed you, that John McKee would accompany you to Philadelphia, by way ol Seneca, and provide for your journey; 1 now repeat it; he is a friend to your nation, to honesty, to truth, and to good men of all colors. Attend to' him. he advised by him; he will lead your nation to peace and happiness. Don’t let this talk pass in atone ear and out at the other, but attend to it; if you do not, and your nation gets into a difficulty thereby, do not blame me; I advise you in friendship. I must say to you again, don't let your people join with the Creeks, nor steal horses: for the citizens of the United States have lost horses until they are very cross, and give me a great deal of trouble. If any are taken, they must be restored to the owners. I am your friend and brother. Extract—John McKee to Governor Blount. Henry's Station, June 3</, 1793. I have recovered something from my indisposition, but am not well. Major King is here now, and brings information that Double-head, the Otter-lifter, and ten or twelve others, from the Low er towns, arrived yesterday at the Maw’s. Watts is expected to-day. He says they do not talk like going to Congress soon. Two Cherokees, one is Charles Tucker's brother-in-law, and the other a fellow from Hiwasee, brought five horses from some place betwixt Cumberland and Kentucky, to the Maw's, who promised the major to take them away, after which, his (the Slaw ’s) son, purchased tw o of them. The major himself scolded, and threatened them much, to no purpose. The Chiefs of the Cherokees to Governor Blount. Estanaula, May 23</, 1793. We are come from the great talk at Will’s town, wdth the Northward Indians, where they told us that the Creeks have taken the hatchet against the white people. Our nation is determined to be at peace, and wre hope you will not blame us for any damages that may happen you. Be on your guard against them, as we inform you of danger. As they are always going to war, we hope you will not look to us for what they do to you; for we are for peace, as all the head-men of our nation have concluded to lie quiet, and let you and them try it. As the beloved men have taken pity on us, we will be at peace. This talk is from the heads and warriors of our nation; they hone tliat you will send trade among us, as you have done; as the young fellows are ordered to go a hunting, you will let our traders have powder anil lead. As we have taken your talk, wre hope you will take our talk; that is all we have to say. it is from heads and warriors of our nation. LITTLE TURKEY. JOHN WATTS, and seven others. Sik: - Philadelphia, August 13th, 1793. The trade with the Indians affords the possessors of it so many opportunities to give springs to their actions, and complexion to their national conduct, that it appears necessary every information should he given, that will throw light on the subject. Mr. Panton, a British subject, a Scotch refugee from Georgia, in the early part of the American Revolution, and now a resident at Pensacola, was, in the time of the last war, the particular friend and agent of Colonel Brown, who succeeded Colonel Stuart in the British superintendency of the four Southern nations of Indians, and through his hands passed the goods, generally, which the superintendent disposed of in presents to those nations; besides, he supplied these nations, generally, with such goods as they purchased. He was also agent for the officers of Brown’s regiment of Florida rangers, of whom several, as high in rank as captains, were Cherokee half-breeds. In other words, from the time Colonel Brown was appointed superintendent,' to the close of the war, the goods generally with which the four Southern nations were supplied, whether presents from the British crown, and they were very liberal, or by purchase, passed to them through the hands of Panton, or his connexions, stationed at convenient places in the Floridas. Immediately after the peace took place, Mr. Panton, with others, of whom Alexander McGillivray was said to be one, and McClatchey, also a Scotch refugee, another, obtained a permission from the Spanish Government to import into the Floridas, directly from England, goods sufficient to continue their supply to these nations. His annual imports are estimated at forty thousand pounds sterling, on which, it is said, a duty of twenty-five per cent, is paid, but of this I am not certainly informed. This permission from the Spanish Gov ernment has enabled him to support the consequence and influence which he had acquired under Colonel Brown’s superintendency, and to use both, as shall indulge his inclinations, or serve his interest. It cannot be presumed that his inclination would lead him to good offices towards the United States, nor is it his interest that a free trade and unlimited influence should be kept up between the United States and those tribes; for it is a well known fact, that, since the treaties of New York and Holston, with the Creeks and Cherokees, he -has been undersold on every part of the frontiers, even where the transportation has been by land from Philadelphia. Since those treaties, the Cherokees generally, and a part of the Creeks, have been supplied by the United States, but the greater part of the Creeks, and the Chickasaws and Choctaws, continue generally to be supplied by this man. As a proof of the power and influence of trade. I will relate a recent fact. A large party of the Creek nation were collected together about the month of May, with a declared determination to go and cut oft- the Chickasaw nation. Mr. Panton, upon hearing of it. despatched a runner to them, with a message, giving them to understand that he did not give the red people supplies for to cut each other off, and that, if they did not desist from their determination against the Chickasaws, that he would stop all supplies from them; upon which the party dispersed and desisted. I have the honor to be, &e. Abingdon, Virginia, 140 miles from Knoxville, October 5th, 1793. Sir: ’ At this place I met John McKee, with Piamingo, the great chief of the Chickasaws, and four other Chickasaws, some of them of the first note in that nation, with a Mr. McClish, their interpreter, on their way to visit the President. I conceived it proper to state to them the danger of the fever at Philadelphia, in case they continued their journey, with such other reasons as occurred to ine; whereupon, they have determined to return with me to Knoxville, and thence home. By this determination the United States are relieved of a heavy expense, which must certainly have attended the journey, and the President, and yourself, from the trouble of what appeared to me an unnecessary visit. The letters of the Secretary, General Smith, which are forwarded herewith, contain the most recent information from the Southern territory, to which I beg leave to refer you. I am, sir, &c. Knoxville, October 12th, 1793. Sin: By the letter of the Secretary of the territory, of the 27th September, you have been informed of the large body of Indians that invaded the district of Washington on the 25th. It remains for me to inform you, that, on tiie 30th of that month, lie issued an order to General Sevier, a copy of which you have enclosed, in consequence of which the General, with the force under his command, has passed the Tennessee, into the nation, in pursuit of these invaders. The long sufferings, and present spirit of the people, required such a measure. 1 shall embrace the earliest opportunity to report to you the progress and events of the pursuit. Since the Secretary’s letter of the 25th, that is, on the second instant. Polly Lewis, a young lady of eighteen years of age, and a little brother, were killed on the south side of French Broad, passing a public road near Dandndge, (Jefferson court house) by a party of Indians, who waylaid it; and, on the next day, a Sir. Cunningham, going to assist in removing their bodies, was also killed by them; and on the same day, (the third) a party of Indians, consisting of thirty, plundered the house of Mr. Copeland, on the south bank of French Broad, Mr. Copeland and his family having, a few minutes before, crossed that river, and were eye witnesses of the number and depredations. People having reported so repeatedly the,loss of horses by Indians, without redress, have generally declined to report them at all to my office, tor some time past; nevertheless, they are daily losing them,on some part or other of the frontiers. Many have lost every one they possessed. I have the honor to be, &c. Secretary Smith to General Sevier. Knoxville, September 50th, 1793. Sir: In answer to yours of the 27th instant, which I acknowledge to have received, 1 hold it would be proper to follow the trace of that large body of Indians who massacred Mr. Caveat’s family, on the twenty-fifth instant, and, if possible, inflict due punishment oil them. The country is to be defended in the best manner we can, comporting, as near as may be, to my general instructions to you of the 17th instant. I have the honor, &c. Knoxville, October 18th, 1793. Sir: _ , } have not heard of General Sevier since his passing the Tennessee, on the 9th instant, nor has a return of his numbers been made to this office; but are reputed to consist of about six hundred mounted infantry. The measures that took place in my absence, the last of which is General Sevier’s march into the nation, has cut oft-all communication with the Cherokees from this quarter; the only part that is open is bv way of Seneca, General Pickens’, and I have sent John McKee to obtain the best information that can be collected in that quarter. It is hardly necessary to say, that there appears but too little probability of a reconciliation with the Cherokees, until a general pacification with all the nations takes place, though it will be my duty to make every effort. I am, sir, &c. Letters from Daniel Smith, with sundry enclosures, to the Secretary of War. Knoxville. June 13th. 1793. Sir: It mortifies me much that the first communications J make you, after Governor Blount's departure, should be of so disagreeable a nature. The enclosed report of Major King and Daniel Carmichael will inform you of the perpetration of as inhuman an act as ever was committed—committed by Captain John Beard, who was ordered out by Governor Blount, before his departure, to indict punishment on the murderers of the Gilliams, and positively restricting him from crossing the Tennessee, llow detestable is this act to all good men! 1 shall direct Colonel "White to call a court martial for the trial of Captain Beard, and mean to give the judges and attorney for the district information of his violent conduct and injuries to the Indians, that they may exert the force of law against him under the eleventh article of the Holston treaty. 1 had been, for some time past, suspicious that the rage of many of the inhabitants of this district would burst out in some very unjustifiable act. But this exceeds any thing that could have been supposed. There are many, too many, individuals of this country, whose conduct is so violent that they have no just claim to the benefits of Government, while their frenzy continues,: at the same time there are great numbers of meritorious citizens who ought instantly to have it. I have written to General Sevier to exert himself quickly to execute an order, issued to him by Governor Blount, to have one-third of the militia of Washington district made in readiness to march for the defence of the frontiers at an hour’s notice. 1 did not call for them to be actually marched as yet, because a fortnight applied to labor, at this time of approaching harvest, would be highly beneficial to the inhabitants: and I must have certain information of a powerful invasion, or of its approach, before I call for them. Nor have I ordered Colonel White, of this county, to call out into actual serv ice more than half of five of the more interior companies of militia of this county, who will be ordered to take post at the most proper places on the frontiers. I also enclose to you a copy of a letter which I addressed to the chiefs of the Cherokee nation: not that I believe my advice to them will be followed, but because I thought it my duty to make the attempt, i have directed Major King, if he believes his person could not be safe in a personal interview with any Indians he could meet near their towns, to hang up this letter in some conspicuous place, that they may be sure to get it. If it leads to any communications at all, it will be beneficial. I regret the absence of the Governor, who, I hope, will soon be Rack again, for my situation is truly painful. 1 have the honor to be. &c. Major King and Daniel Carmichael's report to Secretary Smith, referred to in the foregoing letter. Caitain Chisolm's. June 12th. 1793—in the evening. Sir: At the appearance of day light this morning. Captain John Beard, with his company of mounted infantry, to our great sfirprine, made an attack oil the Indians at the Hanging Maw's. They have killed Scantee. Eool Charley, the Hanging Maw's wife, Betty, the daughter of Kittakiska, and we believe eight or nine others, among them William llosebury, a white man, the Hanging Maw shot through the arm, Betty, the daughter of Nancy Ward, wounded. The fire of this inhuman party seemed to be directed at the white people who were there as much as at the Indians. Therefore, we made our escape through it as quick as possible, and cannot give a minute account of the whole of the damage. By hard pleading, we got them to spare the rest of the Hanging Maw's family, and his house from being burnt. Such a detestable act as this would he base at anytime, but. as they were there at the request of Governor Blount, it will he attended with fatal consequences, and retaliation will surely take place. We informed the white inhabitants of Baker's creek. Nine-mile, and Little river, ol this horrid deed, as we came here; they are much alarmed, blame the perpetrators, expect the utmost hostility of the Indians, and are crying out for assistance on the frontiers. Copy of a letter from Secretary Smith to the Hanging Maw. and other Chiefs of the Cherokee nation. Knoxville, June loth. 1793. Ekiknus and Brothers: 1 still give you that appellation, though I confess we have not a right to have it retained. Governor Blount went away to Philadelphia at the time he told you he would. The young inconsiderate men have taken advantage of Ins absence to commit the atrocious act of yesterday morning. They say. as I hear, that some Indians stole some of their horses, whom they followed as far as Coyatee. Then, foolishly supposing ihese Indians were some of die party at the Hanging Maw's, went there and committed the violent deed of yesterday, of which I am ashamed, and despise the perpetrators: for their act was horrid and unmanly. 1 wish you to be not too angry to hear good advice. 1 will tell you what I think is for the good of your nation. Don't join the Creeks in the unprovoked war they are carrying on against us. but listen to the advice of Governor Blount, and go to Philadelphia, by way of Seneca, not through this country, and Mr. John M'Kee, your friend, will go with you. Be not rash and inconsiderate. Hear what your and our great father, the President, will say. Go and see him, as he has requested. I assure you. in great truth, I believe he will give you satisfaction, if you forbear to take it yourselves. I wish you to send to me some person, who can come in safety, to let ine know what you will do. and let us try if peaceful communications can take place. letter from Daniel Smith to the Secretary at I Car. Knoxville, June l7//i, 1793. Sir: Since writing you, on the 13th instant, some communications have taken place between the Hanging Maw and Double-head ami myself. Copies of their letters to me, and mine to them, together with the copies of letters which I have wrote to John Watts, Edward Adair, and Major King, will show the state the business is now in. I can see no one who does not appear convinced a general war from the nation will ensue; and such are the opinions of Major King and Mr. Ore, whose names I mention because their opinions ought to have weight. Letter from the Hanging Maw to the President of the United States. Coyatee, June 15th, 1793. Beloved Father: I received the talk of our great Father, and always held it fast.. You sent me word.that nothing should happen me at iny own house. It was but four nights after Governor Blount left home until this happened to me. 1 am writing to the President of the United States. It is a long time since I have seen him, but I have seen him, when we were both young men and warriors. It was but a few days since I received an invitation from the President to go to Philadelphia; part of our headmen had gathered at my house, and the balance were on the way, and a party of white people came and wounded me, and lulled several more, vSome of them chiefs. We thought very well of your talk of restoring peace, and our land being made safe to us: but the white people have spoiled the talk at present. The heads of our land thought very well of going to Philadelphia, but some of them now lie dead, and some of them wounded. You need not look for us to go thereat this time. The Little Turkey has sent to the Chickasaws and Choctaws, and has gone to the Creeks himself, to let these nations know that he was going to Philadelphia this Fall, that a head-man from each nation might accompany him, that the whole might agree on one thing, and all be at peace. Letter from the Hanging Maw to Secretary Smith. Covatee, June 15th, 1793. Friend and Brother: It is but a few days since you were left in the place of Governor Blount. While he was in place, nothing happened. Surely they are making their fun of you. Surelyyou are no head-man nor warrior. I am just informed you will 'take satisfaction for me, and I shall reckon it just the same as if I had taken it myself. I reckon you are afraid of these thieves, when you talk of sending to Congress. If you are left in the place of Governor, you ought to take satisfaction yourself. It was but a few days since I was at your house, and you told me that nothing should happen tome nor any people at my house: but since that, blood has been spilt at both our houses.' I reckon that the white people are just making their fun of you. Governor Blount always told me that nothing should happen me as lon^as I did live, but he had hardly got out of sight until I was invaded by them, and like to liave got killed. I think you are afraid of these bad men. They first killed the Chickasaws at your house, and (his is the second time of their doing mischief. I think you are afraid of them. When is the day that a white man was killed at my house? I think the white men make fun of you. Now, blood is spilt at both of our houses by your people. I think they are making fun of you, and won’t listen to your talks. Letter from Double-head to Secretary Smith, dated Covatee, June 15//;, 1793. Friend and Brother: 1 am still among my people, living in gores of blood. When is the day that I shall get a full answer from you? Be strong, and don’t be afraid, but get satisfaction for me. I am still waiting to get a satisfaction talk from you. Why do you talk of sending to the President to ask advice? These people did not ask any advice when they came and killed our people: for the head-men can’t give out any peace talk concerning going to Philadelphia until you give us satisfaction tor what is done. The head-man is at the Lower towns. I am but a boy. although I am giving out this talk. 1 can't think of going to the Lower towns until Iget a fuller answer. If you will give me satisfaction for my people, I shall think you our friend, and think you mean to do justice to our land. We have lost nine of our people, that we must have satisfaction for. My heart is much troubled about what has passed, and I shall not go from this place until I get a full answer from you, and as soon as I get a full answer, shall start down to the headmen, and let them know the truth of every thing. There is some of the first ami principal head-men of our nation fell here, and they are not without friends, and the head-men of their land is their friends. This is the third time that we have been served so when we were talking in peace, that they fell on us and killed us. letter from Secretary Smith to Double-head, dated Knoxville. June 17, 1793. Friend and Brother: I am in much sorrow and trouble on account of the blood which has lately been shed in your land in so disgraceful a manner. I want to redress your wrongs, and doubt not of doing it. if you forbear to take satisfaction yourselves. The Hanging Maw has written to our beloved lather the President. I will have his letter conveyed, with one which I will write myself, to him and Governor Blount. I beg you to wait till you hear from them. The innocent ought not to die for the guilty, which would he the case if you take satisfaction yourselves. The President has waited long, and forborne to take satisfaction of those who have killed ami-robbed his people, because he knows the innocent would then be punished with the guilty, which would make him sorry. You know it was agreed, in the treaty at this place, that if any white men of the United States should go into your land and commit crimes there, against your people, they shall be punished for it in the same manner ns if the crime had been committed against white people. You know that it was also agreed that, in case of violence being committed on the personal property of the individuals of either party, neither retaliation nor reprisal should be made by the other, until satisfaction should have been demanded of the offending party, and refused. The President is a great and good man, and will keep his word, and I beg of you not to take satisfaction yourselves, but wait, and let us punish them for you. Thus may peace be restored to the land. , letter from Daniel Smith to the Secretary of Jf'ar, dated Knoxville, June 22(7, 1793. Sir: Since writing you on the 17th instant, other communications have taken place with the Cherokees. The enclosed papers, which I have the honor to transmit, will shew what, they have been, as nothing material is left out of them. You will observe the Indians have agreed to wait and hear the determination of the President. The nation, because of scarcity of provision, and attention to their crops, is not in a condition for a general war, and I believe the chiefs are sincere; but I doubt their power to influence all small parties to pacific measures. It seems to me. that without some unexpected and unforeseen event diverts their attention, powerful invasions from them will ensue: I mean after sufficient time elapses to transmit your answer. The animosity from the whites continues as high against them as ever, as the Indians have lately stolen horses from Gamble’s station, and, to my great pain, I find, to punish Beard by law, just now. is out of the question. I have thought it expedient to order a subaltern's commando!'horse from Capt. Evans'company, not more than eight or nine, for a short time, to commence next week, to reconnoitre the woods for about twenty miles westward of Southwest Point, to discover the approach of an enemy, for within thatbounds they will be most likely to direct their course to attack the northwest frontier. And I shall also use all means in my power to draw information from the nation. THE CHEEKS, CHEROKEES, AND OTHERS. 461 I at first thought of writing you by post, but on reconsidering the matter, believe it best to send express, to prevent accidental delays. After writing the foregoing, as I was closing the letter. Colonel Doherty arrived here, and brings me certain information of a large party of Indians being in Wear's Cove, on Little Pigeon: they have cut down about a quarter of an acre of corn, killed one horse, stolen ten others, took seven bags of meal out of Wear's mill, and broke to pieces such parts of the mill as they could, with little difficulty; also killed two cows and one hog. This was done on the night of the 19th instant; I have only to remark, that this mischief too quickly succeeded the unwarrantable action at the Hanging Maw’s, to have been occasioned by it; and there is the strongest reason to believe the perpetrators came from the town of Tallassee, or another town above it. Colonel Doherty tells me Lieutenant Henderson, who is in service with about thirty men, was yesterday to set out in pursuit of the enemy. I have not yet determined what further order to take on the occasion, but I shall restrict the whites to defensive measures only. [enclosures.] /.tiler/ruin the Little Turkey to Governor Blount, dated New Seneca. 5th June. 1793. Friend and Brother: I am now to inform you of all that has passed here of late amongst us. A few days before our meeting with the Northward Indians, 1 received two talks upon paper, one from the Chiekasuws, the other from the Choctaws, with their token of friendship; that is. heads, which was very good talks, desiring of us all. if possible, to keep peace with all the States of America, and all white people, and hold them all fast by the hand, which pleased me very much, and which I am determined to do as long as it is in my power; and if the Creeks or Northward Indians send or deliver any bad talks to us, not for us to mind them, nor to take hold of them, but to abide and remember the talks we hear and receive from our oldest brothers, the white people; which I sent them my talk back, and thanked them for their advice to me, and was glad to hear both nations thought and was of the same mind as myself. Now my friend I shall acquaint you with our meeting with the Northward Indians. But it is too long to put on paper; what is not wrote here I refer you to my friend John Thompson. 'When we. all met I told all my people for every man to speak his mind freely, and m.t for them to think one thing and speak another; if any of them was for wallet them say it publicly, and them that was for peace let them say it: now was the time for all of us to speak. As soon as I had done, the head-inan of the Northward.-, got up and gave out his talk from thirty-three different nations, which was long, and not pleasing to me: I sat still to hear what answers my own people would give; they got up one after another, and every head-man delivered their talks to them, which pleased me very much. I then was the last; 1 got up and told how they had served us twice before now, encouraging us to break out war with ihe white people, and you would assist us; we did so twice. All the time we were at war. where was there a man of you ever offered to come to our assistance? Now you want to deceive us the third time; but don't you think now we are to be deceived again by your talks. You tell us you are at war with the white people, and von have plenty of goods and ammunition amongst you, and we might have the same amongst us. 1 now ask you how we should be supplied; you say we might go or send for it. I now tell you it is too far for us to go where they lived, and we could not make it ourselves; they said we might apply to the Spaniards: it was not far off. 1 told them they were strangers lo me, and to the chief of our nation, and was a lying, deceitful, treacherous people, and was not real white people, and what few I have seen of them looked like mulattoes, and I would never have any thing to say to them. After I had told him a great deal more about other things which is not wrote here, w hich my friend will acquaint you of. the head-man of the Northwards got up, when he found we were all for peace, and said: He did not now want us to go to war, but for us all to be on our guard against the white people encroaching on us, taking our land from us, and when he wanted us to break out war, he would let us all know when to take up the bloody hatchet. ! told him we head-men were all for peace, and to have no war. neither with white people nor red, but wanted j>eace with all, which was best for us all to do and abide by. You may be assured both the Spaniards and these very Northward talks that was given out all over the Creek nation, which created a great confusion amongst them, which had like to turned out to very bad consequences, and would had it not been for the Mad Dog of the Tuckaubatchees. who is a good man, and sent me in a good talk to keep peace if possible, as lie want- to do, and not to give ear nor to take no notice of the North-wan! Indian's talk, which I have sent my talk back to him: I would not take hold of it as some of the Lower Creeks had done, for they were glad of the Spaniards' talk, and the Northwards, and killed some people, and would have done a great deal more, only the Mad Dog interposed, and I hope has put a stop to it: that it will nut come to an open war, which would be very bad; but he says it is impossible for him to keep all the foolish mad young men from stealing horses, and killing white people, and this disturbance that exists in the Creeks, was the reason of my not answering yours, and our father’s, the President's, kind invitation to go and see him this summer. Now I will acquaint you with unreason likewise; if all the head-men here was to go, perhaps it would be of very bad consequence; when we are atl gone, perhaps some of our foolish young men. like the Creeks, might take the Northward talks and goand do mischief after we were gone: which wc have concluded to stay until everyone is settled in their mind, and we hear the Creeks and Georgia people have settled all their disturbances; and then I will let you know when we are ready to go with you to Philadelphia to see our father. And one great reason for our not going this summer is, corn being so scarce amongst us, that we are obliged to buy every grain we eat at a very dear rate, and what little we get are obliged to go at least one hundred and forty or fifty miles for it. I expect in three or four days our hoeing will be done for the first time; then I shall set off a corn hunting, and when I return I expect to come home naked, being obliged to give all mv own clothes, as well as my woman's, for corn, and not me alone, for there is three or four more as pour as myself. Now. my friend, you may always look to hear the truth from me, for you shall never hear a lie. and all news" that is of any consequence I would be glad you will write me, and let me know how you like mu-proceedings with the Northward Indians, and conclude with mv being your friend and brother. l.rtler from Secretary Smith to Edward .idair. dated Knoxville, June 17, 1793. Sir: The nature of my office, which I believe is not unknown to you, has led me to a knowledge of the communications which have come to the Cherokee nation to Governor Blount, and which no other person besides the Governor knows of. The late unwarrantable act. committed by the white people, at the Hanging Maw’s, will, I fear, impel the nation to take satisfaction without waiting an answer from the President, which would be wrong, contrary to the Ilolston treaty, and injurious to the nation, and perhaps involve it in ruin. For if they would wait, and not take satisfaction themselves, it would be given them by the President. 1 scarcely need observe how kindly it would he taken from you to write me. Letter from Secretary Smith to Major King, dated Knoxville, June IT, 1793. Sin: You have, enclosed, a letter to Colonel \> atts; also, two others, one to the Hanging Maw, and another to Double-head, which I want you to have read to the Indians, with any comments thereon, which you may judge requisite. I want to obtain intelligence from the Lower towns as soon as they have determined what they will do. For this purpose I have wrote John Watts a friendly letter, which I wish you to deliver to Mr. Woodward, who can deliver it to Watts, and it will furnish him with a pretext to deliver the one addressed to Sir. Edward Adair. Give Mr. Woodward the best advice you can, in private, when you deliver him Mr. Adair’s letter, as to his conduct in this business, and how he may best effect, bringing an answer back from Mr. Adair, unknown to the Indians. Mr. Woodward, for doing this business, will be entitled to pay, which you will acquaint him with. Adopt such conduct besides seeing the Indians, as will be most likely to bring out information from the Lower towns, from any other person you think it like!}' to proceed from. Letter from Secretary Smith to John JFatts. Knoxville, June 17 tin 1793. Friend and Brother; ... No doubt but you have heard of the base act which has been committed by a party of wicked white men. This act was committed altogether without the knowledge of Governor Blount or myself. I have'written to the President and to Governor Blount, and the Hanging Maw has also written to the President on the occasion. Whit I mean to advise you, is for the good of the nation. These, good men of yours who hate fallen, have friends, and they ought not to take satisfaction themselves, but wait till they hear from the President. You know he has long waited with those who have injured his people, and forborne to take satisfaction, because, in that case, innocent blood would he shed, which would make him sorry; besides, you know, in the treaty held at this place, it was agreed that, in case an act of violence or wrong should be done your people, they should not retaliate until satisfaction had been demanded of the offending party, and refused. The President is a great and good man, and will keep his word, and I beg of you not to take satisfaction yourselves, but wait, and let us punish them for you. Thus may peace be restored in the land. ■ ■ Letter from John, Thompson to Secretary Smith. Hanging Maw’s, 18th.June, 1793. Sir: , ' > 1 came here yesterday from the Little Turkey, with the letter to Governor Blount by me. But hearing that a man could not pass through the settlements with safety, I concluded to-stay where I was. I send Mr. Fulton on with the letter, and I refer you to him for the news in this land, and likewise the Creeks, and among the Spaniards. He can give you the full accounts of all that’s passing. You will see what the Turkey has to say. There are about forty or fifty Indians here, come to see the Hanging Maw, and others that were wounded, and provision is hard to be got, without you send orders or appoint a man to get it for them. There are a good many gone hack that were coming to trade and pay what debts they owed to the people in the settlements. The Indians are for peace, if the whites will let them alone. They say it is best to leave it to the consideration' of their brothers of the United States, and see what will be done for them. They have sent runners through the whole nation, not for a man to attempt to take satisfaction, until they see what is to be. done. I am starving myself. I have spoken to Mr. Fulton to speak for some flour and some dried meat, for my own use. as I expect to stay here some time. I will be much obliged to you, if you will be so good as to assist him ; and I have sent for other articles, such as goods,, to be brought out to buy; there are furs here. There is no danger for a person to come out to this place. The Indians intend to send you their talks; there are about ten or twelve head-men at this place. letter from the Bold Hunter and others to Secretary Smith.—18th June, 1793. Friend and Brother: We have received your letter, wherein yon advise, us to look into the treaty, and we have all concluded to do so, and leave it to our lather, the President. We remember what was said at the treaty; it was told us by our brother, not to seek satisfaction until it was refused: and we hope that our brother will not tell us any falsity,, saying that we should have'satisfaction: and we hope that you will not forget it. And you acquaint us that you knew nothing of it, nor Governor Blount, of those men’s coming. They have laid our warriors on the ground, which we are sory for. We hope, as you have wrote to a good many head-men. that you would have satisfaction for us; and we have heard your good talk. We shall look to you to see it done; and not for our young warriors to say that yon told them lies. And those men that came, that done, the bad action, have made the beloved men ashamed, both white and red; as we think the white people should know better than to do so, without orders. We are here met together from almost all parts of the nation, and have heard your good talk; and we have sent-your letters on to other head-men of different towns, that your talk may be heard through the land. I am from Iliwasee, who gives you this talk. It is not my talk alone, but all the head-men here present. This talk that we send you is the talk from us here. You leave every thing to the President, and we shall leave it todhe Little Turkey, and warriors of our land. The next that is sent will be from them. They have all heard of the accident that has happened here,, though the beloved, men will hear your good talk, promising that yon will use your endeavors to have satisfaction for us, as all the head-men and warriors will hear your promise. -So much from your friends and brothers, THE BOLD HUNTER AND OTHERS. P. S. The beloved man of Iliwasee.—Now yon have heard the warrior’s talks, and I will send you mine. I am glad to find that my young warriors are for leaving every thing to the beloved men, and I hope that we will not tell lies to each other, as we are brothers. We, beloved men, hope that things will be made up: though we leave eveiy thing to the Little Turkey.' He is the head-man of our lands, and we know that lie is a good man, and expect that things will be made up on good terms, as he knows the talk that has been given out from tlieotber head-men, and he will consider of us, and whatever be says shall be a law. Nmv, 1 have given you all my talk, I hope that you, my brother, will consider us. We are here, hungry, and will be glad you will send us something to eat; and when it comes, our hearts will be straight, to have something to eat and a little to carry home to our cnildren. The young men are glad to hear your good talks, and hope you will send them some whiskey to make their hearts merry and straight, as we both eat, drink, and smoke. We will he glad you will send us a little salt. I hope you will send it down in three nights, as we want to go home and weed our corn. We want to have a little while we are at work. TICKEKISKY. Letter from Secretary Smith to John Thompson. , Knoxville, Jane 20th, 1793. Sir: I have received your letter of the 18th instant, and am pleased to be.infonned by it of the pacific conduct of the Cherokees. I have made some answers to the chiefs who wrote, which, though short, are intended for their good. They seem to know the true interest of the nation, and I hope they wall follow it, in which I know they will receive your good advice. The repeated hostilities committed on these frontiers had enraged the white people to such a degree, that their reason seemed to be laid aside. The Indians must refrain from stealing horses and doing acts of violence. If they will refrain, I can easily keep the white people from doing them any injury. They do right to send runners through the nation to prevent mischief. 1 hope they will be particular to do it to those places especially, which they most suspect to be disposed to spoil our good intentions. I believe some white men will carry goods to the Hanging Maw’s. As to money, you do not write for any particular sum as due to you, nor can I, in Governor Blount's absence, ascertain what may be due; as he will be back in a short time, (for he will ride very fast) would it not be better to let this matter lie over till his return? Should Major King want assistance to have any goods forwarded to you, which you want. I will most cheerfully give it. You w ill transmit me any information, from time to time, that appears material, for which I will pay the express. 1 want you to present my thanks to the Little Turkey, in a particular manner, for his letter to the Governor, which he will answer on his return. Letter from Secretary Smith to the Chiefs of the Cherokees. . Knoxville. June 20, 1793. Friends and Brothers: I wish you all to know the great pleasure all the good white people, your Brothers, express, at hearing your determination to forbear, and not take satisfaction yourselves, for the late unwarrantable act; but, that you leave it to the President and Little Turkey, and other head-men, who every body knows tube good. Hereby you give proof of your knowing the true interest of your nation, and your love of peace. But, my good Brothers, since we have agreed to look up to our common father, the President, to give satisfaction and do that which is right betwixt both people, let tne advise you as a friend not to weaken his hands, or stop his ears against redressing your wrongs, by suffering bad men of your nation to injure the wjiite people, by killing them or stealing their horses. It was such acts of your bad men, as these I mention, made the young w hite men mad, and they have given me a great deal of trouble. I believe some of your people up the Tennessee have lately stolen horses; if they have, they ought to restore them. 1 speak this for your good. As I know you want some provisions, your friend Major King will tell you I have given directions to have some carried to you, which he will distribute. Also a little whiskey, which w ill be comfortable after the talks of business are over, and a little of the white people's tobacco, to promote good thoughts as you smoke. The information of Samvel Fulton, a native of Fayettville, North Carolina. The propensity I had to travel was stimulated by an accidental meeting I had with Mr. McGillivray, who I saw at my mother's (then a resident of Guilford county) on his w'ay to New York. 1 went to Pensacola, about two years ago, and resided in the house of a Captain John Liudar, who has lately died. I have been present at sundry meetings which Governor O’Neal had with the. Creek Indians. I have heard him strongly urge these Indians to go to wai with the citizens of the United States, to order all of them off, who resided westward of the old line, which had formerly been established by the court of Great Britain, and if they did not go, to kill them. 1 have heard Air. Panton also urge them, often times, to go to war; and when I have seen him giving them guns and ammunition, which he frequently did, he would commonly tell them these guns were to kill the citi/.ens of the United State;, and lie would rather they should be applied to this use than to kill the deer. Such discourse I have heard him repeatedly use. 1 have heard Mr. McGillivray say, the Spaniards had given him three thousand five hundred dollars to resign up to them the government of the Creek nation for one year, and I have heard Mr. Olivar, a Spanish agent, say, he was present at the Spanish treasury, when Mr. Lewis Christian. Panton’s clerk, drew this money out of the treasury, only three days before Mr. McGillivray's death. Governor O'Neal is lately withdrawn, and one-White is m his place, who ! have not heard give such advice. 1 have heard the Indians, in general, say, it was to their interest to keep up a war with the United States; that when they had committed ravages against them, of ever so great a nature, they could easily hold a treaty, and get large presents to be at peace, which conduct they could then repeat, for the people of the United States were very good natnred. \ party of traders, who reside in the frontiers of Georgia, particularly one-Hull, tell the Indians the Congress have thrown away the people of Cumberland, and, ‘tis what they will, to kili, plunder, and commit devastations there, for Congress will not be angry at them for it. The Indians and several white traders have told me this. I met a party of Creeks on their return home from Cumberland, with four scalps. . SAMUEL FULTON. Knox County, June 21s/, 1793. This day the above named Samuel Fujton came before me, a made ondi that the above information is true. justice of the peace for the aforesaid county', and JAMES WHITE, J. P. Daniel Smith, Esquire, to the Secretary of IFar. Knoxville, July 19 th, 1793. Sir: The invasion of Indians into Wear’s Cove, on the 19th ultimo, which I mentioned to .you in mine of the 22d, was in two parties. A party of seven of Lieutenant Henderson's militia, who were vigilant in their duty, ranging the. mountain, discovered the trace where one of the parties went back with horses on the 20th, and pursued without knowing what damage the Indians had done. They soon overtook, and gave them an unexpected and well directed lire, which it was afterwards known killed two, and ’tis believed wounded others. The Indians ran off a little distance, leaving the horses, tied, but on on seeing there were so few of the whites, made a stand. The. whites cut loose the horses, and rode otf with them all, except one, which was shot down by the enemy. None of the whites were hurt. A Mr. Samuel Wear, about the same time, raised a party of volunteers; Lieutenant Henderson joined them, and thoughtlessly suffered Mr. Wear to take the command of the party, in number about sixty. They pursued the main body of the Indians to the town of Tallassee, on the north bank of the Tennessee, where they killed fifteen men and one woman, as they say, and brought in four.women prisoners. It is not probable that those who suffered were the immediate aggressors, lor the horses stolen had been taken across the Tennessee. On the 29th June, a small party of Indians came to one Lloyd’s house, more than sixty miles above this, and about eleven miles from Greene court house, on the south side of Nonaclmchy river. They killed his wife an d two children, and badly wounded a third, plundering the house of every thing of value. This occasioned Lieutenant Colonel McNab to raise a party of volunteers, without my knowledge; they consisted of ninety-one, and I am informed they followed the Indian trace to a small Indian village, supposed to be on the Tuckasegee river; there they killed two Indians, one of them a woman, fell out among themselves, and returned home. Since that time, for a week or two, the Indians have done but little damage, owing probably to their having promised me to forbear to take satisfaction for the injury done them by Heard till they should hear from the President. When I say little,'tis to be considered as speaking comparatively with what they had done before: for they fired at a man on Pistol creek, and burnt the house of a Mr. llog, on Nine-mile creek, with his crop of flax, and cut up part of his crop of corn. This was the 2d instant, and shortly after they stole, I think, seven horses from Bird’s station, twelve miles below this,and the clothes of four families, which wrere in the wash. Such behavior still augments the flame of the white men’s passion, already very high. On the 15th instant, I received information that a large party of men were to assemble next dav, near Campbell’s station, fifteen miles below this, to go into the nation, and do the Indians all the damage they could. On the 16th I went to Campbell’s station, to endeavor to prevent them. Their place of rendezvous, I found, was at one.Dlackburn’s plantation, now lying waste, two or three miles still lower. At Campbell’s, 1 saw several parties going down to their rendezvous, with many of whom I conversed, reasoned with them on the impropriety of their going; that the Indians had done but little damage for a week or two; that this was probably owing to their having promised me not to do us any until they should hear from the President; that, in all probability, effectual measures would be taken, on the return of the Governor, which would be in a short time, and that they ought to blame themselves for all the bloodshed their con --duet would be the cause of, as we were not in a situation lor war; but, all I could say, was in vain: When I found them so determined to go, I wrote the order, of which the enclosed is a copy, and caused Captain Campbell to deliver it to Beard, who, I am told, is their commander, and have it read to the other militia officers of their corps; neither had this any effect. This was on the 17th. The same day, I am informed, they moved on toward the Southwest Point, a few miles, in number 120 or 130; and I, much mortified, sat out for this place.. I had information, as early as the 12th instant, that there was an appointment of this kintl ot peoples to rendezvous ou the 1st of August, for the beforementioned purpose. Their attempt, so much earlier, was quite unexpected, or I could have used more likely means to turn them, by ordering them under some officer in whom I could confide, to perform a tour of duty down the north side of the Tennessee, and towards Cumberland. But their true intent was kept carefully concealed from tne. This spirit for war against Indians, pervades people of all ranks so far, that no order of Government can stop them; and, I suppose, if I cannot prevent it, another party, similar to Beard’s, will set out about the 1st of August. General Sevier has signified his desire to head a party of i00 or 150 mounted infantry, to explore the country on the north side of the Tennessee, as low down as the Lower Cherokee towns. I have wrote to him to come down here, that we may consult together on the occasion, and I now think of sending him with such a party as he proposes. The exploring the country will answer a useful purpose. ’Tis probable he will find Indians advancing towards us, and it may have some tendency to support the, at present, feeble force of law, by disconcerting the disorderly party; but. 1 will write you by next post the consequence. Governor Blount’s absence, 1 very much regret.. The influence of his character is of far greater extent on these people, than any other; to lead them to adhere to good order, and support the laws, and by influential characters, is now the only resource to rule them; not by their love of good order and government. Many officers of the territory exert their influence the contrary way, and those who remain silent and inactive, I cannot hut view, at present, as countenancing disorder. You can better conceive, than I express, the painful sensations I endure. ’ > I have received no intelligence from General Robertson, of Mero district, since Governor Blount’s departure. A week ago, or more, I sent back the Chickasaw Thompson, with a few articles of clothing, and a letter to their nation, enclosing a list of suppliesto.be furnished them by the United States, which, if they have not received, i tell them they soon will. I also wrote General Robertson, to cause a contract to he made for supplying part of Captain Kerr’s company with rations at the crossing of Cumberland, intending to send them there in October next. At that time, it is expected a number of families will remove to Cumberland, to whose safety these regulars may contribute. They will be aided, I believe, by a small militia guard from Mero district. Daniel Smith to Captain John Beard, supposed to be the Commandant of a parly of men now acting against the authority of Government; to Captain Thomas Cox, and to any and all other ojjicers of their party.—July 17 th, 1793. ’ Sir: As the court martial has not yet proceeded to judgment on your former conduct, you are yet to be considered as an officer subject to the order of Government, and I now call upon you, requiring you to desist from vour umvaran table conduct, to disband your men, and send them to their respective homes. It must be expected that all officers will pay regard to these orders, which I require you to make known to them; their oaths cannot be so lightly looked upon, or, at least, I hope they are not, as to permit them to disregard this order, for they will have to answer the contrary at their peril. Daniel Smith to the Secretary of War, dated Knoxville, July 27, 1793. Sir: .lohn Beard’s party, which sat out, as I had the honor to inform you, on the 17th instant, returned on the 23d. 1 learn that they have done the Indians less damage than could have been supposed. Some of the party say they killed seven or eight Indians, others, only three or four, besides a squaw, and that they had two squaws prisoners, but dismissed them. In truth, the Indians repulsed them by occupying solne strong houses they had in the town of Iliwasec, out of which they fired, and killed one man and wounded a second; the. others came off in confusion. The Indians have done no damage here for abut a week or ten days. But this calm is only viewed, here, as the forerunner of a storm. I still hold the design I mentioned to you on the 19th, of sending General Sevier, with 100 or 150 horsemen, down the north side of the Tennessee. The General will not expect any other pay, than according to the number of men he may command. I still believe a large number of volunteers, as they call themselves, will assemble about the first or second of August, to make an incursion on the Cherokees. I can think of no plan so likely to disconcert theirs, as by calling on him to actas I have said, and he will probably meet and repel Indians who will be invading us. 1 anxiously wish for Governor Blount’s return, and view it as the most hopeful means to produce good order. Letter from Daniel Smith to the Secretary of I far. dated Knoxville, July 30, 1793. Sir: East night a company of travellers arrived at this place from Mero district. General Robertson has wrote me, by them. 1 send you an extract of his letter, and a list of the names of persons murdered there since the 20th May, together with a copy of a letter frem Flamingo to General Robertson. On contrasting this information with the Little Turkey’s letter of the 5th June, which I had the honor to transmit to you, some further light will be thrown on the conduct of the Cherokees. 1 must send such assistance to Cumberland as I told you I had in view. Extract of a letter from General James Robertson, of 3fero District, to General Smith, dated Rashville. July 20. 179.3. Bad as the times were when you left this country, they are much more gloomy at present. Indians are plenty on all quarters. 1 enclose you a list of their depreciations since the twentieth of May: they do, oi late, penetrate further in our settlements than before; they seem resolved to make good their word to the Chickasaws, that this season they would cut us off totally—I mean the Cherokees. We seemed to have peace for some time after Major Beard marched through, to and from this country, and while our horse were in service, which service expired the fourteenth day of last month. 1 apprehended, from your Excellency's letter, that you supposed them to have been in service when you wrote. I have ventured to call into service one company of mounted infantry, eighty in number, exclusive ol officers, according to Governor Blount’s last orders. W hen your Excellency considers the circumstance, 1 hope you will think me justifiable, and give your approbation. If you disapprove. 1 beg you will send me express, for be assured, that no person can be more unwilling to incur expense that, can lie avoided, than myself; nothing less, would, in any manner, reconcile our frontiers, as I never saw them so much dispirited, as since my son, Randolph, came home from the Chickasaw nation. About the twelfth of last month, while lie. was in that nation, came in three Cherokees—Cottetoy was interpreter, as he speaks Chickasaw; they brought, in a bow, bloody arrows, hatchet, scalping knife, and pipe: they presented them to the Chickasaws, and desired their influence to be used with the Choctaws, Soliciting them to join in a common war with all other tribes against the United States; the chief was mightily rigged with silver, and made a great parade; his arm-bands had the Eagle on them; he told the Chickasaws, that his nation made no doubt but them and the Choctaws must, by that time, have seen their folly, as all other Indian tribes had combined to cut off the Americans; and that, if they and the Choctaws did not now lay-ton their hands, there would be nothing for them to do, as all other tribes, the present moon, were to strike the whites, and that the Northward army were all killed: the Western country was making up an army, but it would be small, and that the united Iribes would soon finish them; that they, the Cherokees, had eat a great quantity ol the white’s flesh, which they were very fond of at first, but they had had so much of it, had got tired, and thought it too salt: this they spoke in way of derision, though I suppose it was them that cut oil’ Overall’s flesh:* they said the bow, arrows, hatchet, and scalping knife, were sufficient weapons to kill whites with. They told, that forty Cherokees. and some Creeks, had been sometime at or about the mouth of Duck river, to cut oft’ the communication between them and us; and to exasperate them, said we were clearing a great road to this place. But, after finding all they said ineffectual, and did not move the Chickasaws. they appeared to make light ot their assistance, and threatened, in the Chickasaw nation, to return to a party they had left at the mouth of Bear creek, and way-lay every crossing place on the Tennessee river, for Randolph Robertson, and said they would catch him on his way home, when they heard that he intended to ride, therefore lie took it on foot. The Chickasaws were loath he should come; but I had directed him, if any thing particular, to let me know at all events. I should have let you known sooner, but the times appeared more favorable than they had been, insomuch, that I had discharged the horse; and, as a company were to set out on Monday next, 1 thought it best to save the expense of an express. Sir, cannot you send some-men immediately to our assistance? Will it be possible I can have a sergeant and twelve men from those regulars with you? All the stations near me talk of breaking, and if so, I must do it. having but four men in my station, and cannot call on men to leave their families; and if I am obliged to go. or should fall, 1 know not where the frontier would be, for people do not act as they used to do, stop in the settlement, but go quite off The Cherokees have done much mischief on the Ohio; at the mouth, took a large boat; it is supposed .Sir. Josiali Love is killed, but not yet certain. If you do not send assistance, and the Indians are as bad as expected, I shall be obliged to enter more men in service, and they must be horsemen, as the Cherokees told, in the Chickasaw nation, that they intended making station camps, and coming in small parties; and we must endeavor to break up their camps, for we can do nothing with the small parties in our settlements; and if we are not able to drive them off, we may as well surrender to them; they have got oft’most of the horses on the south side of Cumberland river, that were not stabled. 1 believe the stations on the south side, above Stone’s river, are or will break soon. The Mountain Leader would not go to the Cherokees' talk. Wolf’s Friend told them he would send their message to the Choctaws, but that lie thought they would take no notice of it; lie told them that he had eaten weeds and grass, and such as brutes eat, but it would be a long time before he thought of eating the Virginians’ flesh. The Cherokees stayed only three days there. Never was a people more attached to a nation, than the Chickasaws are to the United States. A treaty was to have been held at the Walnut Hills, on the twenty-fifth of last month, by Spanish authority, with all the Southern Indians, but is postponed for a longer time. A cessation of arms has taken place between the Creeks and Cliicka--sawrs; it is said by the whites, as well as the Indians, to be brought about by Spanish agency, as matters were brought on in order to humble the Chickasaws, and bring them to their interest. A large army of Creeks had set out against the Chickasaws, and were stopped by Spanish orders. Three sent in a flag, who were treated with great contempt; thosewith the flag, said they had no power to make articles, but at the intended treaty, the Spaniards would assist them. I am of opinion, it was the stillness and preparation the Chickasaws had made, as they were gathered in a few towns, and had upwards of thirty forts; they were determined to attack any number that should come against them. Woil’s Friend, when at Orleans, was invited by the Governor to the intended treaty; he asked the Governor what that treaty meant, and if it was to lessen the friendship of his people to the United States, he might as well desist, lor their friendship was not to be broken. The Governor told him that some of his nation had promised to assist them against any people; the answer was, that if they had, it must be such as were of no account, and wanted presents, for there was not one man in that nation would fight the Americans; for his own part, he had not known them until the last summer treaty, but he had given Governor Blount his heart, and nothing should induce him to break the friendship he then made, and that, if the Americans and Spaniards fell out. he would not interfere on either side; the Governor then commended him, and said he would send his speech to the King of Spain. Application had been made by that Government, for leave to fix forts at the Chickasaw Bluff and Iron Banks; the former they say they will have, whether they get leave or not. Overall was killed on the road to Kentucky. s List of murders committed by Indians in Mero District, since the 20th of May, 1793. John Hacker, on Drake’s creek. June 2.—James Steele, and his oldest daughter Betsey. 4.—Adam Flenor, Richard Robertson, and William Bartlet, killed? Abraham Young, and John Mayfield, wounded on the road to Big Barren. 29.—Isaac Heaton, and Joseph Heaton, killed, and a negro wounded at Heaton’s lick. July 1.—Jacob Castleinan, William Castleiuan, and Joseph Castleman, killedj and Hans Castlcman, wounded, at Hayes’ station. 15.—William Campbell, wounded near Nashville. (18. —Mr.---Joshn, wounded at his own house. 19. —Mr.----Smith, killed at Johnston’s lick. Piamingo to GeneraI Robertson. Chickasaw Nation, June 17, 1793. Dear old Friend: I have received several letters from you since I was able to answer you, owing to matters being unsettled, as they are here at present. I received the corn, and other articles, by your son Randolph, for which I thank my brothers, the Americans, for considering us in so great need. Our situation has been such, that we could not pass to you as usual. I have sent one man with your, son, as he requested, and hope shortly to come in myself. Whether this will ever reach you, is uncertain, for I hear the path is' watched by Creeks and Cherokees, in order to intercept all messages passing, and I fear your son will never reach Cumberland} but if he should be so fortunate as to get in, he can inform you the circumstances of all matters, as I'have made him fully acquainted with all within my knowledge. His being a woodsman, and going on foot, gives me hopes he may get in safe. He can inform you of my unsettled situation, which, as soon as I can alter, and get my business arranged, you may be sure of seeing me. I endeavored to prevail with your son to wait longer, untd he might go safer, but in vain, as he was anxious to get in, to let you know how matters were, that you might inform Governor Blount, so that he prefers going at the risk of all. I have often told you of the'bad doings ol the Creeks and Cherokees, which I am sure they will not cease to continue, till they feel the weight of the white people, which, I hope, will not be long. Surely, my friend, if you knew how lightly and despisingly they speak of you and your friends, you could not bear it, as you do. If we did not know you to be warriors, we should not know what to think of you calling them friends, and treating them as such, when they are continually killing your people, and taking your horses. We, the Chickasaws, that are but as one very small house in the great city, the United States, could not bear to throw away, and let the blood of one man pass without retaliation. The Creeks were the aggressors, and asked a cessation of arms of us, as your son can inform you. If you would treat them so, they would not think as little of you. There are very bad talks going on at this time, of which I shall be better able to inform you hereafter. Tour son can tell you of seeing Cherookees coining in, which he saw with scalps and war instruments, to invite us and the Choctaws to join all other Indians to war against the United States. The Spaniards are getting all the Indians they can, to a treaty at the Walnut Hills. What their intentions are is uncertain; but I apprehend nothing to your advantage, which you will be the better able to judge when I arrive; it will then be in my power to inform you of all that is of consequence. I intend to Visit the President when I come in—your son has promised me to go with me. I hope you will not be against it. Please to let Governor Blount know of it, which will be about four or five weeks. I want you to get Simson to make me a gun like Colonel Mansker’s. I hope you will take great care of yourself, as both the Creeks and Cherokees will try to get you. Keep out your scouts at a great distancc, it will be the best for safety, and not let them hunt near you, as they always do you mischief when breaking up to go home. 1 am very glad to hear you say, that the President has sent a greater warrior to command his army against the Northern tribes, if they do not treat. But, my brother, I hardly know what you mean by treating with tribes that are always at war with you, and will be, until you whip them; perhaps you may then have a treaty with them that may keep peace. Did I not tell how the Creeks and Clierokees would behave when they treated? I said they would pay no regard to what they did: so you found it. If we confirm a treaty with the Creeks, they will be told every injury done us will be retaliated for, and we will observe to do it. 1 am, and will be, your friend and brother. General Rouertson. v PIAMINGO. Daniel Smith to the Secretary of War, dated Knoxville, August 31, 1793. Sir: The expectations that the Indians would invade this district in great force, seem as though they would be verified. At the appearance of day light on the 29th instant, a numerous party of Indians made an attack on Henry’s station. Their real number cannot be known, and opinions dift'er on that head from one hundred to three hundred. Lieutenant Tedford and another man had gone out toacornfield when the firing commenced, at which they attempted to run to the station, but got among the Indians unexpectedly . The lieutenant was took prisoner, carried about one hundred and fifty yards, and put to death, his body mangled in a most inhuman manner. The other man fortunately made his escape, and ran to a neighboring station, from whence all the adjacent frontier was alarmed. One other man, who happened to be out, was all they killed, besides the lieutenant. The upper county militia have not yet come down, but are to be expected in a few days. Had they been on the frontier, I think these Indians might have been intercepted. I have proposed to General Sevier to come down, arid take the command. His name carries terror to the Indians. Although the number of men on duty here may be not such as would demand an officer of his rank, I have thought it will be most expedient to call for him. I have heard nothing of Major Beard since he left Southwest Point; but, ere this, he must have arrived at Nashville. Enclosed are extracts of two letters from General Robertson, and an account of Indian depredations since my former account.   ’ It isexpected that General Sevier, with the third of the militia of the three upper counties, will be on his way to the frontiers in a few days. His force, except a few to protect exposed places, I mean to continue in a body, that they may be in readiness to interceptor repel any numerous party of Indians that may invade the country. Governor Blount has not arrived yet: his return is impatiently wished for by the inhabitants. The people are relinquishing their irregular designs of invading Indians, against the order of Government. Extract of a letter from Brigadier General Robertson, of Mero District, to Secretary Smith, dated August 17, 1793, at Aashville. The distresses of this district has caused me to call out into service one company of mounted infantry; aiwl, if the Indians execute their threats to attack our settlements, shall be obliged to order more, unless you can give relief from Washington district. I sent out Captain John Rains on the 20th July, on an eight days’ tour. He discovered the trace of many parties coining in, but had not the good fortune to overtake any of them, owing to the thickness of the cane on Duck river. At that time, our settlements were much distressed by Indians, stealing our horses, and penetrating further into our settlements than ever they had before, which caused me to order out Captain John Gordon, of the cavalry, on the 5th instant, who, with Captain Rains, pursued some Indians, who, on the second instant, had killed one Samuel Miller, at Joslin’s station, six miles from this place. After crossing Duck river, they found the sign of a number of different parties falling into the trace. After pursuing some time, observed the fresh trace, of four horses and seven Indians to come in. On pursuing six or seven miles further, found them encamped. Our men. killed five, and took prisoner a boy between twelve and fourteen years of age. They were Creeks. I suppose more Indians would have been killed before they returned, but. finding the sign of a company making to the settlement, pursued them, expecting they might be overtaken before they could reach the frontiers, but unluckily they got among the sign of stock, and could not be followed. Some time past. Captain Bosley’s barn was burnt in the night, and two thousand bushels of wheat in it. 'Tis suspected to have been done by a negro, but many people think it was Indians, as they stole horses the same night out of the middle of the settlement, on the north side of Cumberland, near Heaton’s old station, and some the next day from one \Villiam*Smith, on White's creek,* which he and some others followed, and retook the horses. Colonel Winchester, of Sumner county, being apprehensive of another incursive party making an attack on his neighborhood, solicited me to send out Captain George I). Blackmore. with his troop, up the Cany fork, as most Indian depredations near him had been from that fork. Knowing myself that cavalry docs deter Indians, and believing it had been the incans of saving many lives this summer, 1 ordered out the troop, to be discharged at the expiration of a month, unless you should direct their discharge to be sooner. Sir, it i-with great reluctance that I called men into service without your express order; but the danger was imminent. The Creeks have lately sent deputies into the Choctaw nation, and invited some of the Chickasaw chiefs to meet them there, in order to confirm a treaty of peace between those nations. A number of the Chickasaws are against carrying the matter any farther than that with honor they may join an army, in case one should go from the United States against the Creeks. They (the Creeks) declared at that treaty, that their nation and the. Cherokees were determined on war against the United States, and particularly to break up this district this summer. This I have from a man who was among the Choctaws at the time, one Thomas Fletcher, as well as confirmed by the Chickasaws, Lieutenant William Clark has returned from delivering the supplies to the Chickasaws, which gave them infinite satisfaction. Seven have gone with him to head quarters. The Mountain Leader intends visiting the President shortly. I have been cautioned by the Chickasaws and Choctaws, to guard against the Creeks taking me by counterfeiting friendship; that is, passing themselves upon me for Chickasaws or Choctaws. I have great doubt they will make the attempt: and, if they do, they will succeed as when at home, and that home immediately on the frontiers. We are but four men strong, and both the Creeks and Cherokees know that both Chickasaws and Choctaws frequently come to my house without iny knowing who they are, until it would be too late to stop them with so few men. Extract of a letter from General Robertson to Governor Blount, dated Nashvii.i.k, .dugvsf L22d, 1793. Since my former letter, the Indians have been very commonly in our settlements, though in small parties, which cannot well be followed. On the 19th instant, the sign of a party was discovered coming in. The same night a good many wearing clothes were stolen by them from Brown’s Station, which were in wash. Next night two horses were stolen from Colonel Barton’s. The horses were retaken yesterday. Yesterday Colonel Barton narrowly escaped being fired on in his field. On the 20th instant, in Tennessee county, some Indians were discovered plundering an evacuated house. . The man raised a partv of seven men, and went in search of the Indians. It was in the night before they got to the [dace where the Indians were expected; and, just before they got there, they met the Indians in the path, who appeared to be about their own number, as near as they could distinguish. The white* fired first, and retreated, because the Indians’ guns were then charged. Next morning, on viewing the ground, they found one Indian lying dead, and two traces of blood making off, as though there were that number wounded. This day. Captain John Gordon has set out, to range at a considerable distance south of our settlements, as we can do nothing with them in the cane. Rains’ tour is expired; and I fear your Excellency might think I went too far, if 3 ordered more into service, until I receive your orders, which I have hopes of every day: and I have sanguine hopes of at least one company of cavalry from Washington district. We cannot doubt your Excellency’s continuing to give us relief, as you did in the spring: for it was evident that Major Beard’s horse was of great service to this district. Last spring one Abraham Castleman, who was a soldier, hut a disorderly person, who had several of hi? relations killed, bearing in mind the injuries he received, raised a party of fourteen volunteers lately, and set out to take satisfaction, as he termed it. They could find no Indians on their route, on the north side Tennessee. As they were strictly forbid to cross that river, all his company turned back on their arriving to it, except Castleman and four others,'who did cross the river, which I believe was at a place known by the name of the Creek crossing place, and the road leads towards Will’s town. The road was very plain, and much sign of war parties on it, such as scalps figured on trees, &c. About ten miles south of the river, they discovered u party of Indians sitting at breakfast, a* they supposed, in number upwards of forty. Both parties immediately fired at each other, as they were only about thirty yards apart. Three of Castleman’s party came in yesterday: one slightly wounded, another with four bullet holes through his shirt. They suppose Castleman and the other man to be killed, j They say they must have killed some Indians, as they saw two or three fail. They must have been a party coming to war, as they had no horses nor squaws, but large bundles to carry on their backs. This happened the 15th instant. I am very impatient to hoar from your Excellency. I shall send in a guard, as mentioned by General Smith, to escort families that may be moving here, and shall have a block house built, as a beginning stand, for the party of regulars which, lie lias informed me, will be at that time marched out to the Crossing of CumberiaBl. I have found the Indian buy, taken prisoner as mentioned in my las:, to be a Creek, from the Uphaulie towns. I set out with him to-morrow to Clarksville, to gather as much information as possible. John Dier, who lives there, speaks the language well. I am convinced the party be belonged to were those from whom the horses were retaken; they had killed a cow, and were barbecuing the flesh: when run off, they left four blankets, four knives, some, hatchets and kettles, a leather shirt, supposed to belong to the prisoner boy. And the party, when defeated over Duck river, had but. two blankets and three knives; they seemed to lack all that was taken when the horses were re-taken. John Dier speaks the Creek and Chickasaw tongues perfectly, and I have endeavored to get him to live at ;ny house, but cannot do it without engaging him one hundred dollars pcrycar: I offered him one hundred bushels of corn each year, and as much cleared ground as lie chose to cultivate; but as he supports his family by hunting, would not agree without money. Would it not be reasonable that the United States paid such a person, as the Creeks will be much bow. as well as the Chickasaws and Choctaws, whenever they may be at peace? Sir. will you be so condescending as to write me on this subject; I would pay half myself, sooner than be without him. * Places opposite to Bosley’s, who lives on the soutli side. f Castleman and the other man came in safe the day the General wrote, as the company informed me, but the General ha.! not heard it. They agree in the same account with the first three. / V'". Indian depredations, not before mentioned. ' , About the 1st August, the Indians killed one Samuel Miller, at Joslin’s station, on Cumberland. On the 21st, the Indians killed the widow Baker and all her family, except two children, who were big enough and fortunate enough to make their escape. Her family of children was numerous. About the same time, Robert Wells’ family, consisting of a wile and. t"o children, were killed. Mr. Wells himself was from home. The widow Baker and Mr. Wells lived in Tennessee county. August 31 st, 1793. David Smith to the Secretary of War. > ' . Knoxville, September 27th, 1793. Sir: 1 "On the 3(tth July, I had the honor to enclose you a copy of the Mountain Leader’s letter to General Robertson, dated June 17th, in which he mentions his design to visit the President. The Leader himself, four other Chicka-saws, and an interpreter, of the name of Mr. Lisli, are now this far on their way, for that purpose. As I know you are acquainted with the character of that chief, and his attachment to the United States, I need say nothing on that, head. He requested me to send with him some person of account, (his own words) to accompany and provide him with supplies for the journey. I have made choice of Mr. John M’Kee, of whose abilities ami merits I have a very good opinion. He has been heretofore conversant in Indian business, and I think may, if requisite, be made useful in influencing the conduct of the nation. I have recommended him to go by Richmond, and convey them to you in an expeditious and economical manner; but should he be compelled to draw a bill on you for a few dollars to defray their expenses, I hope it will be honored: On the lGtli instant. Major Beard returned from Cumberland with his party. He had not the fortune to fall in with any parties of Indians. The inhabitants of that district, and General Robertson in particular, are strongly of opinion, that his searching for them through the woods in which they have been accustomed to encamp, and from whence they annoyed that district, has much deterred the enemy. With much concern, I have to inform you, that besides other previous depredations of the Cherokees, of a less nature, they made an invasion into this district on Wednesday, the 25th instant,pn force, as is generally believed, not less than a thousand; in many places they marched in files of twenty-eight abreast, each of which ’tis supposed was composed of forty men; besides, they appeared to have about a hundred horse. They crossed the Tennessee below the mouth of Ilolston, on Tuesday evening, inarched all night towards this place, and about sun rise or a little after, attacked and carried the house of Mr. Alexander Cavet, about seven miles below' this place. His whole family, thirteen in number, fell a sacrifice. .A man of common delicacy would w'ant language to convey to another, the horrid manner in which the poor women and children were treated, as much as I do to make you sensible of the sufferings of the frontier inhabitants, pent up in their small huts. General Sevier lay, at that time, on the lower frontier, on the south bank of Ilolston. about eight miles from the Tennessee, at one Isbe’s, with about four hundred men. I speak in round numbers, for I have had no return. He had got there, but a few days before; I am now endeavoring to augment his number, to enable him to pursue the enemy; they crossed Clinch the same evening. Lieutenant M’Clelland is now out with a party of horse, reconnoitering their movements. General Sevier has told me, that every night of his stay at Ishe’s, the Indians were reconnoitering his camp, till his sentinels one night killed one of them, since which they have been more cautious. The large party of Indians passed upon the north side of Ilolston, within three miles of the General's camp, and I suppose would have inarched higher, perhaps to this place, but for fear of his intercepting them, as they know not his number. The frontiers are infested with these Indians, from opposite Greene court house, round by Ishe’s, and up Clinch on the northwest frontier, a distance of at least two hundred miles. You can better conceive, than I describe, the many sufferings of the inhabitants. I am, sir, &c. Governor Blount has, by letter of 28th August, informed me, he expects to be here by the middle of October. His arrival will be an event highly pleasing to me, and the inhabitants in general. 3d Congress.] 
