No. 129. [2d Session. THE OSAGES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, MARCH 14, 1810. To the Senate of the United States: I transmit a report of the Secretary of War, complying with their resolution of the 22d January last. JAMES MADISON. March Uth, 1810. War Department, March 13, 1810. In compliance with a resolution of the honorable Senate, of the 22d January last, the Secretary of War has the honor to state to the President of the United States, that, as the correspondence of this Department did not exhibit the authority under which Peter Chouteau, Esq. made and concluded the treaty with the Great and Little Osage tribes of Indians, General Clark was called upon to furnish such information as he either possessed or could obtain on the subject. A copy of his letter of the 20th ultimo, together with copies of Governor Lewis’s instructions to Mr. Chouteau, and of his letter to the Executive of the United States, alluded to by General Clark, are now transmitted. It does not appear, from the accounts rendered, or billsd rawn on this Department, what moneys have been paid or expended, on account of the negotiation or conclusion of said treaty. W. EUSTIS. Fjxcastle, February 20, 1810. Sir: I have the honor to enclose yon copies of the late Governor Lewis's instructions to Peter Chouteau, Esq. to carry into effect a treaty of amity and friendship, with the Great and Little Osage bands of Indians: also a copy of the Governors letter to the Executive Department of the United States, dated at St. Louis, the lath December, 1808. Those are all the documents which I can find anions his papers, relative to the treaty that is now before the Senate of the United States, which tend to throw' light on the same. To give you a view of occurrences v-hieh led to this treaty, ! must commence with the situation of the frontiers of Louisiana, in relation to the Osage tribes of Indians, at my arrival in that territory in June, 1808: at that time. Governor Lewis (whom I met with in St. Louis) informed me, that a large proportion of the Osage nation of Indians were disposed for hostility, and had taken a number of horses, robbed and plundered the inhabitants in different parts of the territory, &c. he had made a regu lar and unsuccessful demand of the property which they had taken. White Hare, the principal chief of the band of the Great Osages, (who was then at St. Louis) came to inform him that he could not restrain his band from those acts of violence and pillage which they had been in the habit of practising on the frontiers. The Governor further informed me, that lie hail given permission to the Shawanese, Delawares, and other tribes of Indians, to attack that part of the Osage nation, which were thus hostilely disposed, and that a large party were collecting for that purpose. On the 23d of June, I received a letter from the Secretary of War, in which he requested me to fix on a suitable site for a factory store and post, &c. Being well acquainted with the country, I pointed out a spot on the south side of the Missouri, about 300 miles up that river, as the most convenient place to several tribes of Indians. Captain Clemson, with his company of regular troops, accompanied by Mr. Sibley, the United States'factor, with goods destined for that establishment, ascended the river. On the 4th of September. 1 arrived with a detachment of militia at the place of destination, and despatched Captain Boon, with an interpreter, to the Osage towns, with instructions to inform the Indians where I was, and that trade and protection would be extended to that portion of the nation that had conducted themselves peaceably: and all others who wished our friendship, would deliver tip the plundered property, come under the influence of the guns of the fort, and conform to our regulations. On the 12th Captain Boon returned, with the principal chiefs and considerable men of the Great and Little Osage bands, and informed me that all their nation, except the band on the Arkansas, and a party that had been sent to St. Louis, with part of the stolen horses (under the direction o {Big Soldier, & chief of the Little Osages, and White HareVson) were on their march to that place. After explaining to the chiefs and warriors the cause of making that establishment, and the objects I had in view, they were much pleased, and expressed their satisfaction at the choice of the spot tor an establishment they had long expected. The Osages, in their several councils with me. expressed much anxiety to become more closely under the protection of the United States than they had been: they solicited the protection of the Government, in the hope that their whole nation might not suffer for the bad conduct of a part, who were willing to reform. Finding that those Indians were anxious to be in amity with the Government, propositions were made to (hem to entcr intn a treaty, and fix on a line, &c. which they readily agreed to. On the 14th of September. we entered into and signed a conditional treaty, by which they relinquished their title, and conveyed to the United States a large tract of rich and convenient country, cast of tliat'fort, embracing all the settlements in Louisiana, between the Missouri and Arkansas rivers, to which the Indian title had never been extinguished. I wrote to the Secretary of War on the (3th and 23d of September, 1808. informing him of the measures I had taken, which he approved of. On the 23d September, on my return to St. Louis. I delivered Governor Lewis the treaty entered into with the Osages, and related to him such other arrangements as had been made; he expressed much satisfaction at them, and then observed. “ that all the difficulties with the Osages would be done away; and that doubts and embarrassments could not much longer exist in our courts of justice, for the want of a boundary line between our frontiers and the Indians.” A few days after my return, the Governor mentioned to me that Mr. P. Chouteau informed him, that the Osages who came with the horses, and were then in St. Louis, objected to the above treaty, and expressed his regret for fear a measure so necessary to the peace and quiet of the territory, and advantageous to the I nited States, should not be confirmed bv the Osages, w ho had brought the stolen horses. His apprehensions were reconciled, alter being reminded by me, that those articles of treaty entered into with the Great and Little Osages w ere conditional, and well calculated as a preparatory step to a more favorable one. &c. Governor Lewis adopted the expedient of a new treaty, (and wrote the one which is now before the Senate of the United States) which he sent by Peter Chouteau, Esq. to the establishment on (he Missouri, near which, the Great and Little Osage bands were encamped; with instructions, a copy of which is herewith enclosed. On the 10th day of November, 1808, the Great and Little Osages adopted and signed that treaty, with Mr. Chouteau, the agent. The summer following, a deputation of the principal chiefs and warriors of the band of Osages residing on the Arkansas, accompanied by the principal chiefs of the Great and Little Osage bands, came to .St. Louis, and did, on the 31st of August, 1809, approve of and sign the said treaty, w hich has received the approbation of all the Osage nation. This treaty, when confirmed, will extinguish the Indian title to more titan 200 miles square of the finest country in Louisiana, for which they have received merchandise to the amount of about $2,500. taken from the Indian fund. No part of the annuity of $1,500 and other stipulations, as mentioned in the treaty, has been delivered to them. 1 beg leave to observe, that, if this treaty, which is now before the Senate of the United States, is not confirmed, it is my opinion it will require five times the amount to effect a purchase of the same tract ot country, which may be indispensably necessary, in (lie extension of legal authority over that part of the territory. Doubts have arisen, and we have experienced difficulties on that head already, in our courts of justice: as, in the case of two loway Indians, delivered up by their nation, as the murderers of two of our citizens, the court determined they had not jurisdiction of the case, and those murderers were not punished. I have the honor to be, your most obedient humble servant, WM. CLARK. The Honorable William Eustis, Secretary of I Far. Copy of instructions by his Excellency Governor Lewis to Peter Chouteau, Esq. Sir: The faithful services which you have rendered to the United States, in tiie Indian department, togeflier with your inideviating attachment to the Government, have induced me to enclose you, herewith, a commission for the special purposes therein mentioned. It will be your object, in the first phtee, to restore peace and friendship between our people and the Great and Little Osages, from whom we have of late suffered so many violations of our laws, and depredations on our frontiers. For this object you are charged with the draught of a treaty, the sanction and confirmation of which, it is expected, you will procure, by an exertion of that extensive influence which you have long possessed over those nations. This draught of a treaty, you will observe, contemplates something more than the restoration of peace: it gives to the Great and Little Osages the most efficient security, in our power to bestow: it assures to them, for their exclusive use, the lands west of the boundary line: it separates those who sanction it, from the vicious and the profligate, whom no treaties can bind, whom no menaces can intimidate, and by whose ungovernable conduct the peace of both nations is perpetually endangered. It enables us also to reduce to submission, without bloodshed, those who persevere in hostility, by withholding from them the merchandise necessary for their support. By these arrangements we shall also obtain a tract of country, west of our present settlements, and east of the hunting boundary line of (lie 9 7 * Osages, sufficient for the purpose of our white hunters, and for such Indian nations as have long been on terms of intimate friendship with us. Thus will our frontier he strengthened and secured with the least possible expense to the Government. The establishment of a boundary lias long been desirable, and the want of one, settled by treaty, has never ceased to create doubts, and sometimes embarrassments, of the most serious nature, in our courts of justice. Those of the Great and Little Osages who refuse to sanction this treaty, can have no future hopes that their pretensions to those lands, now claimed by them, will ever be respected by the United States: for, it is our unalterable determination, that, if they are to be considered our friends and allies, they must sign that instrument, conform to its stipulations, and establish their permanent villages, near the fort erected a little above the Fire prairie. Those who neglect to do so. either themselves, or by the head of their family, must not, under any pretext whatever, be supplied with merchandise, either from the factory, or by individual traders. And, that this regulation may be rigidly adhered to, you will give to each chief warrior, or man of consideration, who signs the treaty, a certificate, stating that he has done so, and recommending him to the friendly offices of the citizens of the United States. On these certificates alone will the Indians bearing them, and their families, be suffered to trade at the fort. Should a considerable part of the nation sign the treaty I, all will be well; transmit it to me by a special messenger: if they refuse their assent, in such numbers as to induce a belief that the dissenting part will not, thereafter, come into measures, orders must be given to the factor anti traders at the establishment, not to bestow as presents, nor trade with those who refuse, any merchandise whatever: nor, are even those who ratify the treaty, under these circumstances, to be permitted to receive at present, more than one pound of powder for each effective hunter, or warrior: but in all other articles, they are permitted to trade without limitation. If the negotiation should take this turn, you are to inform me of it, by a courier express, in order that I may place the frontiers in the best state of defence, and make the necessary preparations against them. Even though nothing contrary to my hopes should transpire, I shall expect that you will avail yourself of every opportunity, and particularly of the messenger whom you despatch, to give me information of all passing occurrences in the Indian Department in that quarter. 1 send by you no speech to the Indians: you are fully possessed of our views in relation to them. Those views have for their end, as well the happiness of the Indians as of the whites, and it is expected that the exertions on your part, to carry them into effect, will be successful. After the accomplishment of this primary object, you will have a blacksmith’s shop established within the limits of the ravelin of the fort, for the purpose of repairing the arms, and manufacturing and repairing the implements of husbandry of the Indians. As the horse-mill, with which you are charged, is intended for the joint and common use of the Great and Little Osages, it must be established in neither of their villages, but on some convenient and intermediate spot,- between those villages and the fort. It may be inconvenient for you to remain until all the works appertaining to tills -mil I are finished: should this be the case, you will leave them to be executed by the sub-agent of the post. Paul, the interpreter, is to be permitted to come down, as soon as possible, for his family, and will immediately return to the fort, where he is to remain, as the resident interpreter ot the Osage nation. You are at liberty to ascend the Missouri as high as a quarry of gypsum, said to be situated near the mouth of Slue water river, and to take from thence such quantity of that article as you may think proper to bring with you. Copy of u letter from Governor 31. Lewis to the President of the United States, relative to the treaty concluded with the Osage Indians. Sir: St. Louis, December 15th, 1803. In consequence of the measures which were taken last spring in relation to the Osage nations, they were reduced, in the course of a few months, to a state of perfect submission, without bloodshed; tins has, in my opinion, fairly proven the superiority which the policy of withholding merchandise from the Indians has over the chastisement of the sword, when their local situation is sucli as will enable us to practise it. In this state of humiliation, General Clarke found them in September last, when he established the post at Fire prairie: lie very properly seized this favorable moment to enter into a treaty with them, which he efiected on the 14th September; the treaty you will find herewith enclosed, marked No. 1. The principal chief of the Great Osages, and the principal chief of the Little Osages, signed this treaty, though the body of the nation were not present. General Clarke returned to St. Louis on the 22d of September, and brought with him two of the inferior chiefs, who had signed the treaty; a few days previous to the arrival of General Clarke, a parly of seventy-four Osages (among whom were some of their chiefs) had reached this place, with a small number of horses they had stolen from the inhabitants of the territory, which were n6\v delivered, in conformity to a demand made of them for that purpose. Ou the 25th I was informed by Mr. Chouteau, that the Indians complained they had been deceived with respect t.> the stipulations of the treat}', and that they intended to convey to us, by that instrument, no more than the privilege of hunting in that tract of country relinquished by the treaty. On receiving this information, I had a conversation with General Clarke on the subject; the General assured me that special care had been taken to explain every part of the treaty to them, in the mest ample manner; that it had been read to them two several days previous to their signing it, and that they had given their assent with cheerfulness. On the evening of the same day, I convened the Indians, and had the treaty read and explained to them; a chief who had signed it, protested against it, on the grounds that it had not been fairly interpreted to them, and that they had no intention, when they signed it, of conveying lands to the United States. The chiefs who were not present when this treaty had been entered into, declared that the White Hare, and the chiefs who had signed it, had no right to dispose of their lands without the general consent of the nation being first obtained in council, among themselves, and positively refused to sign it, or give their further sanction. I am fully persuaded that the Indians were urged to make those objections by some white person, or persons, in this place, but, as I have not been able to collect any evidence of the fact, I shall avoid the mention of names. I well know that General Clarke would not have deceived the Indians; and so fully am I impressed with the belief that Paul Louis, wlio was the interpreter on that occasion, had interpreted the treaty faithfully, that I have not thought proper to dismiss him, which I should have done, could I for a moment believe that he had* acted otherwise. I saw that the treaty, thus disavowed, from whatever cause such disavowal had proceeded, was not likely to ensure the advantages contemplated by it, and, therefore, determined to pursue the measures which I conceived best calculated to obtain the general sanction of the Osage nations, to the relinquishment of a country, the possession of which was so highly desirable to the United States, in many points of view. I, therefore, drew the treaty enclosed. No. 2, and despatched Mr. Peter Chouteau with it to the post at Fire prairie, with instructions to convene the Great and Little Osage nations, and obtain from them as general an assent to it as possible. Nos. 3 and 4 are copies of the commission and instructions given to Mr. Chouteau on that occasion; you will observe that they are special, and that his powers were limited to the mere act of obtaining the confirmation of the written treaty, of which he was the bearer. 1 took this course in order to prevent any interpolation of the treaty, which I had some reason to apprehend might take place, if his powers were not limited, and which, if introduced, might defeat its confirmation by the Senate of the Lnitecl States. The treaty, as prepared by me, lias been duly executed and confirmed by all the chiefs and principal warriors of the Great and Little Osage nations, except the band of the Arkansas, with whom we are not yet in a state of amity. The Indians appear perfectly satisfied with this treaty, and I hope it is such as will meet your approbation, ft extinguishes their title to an extent of country nearly equal to the State of Virginia, and much more fertile; the limits are the same as those contemplated by the former treaty. in the course of this transaction certain occurrences have taken place, which I think it my duty to mention, together with the causes which have most probably produced them. Mr. Peter Chouteau claims thirty thousand arpents ofland on the south side of Missouri, embracing the entrance of the Mine river; it is extremely fertile, and includes several of the most valuable salt springs in the country; the evidences of his claim lie has never shewn me: he informed me, at the time I was engaged in draughting the treaty, that the Osage nations hail given it to him many years since, that it had likewise been sanctioned by the Spanish Government, and requested me to introduce an article in the treaty, further to secure his title to the land. Thisl positively refused, informing him that I did not conceive it a proper subject to be introduced in the treaty: that his claim ought, in common with all others in the country, to rest on its own merits; declaring my belief, at the same time, that, if it had merit, or was founded in justice, it would be confirmed. 1 further observed to Mr. Chouteau, that, as this land lay within the bounds contemplated by the treaty, if it was sanctioned by the Indians, it would then be in the power of the Government to place him in possession of the lands, an occurrence which could not take place, however favorably they might think of his pretensions to it. until the Indian title was extinguished by treaty. Nowel Mograin.a half breed Osage, and an interpreter now employed for that nation, has, also, a claim on the Saline creek, a branch of the Osage river, in a similar situation with that of Mr. Chouteau. How far a view to the further confirmation of these claims, on the part of the claimants, might have operated in causing the Indians to reject the first treaty, I am unwilling to determine, as I can obtain no conclusive evidence that either of them endeavored to influence the Indians on that subject. it is possible that the Indians may have been induced to the measure from the reasons they alleged, or with a further view to obtain an additional compensation for the lands they were about to relinquish: be this as it may, the doubts and suspicions which overshadowed these transactions, conspired to create such sentiments in the minds of General Clark and Mr. Chouteau towards each other, as rendered my course, in order to accomplish a treaty with the Usages, extremely difficult and embarrassing; however, it has been happily accomplished so far as it respects the treaty, but there still exists between those gentlemen a want of cordiality and confidence, which I fear may hereafter produce some irregularities in the Indian department, if not timely guarded against. I shall be obliged to leave the territory shortly, for Washington,and Philadelphia. Mr. Rates has very earnestly requested of me not to impose on him duties in the Indian department during my absence, alleging that it is a subject with which lie is wholly unacquainted. The appointments of General Clark and Mr. Chouteau, as they at present stand, are entirely distinct from each other, neither having the power of controlling the other; in this situation, should they not perfectly harmonize while I am absent, I fear that the result will not prove favorable to the views of the Government, in relation to the Indians in this quarter, particularly as Mr. Bates is extremely unwilling to exercise the authority of superintendent. 1 must, therefore, beg leave to recommend that General Clarke should be invested with some general power of control over all the agents and sub-agents in the territory. Yet, I am far trom thinking it would comport with the public interest to dismiss Mr. Chouteau from his present employment, as he is still useful, in my opinion, as the agent ol the Usage nation, and ought to he continued as such. No. 5 contains copies of the speeches delivered by some of the chiefs of the Great and Little Usages, at the time they signed the treaty. You will observe, in one of the speeches of the White Hare, that he mentions the tracts of land which the nation had given to Peter Chouteau and Mograin, and makes a reserve of these lands in the country ceded by the treaty of the United States. L do not consider these reservations as binding on our Government, there being no suclv provision in the treaty; in short, it is in direct opposition to the lOth article of that instrument; but, even should it be considered as obligatory, it can amount to no more than that die Usages have not relinquished their title to those lands, and consequently, that the right to them still remains vested in that nation. I am confident that, if the United States should never confirm the lands to the present claimants, it will not prove a source of any disquiet on the part of the Usages; and, should they be even countenanced or receive confirmation, on the ground of their being Indian donations, it would introduce a policy of the most ruinous tendency to the interests ol the United States; in efiect it would be, the Government corrupting its own agents; for, I will venture to assert, that, if the Indians are permitted to bestow lands on such individuals as they may think proper, the meanest interpreter in our employment will soon acquire a princely fortune at the expense of the United States. 11 th Congress.] 
