NO. 206 CLAIMS OF THE CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, APRIL 15, 1824. [Mr. MCLANE, of Delaware, from the Committee of Ways and Means, to whom was referred a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 27th February last, instructing them “ to inquire into the expediency of making an appropriation to compensate the friendly Creek Indians for property lost and destroyed during the late Creek war,” reported: That the claim, on the part of the friendly Creek Indians, is to an indemnity for certain losses which they sustained from hostile Indians of their own tribe during the Creek war, and is founded upon an instrument delivered by them to General Jackson on the 9th of August, 1814; by which they complain that, in running the line to retain lands conquered from the hostile Indians, he run it in such a manner as to take a quantity of the lands of the friendly Indians, for which no equivalent was afforded; and express their reliance on the justice of the United States to do them justice. The subject was brought before Congress in the year 1817, and a report was at that time made by the Committee of Ways and Means, to which the committee, beg leave now to refer for a more satisfactory illustration of the foundation of the claim. That report recommended the appropriation of a definite sum, to be applied under the direction of the Secretary of War, as an indemnity to the friendly Creeks, in fair proportion to their losses; and, accordingly, the sum of eighty-five thousand dollars was appropriated. These claims for losses were liquidated by the chiefs, in council, at Fort Hawkins, in July, 1817, and amounted to the sum of $110,417 90. Of this sum, $81,085 60 was paid to the individuals, in proportion to their respective claims; and the balance (of $3,914 40) was placed in the hands of the two principal chiefs, by general consent, to be applied to some cases of peculiar hardship otherwise unprovided for. It is now represented to the committee that there are many claims not liquidated at the time aforesaid, on account of which no payment has been made; and to meet these, as well as the balance of all the other claims, an appropriation is now solicited. It is the opinion of the committee that the sum of $85,000, appropriated by the law of 1817, was intended to be a full indemnity for all the losses of the friendly Indians, and was equal to any reasonable expectation. This appears to be manifest from the estimate, by Colonel Hawkins, that the chiefs would have been satisfied, at the date of the treaty, with the sum of $60,000; and, in the letter of the acting Secretary of War to D. B. Mitchell, the Indian agent, directing the application of the money, he is informed that, as the law is general in its terms, and predicated on Colonel Hawkins’s estimate, “ it will be proper to pay the claimants mentioned in the estimate only a portion of their claim at present, as it is probable that there may be other claimants entitled to the benefit of the law, who are not mentioned in the list of claims furnished by Colonel Hawkins; therefore, a final distribution of the money should not take place until the whole amount of the claims is ascertained.” The just and reasonable expectations of the Indians, at the date of the treaty, are the foundation of the claim of the friendly Creeks to indemnity; and there does not appear to be any obligation, on the part of the United States, to exceed those expectations further than they have done already. The committee beg leave to submit to the House all the documents in their possession touching the subject; and recommend the adoption of the following resolution: Resolved, That it is inexpedient to make any further appropriation to compensate the friendly Creek Indians for property lost and destroyed during the late Creek war. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 10, 1824. I have received your letter of the 5th instant, requesting such information as it may be in my power to afford touching the manner in which the sum of $85,000, appropriated by an act of Congress, in 1817, for the relief of the friendly Creek Indians, has been paid and applied; whether that sum was intended, at the time, as a full indemnity for the losses of the friendly Creeks, or as a mere estimate of the amount of those losses; and whether, from any information in this Department, it is now expedient to make a further appropriation? In reply, I have the honor to transmit the enclosed papers, which contain all the information in the possession of the Department on the subject. Since the payment of the $85,000 above mentioned, repeated applications have been made by the Creek Indians for further indemnity; but the Department declined acting upon them, as there was no appropriation at its disposal that could be so applied. The Department has no information to enable it to say whether it would be expedient now to make an appropriation for that object or not. I request that the original paper sent may be returned to the Department tvhen the committee are done with it. I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, J. C. CALHOUN. Hon. Louis MCLANE, Chairman Committee of Ways and Means, House of Representatives, United States. Copies of letters from the Secretary of War to Major General Thomas Pinckney. SIR:	WAR DEPARTMENT, March 17, 1814. The policy, dictated as well by the unprovoked and ungrateful conduct of the hostile Creeks, as by a due regard to the future safety of the southwestern frontier, may be brought under the following heads, viz: 1st. An indemnification (for the expenses incurred by the United States in prosecuting the war) by such cession or cessions of land as may be deemed an equivalent for said expenses. 2d. A stipulation, on their part, that they will cease all intercourse with any Spanish post, garrison, or town; and that they will not admit among them any agent or trader who does not derive his authority or license from the United States. 3d. An acknowledgment of a right in the United States to open roads through their country; to navigate all waters and streams within the same; and, also, to establish therein such military posts and trading-houses as may be deemed necessary or proper. And 4th. A surrender of the prophets or other instigators of the war, who will be held subject to the orders of the President. With these outlines as your guide, you are authorized, in conjunction with Colonel Hawkins, to open and conclude a treaty of peace with the hostile Creeks so soon as they shall express a desire to put an end to the war. I have, &c. Sis:	.	WAR DEPARTMENT, March 20, 1814. Since the date of my last letter, it has occurred to me that the proposed treaty with the Creeks should take a form altogether military, and be in the nature of a capitulation; in which case, the whole authority of making and concluding the terms will rest in you, exclusively, as commanding general. In this transaction, (should it take place,) Colonel Hawkins, as agent, may be usefully employed.	, I have, &c. Extract of a Utter from the Secretary of War to Major General A. Jackson, dated MAY 24, 1814. In the event of your acceptance of the appointment announced by my letter of the 22d instant, I have to suggest the wish of the President that you should proceed, without delay, to Fort Jackson, and consummate the arrangements committed_to Major General Pinckney, in relation to the hostile Creeks. A copy of the instructions given to General Pinckney is enclosed. Extract of a Utter from George Graham, chief clerk of the Department of War, to Colonel Hawkins, agent to the Creek nation, dated 'JULY 12, 1815. I am directed by the President to request that you will report to this Department, as soon as practicable, your opinions on the following points: 1st. As to the nature and extent of the indemnity which the friendly chiefs claim, in consequence of the letter addressed by General Pinckney on the 23d April, 1814? 2d. How far the Government ought, from motives of justice or policy, to yield to their claims? 3d. Whether indemnity ought to be made to them by restoring a part of the ceded land,orby an additional annuity, or by giving them a certain fixed sum in money and goods? 4th. Whether these compensations (of whatever nature they may be) should be confined entirely to the friendly chiefs? Extract of a Utter from Colonel Hawkins to George Graham, chief clerk of the War Department, dated CREEK AGENCY, August 1, 1815. I have received your letters of the 12th and 15th July, with a copy of the agreement and capitulation between General Jackson and the Creek nation, as ratified, and sundry documents accompanying. I regret the necessity of reporting on the points suggested for the elucidation of the terms of peace offered by General Pinckney, and the understanding between General Jackson and the chiefs; as I expected, from yvhat passed in the conference between the parties, the general would have sent on such a statement as would have placed the subject, (aided by his secretary, sent on partly for the purpose,) in a just point of view before the Government. However, I am to suppose it has, from some cause, been omitted; and, as I am required, it is my duty to do it. That the first interrogatory may be clearly explained, I must go into detail as to the manner of negotiating with the chiefs on it. “ 1st. As to the nature and extent of the indemnity which the friendly chiefs claim, in consequence of the letter addressed by General Pinckney of the 23d of April, 1814?” As soon as the terms of peace were offered, as expressed in the letter referred to, I took measures to explain them literally to the friendly Indians, and, through them, and the prisoners in our possession, to the hostiles who had fled; or were flying, to Pensacola. When General Jackson arrived as sole commissioner, he addressed a speech to the chiefs, among whom there was but a single hostile one; marked his line, which, he said, should not be altered; he altered it, notwithstanding, to accommodate Tookaubatche. The chiefs replied to him, which the general’s secretary and the agent took in . writing for him. They, in conference, repeatedly urged the justness of their claims to losses, as promised in the terms of peace offered; and the general as often denied having powers to act on it. Upon being asked, among other things, as his powers extended only to retaining as much land conquered from the hostiles as would indemnify the United States for the expenses of the war, upon what principles he took the lands eastwardly to Georgia, belonging obviously to the friendly Indians? the general answered, he did it from political motives—to prevent an intercourse between the Indians and the Spaniards and English in the Floridas; to have a border to know and separate his enemies from his friends, which was as beneficial to the friendly Indians as to the United States; and also gave the friendly Indians the lands in the fork of Tallapoosa and Coosa. The Speaker asked where the hostiles were to be placed, if he took all their land? His answer was, you have room enough to take them among you. The Speaker said the war was not yet settled, and they were called on for lands to pay the expense of it; and, before it was settled, he supposed there would be another call. The general replied, he would take upon himself to settle it, if it lasted twenty years, without calling on them for any more land. - It struck me forcibly, at the time, that the general, who was authorized only to retain lands conquered from the hostiles to indemnify the United States for the expenses of the war, should take nearly eight millions of acres from the friendly Indians, over and above all the hunting grounds of the friendly Upper Creeks, giving, without consulting them, what he called an equivalent, which they did not deem such, and did not feel himself authorized to adjust this equitable claim of theirs. I suggested to the general, upon extending the line eastwardly, for the motives assigned by him, if he could, for a reasonable equivalent, where that line touched Flint river, go up the same, it would be a great accommodation to Georgia. Upon which, after some reflection on the subject, and making inquiries as to how far up the line should go, and at what creek it should leave the river, he said his powers did not justify it, and he would adhere to his first line. The Speaker, after conferring with the chiefs about him, told the general there were no hostile chiefs there, but the heads of the nation, masters of the land, were; they were friends, met to settle matters, and not to quarrel; they' were talking for information; he would be ready in a day or two to do what was demanded of them; but, before he signed any papers with him, as he. would not admit their claims in the treaty, he should make and sign a paper expressive of them, and who were the masters of the land. On the 8th nf August they sent for the agent and General Jackson, and expressed a determination, before they yielded up and signed away their lands, to grant, as a mark of national gratitude, a donation for his distinguished services, to the general; and to Colonel Hawkins and his family, to whom they owed much, and whose children were natives of their land; to the two interpreters, one of whom had all his property destroyed, (Mr. Cornells;) and, in the instrument which they would sign, to express their claims under the terms of peace offered. The general was very feelingly impressed with this unexpected mark of national gratitude, which he accepted, with the reserve— if approved of by the President; and that the President might, if he would, have it disposed of to clothe their poor naked women and children. Their motive for doing this being as expressed, they rejected this modification. On the 9th, the instrument of conveyance having been drawn under the interpretation of Mr. Cornells and Major McIntosh, and read, the Speaker said, their claims being mentioned, the letters should go on as a part of it, as they contained what they demanded; whereupon, the instrument was signed, in the usual form, in the square of the council. After being signed, the Speaker urged it should be sent on with the treaty which they were about to sign; to w'hich he annexed the letters of the 23d and 25th of April, between General Pinckney and Colonel Hawkins; and that some good man should take them up to the Government, and after this they would sign with the general. Having signed, the general said he would send up his secretary with the treaty and documents mentioned; and such of the Indians there present who had claims might make them, and lodge them with him, and his secretary should take them with him; which was done accordingly. The document of the 9th is what the chiefs, in fact, call their part of the treaty. [The original paper, which accompanies this, contains the documents here referred to.]	'As to the extent of the claims, I have no data to calculate from. Part of the vouchers were taken on by Mr. Cassedy, the general’s secretary, and the remainder given in since to the assistant agent at Coweta, which I have ordered on here; whatever they may be, I will forward them as soon as received. I believe, at the tfrne of drawing the lines fur the treaty, $60,000 would have been received as an equivalent. The Indians of Tookaubatche were the most faithful, and the greatest sufferers; their town was besieged for eight days, and, when they had to retreat, it was destroyed, with all their property but what they could carry off when they retreated to Coweta. Some of Coosaude Tuskegee, Coweta, and Tallahassee had their houses burnt, their stock and provisions destroyed; some few to a considerable amount, but mostly to a trivial one. The losses sustained were by no means general, as many of the friendly towns did not lose any thing but what was taken by disorderly individuals of Floyd’s army. Question 2d. “How far the Government ought, from motives of justice or policy, to yield to their claims?” From the statement on the first question, it is apparent, justice is on the side of the claimants, and policy requires a strict fulfilment of the expectations of the chiefs. From the unceasing efforts made to poison the minds of the Indians by British agents, who abound in the means of corruption, and the chiefs having already expressed, with much warmth, that their half of the treaty is lopped off, they may refuse their ratification, which they are advised to do by the British agents; and, from the singular manner the capitulation is worded—the parties “ agree to ratify and confirm,” &c.—it appears they have a right to do so. Question 3d. “ Whether indemnity ought to be made to them by restoring a part of the ceded land, or by an additional annuity, or by giving them a certain fixed sum in money or goods?”	. I believe the correct way would be to liquidate the claims of individuals, some of which, I am told, are too high; reduce them to a just value, and pay them. If it were a national claim, a cession of land might be desirable; ’ but to individuals, it is otherwise. Question 4th. “Whether these compensations (of whatever nature they may be) should be confined entirely to the friendly chiefs?” This question is, in fact, already answered. It should be confined to the individual claimants, for none other are in contemplation of the terms of peace offered, nor have I ever heard any such mentioned by any chief. The national question put to me on compensation is, “ When is the annuity to arrive? or is it withdrawn front us without assigning a reason?” Extract of a letter from General David B. Mitchell, Creek Agent, to the Secretary of TVar, dated MARCH 18, 1818. I have now the honor to enclose a concise statement of the accounts presented by the friendly Indians for losses during the late war, and of the application of the sum appropriated by Congress for their payment; by which it appears that a little upwards of $100,000 is still due. The gross amount of the claims presented, including the abstract made by Colonel Hawkins, is very little over or under $300,000; but they were reduced by the chiefs to $195,417 90. A general abstract of the whole will be forwarded as soon as completed. Statement of claims for losses by the friendly Creek Indians, during the late war, as liquidated and settled by the chiefs in council, at Fort Hawkins, in July, 1817, and at the agency, in January, 1818; also, showing the sums paid, and balance due. 1. Amount liquidated for upper towns, at Fort Hawkins, in July, 1817, Deduct this amount, paid at same time, -	-	- - $77,572 50 - 31,029 00 $46,543 50 2. Amount liquidated for lower towns, at Fort Hawkins, in July, 1817, Deduct this amount, paid at same time, -	-	- - 29,775 00 - 11,910 00 17,865 00 3. Miscellaneous claims liquidated at Fort Hawkins, in July, 1317,	- Deduct this sum, paid to thèse claims, -	-	- - 27,157 00 - 10,862 00 16,295 00 4. Amount liquidated at the agency, in January, 1818, -	- Deduct this amount, paid to these claims,-	-	- - 49,524 00 - 19,809 60 29,714 40 Whole balance due, - - - $110,417 90 Recapitulation, showing the application of the sum appropriated. Paid to Upper Creeks, in July, 1817,	----- $31,029 00 Paid to Lower Creeks, in July, 1817,	-----	11’91000 Paid to miscellaneous claims,	10 862 00 Paid at the agency, tn January, 1818,	-	- '	-	_	_	19’809 60 Paid Major Hughes, by special order of the chiefs, -	-	-	$3,400 Paid two and a half per cent, discount on sale of bills for $83,000,	-	2,075 (a) Received bv McIntosh at Washiogton,	...	2,000 7,475 00 (b) This balance placed in the hands of the two principal chiefs, by general consent, to be applied to some cases of peculiar hardship otherwise unprovided for, -	-	3,914 40 $85,000 00 (a) $83,000 of the money having been remitted in drafts upon the United States Bank in Philadelphia, and the branch of that bank in Savannah refusing to pay them, this charge arose from the difference of exchange between Savannah and Augusta, and Philadelphia, at that time, and has been allowed by the chiefs, rather than be delayed, or run the risk of conveyance by an agent. (b) When the first payments were made, it was necessary, as the claims were not all received at that time, and the amount was much greater than the sum appropriated, to adopt some rule of proportion in making the payment. Two-fifths was finally determined upon; and this sum is the balance, after paying two-fifths of the whole claims liquidated. And as some cases have occurred which merit attention, but were excluded in consequence of the limitation, this amount has been set apart to relieve them, by genera) consent. D. B. MITCHELL, Agent for Indian Affairs. CREEK AGENCY, March 18, 1818. Extract of a letter from George Graham, acting Secretary of War, to David B. Mitchell, Indian agent Creek nation, dated MARCH 20, 1817. I enclose you a copy of the law making an appropriation of eighty-five thousand dollars to indemnify individuals of the Creek nation for losses sustained during the late war, together with a copy of the correspondence with Colonel Hawkins, and his estimate of the damages sustained by them, respectively. These papers were laid before the Committee of Claims, and the law was predicated on them; but, as it is general in its terms, it will be proper to pay the claimants mentioned in the estimate only a portion of their claim at present, as it is probable that there may be other claimants entitled to the benefits of the law, who are not mentioned in the list of claims furnished by Colonel Hawkins; therefore, a final distribution of the money should not take place until the whole amount of the claims is ascertained. $2,000 of the amount appropriated have been paid to Major McIntosh, in part of his claim for losses, and the balance ($83,000) will be remitted to you by the Treasurer. 18th CONGRESS.]	
