No. 82. [2d Session. THE MOHAWKS. COMMUNICATED TO TJ1E SENATE, ON THE 12TH OF APRIL, 1798. Gentlemen of the Senate: A treaty with the Mohawk nation of Indians lias, by accident, lain long neglected. It was executed under the authority of the Honorable Isaac Smith, a commissioner of the United States. I now submit it to the Senate, for their consideration. JOHN ADAMS. United States, Up oil 12, 1798. Jit a Treaty, held under the authority of the United States, with the Mohawk nation of Indians, residing in the province of Upper Canada, within the dominions of the King of Great Britain: Present, the Honorable Isaac Smith, commissioner appointed by the United States to hold this treaty; Abraham Ten Broeck,'Egbert Benson, and Ezra LTlommedieu, agents for tbe State of New York ; Captain Joseph Brandt, and Captain John Deserentyon, two of the said Indians, and deputies to represent the said nation at this treaty. The said agents having, in the presence, and with the approbation of the said commissioner, proposed to, and adjusted with, the said deputies, the compensation as hereinalter mentioned, to be made to the saief nation, for their claim to be extinguished by this treaty, to all lands within the said State: It is, thereupon, finally agreed and done, between the said agents, and the said deputies, as follows, that is to say: The said agents do agree to pay to (he said deputies, the sum of one thousand dollars for the use of the said nation, to be by the said deputies paid over to, and distributed among, the persons and families of the said nation, according to their usages; the sum of five hundred dollars, for the expenses of the said deputies, during the time they have attended this treaty; and the sum of one hundred dollars, for their expenses in returning, and for conveying the said sum of one thousand dollars to where the said nation resides; and the said agents do accordingly, for, and in the name of, the people of the State of New York, pay the said three several sums to the said deputies, in the presence of the saia commissioner; and the said deputies do agree to cede and release, and these, presents witness, that they accordingly do, for, and in the name of, the said nation, in consideration of the said compensation, cede and release to the people of the State of New York, forever, all the right or title of the said nation to lands within the said State; and the claim of the said nation, to lands within the said State, is hereby wholly and finally extinguished. In testimony whereof, the said commissioner, the said agents, and the said deputies, have hereunto, and to two other acts, of the same tenor and date, one to remain with the United States, one to remain with the said State, and one delivered to the. said deputies, to remain with the said nation, set their hands and seals, at the city of Albany, in the said State, the twenty-ninth day of March, in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, ISAAC SMITH, [l. s. ABRAHAM TEN BROECK, [l. s. EGBERT BENSON. [l. s. EZRA L’HOMMEDIEU, [l. s. JOSEPH BRAND I'. [l. s. JOHN DESERENTYON. [l. s.] JJ 'itnesses: Robert Yates, John Tavlor, Charles Williamson. Thomas M ORRIS, John Aukel, his + mark, alias the Cornplanter. a chief of the Senecas. 5th Congress.] 
