NO. 242.	[2d SESSION. GRANTS MADE BY THE INDIANS TO AGENTS OR COMMISSIONERS OF THE UNITED STATES. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, DECEMBERS, 1826. To the House of Representatives of the United States:	WASHINGTON, December 8, 1826. I transmit to the House of Representatives a report from the Secretary of War, with several documents, containing information requested by a resolution of the House of 19th May last, respecting certain proposed donations *of land by Indian tribes to any agent or commissioner of the United States. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 6, 1826. The Secretary of War, to whom was referred the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 19th of May last, requesting the President of the United States “ to communicate to the House all the information that may bo in possession of the Executive Government respecting any treaty, or supplement to a treaty, or any special agreement entered into by any agent or commissioner of the United States with any tribe or tribes of Indians, by which any grant of land was made, or proposed to be made, by any such agent or commissioner employed to negotiate a treaty, for his own private use and emolument; the nature and extent of such grant; also, the purport of the instructions to such agent or commissioner, and his communications to the Executive on the subject of such grant; and whether such agent or commissioner agreed to accept such grant so proposed or made; and whether any such grant has, at any time, been submitted, by such agent or commissioner, for the ratification of the Government; and, if so, whether the same has been ratified,” has the honor to transmit papers numbered from 1 to 6, in conformity to the above resolutien. I have the honur to be your obedient servant, JAMES BARBOUR. The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. [Documents Nos. 1, 2, and 3 relate to the grants made in 1814 by the Creeks to General Jackson and others, and have been printed in volume 1 of Indian Affairs, pages 836, 837, and 838; which see.] No. 4.	1 SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, August 29, 1815. The Secretary of War having gone on a visit to the President, with the intention of going from thence to Georgia, has instructed me to inform you that it is the wish of the President that you should proceed in the liquidation of the claims of the friendly Indians to indemnity upon the principles of General Pinckney’s and your letter to them. The result you will transmit to this Department, to be laid before the President for his ultimate decision and approbation. You will inform the Indians that the President, with a view to conciliate, and to give them a special mark of his disposition to gratify all their reasonable desires, will recommend to the particular attention of Congress the grant of land they have made to General Jackson, Mr. Cornell, and yourself You will continue to assure the Indians that every attention will be paid to their wishes and wants, so long as they conduct themselves peaceably and in good faith; and that the President will always receive with benevolence, and with a desire to do them complete justice, any representations which they may make through you. I have the honor, <fcc. GEÔ. GRAHAM. Colonel BENJAMIN HAWKINS, Indian Agent, Creek Agency. No. 6. Extract from the treaty concluded by IVm. P. Duval, James Gadsden, and Bernardo Segui, commissioners on the part of the United States, with the Florida Indians, the ISth of September, 1823; and which was ratified, with the exception of the tenth article, on the 2d of January, 1824. ART. 10. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and tribes, have expressed to the commissioners their unlimited confidence in their agent, Colonel Gad Humphreys, and their interpreter, Stephen Richards; and, as an evidence of their gratitude for their services and humane, treatment, and brotherly attentions to their wants, request that one mile square, embracing the improvements of Neamathla, at Tallahassee, (said improvements to bo considered as the centre,) be conveyed in fee-simple, as a present, to Colonel Gad Humphreys. And they further request that one mile square at the Ochesee Bluffs, embracing Stephen Richards’s field on said bluffs, be conveyed in fee-simple, as a present, to said Stephen Richards. The commissioners accord in sentiment with the undersigned chiefs and warriors, and recommend a compliance with their wishes to the President and Senate of the United States; but the disapproval, on the part of the said authorities, of this article, shall in nowise affect the other articles and stipulations concluded on in this treaty. ^31^—F°r N°' 5’	the instructions to the commissioners who negotiated the above treaty, see No. 198, 19th CONGRESS.]	
