NO. 149.	[1st SESSION. TREATIES WITH SEVERAL TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 11, 1817. To the Senate of the United States:	DECEMBER 10, 1817. I submit to the Senate, for their consideration and advice, the following treaties entered into with several of the Indian tribes, to wit: A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded by William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners on the part of the United States of America, and the chiefs and warriors of the Menomonie tribe or nation of Indians, on the 30th of March, 1817, at St. Louis. A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded on the 4th of June, 1817, at St. Louis, by William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners, on the part of the United States of America, and the chiefs and warriors of the Ottoes tribe of Indians. A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded on the 5th of June, 1817, at St. Louis, by William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners on the part of the United States of America, and the chiefs and warriors of the Poncarar tribe of Indians. A treaty concluded at the Cherokee agency, on the 8th of July, 1817, between Major Genera) Andrew Jackson, Joseph McMinn, Governor of the State nf Tennessee, and General David Meriwether, commissioners of the United States of America, of the one part, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Cherokee nation east of the Mississippi river, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Cherokees on the Arkansas river, and their deputies, John D. Chisholm and James Rogers. A treaty concluded on the 29th day of September, 1817, at the foot of the Rapids of the Miami of Lake Erie, between Lewis Cass and Dnncan McArthur, commissioners of the United States, and the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the Wyandot, Seneca, Delaware, Shawanee, Pattawatamie, Ottawa, and Chippewa tribes of Indians. The Wyandots and other tribes, parties to the treaty lately concloded with them, have, by a deputation to this city, requested permission to retain possession of such lands as they actually cultivate and reside on, for the ensuing year. They have also expressed a desire that the reservations made in their favor should be enlarged, representing that they had entered into the treaty in full confidence that that would be done, preferring a reliance on the justice of the United States for such extension rather than that the treaty should fail. The Wyandots claim an extension of their reservation to sixteen miles square, and the other tribes in a proportional degree. Sufficient information is not now in the possession of the Executive to enable it to decide how far it may be proper to comply with the wishes of these tribes, to the extent desired. The necessary information may be obtained in the course of the next year; and if they are permitted to remain in the possession of the lands they cultivate during that time, such further extension of their reservations may be made by law, at the next session, as justice and a liberal policy towards these people may require. It is submitted to the consideration of the Senate, whether it may not be proper to annex to their advice and consent for the ratification of the treaty a declaration providing for the above object. JAMES MONROE. TREATY WITH THE MENOMONTES. A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded by and between William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners on the purt and behalf of the United States of America, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors, deputed by the Menomonie tribe or nation of Indians, on the part and behalf of their said tribe or nation, of the other part. The parties being desirotls of re-establishing peace and friendship between the United States and the said tribe or nation, and of being placed in all things, and in every respect, on the same footing upon which they stood before the late war, have agreed to the following articles: ARTICLE. 1. Every injury, or act of hostility, by one or cither of the contracting parties against the other shall be mutually forgiven and forgot. ART. 2. There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States and all the individuals composing the said Menomonie tribe or nation. A Ri. 3. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, on the part and behalf of their said tribe or nation, do, by these presents, confirm to the United Slates all and every cession of land-heretofore made by their tribe or nation to the British, French, or Spanish Governments, within the limits of the United States, or lheir territories; and, also, all and every treaty, contract, and agreement heretofore concloded between the said United States and the said tribe or nation. ART. 4. The contracting parties do hereby agree, promise, and oblige themselves, reciprocally, to deliver up all prisoners nuw in their hands, (by what means soever the same may- have come into their possession,) to the officer commanding at Prairie du Chien, to be by him restored to the respective parties hereto, as soon as it may be practicable. ART. 5. The undersigned chiefs and warriors as aforesaid, for themselves and those they represent, do hereby acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign whatsoever. In witness whereof, the commissioners'aforesaid, and the undersigned chiefsand warriors, as aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and'affixed their seals this thirtieth day ofMarch, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventeen, and of the independence of the United States the forty-first. WILLIAM CLARK, NINIAN EDWARDS, . AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Menomonie tribe.] TREATY WITH THE OTTOES. A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded between William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners on the part and behalf of the United States of America, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Ottoes tribe of Indians, on the part and behalf of their said tribe, of the other part. The parties being desirous of re-establishing peace and friendship between the United States and their said tribe, and ol being placed, in all things, and in every respect, upon the same footing upon which they stood before the late war between the United States and Great Britain, have agreed to the following articles: ARTICLE 1. Every injury or act of hostility by one or either of the contracting parties against the other shall be mutually forgiven and forgot. ART. 2. There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America and all the individuals composing the said Ottoes tribe; and all the friendly relations that existed between them before the war shall be, and the same are hereby, renewed. ART. 3. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their said tribe, do hereby acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign whatsoever. In witness whereof, the said William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners as aforesaid, and the chiefs aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals this twenty-fourth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventeen, and of the independence of the United States the forty-first. WILLIAM CLARK, AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Ottoes tribe.] TREATY WITH THE PONCARARS. A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded between William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners on the part and behalf of the United States of America, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Poncarar tribe of Indians, on the part and behalf of their said tribe, of the other part. The parties being desirous of re-establishing peace and friendship between the United States and their said tribe, and of being placed in all things, and in every respect, upon the same footing upon which they stood before the late war between the United States and Great Britain, have agreed to the following articles: ARTICLE 1. Every injury or act of hostility by one or either of the contracting parties against the other shall be mutually forgiven and forgot. ART. 2. There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America and all the individuals composing the said Poncarar tribe; and all the friendly relations that existed between them before the war shall be, and the same are hereby, renewed. ART. 3. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their said tribe, do hereby acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign whatsoever. In witness whereof, the said William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners as aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals this twenty-fifth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventeen, and of the independence of the United States the forty-first. WILLIAM CLARK, AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Poncarar tribe.] TREATY WITH THE CHEROKEES. Articles of a treaty concluded at the Cherokee agency, within the Cherokee nation, between Major General Andrew Jackson, Joseph McMinn, Governor of the State of Tennessee, and General David Meriwether, commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States of America, of the one part, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Cherokee nation east of the Mississippi river, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Cherokees on the Arkansas river, and their deputies John D. Chisholm and James Rogers, duly authorized by the chiefs of the Cherokees on the Arkansas river, in open council, by written power of attorney, duly signed and executed, in presence of Joseph Sevier and William Ware. Whereas, in the auti.mn of the year one thousand eight hundred and eight, a deputation from the upper and lower Cherokee towns, duly authorized by their nation, went on to the city of Washington—the first named to declare to the President of the United States their anxious desire to engage in the pursuits of agriculture and civilized life in the country they then occupied, and to make known to the President of the United States the impracticability' of inducing the nation at large to do this, and to request the establishment of a division line between the upper and lower towns, so as to include all the waters of the Hiwassee river to the upper town; that, by thus contracting their society within narrow limits, they proposed to begin the establishment of fixed laws and a regular government: the deputies from the lower towns to make known their desire to continue the hunter life, and also the scarcity of game where they then lived, and, under those circumstances, their wish to remove across the Mississippi river, on some vacant lands of the United States: And whereas the President of the United States, after maturely considering the petitions of both parties, on the ninth day of January, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and nine, including other subjects, answered those petitions as follows: “ The United States, my children, are the friends of both parties, and, as far as can reasonably be asked, they are willing to satisfy the wishes of both. Those who remain may he assured of our patronage, our aid, and good neighborhood; those who wish to remove are permitted to send an exploring party to reconnoitre the country on the waters of the Arkansas and White rivers—and the higher up the better, as they will be the longer nnapproached by our settlements, which will begin at the mouths of those rivers. The regular districts of the government of St. Louis are already laid off to the St. Francis. “ When this party shall have found a tract of country suiting the emigrants, and not claimed by other Indians, we will arrange with them and you the exchange of that for a just portion of the country they leave, and to a part of which, proportioned to their numbers, they have a right. Every aid towards their removal, and what will be necessary for them there, will then be freely administered to them; and when established in their new settlements, we shall still consider them as our children, give them the benefit of exchanging their peltries for what they will want at our factories, and always bold them firmly by the hand:” And whereas, the Cherokees, relying on the promises of the President of the United States, as above recited, did explore the country on the west side of the Mississippi, and made, choice of the country on the Arkansas and White rivers, and settled themselves down upon the United States lands, to which no other tribe of Indians have any just claim, and have duly notified the President of the United States thereof, and of their anxious desire for the full and complete ratification of his promise; and to that end, as notified by the President of the United States, have sent on their agents, with full powers to execute a treaty, relinquishing to the United States all the right, title, and interest to all lands of right to them belonging as part of the Cherokee nation, which they have left, and which they are about to leave, proportioned to their numbers, including with those now on the Arkansas those who are about to remove thither, and to a portion of which they have an equal right, agreeably to their numbers: 17 E Now know ye, that the contracting parties, to carry into full effect the before-recited promises with good faith, and to promote a continuation of friendship with their brothers on the Arkansas river, and for that purpose to make an equal distribution of the annuities secured to be paid by the United States to the whole Cherokee nation, have agreed and concluded on the following articles,'viz: ARTICLE 1. The chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the whole Cherokee nation cede to the United States all the lands lying north and east of the following boundaries, viz: Beginning at the high shoals of the Appalachee river, and running thence, along the boundary line between the Creek and Cherokee nations, westwardly, to the Chattahoochee river; thence, up the Chattahoochee river, to the mouth of Souque creek; thence, continuing with the general course of the river until it reaches the Indian boundary line, and, should it strike the Turrurar river, thence, with its meanders, down said river to its mouth, in part of the proportion of land in the Cherokee nation east of the .Mississippi to which those now on the Arkansas, and those about to remove there, are justly entitled. ART. 2. The chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the whole Cherokee nation do also cede to the United States all the lands lying north and west of the following boundary lines, viz: Beginning at the Indian boundary line that runs from the north bank of the Tennessee river, opposite to the mouth of Hiwassee river, at a point on the top of Walden’s ridge, where it divides the waters of the Tennessee river from those of the Sequatchy river; thence, along the said ridge, southwardly, to the bank of the Tennessee river, at a point near to a place called the Negro Sugar Camp, opposite to the upper end of the first island above Running Water town; thence, westwardly, a straight line to the mouth of Little Sequatchy river; thence, up said river, to its main fork; thence, up its northernmost fork, to its source; and thence, due west, to the Indian boundary line. ART. 3. It is also stipulated by the contracting parties that a census shall be taken of the whole Cherokee nation, during the month of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, in the following manner, viz: That the census of those on the east side of the Mississippi river, who declare their intention of removing, shall be taken by a commissioner appointed by the President of the United States, and a commissioner appointed by the Cherokees on the Arkansas river; and the census of the Cherokees on the Arkansas river, and those removing there, and who, at that time, declare their intention of removing there, shall be taken by a commissioner appointed by the President of the United States, and one appointed by the Cherokees east of the Mississippi river. ART. 4. The contracting parties do also stipulate that the annuity due from the United States to the whole Cherokee nation for the year one thousand eight hundred and eighteen is to be divided between the two parts of the nation, in proportion to their numbers, agreeably to the stipulations contained in the third article of this treaty; and to be continued to be divided thereafter, in proportion to their numbers; and the lands to be apportioned and surrendered to the United States, agreeably to the aforesaid enumeration, as the proportionate part, agreeably to their numbers, to which those who have removed, and who declare their intention to remove, have a just right, including these with the lands ceded in the first and second articles of this treaty. ART. 5. The United States bind themselves, in exchange for the lands ceded in the first and second articles hereof, to give to that part of the Cherokee nation on the Arkansas as much land on said river and White river as they have or may hereafter receive from the Cherokee nation east of the Mississippi, acre for acre, as the just proportion due that part of the nation on the Arkansas, agreeably to their numbers; which is to commence on the north side of the Arkansas river, at the mouth of Point Remove, or Budwell’s old place; thence, by a straight line, northwardly, to strike Chataunga mountain, or the hill first above Shield’s ferry, on White river; running up and between said rivers for complement, the banks of which rivers to be the lines; and to have the above line, from the point of beginning to the point on White river, run and marked, which shall be done soon after the ratification of this treaty; and all citizens of the United States, except Mrs. P. Lovely, who is to remain where she lives during life, removed from within the bounds as above named. And it is further stipulated that the treaties heretofore [existing] between the Cherokee nation and the United States are to continue in full force with both parts of the nation, and both parts thereof entitled to all the immunities and privileges which the old nation enjoyed under the aforesaid treaties; the United States reserving the right of establishing factories, a military post, and roads, within the boundaries above defined.	1 ART. 6. The United States do also bind themselves to give to all the poor warriors who may remove to the western side of the Mississippi river one rifle gun and ammunition, one blanket, and one brass kettle, (or, in lieu of the brass kettle, a beaver trap,) which is to be considered as a full compensation for the improvements they may leave; which articles are to be delivered at such point as the President of the United States may direct: and, to aid in the removal of the emigrants, they further agree to furnish flat-bottomed boats and provisions sufficient for that purpose; and to those emigrants whose improvements add real value to their lands, the United States agree to pay a full valuation for the same, which is to be ascertained by a commissioner appointed by the President of the United States for that purpose, and paid for as soon after the ratification of this treaty as practicable. The boats and provisions promised to the emigrants are to be furnished by the agent on the Tennessee river, at such time and place as the emigrants may notify him of; and it shall be his duty to furnish the same. ART. 7. And for all improvements which add real value to the lands lying within the boundaries ceded to the United States by the first and second articles of this treaty, the United States do agree to pay for at the time,. nd to be valued in the same manner, as stipulated in the sixth article of this treaty; or, in lieu thereof, to give in exchange improvements of equal value which the emigrants may leave, and for which they are to receive pay. And it is further stipulated that all these improvements left by the emigrants within the bounds of the Cherokee nation east of the Mississippi river, which add real value to the lands, and for which the United States shall give a consideration, and not so exchanged, shall be rented to the Indians by the agent, year after year, for the benefit of the poor and decrepit of that part of the nation east of the Mississippi river, until surrendered by the nation, or to the nation. And it is further agreed that the said Cherokee nation shall not be called upon for any part of the consideration paid for said improvements at any future period. ART. 8. And to each and every head of any Indian family residing on the east side of the Mississippi river, on the lands that are now, or may hereafter be, surrendered to the United States, who may wish to become citizens of the United States, the United States do agree to give a reservation of six hundred and forty acres of land, in a square, to include their improvements, which are to be as near the centre thereof as practicable, in which they will have a life estate, with a reversion in fee-simple to their children, reserving to the widow her dower; the register of whose names is to be filed in the office of the Cherokee agent, which shall be kept open until the census is taken as stipulated in the third article of this treaty: Provided, That if any of the heads of families for whom reservations may be made should remove therefrom, then, in that case, the right to revert to the United States: And provided further, That the land which may be reserved under this article be deducted from the amount which has been ceded under the first and second articles of this treaty. ■ ART. 9. It is also provided by the contracting parties that nothing in the foregoing articles shall be construed so as to prevent any of the parties so contracting from the free navigation of all the waters mentioned therein. ART. 10. The whole of the Cherokee nation do hereby cede to the United States all right, title, and claim to all reservations made to Doublehead and others, which were reserved to them by a treaty made and entered into at the city of Washington, bearing date the seventh of January, one thousand eight hundred and six. ART. 11. It is further agreed that the boundary lines of the lands ceded to the United States by the first and second articles of this treaty, and the boundary lines of the lands ceded by the United States in the fifth article of this treaty, are to be run and marked by a commissioner or commissioners appointed by the President of the United States, who shall be accompanied by such commissioners as the Cherokees may appoint; due notice thereof to be given to the nation. ART. 12. The United States do also bind themselves to prevent the intrusion of any of its citizens within the lands ceded by the first and second articles of this treaty, until the same shall be ratified by the President and Senate of the United States, and duly promulgated. ART. 13. The contracting parties do also stipulate that this treaty shall take effect and be obligatory on the contracting parties so soon as the same shall be ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. In witness of all and every thing herein determined by and between the before-recited contracting parties, we have, in full and open council, at the Cherokee agency, this eighth day of July, A. D. one thousand ei»ht hundred and seventeen, set our hands and seals. ANDREW JACKSON, •	JOSEPH McMINN, D. MERIWETHER. [Signed, also, by the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Cherokees.] TREATY WITH THE WYANDOTS, SENECAS, DELAWARES, SHAWANEES, PATTAWATAMIES, OTTAWAS, AND CHIPPEWAS. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at the foot of the Rapids of the Miami of Lake Erie, between Lewis Cass and Duncan McArthur, commissioners of the United States, with full power and authority to hold conferences and conclude and sign a treaty or treaties with all or any of the tribes or nations of Indians within the boundaries of the State of Ohio, of and concerning all matters interesting to the United States and the said nations of Indians, on the one part, and the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the Wyandot, Seneca, Delaware, Shawanee, Pattawatamic, Ottawa, and Chippewa tribes of Indians. ARTICLE 1. The Wyandot tribe of Indians, in consideration of the stipulations herein made on the part of the United States, do hereby forever cede to the United States the lands comprehended within the following lines and boundaries: Beginning at a point on the southern shore of Lake Erie, where the present Indian boundary line intersects the same, between the mouth of Sandusky bay and the mouth of Portage river; thence, running south with said line, to the line established in the year 1795 by the treaty of Greenville, which runs from the crossing place above Fort Lawrence to Loramie’s store; thence, westwardly, with the last mentioned line, to the eastern line of the reserve at Loramie’s store; thence, with the lines of said reserve, north and west, to the northwestern corner thereof; thence to the northwestern corner of the reserve on the river St. Mary’s, at the head of the navigable waters thereof; thence, east, to the western bank of the St. Mary’s river aforesaid; thence, down on the western bank of the said river, to the reserve at Fort Wayne; thence, with the lines of the last mentioned reserve, easterly and northerly, to the north bank of the river Miami of Lake Erie; thence, down on the north bank of the said river, to the western line of the land ceded to the United States by the treaty of Detroit, in the year 1807; thence, with the said line, south, to the middle of said Miami river, opposite the mouth of the Great Au Glaize river; thence, down the middle of said Miami river, and easterly with the lines of the tract ceded to the United States by the treaty of Detroit aforesaid, so far that a south line will strike the place of beginning. ART. 2. The Pattawatamie, Ottawa, and Chippewa tribes of Indians, in consideration of the stipulations herein made on the part of the United States, do hereby forever cede to the United States the land comprehended within the following lines and boundaries: Beginning where the western line of the State of Ohio crosses the river Miami of Lake Erie, which is about twenty-one miles above the mouth of Great Au Glaize river; thence, down the middle of the said Miami river, to a point north of the mouth of the Great Au Glaize river; thence, with the western line of the land ceded to the United States by the treaty of Detroit in 1807, north forty-five miles; thence, west, so far that a line south will strike the place of beginning; thence, south, to the place of beginning. ART. 3. The Wyandot, Seneca, Delaware, Shawanee, Pattawatamie, Ottawa, and Chippewa tribes of Indians accede to the cessions mentioned in the two preceding articles. ART. 4. In consideration of the cessions and recognitions stipulated in the three preceding articles, the United States agree to pay to the Wyandot tribe, annually, forever, the sum of $4,000, in specie, at Upper Sandusky; to the Seneca tribe, annually, forever, the sum of $500, in specie, at Lower Sandusky; to the Shawanee tribe, annually, forever, the sum of $2,000, in specie, at Wapaghkonetta; to the Pattawatamie tribe, annually, for the term of fifteen years, the sum of $1,300, in specie, at Detroit; to the Ottawa tribe, annually, fur the term of fifteen years, the sum of $1,000, in specie, at Detroit; to the Chippewa tribe, annually, for the term of fifteen years, the sum of $1,000, in specie, at Detroit; to the Delaware tribe, in the course of the year 1818, the sum of $500, in specie, at Wapaghkonetta, but no annuity; and the United States also agree that all annuities due by any former treaty to the Wyandot, Shawanee, and Delaware tribes, and the annuity due by the treaty of Greenville to the Ottawa and Chippewa tribes, shall be paid to the said tribes, respectively, in specie. ART. 5. The schedule hereunto annexed is to be taken and considered as part of this treaty; and the tracts herein stipulated to be granted.to the Wyandot, Seneca, and Shawanee tribes of Indians are to be granted fur the use of the persons mentioned in the said schedule, agreeably to the descriptions, provisions, and limitations therein contained. ART. 6. The United States agree to grant by patent, in fee-simple, to Do-an-quod, How-o-ner, Ron-ton-dee, Tau-yau, Rod-ta-yau, Daw-a-tont, Ma-no-cue, Tau-yau-dau-tau-son, and Hau-dau-u-waugh, chiefs of the Wyandot tribe, and their successors in office, chiefs of the said tribe, for the use of the persons and for the purposes mentioned in the annexed schedule, a tract of land twelve miles square at Upper Sandusky, the centre of which shall be the place where Fort Ferree stands; and also a tract of one mile square, to be located where the chiefs direct, on a cranberry swamp, on Broken Sword creek, and to be held for the use of the tribe. The United States also agree to grant by patent, in fee-simple, to Taw-aw-ma-do-yaw, Captain Harris, Isa- how-nu-say, Joseph Tawgyou, Captain Smith, Coffee-house, Running-about, and Wiping-stick, chiefs of the Seneca tribe of Indians, and their successors in office, chiefs of the said tribe, for the use of the persons mentioned in the annexed schedule, a tract of land, to contain thirty thousand acres, beginning on the Sandusky river, at the lower corner of the section hereinafter granted to William Spicer; thence, down the said river to the east side, with the meanders thereof, at high-water mark, to a point east of the mouth of Wolf creek; thence, and from the beginning, east, so far that a north line will include the quantity of thirty thousand acres aforesaid. The United States also agree to grant by patent, in fee-simple, to Ca-te-we-ke-sa, or Black Hoof; By-a-se-ka, or Wolf; Pom-the, or Walker; She-men-etoo, or Big Snake; Otha-wa-keseka, or Yellow Feather; Cha-ka-lo-wah, or the Tail’s End; Penithala, or John Perry; Wabepee, or White Color, chiefs of the Shawanee tribe, residing at Wapaghkonetta, and their successors in office, chiefs of the said tribe residing there, for the use of the persons mentioned in the annexed schedule, a tract of land ten miles square, the centre of which shall be the council-house at Wapaghkonetta. The United States also agree to grant by patent, in fee-simple, to Pe-eth-tha, or Falling Tree, and to Onowas- kemo, or the Resolute Man, chiefs of the Shawanee tribe residing on Hog creek, and their successors in office, chiefs of the said tribe residing there, for the use of the persons mentioned in the annexed schedule, a tract of land containing twenty-five square miles, which is to join the tract granted at Wapaghkonetta, and to include the Shawanee settlement on Hog creek, and to be laid off, as nearly as possible, in a square form. The United States also agree to grant by patent, in fee-simple, to Qua-ta-wa-pee, or Captain Lewis; She- kagh-ke-la, or Turtle; Ski-lo-wa, or Robin, chiefs of the Shawanee tribe of Indians residing at Lewistown; and to Mesomea, or Civil John; Wa-kaw-ux-she-no. or the White Man; Oquasheno, or Joe; and Willaquasheno, or When you are tired sit down, chiefs of the Seneca tribe of Indians residing at Lewistown, and to their successors in office, chiefs of the said Shawanee and Seneca tribes, for the use of the persons mentioned in the annexed schedule, a tract of land to contain forty-eight square miles, to begin at the intersection of the line run by Charles Roberts in the year 1812, from the source of the Little Miami river to the source of the Scioto river, in pursuance of instructions from the commissioners appointed on the part of the United States to establish the western boundary of the Virginia military reservation with the Indian boundary line established by the treaty of Greenville, in 1795, from the crossings above Fort Lawrence to Loramie’s store, and to run from such intersection northerly with the first mentioned line, and westerly with the second mentioned line, so as to include the quantity as nearly in a square form as practicable, after excluding the section of land hereinafter granted to Nancy Stewart. There shall also be reserved for the use of the Ottawa Indians, but not granted to them, a tract of land on Blanchard’s Fork of the Great Au Glaize river, to contain five miles square, the centre of which tract is to be where the old trace crosses the said fork; and one other tract to contain three miles square, on the Little Au Glaize river, to include Oquanoxa’s village. ART. 7. And the said chiefs or their successors may, at any time they think proper, convey to either of the persons mentioned in the said schedule, or his heirs, the quantity secured thereby to him, or may refuse sn to do. But the use of the said land shall be in the said person; and after the share of any person is conveyed by the chiefs to him, he may convey the same to any person whatever. And any one entitled by the said schedule to a portion of the said land may at any time convey the same to any person, by obtaining the approbation of the President of the United States, or of the person appointed by him to give such approbation. And the agent of the United States shall make an equitable partition of the said share when conveyed. ART. 8. At the special request of the said Indians, the United States agree to grant by patent, in fee-simple, to the persons hereinafter mentioned, all of whom are connected with the said Indians by blood or adoption, the tracts of land herein described: To Elizabeth Whitaker, who was taken prisoner by the Wyandots, and has ever since lived among them, twelve hundred and eighty acres of land on the west side of the Sandusky river, below Croghansville, to be laid off in a square form, as nearly as the meanders of the said river will admit, and to run an equal distance above and below the house in which the said Elizabeth Whitaker now lives. To Robert Armstrong, who was taken prisoner by the Indians, and has ever since lived among them, and has married a Wyandot woman, one section, to contain six hundred and forty acres of land, on the west side of the Sandusky river, to begin at the place called Camp Ball, and to run up the river, with the meanders thereof, one hundred and sixty poles; an<J from the beginning, down the river, with the meanders thereof, one hundred and sixty poles; and from the extremity of these lines, west, for quantity. To the children of the late William McCollock, who was killed in August, 1812, near Mauguagon, and who are quarter-blood Wyandot Indians, one section, to contain six hundred and forty acres of land, on the west side of the Sandusky river, adjoining the lower line of the tract hereby granted to Robert Armstrong, and extending in the same manner with and from the said river. To John Vanmeter, who was taken prisoner by the Wyandots, and who has ever since lived among them, and has married a Seneca woman, and to his wife’s three brothers, Senecas, who now reside on Honey creek, one thousand acres of land, to begin north, forty-five degrees west, one hundred and forty poles from the house in which the said John Vanmeter now lives; and to run thence, south, three hundred and twenty poles; thence, and from the beginning, east, for quantity. To Sarah Williams, Joseph Williams, and Rachael Nugent, late Rachael Williams, the said Sarah having been taken prisoner by the Indians, and ever since lived amongst them, and being the widow, and the said Joseph and Rachael being the children of the late Isaac Williams, a half-blood Wyandot, one quarter-section of land, to contain one hundred and sixty acres on the east side of the Sandusky river, below Croghansville, and to include their improvements at a place called Negro Point. To Catharine Walker, a Wyandot woman, and to John R. Walker, her son, who was wounded in the service of the United States at the battle of Mauguagon, in J 812, a section of six hundred and forty acres of land, each, to begin at the northwestern corner of the tract hereby granted to John Vanmeter and his wife’s brothers, and to run with the line thereof, south, three hundred and twenty poles; thence, and from the beginning, west, for quantity. To William Spicer, who was taken prisoner by the Indians, and has ever since lived among them, and has married a Seneca woman, a section of land to contain six hundred and forty acres, beginning on the east bank of the Sandusky river, forty poles below the lower corner of said Spicer’s corn field; thence, up the river on the east side, with the meanders thereof, one mile; thence, and from the beginning, east, for quantity. To Nancy Stewart, daughter of the late Shawanee chief Blue Jacket, one section of land, to contain six hundred and forty acres, on the Great Miami river, below Lewistown, to include her present improvements; three- quarters of the said section to be on the southeast side of the river, and one-quarter on the northwest side thereof. To the children of the late Shawanee chief Captain Logan, or Spa-ma-ge-la-be, who fell in the service of the United States during the late war, one section of land, to contain six hundred and forty acres, on the east side of the Great Au Glaize river, adjoining the lower line of the grant of ten miles at Wapaghkonetta and the said river. To Anthony Shane, a half-blood Ottawa Indian, one section of land, to contain six hundred and forty acres, on the east side of the river St. Mary’s, and to begin opposite the house in which said Shane now lives; thence up the river, with the meanders thereof, one hundred and sixty poles; and from the beginning, down the river, with the meanders thereof, one hundred and sixty poles; and from the extremity of the said lines, east, for quantity. To James McPherson, who was taken prisoner by the Indians, and has ever since lived among them, one section of land, to contain six hundred and forty acres, in a square form, adjoining the northern or western line of the grant of forty-eight miles, at Lewistown, at such place as he may think proper to locate the same. To Horonu, or the Cherokee Boy, a Wyandot chief, a section of land, to contain six hundred and forty acres, on the Sandusky river, to be laid off in a square form, and to include his improvements. To Alexander D. Godfrey and Richard Godfroy, adopted children of the Pattawatamie tribe, and at their special request, one section of land, to contaiu six hundred and forty acres, in the tract of country herein ceded to the United States by the Pattawatamie, Ottawa, and Chippewa tribes, to be located by them, the said Alexander and Richard, after the said tract shall have been surveyed. To Saw-en-de-bans, or the Yellow Hair, or Peter Minor, an adopted son of Tondaganie, or the Dog, and at the special request of the Ottawas, out of the tract reserved by the tieaty of Detroit, in 1807, above Roche de Bœuf, at the village of the said Dog, a section of land, to contain six hundred and forty acres, to be located in a square form, on the north side of the Miami, at the Wolf Rapids. ART. 9. The United States engage to appoint an agent to reside among or near the Wyandots, to aid them in the protection of their persons and property, to manage their intercourse with the Government and citizens of the United States, and to discharge the duties which commonly appertain to the office of Indian agent; and the same agent is to execute the same duties for the Senecas and Delawares on the Sandusky river; and an agent fur similar purposes, and vested with similar powers, shall be appointed to reside among or near the Shawanees, whose agency shall include the reservations at Wapaghkonetta, at Lewistown, at Hog creek, and at Blanchard’s creek; and one mile square shall be reserved at Malake for the use of the agent for the Shawanees. And the agent for the Wyandots and Senecas shall occupy such land in the grant at Upper Sandusky as may be necessary for him and the persons attached to the agency. ART. 10. The United States engage to erect a saw-mill and a grist-mill upon some proper part of the Wyandot reservation, for their use; and to provide and maintain a blacksmith, for the use of the Wyandots and Senecas, upon the reservation of the Wyandots; and another blacksmith, for the use of the Indians, at Wapaghkonetta, Hog creek, and Lewistown. ART. 11. The stipulations contained in the treaty of Greenville, relative to the right of the Indians to hunt upon the land hereby ceded, while it continues the property of the United States, shall apply to this treaty; and the Indians shall, for the same term, enjoy the privilege of making sugar upon the same land, committing no unnecessary waste upon the trees. ART. 12. The United States engage to pay, in the course of the year 1818, the amount of the damages which were assessed by the authority of the Secretary of War, in favor of several tribes and individuals of the Indians who adhered to the cause of the United States during the late war with Great Britain, and whose property was, in consequence of such adherence, injured or destroyed. And it is agreed that the sums thus assessed shall be paid in specie, at the places and to the tribes or individuals hereinafter mentioned, being in conformity with the said assessment, that is to say: To the Wyandots, at Upper Sandusky, four thousand three hundred and nineteen dollars and thirty-nine cents. To the Senecas, at Lower Sandusky, three thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine dollars and twenty-four cents. To the Indians at Lewis and Scontashas towns, twelve hundred and twenty-seven dollars and fifty cents. To the Delawares, for the use of the Indians who suffered losses at Greentown and at Jeromestown, three thousand nine hundred and fifty-six dollars and fifty cents, to be paid at Wapaghkonetta. To the representatives of Hembis, a Delaware Indian, three hundred and forty-eight dollars and fifty cents, to be paid at Wapaghkonetta. To the Shawanees, an additional sum of four hundred and twenty dollars, to be paid at Wapaghkonetta. To the Senecas, an additional sum of two hundred and nineteen dollars, to be paid at Wapaghkonetta. ART. 13. And whereas the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars has been paid by the United States to the Shawanees, being one-half of five years’ annuities due by the treaty of Fort Industry: and whereas the Wyandots contend that the whole of the annuity secured by that treaty is to be paid to them, and a few persons of the Shawanee and Seneca tribes: now, therefore, the commissioners of the United States, believing that the construction given by the Wyandots to the said treaty is correct, engage that the United States shall pay to the said Wyandot tribe, in specie, in the course of the year 1818, the said sum of two thousand five hundred dollars. ART. 14. The United States reserve to the proper authority the right to make roads through any part of the land granted or reserved by this treaty; and also to the different agents the right of establishing taverns and ferries for the accommodation of travellers, should the same be found necessary. ART. 15. The tracts of land herein granted to the chiefs for the use of the Wyandot, Shawanee, Seneca, and Delaware Indians, and the reserve for the Ottawa Indians, shall not be liable to taxes of any kind so long as such land continues the property of the said Indians. ART. 16. Some of the Ottawa, Chippewa, and Pattawatamie tribes being attached to the Catholic religion, and believing they may wish some of their children hereafter educated, do grant to the rector of the Catholic church of St. Anne of Detroit, for the use of the said church, and to the corporation of the college at Detroit, for the use of the said college, to be retained or sold as the said rector and corporation may judge expedient, each, one-balf of three sections of land, to contain six hundred and forty acres, on the river Raisin, at a place called Macon, and three sections of land not yet located, which tracts were reserved for the use of the said Indians by the treaty of Detroit in 1807. And the superintendent of Indian affairs in the Territory of Michigan is authorized, on the part of the said Indians, to select the said tracts of land. ART. 17. The United States engage to pay to any of the Indians the value of any improvements which they may be obliged to abandon in consequence of the lines established by this treaty. ART. 18. The Delaware tribe of Indians, in consideration of the stipulations herein made on the part of the United States, do hereby forever cede to the United States all the claim which they have to the thirteen sections of land reserved for the use of certain persons of their tribe by the second section of the act of Congress passed March 3, 1807, providing for the disposal uf the lands of the United States between the United States military tract and the Connecticut reserve, and the lands of the United States between the Cincinnati and Vincennes districts. ART. 19. The United States agree to grant by patent, in fee-simple, to Zee-shaw-au, or James Armstrong, and to Sa-non-do-you-ray-quaw, or Silas Armstrong, chiefs of the Delaware Indians, living on the Sandusky waters, and their successors in office, chiefs of the said tribe, for the use of the persons mentioned in the annexed schedule, in the same manner, and subject to the same conditions, provisions, and limitations as are hereinbefore provided for the lands granted to the Wyandot, Seneca, and Shawanee Indians, a tract of land to contain nine square miles, to join the tract granted to the Wyandots, of twelve miles square, to be laid off as nearly in a square form as practicable, and to include Captain Pipe’s village. ART. 20. The United States also agree to grant by patent to the chiefs of the Ottawa tribe of Indians, for the use of the said tribe, a tract of land to contain thirty-four square miles, to be laid out as nearly in a square form as practicable, not interfering with the lines of the tracts reserved by the treaty of Greenville, on the south side of the Miami river of Lake Erie, and to include Tushquegan or McCarty’s village; which tracts thus granted shall be held by the said tribe, upon the usual conditions of Indian reservations, as though no patent were issued. ART. 21. This treaty shall take effect and be obligatory on the contracting parties as soon as the same shall have been ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof. In testimony whereof, the said Lewis Cass and Duncan McArthur, commissioners as aforesaid, and the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the Wyandot, Seneca, Shawanee, Delaware, Pattawatamie, Ottawa, and Chippewa tribes of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at the foot of the Rapids of the Miami of Lake Erie, this twenty-ninth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventeen.	> [Signed by the commissioners of the United States and a number of Indian chiefs.] Schedule referred to in the foregoing treaty, and to be taken and considered as part thereof Three sections, to contain six hundred and forty acres each, are to be reserved out of the tract of twelve miles square, to be granted to the Wyandots. One of said sections is to be appropriated to the use of a missionary, one for the support of schools, and one for the support of mechanics, and to be under the direction of the chiefs. Two sections, of six hundred and forty acres each, are to be granted to each of the following persons, being the chief of the Wyandot tribe and his six counsellors, namely: Do-ou-quod, or Half-king; Rou-tou-du, or Narpole; Tau-yau-ron-te-you, or Between the logs; Da-wa-tout, or John Hicks; Ma-no-eue, or Thomas; Tau-you-dau- tau-sau, or George Ruuh; and Haw-dow-u-waugh, or Matthews. And after deducting the fifteen sections thus to be disposed of, the residue of the said tract of twelve miles square is to be equally divided among the following persons, namely: Hoo-cue, Rou-doo-touk, Ma-ho-ma, Na-atoue, Mau-ta-naw-to, Mau-run-quaws, Nay-mu-hanky, Abrahain Williams, senior; Squ-au-tangh, Tau-you-ra-nuta, Ta-haw-que-vouws, Da-sha-rows, Tray-he-tou, Haw-too-you, May-dou-nay-tove, Neu-doo-slau, Dee-cal-rou-tou- say, Hou-tou-ye-maugh, Da-too-waw-na, Ma-tsa-yea-an-you-rie, James Ranken; Sen-tu-mass, Ta-hau-to-show- we-da, Ma-duda-ra, Shau-dau-aye, Sham-a-dee-say, Sora-mo-do-wot, Mo-au-ta-au, Naw-sot-to-maugh, Mau-rau- skin-quaws,Taw-too-Iow-me, Shaw-dou-yea-you-roco, Show-we-no,Da-sho-ree, Sen-new-do-row,To-ayt-too-raw, Maw-skat-taugh, Ta-haw-sno-deu-yea, Hau-na-raw-leu-dee, Shau-rom-ou, Taw-yau-ron-tore-yea, Rou-me-lay, Na-do-cays, Carry-u-man-due-taugh, Big arms, Ma-don-raw-cays, Hau-ra-hoot, Syru-run-dash, Ta-ho-row-tsem- dee, Roo-sayn, Dau-tore-say, Na-shaw-too-mous, Skaw-duu-tou-tee, Sa-no-row-sha, Nau-ten-nee, You-au-sha, Au-ma-tou-row, O-hou-tau-toon, Taw-you-gau'-sta-you, Soo-ton-tee-ree, Doo-too-au, Haw-ree.-wau-cu-dee, You- ra-ha-tsa, Town-to-re-shjw, Syu-we-wa-taugh, Cau-yau, Omitz-tse-naw, Gau-sa-waugh, Ska-show-ays-squaw, Maw-dov-doo, Nar-ow-ays-haus, Naw-ca-tay, Isu-Iiow-ha-yea-to, My-a-tou-ska,Tau-oo-dow-ma, You-hrco, George Williams, 0-har-va-toy,Saha-rossor, Issac Williams, Squin-da-tee, Ma-yea-to-hot, Lewis Coon; Isa-tou-que,or John Coon; Taw-au-ma-no-cay, or E. Wright; O-waw-ta-tuw, Ison-trau-dee, To-ma-tsa-hoss, Sar-ra-hoss, Tau-yue-ree- hor-yeow, Sau-do-toss, Tow-o-ror-du, or Big ears; Tau-o-ma-tsa-rau, Ta-ho-rou-do-you, or Two; Dau-ree-hau, Dau-o-ree-nu,Trau-to-hau-wee-tough, Yon-rou-quains,or the Widow of the Brane; Cau-nay-to-ma,Hot-to-mor-row, Ta-wee-sho, Dau-quau-say, Tou-mou, Hoo-gau-doo-row, New-dee-tou-tow, Daw-how-houk, Dau-shou-tee-hawk, Sa-wa-ro-nuis, Nor-ro-row, Taw-wass, Ta-ware-roons, Ne-shaus-tay, To-har-ra-tOregh, Tau-row-to-tu-ca-way, You-shin-dau-ya-to, Tau-o-sa-nays, Sa-do-wer-rais, Isa-now-tow-touk, or Fox Wiooro; Tau-ra-tou-do, or William Zane; Hay-a-noise, or Ebenezer Zane; Maw-ca-shar-row, or Widow McCullock; Susannah, Te-shaw-taugh, Bawews, Ta-ma-ta-rank, Razor, Ra-hi-saus, Ca-du-tore, Shaw-ne-tau-rew, Ta tra-row, Cu-qua, You-row-on, Jau-you-na-o-skra, Ta-no-ra-way-out, How-cu-quaw-do-row, Goo-yea-mee, Dau-tsa-qua, Mau-da-mu, Sa-no- ree-shoc, Hawlee-yea-tau-say, Gue-roo-hee, Ma-to-skraw-touk, Daw-wee-shoe, Jaw-you-ra-wot, Na-cu-dse-o-ra- nau-au-rayk, You-ro-nu-rays, Scoutush, Jer-roy-much, Hoon-desh-otch, Ishu-ske-ah, Du-shar-raw, On-de-waus, Du-yew-tale, Roue-you-ta-colo, Hoo-no-row-you-ta-cole, How-no-row-du-ro, Na-wa-nau-no-nelo, Tol-ho-ma-no- na, Eki-ya-mik, Ty-yeak-wh-keu-no-hale, Au-shew-how-ole, Jcho-won-da-shres, Mon-du-shaw-quaw, Ta-you- dra-kele, Give-ri-a-hes, Soo-tree-shu-skoh, Su-you-tu-raw, Ti-u-dee, Ta-hor-ro-sho-qttaw, Irah-ka-squaw, Ihore- a-meus-u-wat, Cu-rou-e-yot-tell, No-ri-yet-tete, Sa-ya-rech, Teste-a-tete. The thirty thousand acres for the Senecas upon the Sandusky river are to be equally divided among the following persons, namely: Sy-u-wau-sau-tau, Naw-we-ne, Joseph, Iseu-me-taug’n, or Picking up a club; Orau-hao-to- dee, or Turn over; Tau-dau-rous, or Split the river; Ta-how-too-rains, or Jo Smeech; lsmon-du-are-yellow-bay; Da-show-row-ra-mou, or Drifting sand; Hau-au-tou-na-squas, Ha-my-au-tu-how, Ta-ho-cayn, How-dau-tau-yeao, or King George; Standing Bones, Cy-a-ha-ga, or Fisher; Su-the-moore, Red Skin, Nen-tau-tu-hoore, Hy-na-skra- man, or Knife in his hand; Running about, John Smith, Carrying the basket; Cau-watt-ay, or Striking; Re-wau- yea-to, or Carrying the news; Half up the hill, Trow-you-doys, or G. Hunter; Spike Buck, Cau-goo-show, or Clearing up; Mark on his hip, Captain Hams, Ise-tau-ne, or Crying often; Tau-ne-row-yea, or Two companies; Hau-don-wau-ays, or Stripping the river; Iso-hau-ha-say, or Tall chief; Ta-how-man-do-yon, How-you-way, or Paddling, Clouding up, You-wau-tow-to-you, or Burnt his body; She-ton-you-wee, or Sweet foot; Tau-hau-gains- to-any, or Holding his hand about; O-har-raw-to-dee, or Turning over; Han-cau-ma-rout, Saw-row-sau-is-ma-tare, or Striking sword; Sa-du-de-to, O-shou-toy, or Burning berry; Hard Hickory, Cnre-tsee-tau, You-ro-no-cay, or Isaac; You-tra-dow-won-lee, New-tau-ya-ro, Ta-you-ou-te, or Old foot; Tau-o-sa-ne-tee, Sy-u-nout, or Give it to her; Doons-tough, or Bunch on his forehead; Ty-au-du-sout, or Joshua Hendricks; Tau-shau-shau-row, or Cross the arms; Henry, You-way-dau-yea, or the Island; Armstrong, Shake the ground, His neck down, You-he- no, Tow-o-to-you-do, or Looking at her; Captain Smith, Tobacco, Standing Stone, Ronu-nais, or Wiping stick; Tau-du-ha-tse, or Large bones, Ha-man-cha-gave, House-fly, or Maggot; Ron-dou-ma, or Sap running; Big Belt, Cat Bone, Sammy, Ta-on-gau-ats, or Round the point; Ra-mu-ye, or Hold the Sky; Men-ton-du-du, How-no-tant, Slippery Nose, Tau-slow-quow-say, or Twenty wives; Hoo-gau-row, or Madman; Coffee House, Long Hair. The tract of ten miles square at Wapaghkonetta is to be equally divided among the following persons, namely: The Black Hoof, Pomthe, or Walker, Pi-as-e-ka, or Wolf, She-me-nu-tu, or Snake, O-tha-wa-ke-se-ka, or Yellow Feather; Pe-ne-tha-ta, or Perry; Cha-ca-la-way, or the End of the tail; Qui-la-wee, War chief, Sa-cha-che- wa, Wa-sew-wee-la, Wa-se-wee-la, or Bright horn; O-tha-yosa, or Yéllow; Te-pe-to-se-ka, Can-nes-he-mo, Ne- wa-be-tuck-a, Caw-a-wes-cu-cka, Tho-kut-che-ma, Se-ta-kos-he-ka, To-pee, or James Saunders; Me-she-ne-wa, Ta-ti-a-pe, Po-ke-chaw, Ala-way-mot-a-kah, Lal-lo-way, or Perry; Wa-be-mee, Ne-me-ko-she, Ne-ne-pem-e- she-qua, or Cornstalk; She-she, Shaw-a-bagh-ke, Nan-es-ka-ka, Tha-kos-ka, or David McNair, Ska-pa-ka-ke, Sha-po-qua-ta, Pea-pak-se-ka, Quagh-quona, Quo-to-wa-me, Ni-tas-ke-ka, Tha-kas-ka, or Spy buck; Pe-ka- thce-so-ka, Te-wa-skoo-ta, or James Blue Jacket; Ca-la-we-sa, Qua-ho, Ka-ketch-he-ka, or W. Perry; Swa-pee, Peek-too, or Davy Baker; Sko-ka-po-wa, or George McDougall, Che-pa-ko-sa, Slie-may, or Sam; Chi-a-kos-ka, or Captain Tom; General Wayne, Tha-way, Ot-haw-ee, Wee-a-se-sa-ka, or Captain Reed, Le-way-ta-ka, Te-go- she-a, or George; Ske-ka-cum-ske-ka, Wesh-e-she-mu, Ma-wen-at-che-ka, Quash-ke, Thas-wa, Baptieste, Way- wal-a-pee, Pes-he-qu-kame, Chak-a-la-kee, or Tom; Key-way-pee, E-go-ta-cum-she-qua, Wa-be-pee, A-qua- she-qua, Pem-o-tah, Ne-pa-ho, Ta-ke-pee, To-po-she-ka, La-tha-wa-no-mo, So-wagh-ko-ta, or Yellow clouds; Meen-kes-he-ka, A-she-se-ka, O-chip-way, Tha-pa-e-ka, Cha-ka-ta, Na-ka-che-ka, Tha-thou-a-ka-ta, Pay-to- ko-the, Pa-las-ke, She-she-loo, Qua-na-qua, Kal-koo, Togh-she-na, Ca-po-wa, E-tho-wa-ko-se, Qua-que-sha, Ca-pe-a, Tha-ka-tch-e-way, the Man going up hill, Ma-go-tha, Te-cum-te-qua, Te-te-pa-ko-the, Ke-ken-tha, Shi-at-wa, Shi-ab-was-son, Kogh-ke-la, Ako-pee, or a heap of any thing, La-ma-to-the, Ke-sha, Pan-koor, Pe- it-ch-tha-tor, or Peter; Metch-e-pe-lah, Cape-ah, Show-a-ga-me, Waw-a-lee-pe-she-e-ka, Me-e-wen-she-ka, Na- ne-me-pah-too, or Trotter; Pamitch-e-pe-too, Cha-]e.-qua, !Te-te-tee, Le-she-she, Na-wa-ba-she-ka, or White feather; Ske-pa-kes-ke-she, Te-na-kee, She-nia-ka, Pa-she-to, Thi-atch-eto, Meth-e-met-che, Cha-ko-wa, Law- ath-ska, Potch-e-tee, or the Man without a tail; A-wa-ban-e-she-kaw, Ha-ta-co-ma, Lam-a-ke-sha-ka, Pa-pa- show, Weath-ak-she-ka, Pe-way-pee, To-tah, Ca-na-qua, Ske-pa-kutch-e-ka, Wel-vie-sa, Kit-a-hoe, Neen-ta- ko-she, O-shai-she, Chi-lo-see, Qui-la-i-sha, Ma-weth-a-que, A-ke-pee, Qucl-e-nee. The tract of five miles square at Hog creek is to be equally divided among the following persons, namely: Peeth-tha, O-now-as-him, Pe-ma-they-wa, Wa-be-kes-he-ke, Lee-so, Poh-cay-we-se, Shem-a-gau-a-she, Neh- qua-ka-huc-ka, Pa-pas-koo-te-pa, Me-am-e-pe-tuo, We-law-en-a-ka, Pe-tis-ka, Ke-tuck-e-pe, Law-it-che-tee, Epauin-ee, Cha-nac-ke, Jose, La-naw-y-tuc-ka, Shaw-ay-na-ka, Wa-wa-tath-cwa, Ketak-so-sa, Sha-she-ko-pe- ah, La-ko-see, Quid-as-ka. The tract of forty-eight square miles, including Lewistown, is to be equally divided among the following persons, namely: Shawnoese, Colonel Lewis, Polly Kizer, She-ue-te-so-pevah, or Weed; Ca-los-se-te, Va-mau-we-ke, Waw-cum-see, Skit-lc-was, May-a-pe-be, Wo-she-ta, No-pa-mago, Wil-les-que, Salock, Wa-la-the, Silversmith, Si-a-tha, To-se-lu-o, Jemmy McDonald, Jackson, Mohawk Thomas, Silverheels, John, We-wach-ee, Cassie, Atsh- e-na, Frenchman, Sque-se-nau, Goo-hunt, Man-we-alte, Wal-i-see, Belly, Thaw-ma-me, Wop-squit-ty, Nay-wale, Big Turtle, No-la-wat, Na-wa-lip-pa, Razor, Blue, Tick, Nerer, Falling Star, Ha-]e-clock, His-o-scock, Es-squa- see-to, George, Nuusso-ine, Sau-ha-noe, Joseph, Scoto-we, Bat-te-ase, Crow, Shilling, Scot-ta, Now-pour, Na- me-a-wah, Que-raau-to, Snife, Captain, Tau-de-to-so, Sun-rise, Sow-get, De-shau, Little Lewis, Jac-quis, To- na-out, Swa-u-na-cou, General, Cus-sa-boee, Bald, Crooked Stick, Wes-pa-ta, Ne-wa-sa, Garter, Porcupine, Po- ca-lo-che, Wo-che-que, Sau-qua-ha, E-na-ta, Pau-ther, Co-le-se-tos, Joe, Senecas, Civil John, Wild Duck, Tall Man, Molasses, Ash, Na-ha-nex-a, Ta-sauk, A-gus-que-nah, Rough-leg, Que-que-saw, Pay-ful, Hair Lip, Tu-tin- que, Hill-ne-pe-wa-ya-tus-ka, Tau-hun-se-qua, Ny-no-ah, Such-us-que, Leem-ret-que, Tieuse, Se-qate, Cau-me- cus, Scou-ne-ti, To-con-dus-que, Con-hou-da-twaro, Cow-is-ta, Ne-qua-tren, Cow-hou-sted, Gil-was, Axta-ea, Con-aw-we-how, Sut-te-a-see, Ki-a-hoot, Crane, Silver, By-saw, Crayfisle, Woollyhead, Co-ntin-da-hau, Sha-co- saw, Co-in-dos, Hut-che-qua, Na-yau, Con-no-dose, Con-ese-ta, Ne-slu-au-ta, Owl, Cuu-au-ka, Co-che-co, Cou- e-wash, Sin-ne-cou-a-check-o-we, or Leek. The tract of three miles square for the Delaware Indians, adjoining the tract of twelve miles square upon the Sandusky river, is to be equally divided among the following persons, namely: Captain Pipe, Ze-shau-au, or James Armstrong; Ma-hau-too, or John Armstrong; Sa-nou-do-yea-squaw, or Silas Armstrong, Te-o-row, or Black Racoon, Haw-do-rou-wa-tis-tie, or Billy Montour, Buckwheat, William Dondee, Thomas Lyons, Johnny Cake, Captain Wolf, Isaac Hill, John Hill, Ti-sha-ta-hoo-nes, or Widow Armstrong, Aye-nu-cere, Hoo-mau-rou, or John .Mitisr, You-do-rast. LEWIS CASS,	) „	. . DUNCAN MCARTHUR, f Co"wlissw7!€rs- 9 ADDITIONAL ARTICLES. ART. 1. The Ottawa tribe of Indians having long since promised to Doctor William Brown, of Detroit, a tract of land for the professional services which he has rendered to them, and has promised to render to them, and for many acts of kindness; and having in open council requested that a tract of land may be granted to him by the stipulations of this treaty; the commissioners of the United States, believing that these services and assistance have been rendered and promised without any pecuniary reward, but having no authority to act in the premises, have agreed with the said tribe that three sections of land, out of the six sections reserved for the use of the said tribe by the treaty of Detroit, in 1807, and not yet located, shall be granted by patent, in fee-simple, to the said Doctor William Brown: Provided, and it is expressly declared and understood, That the commissioners are acting herein without authority, and that it is their intention merely to submit this article for consideration to the President and Senate of the United States; and if it is ratified by them, it shall be obligatory on the parties hereunto. But it is clearly understood that its ratification or rejection will not affect any other stipulation in this treaty. ART. 2. In the year 1812 Stephen Johnson was murdered by some of the Pattawatamie Indians, while he was in the service of the United States; and the said Pattawatamie tribe have, in open council, requested that a tract of land may be granted to Stephen Johnson and Eliza Johnson, children of the said Stephen Johnson, deceased, in order to atone, after the manner of the Indians, for the said murder: the commissioners of the United States, believing, as in the next preceding article, that they have no authority to act in the premises, do, in compliance with the request of the said tribe, agree that one section of land shall be granted by patent, in fee-simple, to the said Stephen Johnson and Eliza Johnson, children of the said Stephen Johnson, deceased, to be located by John Johnson, in the tract of country ceded by this treaty to the United States, after the same shall have been surveyed. But it is expressly understood that the stipulation in this article is subject to the same conditions to which the next preceding article is subject. LEWIS CASS,	) „	. . DUNCAN McARTHUR, J Commissioners- SIR:	CHILICOTHE, April 6,1816. I deferred answering your letter of the 14th February with the hope of ascertaining ere this the disposition of the Sandusky Indians relative to the sale of their claim to the lands in that quarter. A few days before your letter came to hand I received a letter from the principal Indians on the Sandusky, stating that they had been informed by the Shawanee Indians who reside on the Miami that the Government was devising means to obtain their lands, and requesting me to give them any information I could on the subject. In answer to that letter, I informed them that I was confident that the Government had no wish to obtain their lands, or the lands of any Indians who were friendly to the United States, unless they felt a disposition to dispose of them; but if they wished to sell their lands, as had been frequently reported here, and would make it known to the President, I thought it probable that the Government would take the subject into consideration, and give them an answer. I assured them, however, that I thought the proposition must come from them, as the Government had already more lands than could be disposed of. To this letter I have not received an answer. ID consequence of ill health, I last winter requested Colonel John Johnston, Indian agent, and Colonel James McPherson, subagent, to settle the claims of the Sandusky Indians for property destroyed by the troops of the United States during the late war, in pursuance of an arrangement made last summer at Detroit by General Harrison, Mr. Graham, and myself. They promised to attend to this business; but Colonel Johnston writes me that the Indians have been, and will be, so busily engaged in hunting and trapping, that they cannot be collected until May. I have thought that when they are called together for the purpose of having their claims settled, a favorable opportunity will be presented to ascertain their disposition relative to selling their lands in this State, without letting them know that Government has a wish to purchase. I will endeavor to be at Sandusky whenever the Indians may be collected. I have the honor, &c.	1 DUNCAN MeARTHUR. Hon. WILLIAM II. CRAWFORD, Secretary of War. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, Marek 23,1817. It having been deemed advisable by the President to make an effort to extinguish the Indian title to all the lands now claimed by them within the limits of the State of Ohio, I am therefore instructed by him to request that, in your route to Detroit, you would endeavor to see some of the chiefs and headmen of the several tribes who claim those lands, with a view of ascertaining how far it may be practicable to obtain a relinquishment of the whole, or any portion of them, and on what terms. The negotiation should be founded on the basis that each head of a family who wishes to remain within the limits ceded should have a life estate in a reservation of a certain number of acres, which should descend to his children in fee, reserving to the widow (if any) her thirds; and that those who do not wish to remain on those terms should have a body of land allotted to them on the west of the Mississippi. Should you find, on an interview with some of the leading men, that it will be impossible or impolitic to make an attempt to procure all the country claimed, you will then direct your efforts to induce them to enter into a negotiation for the relinquishment of their title to a portion of the land; and, as it is an object of very great importance that there should be a strong settlement connecting the State of Ohio with the Michigan Territory, you will therefore direct your efforts to obtain a cession of the lands lying north and east of the road leading from Fort Meigs to the reservation on Sandusky, and from thence to Norton, in Ohio; or, what would be preferable, a relinquishment of the land north and east of a line to be run directly from Fort Meigs to the point where the road from Sandusky to Norton crosses the Indian boundary line. The amount which may be stipulated to be given for the relinquishment must materially depend on the number of families who would wish to remain within the ceded territory on the terms above mentioned; it cannot, however, in any event, be expected that a relinquishment can be obtained of those lands on such terms as the lands in that quarter have heretofore been ceded; and it is only by paying liberally that we can expect to obtain them. On your arrival at Detroit, you will advise this Department whether the Indians are disposed or not to enter into a negotiation for the whole or any part of their lands. For the time which you may be detained on your route in ascertaining the temper of the Indians on this subject, you will be allowed eight dollars per day. I have the honor to be, tec. ,	GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of War. Governor LEWIS CASS. SIR:	LOWER SANDUSKY, April 17, 1817. Agreeably to your instructions, I yesterday passed through Upper Sandusky, in order to ascertain the probable views of the Indians with respect to a sale of part or of the whole of this country. From information there obtained, I entertain no doubt but that they will consent to cede a considerable portion of this most valuable tract. The terms upon which their assent to the measure may be expected depend not only so much upon the quantity and situation, but also so much upon their whims at the moment of executing the contract, that it would be impossible for me to state (or, I presume, for you to prescribe) any definite terms. Under any circumstances, they will fall infinitely short of the pecuniary and political value of the country obtained. From the state of the appropriation for the Indian department, and from the difficulty of making previous arrangements, I do not think it necessary that there should be more than one 'person appointed to manage the business. Should the President be pleased to intrust the negotiation to me, it will be expedient that instructions should be issued as speedily as practicable. The terms mentioned in your letter are dictated equally by moral and political motives nor is any thing more necessary than the pecuniary means to be appropriated to the object. The sum to be, given will depend so much upon the quantity to be ceded, and this latter so much upon circumstances which cannot now be foreseen and calculated, that I rather think no specific sum can be fixed. The person appointed to conduct the negotiation ought to be empowered to require of the contractor the necessary provisions to be deposited and issued at the place where it may be deemed expedient to hold the treaty; and, in the event of his failure, by other means to have them issued. Very respectfully, sir, 1 have the honor to be your most obedient servant, LEWIS CASS. Hon. GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of War. SIR*.	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 19, 1817. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 17th ultimo, and I now enclose you a commission and instructions authorizing you and General McArthur to hold a treaty with the several tribes of Indians claiming lands within the boundaries of the State of Ohio for the relinquishment of the same. The act which passed the Senate at the last session, to authorize the President to negotiate with Indian tribes for an exchange of territory, and appropriating $50,000 for that object, was not acted upon by the House of Representatives. The fifteenth section of the act passed the 26th of March, 1804, for the erection of Louisiana into two Territories, is considered as now in force; but, as our appropriations are deficient, you will make the execution of all the stipulations of the treaty to depend upon the ratification by the Senate, and consequent appropriation. You will give the contractor for that district due notice of the time and place which yourself and General Me Arthur may fix upon for holding the treaty, and of the number of rations that may be required. I have the honor to be, &c. Governor LEWIS CASS, Detroit. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 19, 1817. The representations which the President has received from the Senators and Representatives in Congress from the State of Oiiio have rendered it expedient, in his judgment, to enter into a negotiation with those tribes of Indians who claim lands within the boundaries of the State of Ohio, with the view of extinguishing their claim to the whole or any part of those lands; and, confiding in your fidelity, discretion, and patriotism, he has been pleased to appoint you to be the commissioners on the part of the United States for holding a treaty with all or any of those tribes for that purpose. You will, therefore, give the chiefs notice of your appointment, and fix upon the time and place of holding the treaty; of which the contractor for that district must have due notice, in order that he may be prepared to supply the rations which may be required. Should the information which Governor Cass has been enabled to obtain in relation to this subject, in consequence of the instructions from this Department of the 23d of March last, render it inexpedient to make an attempt to obtain a relinquishment from the Indians of all the land which they hold within the limits of the State of Ohio, you will then direct your efforts to obtain the relinquishment of their claim to a part, or the whole, of that tract of country which lies north and east of a line to be run directly from Fort Meigs, or some point higher up the Miami, to the present Indian boundary line, at the point where the road from Norton to Upper Sandusky crosses it, or to the point where the present boundary line crosses the, Scioto river. It is not deemed necessary tu give any more definite instructions relative to the terms of the treaty than those contained in the letter to Governor Cass of the 23d of March, and to which you are referred. The removal of the Indians, generally, from the vicinity of Lake Erie, and the advantages that would be derived from connecting the population of the State of Ohio with that of the Michigan Territory, give to the acquisition of this country a political importance that would justify a more liberal compensation for its relinquishment than has hitherto been given for the relinquishment of Indian claims. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM. Gov. LEWIS CASS, and Gen. DUNCAN MCARTHUR, Commissioners, <Sj'c. SIR:	DETROIT, July 3, 1817. To attain with more certainty the proposed cession of land from the Wyandots, a timely distribution of presents to the influential chiefs is all-important. A continued succession of treaties, during a long course of years, has created a practice which, with any regard io prudence, cannot now be violated. I have therefore the honor to propose that arrangements be made to furnish the commissioners with six thousand dollars in silver for this purpose.	■ This sum, through the medium of the banks at Chilicothe, might be placed at the disposal of General McArthur, with instructions to have it brought to Fort Meigs, (which is selected as the most suitable place for the treaty.) and applied to the objects above stated. It is impracticable to procure it here; and to apply paper to this object would be to expend for the Government the same sum without procuring any corresponding beneficial result. Paper is, to the Indians, almost valueless. It is the specie alone which is the object of their pursuit; and, by furnishing the quantity above mentioned, I trust we shall be able to obtain thp cession of an important territory. Very respectfully, sir, I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, LEWIS CASS. Hon. GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of JVar. SIR:	MIAMI RAPIDS, September 29, 1817. The cession which has this day been made by the Indians to the United States, and the part which has been intrusted to us in the negotiation which has thus fortunately terminated, render it not improper that we should submit to the Government our views of a subject intimately connected with the pecuniary and political value of this portion of country. It is well known that along the southern margin of this part of Lake Erie is a tract of wet land, which always presents serious difficulties to the traveller, and frequently insurmountable obstacles. From Fort Meigs, for many miles towards Urbana, and nearly the whole distance to Lower Sandusky, it becomes a morass known by the name of the Black Swamp. To reach the Territory of Michigan from any part of the settlements of the State of Ohio, by land, this swamp must be crossed. No description can convey to a person who is unacquainted with it an adequate idea of the difficulties to be surmounted before a tolerable road can be formed through this country. Little is hazarded in saying that individual enterprise, or the operation of ordinary causes, will not accomplish it for a period which the rapid improvement of the United States generally would leave without a parallel. But the country, from the extremities of this swamp northward to Detroit, and southward and eastward to the settlements in Ohio, is level and wet; and a good road through it, to be made at all, must be made at the national expense. The events of the late war with Great Britain upon this frontier must have satisfied every reflecting person that a good road, at the commencement of that war, passing from the interior of Ohio to Detroit, would have saved to the nation the expenditure of immense sums of money, and would have rendered the reduction of that place at any time easy, and its tenure secure. The supplies of provisions and the munitions of war necessary to the operations of the army upon this frontier were transported at an enormous expense of time and treasure; and the principal obstacles opposed to those operations resulted from the nature of the country, and from its difficulty of access. This tract of country, in its present situation, renders the Territory of Michigan an insulated point upon the map of the nation. Its approach by water is uncertain, temporary, and, for many important purposes, inconvenient. By land it is difficult, tedious, and expensive. In any future war, its means of defence must be derived from the same States which were called upon to furnish them during the past. It is desirable, therefore, that the difficulties which were then experienced should be removed, and that the possession of a good road should enable the General Government at any time to throw into the country a force which would render it safe and secure. Such a road would remove the barriers which nature has interposed, and would, in effect, approximate this country to the western portion of the Union, and, connected with the natural advantages it possesses, would insure it a speedy settlement and an active and enterprising population. But a road from the interior of Ohio to the lake only, would not answer this important purpose. Lake Erie may once more become the theatre of desperate exertion and skill; enterprise and courage may not again be rewarded with victory. But were our naval superiority upon this lake beyond the reach of accident, it should still be recollected that its navigation is more hazardous than that of the ocean, and, for a considerable portion of the year, closed or impeded by the ice. It is precisely at this season, with the exception of a short time in the middle of winter, that the communication by land is most difficult; and the obstacles which are then interposed to traversing the country in any direction are serious and dangerous. Should circumstances destroy our naval superiority upon the tipper lakes, our communication with Detroit and its dependant settlements could be preserved by land only; and our possession of the country would, in a great degree, depend upon the facilities which the roads might offer to the march of troops, and to the transportation of their munitions ef war, baggage, and provisions. It is to be hoped that such an occurrence is remote. But the possibility of its happening, and its disastrous consequences should we be fuund unprepaced, furnish powerful motives to provide, as far as human wisdom can do, for the event. By completing a road from Sandusky to Detroit, considerable progress would be made towards opening a great national communication from the capital to one of the extremities of the Union. The western turnpike from Cumberland to the Ohio, terminating at Wheeling, would leave only the portion of road between that place and Sandusky to be made. Future enterprise and industry, either individual or national, might complete the work; and it would equally promote the varied intercourse of peace and the important operations of war. This view is prospective, but the time cannot be remote when the policy of connecting the different parts of this vast republic by great permanent roads will be felt and acknowledged; when such a policy shall banish local jealousies; and discordant interests shall furnish new and increased facilities for private industry, and shall add strength and wealth to the resources of the nation. Forts and military positions along a remote and exposed frontier will furnish little protection, unless the communication to it is rendered easy and expeditious. A great leading road, such as the nature of this country requires and the public good demands, would add more to its permanent security than any other defensive measure which could be adopted. But tlierq are considerations connected with the necessity of such a road in consequence of the nature of the country, of its importance to the nation for the preservation of a weak and important frontier, and of the improbability that such a road will ever be made unless some portion of the general resources are directed to this object. But, viewed exclusively as a subject affecting the revenue, there can be no doubt but its operation would be favorable. From the settlements in Ohio to Detroit, nearly the whole country is the property of the United States. Every consideration, either of a fiscal or political nature, demands the immediate sale and settlement of this land, and every measure is important which will facilitate the acquisition of either object. Among these measures, the most obvious in itself, and most certain in its result, is the opening of a leading road. In any country, this would be important: in this country, it is absolutely necessary. Sales will only be made with a view to settlement, and settlement will be aided and encouraged by making roads where the population of the country will long be unable to make them. There is little difficulty in proposing a plan which would accomplish this object, and in all probability increase the actual receipts at the Treasury, after the expenditures which may be necessary in effecting it. Previous to the sale of the public lands, were the site of a permanent well-made road located from the line of the tract recently purchased of the Indians to Detroit, and wete the national faith pledged for its completion within a reasonable period, the competition excited among the purchasers to procure the land in the vicinity of this road would add greatly to its value. Any estimate upon this subject must be loose and conjectural; but when it is considered that this road would pass through lands the property of the United States for at least one hundred and fifty miles, a great part of which is fertile and susceptible of compact settlements, and much of which is equal to any land in Ohio, it cannot be doubted but it will enter the market with every prospect of obtaining a price far exceeding that fixed by law. It would not be necessary, in order to secure the desired object, that the work should be actually commenced. Every purpose would be answered by determining the site of the road, and delaying its completion till sufficient funds for that purpose were received from the sale of the land. We have travelled out of the proper object of our mission in bringing this subject to the intention of the Government; but we trust our excuse will he found in its vital importance to this section of our country, and in the consideration that, if the present opportunity passes away without producing any favorable result, we may consider as hopeless every effort to attain it. Considered as the means of increasing the national strength, and of securing the possession of an important frontier, we are aware that it has no exclusive claim to the attention of the General Government. Every section of the Union has an equal right to urge its claims. But there is, probably, none in which the expenditure of an equal amount would be productive of more important consequences; and certainly there is none which is weaker in itself, or more difficult, from its position, to be defended. But when it is recollected that this whole road, from the line of the purchase now made upon the frontier settlements of Ohio to the Detroit river, will pass through a country the property of the United States, except one Indian reservation, and a few tracts which have been sold or granted at Lower Sandusky, Fort Meigs, and the river Raisin, the effect of such a road upon the sale of the land is a fair object of inquiry; and if it is believed that the receipts from the sales will be increased by it, or even if such a result is doubtful, the importance and necessity of the measure, connected with other considerations, may fairly justify its adoption. Very respectfully, sir, we have the honor to be your most obedient servants, '	.	LEWIS CASS, Hon. GEORGE: GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of War.	DUNCAN McARTHUR. SIR:	FORT MEIGS, September 30, 1817. - Accompanying this, we have the honor to transmit to you a treaty which we have concluded with the Wyandot, Seneca, Shawanee, Delaware, Pattawatamie, Ottawa, and Chippewa tribes of Indians. The country ceded by this treaty to the United States includes nearly all the land within the State of Ohio to which the Indians have any claim, a small part of the State of Indiana, and probably a small part of the Michigan Territory. Had the Miamics attended the council agreeably to .our expectations, we doubt not but the whole Indian title in the State of Ohio would have been extinguished. Circumstances, however, which it is unnecessary here to enumerate, prevented their attendance; and, in the feverish state of mind in which we found the Indians, it was considered imprudent to await the expected arrival of the Miamies. They unquestionably own the country west of the St. Mary’s river, and its acquisition must, consequently, be postponed till circumstances may render it expedient again to convene the Indians to a general council. We are somewhat apprehensive that it may Be supposed we have been too liberal in the terms which we have allowed to the Indians. These terms certainly exceed what we have been accustomed to find in Indian treaties; but it must be recollected that this is not an ordinary cession, nor has its acquisition been attended with ordinary difficulties. Its importance to the United States in a financial and military point of view is too obvious to require any observation from us. We may, in fact, consider the purchase as the great connecting link which binds together our northwestern frontier. The Wyandots, who owned it, and the Shawanees and Senecas, who live upon it, are fully aware of its importance to us and to them. By frttquent communications with our citizens, they perfectly well know upon what terms the United States sell their land; and they also know the extravagant rate at which the reservations at Sandusky and this place were sold. This knowledge led them to expect a compensation fur the land far exceeding any thing which is secured to them by the treaty. A large portion of the country is beautiful and valuable, fertile, well watered, and handsomely situated. The ancestors of some of those Indians have occupied it for many generations, and they were attached to it by all the ties which bind men, white or red, to their country. Its acquisition was also rendered more difficult, because it is the last tract of land in the possession of the Wyandots—once a powerful, and still a high-spirited people. Ils cession to the United States will make it necessary for those Indians to change the manners and customs of their whole nation; from this day they cease to be hunters, and must depend upon their own industry and the produce of their reservations for support. However advantageous and peculative men may consider this to be, still we must not view it as an abstract question, but as one intimately connected with their habits and feelings for life. Changes in the manners and customs of nations are generally slow and gradual; and it is only some violent convulsion, moral or physical, which renders these changes rapid and perceptible. When, therefore, we demand of the Indians an absolute relinquishment of every thing which gives zest to savage life, we must expect that this demand will be received with regret and obeyed with reluctance. In fact, the whole of the Wyandots and all the Shawanees and Senecas in this quarter have made the last attempt to preserve the inheritance of customs and of land transmitted to them by their ancestors; they feel that our settlements are surrounding them, and that tho chase furnishes a scanty and precarious supply; they will cease to be hunters, and will, we trust, become farmers. For these reasons we have agreed to the amount of the annuities stipulated in the treaty, and we hope, on re- ilection, it will not be found tou great. In the progress of our negotiations with the Indians, we have experienced much difficulty in adjusting the quantity, tenure, and conditions of the reservations to their and our satisfaction. Without troubling you with the detail of these difficulties, it is sufficient to say that the treaty exhibits the result of mutual demands and of mutual compromises. We considered our instructions as rather advisatory than imperative; rather intending that we should comply with the general principles than with the minuter details. Any other course would have been fatal to our exertions and to the expectations of the Government. We have been compelled to admit the claims of a number of individuals, and to stipulate that patents shall be granted to them. Almost all these persons are Indians bj' blood. Some have been taken prisoners in early life, have married Indian women, and have identified themselves in feelings, manners, and interest with the Indians. In a few instances only are they merely Indians by adoption. In every case, it was the urgent wish of the Indians that land should be granted to these persons. Tu have refused these requests would have embodied against us an-interest, and created obstacles, which no efforts of ours would have defeated or surmounted. Under these circumstances, we judged it expedient to consider these persons as the heads of Indian families, and to make for them the provision which is found in the treaty. It will be perceived that the greater part of them live upon or near the land secured to them, and it would have been equally impolitic and unjust to have attempted their removal. We have provided that all the annuities due by this treaty, and some of those due by former treaties, shall be paid in cash. We have acceded to the request which the Indians have made upon this subject, because it is cheaper for the United States, by the freight apd charges attending the transportation of goods to this country. These goods are delivered to the Indians at the invoice price in the place where they are purchased. In the distribution of annuities by the Indians among themselves, every person, of whatever sex or age, is included. Each is enumerated, and all draw alike. It is, therefore, very difficult for them to make a partition in goods, agreeably to their ideas. But, independent of this consideration, the goods are often bad, and not suited to the taste and wants of the Indians; when this happens, they believe the Government is speculating upon them; and there are never wanting ill-disposed and unprincipled men to turn it to the injury of the United States. By paying them in specie, these difficulties arc removed; the United States save at least fifteen per cent.; the Indians can make an easy and equitable partition; they cannot complain on account of the kind or quality of the goods; and all cause of dissatisfaction with the United States on the subject of annuities is removed. We have provided, at the particular request of the Indians, that these demands shall be paid, not in paper, but in specie. Paper is almost valueless to the Indians—it is a representative of wealth, with which Ihey are little acquainted; they require something whoso amount is more palpable and obvious. Besides, with paper, they are continually liable to impositions from every unprincipled man with whom they are brought into contact. There can be no doubt but payments in specie will be productive of advantages in our intercourse with the Indians which will far outweigh any inconvenience or expense of which such payments will be productive. We trust that all the other provisions and stipulations in the treaty so obviously result from the nature of the transaction, and from the circumstances in which we and the Indians were placed, as to require no particular observations. We have promised to the Indians that six copies on parchment, and enclosed in tin cases, shall he made and transmitted to them. We have had neither time nor opportunity to have it done here. We pray that this promise may be complied with at Washington. We found it necessary to a fortunate issue to the negotiation that goods to the amount of $6,000 should be purchased and distributed to the Indians. Bills for this purchase, and for other necessary expenditures at the treaty, with the proper vouchers, have been drawn upon the War Department. We hope they will be duly honored. Not knowing what may be the state of the appropriation for the Indian department, we have not made these bills payable till the 1st day of January next, in order that the necessary appropriation may be made, should it be found requisite, and should Congress deem it expedient. Very respectfully, sir, we have the honor to be your obedient servants, LEWIS CASS, DUNCAN McARTHUR. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, October 17, 1817. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 30th ultimo, accompanied by the treaty, which shall be submitted to the President immediately on his return to this place; and who, no doubt, will be highly gratified with the result of your negotiations. The extent of the cession far exceeds my most sanguine expectations, and there can be no real or well-founded objection to the amount of the compensation given for it, except that it is not an adequate one. The desire of the Indians to locate the lands in such manner as to give them compact settlements was natural, and, in a fiscal point of view, it was better for the United States that they should .do so. The only objection is, that it will have a tendency to preserve their customs and manners for a longer period than if they had made their locations more diffusively. This treaty may be considered, in its fiscal, political, and moral effects, as the most important of any that we have hitherto made with the Indians. Your drafts have not been presented, but will be accepted and punctually paid when at maturity. General McArthur was advised on the 30th of July last that a draft for $6,000 would be remitted to him by the Treasurer, which was to be paid in specie; to that letter no answer has been received. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM. Governor LEWIS CASS, Detroit. General DUNCAN MCARTHUR, Chilicothe. Talk addressed to the Wyandot, Seneca, and Delaware nations. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, November 18, 1817. Brothers of the Wyandot, Seneca, and Delaware nations: Notwithstanding you have left your homes without the approbation of your agent, yet your father the President has been glad to see yon, and he has provided for all your wants while you remained with him. He has listened to your complaints, as a father should always listen to those of his children; and it is his desire to gratify your wishes when they are reasonable and just, and he has power to do so. It is the wish of your father the President that the reservations which have been made for you should be sufficient to afford to every Indian family' a tract of good land of not less than 640 acres: and that they should live on it, cultivate it, and be protected by the laws of the United States, in the same manner and in every respect as his white children are; and he will make no difference between them. Brothers: All of you who now reside on the lands which have been ceded, and over which your father the President has the control, will be permitted to reside on them and cultivate them without interruption, until they are surveyed and sold out to individuals; and at the public sales any of you will have the same right to purchase as the white people. But there is a part of the land ceded over which your father the President will not have the control after the treaty is ratified, unless some provision should be made by Congress for that purpose. This is the tract of land which was given to the officers and soldiers of the Virginia line, and in which Solomon’s town is situated. As it respects this tract of land, your father can only promise that he will endeavor to obtain from Congress such a provision as will enable the families who now live at Solomon’ls town to remain there until they raise one more crop. Brothers: Your father has directed me to tell you that he will pay your expenses home, and he wishes you a pleasant journey. GEORGE GRAHAM. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 9, 1816. The Legislature of the State of North Carolina have made an application to the President of the United States, through their Senators and Representatives in Congress, to obtain permission to hold a treaty with the Cherokees, for the purpose of purchasing such lands belonging to the nation as they may be disposed to sell, lying within the limits of that State. To this request of the State of North Carolina the President is disposed to give his assent; and I have to request that you will take immediate measures to sound the Path Killer and the other leading chiefs of the nation, for the purpose of ascertaining how far they may be disposed to enter into a negotiation for that purpose. Although the chiefs have expressed to the Government a wish not to be pressed any further at this time for a relinquishment of territory, yet, as the land which the State of North Carolina is desirous of purchasing at present is very mountainous, and of indifferent quality, and adjacent to the while settlements, and, therefore, probably of little service to the Cherokees, either for the purpose of settling or hunting upon, it is hoped that this proposition may be favorably received. You will, however, use every exertion in your power to induce the nation to consent to hold a treaty for the purposes stated in the resolution of the State of North Carolina, (a copy of which is enclosed,) and advise this Department, without delay, of the result of those exertions. I have the honor to be, Ac. GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of War. Colonel R. J. MEIGS, Cherokee Agent, Rhea Court-house, Tennessee. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, January 13, 1817. It being deemed advisable by the President to authorize you to extinguish the Indian title to the two reservations made by the first article of the convention with the Cherokees on the 7th of January, 1806, provided it can be done on such terms as you may think reasonable and just, you will please to take the requisite steps for that purpose, by a special agent, or otherwise, as you may think fit. Whether you succeed in purchasing the whole, or a part only, of these reservations from the reservees, it will be proper that the Cherokee nation be a party to the transaction, in order to quiet to the United States an undisputed jurisdiction over them; and you are hereby authorized to enter into a negotiation with the chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee nation for that purpose. The Cherokee agent will be instructed to promote your views. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of War. General JACKSON, Nashville, Tennessee. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 22, 1817. Your letter of the 17th ult. has been laid before the President, who approves of the view which you have taken of the operation of the several treaties in relation to the two tracts of land reserved by the Cherokees in the treaty of 1806. The instruction to you of the 13th January was founded on the idea that some of the original res- ervees might possibly be settled on the land, and would interfere to prevent a relinquishment on the part of the nation; but if they have abandoned their possession, or sold out to citizens, they can have no claim. It is, however, considered necessary to obtain the relinquishment of such title or claim as the Cherokee nation may have under the fourth article of the treaty of 1806. But as it is deemed advisable by the President to enter into a negotiation as soon as practicable with the Cherokees for an exchange of territory, in pursuance of the power vested in him by an act of the last session of Congress, I would recommend that the meeting you proposed to have with the Cherokees in May should be postponed until the 20th of June, when both objects may become the subjects of negotiation, and by which time, also, the agent will be prepared to distribute the annuities and the money due tu the nation under the late treaty. Your letter of the 12th ultimo, enclosing the survey of the lands which you had selected in pursuance of my letter of the 4th of December last, was not received until the last day of the session of Congress; therefore, no measures could be taken to obtain a legislative sanction for the reservation by the last Congress. The subject will, however, be presented to them at their next session; and as the land will not, in the mean time, be subject to location, (as I understand it is within the congressional reserve,) no serious inconvenience can result. It would be desirable to ascertain, previous to the session of Congress, whether any locations have been made on the land under warrants issued by the State of North Carolina that may be considered valid. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of War. General ANDREW JACKSON. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 25, 1817. As circumstances may probably make it inexpedient to enter into a negotiation with the Cherokees for an exchange of territory at so early a period as that mentioned in my letter of the 22d instant, it will be unnecessary to take any measure for the postponement of the meeting you proposed to hold in May with the chiefs of that nation, provided such measures have not been taken by you in consequence of my letter of the 22d instant, previous to the receipt of this; and of which you will advise this Department without delay. Mr. Meigs has drawn on this Department for the amount of the old annuities due for the year 1817, and I have requested him to draw for the amount due under the late treaty, with an expectation that he will be able to procure the money in time tu distribute it at the meeting which you proposed. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of War. General ANDREW JACKSON, Nashville. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 14, 1817. Your letter of the 22d ultimo has been submitted to the President, who has determined to hold a treaty with the Cherokees on the 20th uf June fur an exchange of territory, in pursuance of the power vested in him by the fifteenth section of the act of the 26th March, 1804, for erecting Louisiana into two Territories. The act which passed the Senate at the last session, appropriating $50,000 for that object, and which I thought had also passed the House of Representatives, was, it seems, not finally acted upon by that House, in consequence of the very great accumulation of business at the close of the session. The Governor of Tennessee, and General Meriwether, of Georgia, will be joined in the commission with you. .	I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of War. General ANDREW JACKSON, Nashville. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OP WAR, May 15, 1817. The President having determined to hold a treaty with the Cherokee nation on the 20th of June next, at Hiwassee, principally with a view of effecting an exchange of territory, in pursuance of the fifteenth section of an act passed on the 26th March, 1804, for erecting Louisiana into two Territories, has thought proper to appoint you a commissioner for that purpose, to act jointly or severally with Major General Andrew Jackson and the Governor of Tennessee. I have, therefore, to request that you will inform this Department, as early as practicable, whether or not it will be convenient for you to attend to the execution of this trust. The commission and instructions will be forwarded to General Jackson. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of War. General DAVID MERIWETHER, Athens, Georgia. [A similar letter was addressed to Governor McMinn.] StR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 16, 1817. I had the honor to inform you, on the 14th instant, that the President had determined to hold a treaty with the Cherokees, for an exchange of territory, in pursuance of the authority vested in him by the fifteenth section of the act passed on the 26th of March, 1804, for erecting Louisiana into two Territories. I now enclose you a commission authorizing Governor McMinn, General Meriwether, and yourself, to negotiate with the Cherokee nation for that and other objects. The lands proposed to be given to the Cherokees on the west of the Mississippi river, in exchange fur those now occupied by that nation on the east of the said river, are the lands on the Arkansas, and immediately adjoining the Osage boundary line, and which are now occupied by a part of that nation. As a further inducement to that portion of the nation whose habits of life would dispose them to remove from a country where the products of the chase are daily diminishing, and no longer afford a certain support for their families, to one where game abounds, and where the means of subsistence are easily attainable in that mode which is most congenial to their habits, you are authorized to grant a given sum of money for the purpose of affording the means of transportation; and, also, to stipulate to furnish them with such number of arms, blankets, and other articles, as you may think expedient or necessary. Those individuals (and they are understood to he numerous) who have acquired property, and wish to remain, and who experience the daily increasing embarrassments and difficulties arising from the want of proper laws for the protection and security of that property, will, it is believed, find sufficient inducements for the exchange in the benefits which they will derive from the enjoyment of the rights and immunities of a citizen of the United States, and in the protection of the laws of the particular State or Territory in which they may respectively reside; and in the assignment of a section of six hundred and forty acres of land, (and more, if, in particular instances, it may be deemed necessary,) to the head of each family, in which they will have a life estate, with a reversion in feesimple to their child or children, reserving to the widow her dower. I enclose, for your informatiun, a copy of a talk delivered by the President of the United States, in 1809, to a deputation of the Cherokee nation; from which it will appear that the permission which was granted to a part of the nation to remove to the Arkansas was founded on an expectation of an exchange of territory, at least in part, and proportioned to the. numbers of those who removed. Should the nation not be prepared to enter into an arrangement for an exchange of territory at the present moment, much benefit may nevertheless be expected from your mission, as you will be able to explain fully the views and objects of the Government, and to impress on the minds of the different descriptions of people of which the nation is composed the advantages which they may, respectively, derive from an exchange of territory, the ultimate accomplishment of which will be as beneficial to themselves as to the people of the United States. In consequence of the guaranty made in the fouith article of the convention with the Cherokees entered into at Washington on the 7th of January, 1806, it has become expedient to obtain a relinquishment of the claim of the Cherokee nation to the two tracts of land reserved by the first article of that convention; this relinquishment, it is believed, you will be easily enabled to obtain, and for a reasonable compensation. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of War. General ANDREW JACKSON. [A similar letter was addressed to Governor .McMinn, and to General Meriwether, respectively.] HEAD-QUARTERS, DIVISION OF THE SOUTH, SIR:	HUNTSVILLE, M. T., June 11, 1817. I reached this place to-day, on my way to the proposed conference with the Cherokee tribe, to bo held at Hiwassee, on the 20th instant, where I received your communication of the 14th, and the subsequent instructions of the 16th ultimo, together with the enclosures. I have had the military road surveyed and marked from the mouth of Cypress creek to the crossing on Shoal creek, under my own immediate inspection, and have directed Major Perrault to continue it from the latter place, north 20° east, as far as the northern boundary of the reservation on Shoal creek, for the foundry. In performing this duty, I was compelled to employ a practical surveyor for a few days, finding the labor too arduous for Major Perrault, of the corps of topographical engineers. I have ordered the commandant of the company late at Fort Hampton to commence the road at the mouth of Cypress, and continue it as far as the survey of Major Perrault, at which point 1 believe it will intersect the road leading to Columbia, Tennessee. Before the road north of the Tennessee is completed, 1 trust Captain Young will have returned from Lake Pontchartrain, when the above-named company will be directed to commence on the south side of Tennessee, and progress with the road until they meet the detachment ordered to commence at Lake Pontchartrain. This road being of great importance, 1 will have to employ an experienced woodsman to accompany Captain Young southwardly, until the road passes the high ridges which divide the waters of the Black Warrior and Tombigbee from those of the Tennessee. It would be well for Government to select the point where the road intersects the Tennessee for a military depot, it being below the shoals, and a good site; which object had much influence with me in selecting the place for the passage of the river. I am happy to inform you that General Coffee is progressing very well with the duty assigned him. He has assured me that in all the month of July he will have the one hundred townships surveyed; of which, from my own views, I have no doubt. This will be very important, as it will enable the sales to be made in October or November next, which will enable the purchasers to take possession and provide for crops the ensuing year. Permit me to add that it is important to have the sales at as early a day as practicable. It is found by many that fifteen days (the time allowed by law for thè sales of the lands) will not give sufficient time for the disposal of the one hundred townships. To do justice to the Treasury, it should not be hurried like sales at auction; and permit me, therefore, to suggest the propriety, in proclamating the sale of the one hundred townships, to provide for the event, by authorizing the proper officers (should the whole of the lands not be offered for sale in fifteen days) to resume the sale at an early named day, which will afford those attending an opportunity to purchase, without the trouble and expense of returning home, and again attending. The latter part of this communication not relating immediately to the concerns of the Department of War, I have to request that you will lay it before the President for his consideration. I am, &c. ANDREW JACKSON, Maj. Gen. Comd'g Division of the South. GEO. GRAHAM, Esq., Department of War. » FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	CHEROKEE AGENCY, July 2, 1817. We have now convened in a general council of all the principal chiefs and headmen of this nation to deliberate on your talk to us. You give us to understand that you are appointed by the President of the United States to meet the chiefs of this nation and the chiefs and headmen of the Cherokees now residing on the Arkansas. We hear with sincere gratitude and pleasure with respect to the friendship of our father the President of the United States, which he has expressed towards us through his commissioners. It is well known to our father the President of the United States that it always has been our universal desire to meet and promote the views of the General Government, so far as is consistent with justice and reason. Friends and brothers: You say about nine years ago a deputation from our nation, duly authorized, were sent on to see our father Mr. Jefferson, to transact the important concerns of our nation. We acknowledge they were sent. But we can assure the honorable commissioners that they were not authorized to transact any business as respects the division of the nation. It was merely to take leave of our father Mr. Jefferson, who was about to retire to private life, which was communicated through Colonel Meigs, our agent, to the chiefs, and that our father the President of the United States had invited his red children, the Cherokees, to visit him previous to his retiring from public life. That of a division was proposed by a few chiefs of the lower part of the nation; nor was it known to the nation, until a few days before the delegation started to the city of Washington, that such were the intentions of the lower delegates who were sent from the river at the lower towns. The delegates from the upper towns knew nothing of the designs of the delegates front the lower towns until they arrived at the, city of Washington. Friend and brothers: As soon as the idea became doubtful to the, chiefs and headmen of our nation who were friendly disposed towards their country, we then appointed two other delegates, in addition to those who were first chosen, in order to frustrate the designs of that part of the delegation who should attempt to do any thing that would be in anywise injurious to the nation in general. But, unfortunately, when the delegation arrived al the city of Washington, the two delegates, in whom the faith and confidence of the nation were placed, were rejected, and were not admitted to a hearing; and, in consequence of their not being allowed their voice, the first chosen delegates were divided when the subject of division took place. Friends and brothers: We feel assured that our father the President will not compel ns into measures so diametrically against the will and interest of a large majority of our nation. A part of those very men who were on at the city of Washington, who made the proposals for an exchange of lands, have, in a general council held at Costinally, in April, 1810, signed a talk that was sent to our agent with instructions to communicate it to the Secretary of War, insomuch that the Secretary of War might know the resolutions we had made with a determination not to dispose of any of our country, as will more fully appear from the tenor of the letter. Brothers: We wish to remain on our land, and hold it fast. We appeal to our father the President of the United States to do us justice. We look to him for protection in the hour of distress. We are now distressed with the alternative proposal to remove from this country to the Arkansas, or stay and become citizens of the United States. We are not yet civilized enough to become citizens of the United States; nor do we wish to be compelled to move to a country so much against our inclination and will, where we would, in the course of a few years, return to the same savage state of life that we were in before the United States, our white brothers, extended their fostering care towards us, and brought us out of a savage state into a state similar to theirs. Brothers: You tell os to speak freely and make our choice. Oor choice is to remain on our lands, and follow the pursuits of agriculture and civilization, as all the Presidents, our fathers, have recommended and advised us to do; and we hope, by the benevolent societies of our white brothers from the north, that, in course of time, if we should be allowed to keep our country, our white brothers will not blush to own us as brothers. Brothers: The Cherokees are nearly as free as the breeze which fans the shade. We are not yet prepared to adapt ourselves to the laws of the United States. We, as yet, havo but few laws; and, agreeably to the advice of our former father, Mr. Jefferson, we ought not to have many—only those which will be suitable to our situation. If we accede to your proposition, loaded with a burden of laws which we do not understand, we would have eventually to surrender the little which your proposals offer us. We therefore request that you will press the subject no further at present, but suffer us to remain in peaceable possession of this our country, presented to us by our great father, the Good Spirit, from the creation, for our inheritance, and suffer us to keep it for the sake of the donur. Brothers: The emigration of a small part of our people to the Arkansas was unauthorized by the chiefs and headmen of this nation. We. have always wished them to remain in their native country, to be the weak and feeble defence for our beloved country. This we acknowledgt Culioa McTown, Davis Locke, Cabbin Smith, Katehee, Big Half-Breed, Aoneyohitta, Thomas Saunders, Kelacboly, Bridgewater, Sour Mush, Tesqueery, . Oonala, Roman Nose, Doctor Kilaka, The Root, Phillangot itire, Kee Kee, Sleeping Rabbit, Little Nettle Carrier, The Bank, Dreadful Water, Big Rattling Gourd, Geo. Sanders, Kulsultechee, Rabbit, Esaya, Woman Killer, Cursohen Dick, Twokiller, Fleasktiska, Jno. Ratcliff, Jno. Doherty, Jno. Walker, John, Beaver Carrier, Kachetowy, Jas. Downing, James Brown, Likemaqualocky, Charles Hicks, Jno. McTown, Oo. Le Lowa, George Lowry, Th. Wilson, Clerk. Whitman Kilcox, Pheasant, Oo. Water Chuyola , Walter Adair, Foochalar, Jno. Watts, Chenowee, Yeooyokee, Richard Taylor, Glass, Jno. McIntosh, Konsculooga, Bone Cracker, Richard Riley, Chickasantihee, Geo. Harlem, Tunnetehee, Jno. Butler, Schyola, Duck, Thos. Foreman. Going Snake, Richard Brown, To (be Hon. COMMISSIONERS. GBNTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, August 1, 1817. Your communications, dated the 8th, 9th, and 10th ultimo, together with the treaty entered into with the Cherokees, and the accompanying papers, have been received. Folly impressed with the importance of the object which has been obtained, I have, in the absence of the Presi- . dent, determined, on due consideration, to assume the responsibility of complying with the engagments which you have entered into. Yoor bills, therefore, as well as those which may be drawn by the agent under your authority, will be paid; and orders have been given for the collection, at Pittsburg, of the requisite number of rifles, with a sufficient supply of ammunition. Should the Senate refuse their advice and consent to the ratification of the treaty, the expenses incurred will be charged to the general appropriation for the Indian department. My own opinion, however, is, that the treaty will be ratified, though there is no doubt but it will be opposed on the grounds taken in the Senate during the last session, in opposition to the general policy of removing the Indians to the west of the Mississippi. It is also probable that there will be an opposition founded on the assumption that the treaty has not received the unbiassed sanction of a majority of that portion of the nation residing on the east of the Mississippi, as evinced by the small number of chiefs who signed it,’in proportion to the numbers who appear to have been present during the progress of the negotiation; and on the ground that no right to any portion of the Cherokee lands had accrued to the'United States in consequence of the transactions which took place in 1809; and that such right had been assumed and too strongly enforced by the commissioners. With sentiments of very great respect, I have the honor to be, &.c. Gen. ANDREW JACKSON, 1 Gov. Jos. MCMINN,	> Commissioners, <ÿc. Gen. D. MERIWETHER,	) SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, Avgust 9,1817. In consequence of the recommendation of yourself and the other commissioners, I have contracted with Mr. Rockhold for sixty boats, to be delivered at any point designated by the agent between the mouths of Little Tennessee and Sequatchy rivers, and also for the delivery of four tons of lead. I have concluded to forward the other articles from this place to Blountsville, at which point Mr. Rockhold is to receive and forward them to Hiwassee with the first detachment of boats, which he has contracted to deliver by the 1st of November, and earlier if practicable. The articles which I propose to forward at present are five hundred rifles, six hundred traps and kettles, (three hundred of each, if the kettles are to be had,) eight hundred red blankets, and twenty-five hundred pounds of powder. The wagons will leave this place from the 10th to the 15th of September. It is a matter of much importance that Mr. Meigs should have an assistant who is active and intelligent, well acquainted with the Indians, and particularly one who would be zealous in his exertions to promote the removal of the nation to the west of the Mississippi. From the recommendations of Colonel McKee, when last at this place, I am induced to think that Mr. Byers possesses generally the necessary requisites; but, not knowing how far he may be disposed to promote the removal of the Indians, I have deemed it proper to enclose the letter to Mr. Meigs authorizing his appointment to you, with authority to withhold it, provided you think Byers disposed to discourage among the Indians the idea of removal. In that event, you will nominate to this Department some other person whom you may think better qualified. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM. Gen. A. JACKSON, Nashville. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, August 9, 1817. In consequence of the recommendation of the commissioners, I have contracted with Mr. Rockhold for sixty boats, to be delivered to your order from the 1st of November to the 1st of January next, for the purpose of removing those Indians who are desirous to settle on the Arkansas. A copy of the agreement is enclosed. You will give due notice of the time and places you wish the boats to be delivered at, and you will so regulate the time and places for the Indians to assemble as that they may not be delayed for transportation. You will make a requisition on the contractors for the State of Tennessee for the necessary quantity of meat and flour, as it is not deemed necessary that any other part of the ration should be furnished. Mr. Rockhold has also contracted to deliver four tons of lead, and a ferry-boat, which is to be left with the United States factor at the Chickasaw Bluffs, for the. purpose of ferrying across the Mississippi such Indians as may prefer going by that route. Should circumstances make it necessary, you will request Mr. Rockhold to finish that boat without delay, and you will have her sent to the factor at the Chickasaw Bluffs, for the purpose of establishing the ferry immediately. I shall forward from this place to Blountsville, to the care of Mr. Rockhold, five hundred rifles, twenty-five hundred pounds of powder, six hundred kettles and traps, (three hundred of each,) and eight hundred blankets, which he has undertaken to have delivered to you with the first detachment of boats. It is probable that the whole number of boats may not be required during the next winter and spring; in that case, it is presumed you will find no difficulty in disposing of them to the New Orleans traders. It is expressly understood that the boats will be such as to answer that purpose; otherwise, you are not to receive them. You will keep this Department advised, from time to time, of the probable number of Indians who will emigrate this fall and spring; and you will make use of all the means at your disposal to induce the Indians generally to remove, and to impress on the minds of those who are desirous of remaining the advantages of selecting a section of six hundred and forty acres, and of becoming citizens of the United States. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM. Colonel R. J. MEICS, Cherokee Agent. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, August 13, 1817. Your letter of the 12th ultimo was received yesterday, and I very much regret it had not come to hand previous to the arrangement with Mr. Rockhold, of which you were advised on the 9th instant. It will be necessary for you either to go yourself, or to send a person in whom you can confide, to Blountsville, for the purpose of making the necessary arrangements with Mr. Rockhold for furnishing such portion of keelboats, in lieu of part of flat-bottomed boats, as you may deem necessary, and for fixing the price at which the keelboats are to be furnished. The price contracted to be given to Mr. Rockhold for transportation from Blountsville was founded on the presumption that it would be necessary io order to get the goods down in time to wagon them to Knoxville, or at least to a point below Cloud’s falls. A part, if not all, the wagons will leave this by the 10th of September; and as the Indians seem anxious to be getting off, it will be desirable to have the goods and some of the boats at Hiwassee as early as possible in the month of October. With that view, the necessary arrangements should be made with Mr. Rockhold, and some of the keel as well as flat-bottomed boats should be built below Cloud’s falls. Relying on the recommendation of the commissioners, and the zeal manifested by Mr. Rockhold, I agreed to fix the period for the delivery of the first detachment of boats on the 1st of November, on his assurance that they should be delivered at an earlier period, if practicable. Lest my letter of the 9th instant may have miscarried, 1 forward a duplicate, with a copy of the contract. The rifles to be sent out are long rifles; and, with the view of furnishing such Indians as may wish to remove before the articles sent from this place can reach you,l will order one hundred rifles to be sent immediately from Newport, in Kentucky, to the factor at the Chickasaw Bluffs, to be delivered by him to the Indians, on your order, with four pounds of powder and twelve pounds of lead for each rifle. If the lead cannot be forwarded from Newport, the factor must endeavor to furnish it. You will, from time to time, advise this Department of the number of Indians who enter for removal, particularly designating the number of warriors who are entitled to rifles. And should you find that the number of boats contracted for is more than will be required for the emigration of this fall and spring, you will endeavor so to modify the contract as to meet your wants. You will take care to give a written notice, agreeably to the contract, of the place or places at which you may require the boats. I have the honor to be, &c. Colonel RETURN J. MEIGS, Cherokee Agent. FORTVILLE, CHEROKEE NATION, September 19, 1817. On your arrival at Washington city, you will deliver our letter to our elder brother the Secretary of War, which we have addressed through him to our new father the President of the United States. You will state to our father that you have come on for the purpose of making known to him in what manner ihe late treaty was conducted in July last, between Major General Andrew Jackson and other commissioners, on the part of the United States, and the headmen, chiefs, and warriors of our nation, on the other part. You will give the President, our father, a full detail of the transaction of that treaty; you will also state to our father that we have of late years been subjected to the control of the minority of our nation, which causes disaffection and jealousy among us, as will appear from our late treaty, viz: the treaty that was entered into in the Chickasaw nation. We were invited to attend that talk by General Jackson; Toochalar and others were sent on to meet the commissioners there, with positive, instructions to dispose of no lands; but, contrary to his instructions, he entered into a conditional treaty to be ratified at Turkeytown on the 28th of September, 1816; that fatal treaty was confirmed by the chiefs of four towns, between the hours of 9 and 10 o’clock at night, 4th of October, 1816, and not by the whole Cherokee nation, as expressed by General Jackson in the ratification of that treaty; but, on the contrary, there were six or seven headmen present who objected to the ratification of the treaty, as the list of the towns and members from each town will show; and you will request that this subject may be investigated, as an act of justice. You will also state to our father that we have appointed thirteen warriors of our nation, and invested them with full power to transact all the national affairs of our nation, subject to the unanimous consent of the headmen and chiefs of the whole Cherokee nation; and we have also resolved that the committee of the Cherokee nation shall meet at the agency to receive our yearly- annuity from our agent, as our great national meetings have of late produced quarrels among our people and divisions among our warriors. You will state to the President that the United States have been at a very considerable expense in furnishing us rations at our annuities; propose to the President to furnish us money instead of rations, and we will adopt a plan for the distribution of our annuities. Also state to the President, our father, that one of our people had purchased claims in Double Head’s reserve some time previous to the relinquishment of that reservation, and solicit the President to allow him compensation for his claim, as other natives received pay for their claims in said reservation. You will state that, thirteen years ago, at a treaty held at Tellico, we relinquished a tract of country four miles wide, embracing all of William Wofford’s settlement; make inquiry relative to the situation of that relinquishment. You will also state in what manner the first emigration took place to the Arkansas, and the causes of the emigration since. Also inform our father the President of the many impositions practised on us by our neighboring white brothers, viz: by committing unwarrantable murders upon us; stealing our property; intruding over into our country; destroying our range, by driving and herding large stocks of cattle on the same; though we cannot be astonished at these impositions being practised on us, as General Jackson told us, in open treaty, last summer, to look around us and recollect what had happened to our brothers the Creeks. You will also state that the road leading from Tennessee to Georgia, through our country, was given up to Colonel Erwin for seven years, to keep in repair; there has been very little work done on it since, and the blame is laid on the Cherokees for not keeping the road in better repair, for it is now almost impossible for carriages to pass; and request the management of the said road to be given up to us again. You will state that our beloved father, George Washington, had delivered a written talk, in a book, now twenty five-years ago, and said, “In order to be preserved among you as a witness of our transactions together, and to which you may have recourse in future, this book you will sacredly preserve, and not suffer any thing to be written therein. Besides this manner of recording our proceedings, I confirm all I have said to you, in your own method, by a white belt, as the emblem of the purity of our hearts towards you.” These are his own words, and he has promulgated them to his white children, which have gone far and near in written talks. And as to us red people, this white belt has been delivered as the pledge of justice towards us: and upon these pledges, then, are we come before our father the President of the United States for justice. You will also state that, in a late council held at Etower, our warriors had requested our principal chiefs to apply to our new father the President of the United States for his aid and assistance in educating our children; and you are therefore requested to make this known to him, that it was the wish of our warriors, and that they had promulgated their wishes to the nation at large, for some other benevolent schools to he established in our nation, so that our children may be led to the knowledge of our Creator, and they obtain everlasting life through the merits of his Son, and that they may be taught the habits of industry and the comforts of life while here on earth. Sleeping Rabbit, his X mark. Sweet Water, his X mark. Dreamer, his X mark. Chillargatche, his X mark. Kelawaskee, his X mark. Dick, his X mark. SIR:	CHEROKEE AGENCY, October 21, 1817. This will be handed you by a deputation from the Cherokee Indians on the east side of the Mississippi. The deputation consists of six persons; they have been furnished by this agency with five hundred dollars to defray their travelling expenses to the city of Washington, and, upon their arrival there, will report themselves to you, and render an account of their expenses in travelling to the city. I have the honor to be, &c.	WM. SMITH, Acting as agent in the absence of Colonel Return J. Meigs. The Hon. SECRETARY OF WAR, Washington City. BROTHER:	HIWASSEE* October 28, 1817. Having elected six of our warriors east of the Mississippi at our last council at Amoha to visit our new father the President of the United States, their names were reported to your beloved agent to apprize, you of this resolve of the national council then and there held. Brother: We are told you are the proper organ of talks through whom to approach our father the President of the United States, and beg your attentive hearing to what our warriors shall say in behalf of our country and people; and they will state nothing but what is just and to the interest of our people at large. 19 E Brother: We are a great way from your hearing of every transaction of our national concerns, and we are necessarily committed to the care and protection of your servants, and have had many reasons to believe that we have not been treated with justice by our white brothers, which, we are sure, is far from your instructions or wishes to your beloved agent; which causes distrust and jealousy in the ntinds of our people, which, we are sure, is far from your wishes, but that confidence and harmony should pervade through your white children as well as in your benevolent care of your red children; though these unfriendly acts of our neighbors, we are sure, have been awed through the hands of power to prevent greater extent; and yet, among the many ill treatments of, and discouragement in, our relative situation, to our neighbors, your encouragement to our people has not been unavailing in agriculture, and manufacturing clothing, and educating our children; yet are we told by our neighbors that we shall all have to go over to the Arkansas country as hunters, and return to that state again in which our forefathers lived; for a great many of our people are now experiencing the advantages of the domestic habits of living by industry and raising stocks. Brother: Our warriors are instructed to enter into a treaty with the United States, (if in their wisdom they maythink, we have been wrongly treated,) in which may be considered, in lieu of our late treaty, an alteration in some of the articles of it, and to make some additional articles in the mode of payment in our annuity, and to make final settlement with the Arkansas and Cherokees in land and money, as it may be attended with a great deal less trouble and expense than the late treaty authorized. And to all of which we beg your sincere consideration, which is, and that which will be, laid before your honorable control; and hope you will communicate these our wishes to our father the President of the United States, and permit us to subscribe ourselves Your friends and brothers, By order of the principal chiefs:	PATH KILLER, bis X mark. CHARLES HICKS. THOMAS WILSON, Clerk to the National Committee. To the Hon. SECRETARY OF WAR. FATHER:	CITY OF WASHINGTON, November 22, 1817. We, the undersigned, being a deputation from the Cherokee nation, beg leave to state to our father the President, that, in July, 1816, Return J. Meigs, commissioner on the part of the United States, having been instructed by the Government in behalf of the United States, offered to give to the Cherokee nation $6,000 per annum, in perpetuity, fur a cession of land, the western boundary whereof should be designated by a line beginning at a point opposite to the head of Chickasaw island, and to be drawn, due south, to a point from which a line should be drawn eastwardly to the lower end of the Ten Islands on Coosa river. When this offer was made, we declined a compliance with it, wishing to keep our land: but having been notified to meet Generals Jackson and Meriwether at the Chickasaw council-house, in September of that year, as commissioners of the United States, we met the said last-mentioned commissioners, and entered conditionally into a treaty, which we afterwards confirmed on the 4th of October, 1816, in which treaty we ceded to the United States more land than was asked for from us in July of the same year, as above stated, for the consideration of $6,000 per annum, for only ten years. When we compare the consideration finally stipulated, (that is, for only ten years,) with that previously offered us, we are astonished. We find that by this our inability in negotiating we have lost an almost invaluable annuity, which would have enabled us to educate our children, and support our old men and women and poor people. We nuw, in behalf of our nation, respectfully and humbly ask our father to take these circumstances into consideration, and grant us such relief as a fair investigation of the circumstances would warrant and justify. We. are sensible that the treaty has been made and ratified, and that legally we are barred from any relief, ond we do not pretend to fly from our obligations; yet, permit us to observe that, when our case is considered, we are confident it will appear that we are entitled to some relief, by extending that part of our annuity for a term of years longer than was stipulated by that treaty. We cheerfully and respectfully submit (his statement to a Government which will not refuse to listen to representations of its youngest children. GOING SNAKE, Speaker to the Deputation. GEORGE HARLIN,	ROMAN NOSE, JAMES BROWN,	RICHARD TAYLOR, RICHARD RILEY, Clerk to the Deputation. To His Excellency JAMES MONROE, President of the United States. 'FATHER:	CITY OF WASHINGTON, November 22, 1817. The Cherokee deputation with the following observations may accompany their memorial this day presented. In the first place, the Cherokee deputation wish it to be understood that they disclaim every idea of improper reflection on Generals Jackson and Meriwether, and have no doubt that, as commissioners in making the treaty alluded to in the memorial, they acted with pure intentions; but, when the deputation reflect on the difference of the consideration given to the Chickasaws, and compare it with that given to the Cherokees, (their feelings suffer by the comparison,) the longer continuance of the annuity to the Chickasaws, the reserves made in favor of several Chickasaw chiefs, and pensions to several of those chiefs, (the Path Killer, our head chief, is old and infirm, and has as great claim on his country as any Indian chief—he fought for the United States in the late war,) they discover a marked difference between ihe two tribes, which the Cherokees conceive is not warranted, by having reference to facts and circumstances which actually exist. The deputation will enumerate some of these facts and circumstances, viz: The Chickasaws, compared with the Cherokees, are a recent people in that country; they are few in number; they acquired the residence where they now are, in the first instance, by the mere courtesy of the southern tribes, particularly of the Choctaws. We, the Cherokees, have always called them our youngest brothers; this they always acknowledge; they were once as strangers settled at the Chickasaw Old Fields, at the point where, by the Turkeytown treaty, we have established our western boundary. The Cherokees claimed that land, and drove them from that point to where they now reside. In the grade of rank of the four nations south of Ohio, the Cherokees are tire first, the Creeks the second, the Choctaws the third, and the Chickasaws the fourth: this rank has long been acknowledged. These three tribes call fhe Cherokees their eldest brothers, and the Cherokees call them youngest brothers and nephews. It appears to us that, by a combination of the Creeks and Chickasaws, they have deprived the Cherokees of their rights. We acknowledge that there is considerable uncertainty in traditionary accounts relating to boundary; but all these tribes have no other, and, in point of credibility, Cherokee tradition is as good as others, and has been handed down from a more remote period than that of the Chickasaws. ■ To the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. SIR:	DECEMBER, 1817. On the 22d ultimo we were favored with an interview with our father the President of the United States. We then laid before him our instructions, and, at the same time, presented to him a memorial and petition on a subject of very high and dear interest to our nation. The President listened to our communication like a father, and encouraged us that we might be sure of his influence in obtaining the redress we asked for. This gave us much satisfaction; and as the great national concerns demanded his time, he informed us that future communications on the business of our mission must be made to the Secretary of War; and we thank you for the present opportunity to converse on the various subjects enumerated in our instructions, of which we shall leave a copy in your hands. Many nf those subjects are interesting to our nation; and as we have full confidence in our father the President, and in his administration of every thing committed to him, we cheerfully confide all our national concerns to his wise and just administration, and are confident that his youngest children, as well as our elder brothers, will equally have a place in his mind, and that protection and measures for the amelioration of our condition will be pursued until we can rise from our present state of minority to a state of more perfect manhood, and become citizens, sharing equally with our elder brothers all the advantages of enlightened society; and, in our progress towards such a state, it is probable very interesting transactions may be necessary. And here we beg leave to ask of our father that, in future transactions of a public nature between the United States and our nation, the American Government will not require of our nation any thing which, as our protectors and guardians, they will not, after due deliberation, advise us to comply with; and, having no doubt of the magnanimity and benignity of the Government, we shall return home satisfied, and report to our nation the result of our mission to this. With the greatest respect and fidelity, we subscribe our names. GOING SNAKE, ’ JAMES BROWN, ROMAN NOSE,	GEORGE HARLIN, RICHARD TAYLOR, RICHARD RILEY, To the Hon. the SECRETARY OF WAR.	Clerk to Cherokee Deputation. WASHINGTON CITY, December 15, 1817. We have seen, with painful feelings, a paragraph in the National Intelligencer, under the head of Milledgeville, dated the 2d instant; in it is asserted that the Seminole Indians, now threatening the United States with war, have received eoosiderable reinforcements from disaffected Creeks and Cherokees. The United States cannot be With due respect, we are your faithful friends, GOING SNAKE, GEORGE HARLIN, ROMAN NOSE, The Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI TERRITORY, July 1, 1817. After a long interval of business, as commissioners, &c., a very full and respectable deputation of chiefs and principal men from the Ottoe, Missouria, and Poncarar tribes of Indians, accompanied by the first chief of the Pawnee republic, and two chiefs of the upper tribe, of Sioux, arrived at St. Louis a few days ago, for the purpose of entering into a treaty with the United States. The cause of their not attending our general invitation earlier than the present time was (as they state) owing to an indirect warfare which existed between them and the other tribes inhabiting the country immediately between them and the while settlers. To avoid those enemies, they applied to Mr. Lisa, United States Indian agent, who has thought it his duty to accompany these chiefs to this place; and as they appeared extremely anxious to treat, and as we believed it important to gratify their wishes, or. several accounts, and particularly so in consequence of the great'exertions which we have some reasons to believe are making to prevent many of the Indian tribes, we, in the absence of Governor Edwards, at his home, in Kaskaskia, concluded with those tribes (who were fully represented) treaties, which we have the honor herewith to transmit. The Upper Sioux, and the several tribes of Pawnees, not having a sufficient deputation to treat, we have postponed entering into any negotiation with them, further than merely explaining to them the just and honorable policy of the Government towards the Indian tribes. These Sioux chiefs are of a large tribe of that nation who rove on the upper parts of the Missouri. The Pawnee chief who visits us is the principal chief of one band only. It is to be regretted that a full deputation of all the tribes of the Pawnee nation did not attend and adjust the difference which exists between them and the white traders and hunters who have visited their country in the last two years, as we are informed a serious conflict took place last summer between a party of that nation and the white traders under the control of Mr. Auguste Chouteau, jun., in which one white man and several Pawnees were killed. Several other acts of violence have been committed by that nation unprovokedly. Their numbers, and the intervening country which they occupy, contiguous to the Spanish settlements, render them important to us as a nation with whom the United States should be on the most friendly terms. In a former communication we gave it as our opinion that a treaty with those tribes would be highly important; aod, should we receive instructions on that subject, we shall immediately adopt the most proper measures to have them carried into effect.	We have the honor, &c. Hon. SECRETARY OF WAR, Washington City. SIR:	ST. LOUIS, March 31, 1817. A deputation of chiefs and warriors from the Menomonies arrived at this place on the 20th instant, under the invitation we gave them last year, with the view of entering into a treaty of peace and friendship with the United States. We invited them to meet us here at the commencement of last summer, or as soon thereafter as they shnuld find it convenient. They now say they have done so; and have come in compliance with our invitation, urging many very plausible reasons for not having attended sooner. It would have answered no good purpose for us to have told them we had no longer any authority to treat with them. They would not have understood us; and the British traders might have handled it very much to the injury of the Government, in persuading them they were deceived and trifled with, and had been invited to travel a long journey merely to be laughed at. In this way, the dissatisfaction felt at present by many of the lake tribes would doubtless have been greatly increased, and might probably have been blown up into an open war with us. Taking all things into consideration, therefore, and regarding the general policy of the Government, we thought its interest would be promoted by entering into a treaty with them, conformably to instructions given us on former occasions, although our authority to do so has ceased. We have the honor, herewith enclosed, to forward you a duplicate of the treaty; And have the honor to be, most respectfully; sir, your obedient servants, WILLIAM CLARK, NINIAN EDWARDS, The Hon. SECRETARY OF WAR.	AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 9, 1817. Your letters of the 31st of March and 20th of April were submitted to the President, and returned to this Department only a few days before he left this on his tour to the eastward. The treaty entered into with the Menomonie tribe of Indians has been approved by him, and will be submitted to the Senate at the next session. Should a deputation of the chiefs of the Pawnee and Ottoe tribes come to St. Louis with a view of entering into a treaty in consequence of the invitation formerly given to them by the commissioners, you will, in that event, reassemble the commissioners, and enter into a negotiation with them. No decision has yet been made on any of the claims transmitted by you to my predecessor, or on those lately forwarded.	,	. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM. Governor WM. CLARK, St. Louis, 15th CONGRESS.]	
