No. 84. [2d Session. THE CREEKS. communicated to the house of representatives, mav 3, 1798. Mr. Pinckney, from the committee to whom was referred the representation and remonstrance of die Legislature of the State of Georgia, reported: That a certain tract of country, within the limits of the State of Georgia, bounded by a line beginning at the fork of the Oconee and Oaknndgee rivers, and thence running in a southwest direction, until it intersects the most southern part of St. Mary’s river, thence, down the said river, to the old line, was ceded, by the Creek nation of Indians, to the said State, by a treaty held between the commissioners of said State, and of the Creek Indians, at Gal plan ton, on the 12th of November, 1785, which tract of country was, by the Legislature of the said State, formed into a county, by the name of Tallassee county; and the cession thereof was afterwards confirmed, at a treaty held between the same parties, at Shoulderbone, on the 3d day of November, 178G. Your committee furthei report, that, by the treaty made at New York, between the United States and the Creek Indians, bearing date on the 7th day of August, 1790, a boundary line was established between the said nation of Indians and the United States, whereby the above described tract of country, named Tallassee country, was declared to be within the Indian territory. The committee have not been able to discover upon what principle this relinquishment of the territory of the State of Georgia was assented to oil the part of the United States; it is therefore to be presumed, that it was done upon principles ot general policy, with the intention of establishing a permanent peace between the United States and the said nation. They are, therefore, of opinion, that compensation ought to be made to the State of Georgia for the loss of this territory, and recommend to the House to adopt the following resolution: Resolved, That the United States will make compensation to the State of Georgia, for the loss and damage sustained by that State, in consequence of the cession of the county of Tallassee, made to the Creek nation, by the treaty of New York, unless it shall be deemed expedient to extinguish the Indian title to the said land. Your committee have paid particular attention to that part of the memorial which rela tes to the operation of the intercourse laws, and are of opinion, that part of that law requires revisal and explanation; but, on account of the advanced period of the session, and the variety of important business now before the House, they recommend that such revisal be postponed until the next meeting of the Legislature. 5th Congress.] 
