No. 18. . [3d Session. ONE1DAS AND TUSCARORAS. COMMUNICATED TO TUE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, MARCH 5, 1791. War Office, February 26th, 1791. The Secretary for the Department of War, to whom was referred the petitions of several Oneida andTuscarora Indians, by their attorney, Cornelius Vanslyck, repdrts: That, on the 3d of April, 1779, Congress resolved, “ That twelve blank commissions be transmitted to the Commissioners of Indian Affairs for the Northern Department, and that they, or any two of them, be empowered to fill them up with the names of faithful chiefs of the.Oneidas and Tuscaroras, giving them such rank as the said commissioners shall judge they merit; the names and ranks to be by the commissioners reported to the Hoard of War.” That, in pursuance of the said resolve, the following named chiefs or Indians, of saiu nations, were commissioned, and returns transmitted to the Board of War, vi/.: llansjurie Tewahongrahkon, Tewaghtahkotte, James Wakarontharan, John Otaawighton, J . Christian Thonigwcnghsoharie,'John Sagoharasie, Joseph Banaghsatirhon, Cornelius Qkenvota, Cornelius Kakiktoton, Hansjoost Thaosagwat, Totyaneahani, Nicholas Kayhnatho, J That the commissions granted as aforesaid, appear in the usual form of commissions granted to officers of the line of the army, and specify that the individuals belorcmentioned should take rank from the 6th June, 1779. That, on the 5th of June, 1779, Congress resolved. ” That one more blank commission be sent to the Commissioners of Indian Affairs in the Northern Department, to be filled up with the name of such faithful chief, as they shall deem worthy of that honor.” In pursuance of this act, it appears a like commission of Lieutenant Colonel in the Army of the United States was granted to Louis Atayataronghta, giving the said Louis rank from the 15th June, 1779. That, on the 11th of February. 1785. Congress resolved, “That it be, and it is hereby, recommended to the State of New York, to settle with Captains llansjurie Tewahangahtan, John Olaawighton, James Wakarantharaw, and Lieutenants Nicholas Kayhnatsho, Cornelius Kakiktoton, Cornelius Okenyota, Indians of the Oneida and Tus-carora nations, late officers in the service of the United States, and pay their accounts in like manner as other officers in the line of that State.” In consequence of said act, the State of New York made good the depreciation of pay of the said Indians to the 1st August, 1780, and settled with them for their pay to the 1st January, 1782. That, of the Indians who were commissioned by the acts of Congress of the Sil April and 5th June, 1779, the following now-appear, by their attorney, to claim the benefits arising from the said commissions, viz: ). Captains. Li eu tenants. ^Lieute Louis Atayataronghta. llansjurie Tewahongrahkon. James Wakarontharan. John Otaawighton, Lieutenant Colonel. Captains. John Sagoharasie, by his widow Margaret Oginghtronte, i Cornelius Hakiktoton, ^Lieutenants. Hansjost Thaosagwat. by his widow | Elizabeth Shentijo. J It appears by the evidence of Edward Johnson, that Hansjost Thaosagwat, was killed on the western expedition under General Sullivan, and from verbal information obtained from Captain Michael Connolly, of the late New York line, it appears that John Sagoharasie died some time in 1781, and that Lieutenants Christian Thonigwenghso-harie, Joseph Banaghsatirhon. and Totyaneahani, deserted to, and exchanged their commissions with, the British. That Lieutenant Colonel Louis Atayaronghta, has been'settled with by the United States for his commutation, and for pay, to the same period that the State of New York settled with those under the act aforesaid. On this statement, the Secretary of War remarks, that, however it may be supposed to have been the, intention of Congress that the aforesaid Indians should receive the half-pay and the same rewards as the officers of the late army, that the claim is now precluded by the resolves of limitation, excepting as to the lands to which it appears they are entitled, and which it is conceived they may receive without any act of Congress. All which is humbly submitted to the House of Representatives. H. KNOX, Secretary of War. 2nd Congress.]
