No. 78. ['2d Session. INDIAN LANDS IN TENNESSEE. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, DECEMBER .30, 1797. Mr. Pinckney, from the committee to whom was referred the remonstrance and petition of the Legislature of the State of Tennessee, reported: <- That, on investigating the causes of complaint, therein contained, it appears that, according to the boundary line between the Cherokee tribe of Indians and the inhabitants of the said State, which was extended by the commissioners of the United States, pursuant to the treaty of Holston. in the course of the last summer, the settlements and habitations of a considerable number of the citizens of the said State, which, theretofore, were supposed to be on lands to which the Indian claim was, by that treaty, extinguished, appear to be within the Indian territory; that these inhabitants had been induced to believe that the lands which they occupied Were not within the Indian boundary, in consequence of the late Governor of the Southwestern territory having, in pursuance of directions from tnc Executive of the United States, caused a temporary line to be extended, by commissioners appointed for that purpose, by which line the settlements, above mentioned, were included within the lands assigned to the territory Southwest of the Ohio, (now the State of Tennessee.) The committee, likewise, find, that there are divert other citizens of the said State who occupy lands, unquestionably within the Indian territory, as designated byihe said treaty, which lands they possess by virtue of titles derived from the State of North Carolina, previous to the cession of that 'territory, by the said State, to the General Government; one condition of which cession was, that “ all entries made by, or grants to, all and every person or persons whatsoever, agreeable to law, and within the limits thereby intended to be ceded to the United States, should have the same force and cft'ect as if such cession had not been made; and that all and every right of occupancy and pre-emption, and every other right reserved by any act or acts, to persons settled on and occupying lands within the limits of the lands thereby intended to be ceded, as aforesaid, should continue to be in full force, in the same manner as if the cession bad not been made, and as conditions upon which the said lands are ceded 10 the United States.” _ The committee, also, are informed, that, by the operation of the law, passed on the 19th day of May, 1796, for regulating the intercourse with the Indian tribes, which law has been carried into execution since the extension of the last line, these citizens, of the State of Tennessee, have been compelled to abandon their habitations; and, with their wives and their children, were, by the latest accounts from that country, encamped in the woods, within the Tennessee line. The committee, therefore, in consideration of the premises, recommend, for the adoption of the House, the following resolution: Resolved, That the sum of------dollars be appropriated for the relief of such citizens, of the State of Ten- nessee, as have rights to lands, within the said State, by virtue of the cession, out of the State of North Carolina, and har e made actual settlements thereon, and who have been deprived of the possession of the said lands by die operation of the act for regulating the intercourse with the Indian tribes. The said sum to be subject to the order of the President of the United States, to be expended under his direction, either in extinguishing the Indian claim to the above described lands, in case lie shall deem it expedient to hold a treaty for that purpose, or to be disposed of, in such other manner as he shall deem best calculated to afford the persons, herein described, a temporary relief. 5th Congress.] 
