No. 4. [1st Session. THE SOUTHERN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE AUGUST 22, 1789. The President of the United States came into the Senate Chamber, attended by General Knox, and laid before the Senate the following statement of facts, with the questions thereto annexed, for their advice and consent: To conciliate the powerful tribes of Indians in the Southern district, amounting probably to fourteen thousand fighting men, and to attach them firmly to the United States, may be regarded as highly worthy of the serious attention of Government. The measure includes, not only peace and security to the whole southern frontier, but is calculated to form a barrier against the colonies of an European Power, which, in the mutations of policy, may one day become the enemy of the United States. The fate of the Southern States, therefore, or the neighboring colonies, may principally depend on the present measures of the Union towards the Southern Indians. By the papers which have been laid before the Senate, it will appear, that, in the latter end of the year 1785, and the beginning of 1786, treaties were formed by the United States with theCherokees, the Chickasaws, and Choctaws. The report of the commissioners will show the reasons why a treaty was not formed at the same time with the Creeks. It will also appear by the papers, that the States of North Carolina and Georgia protested against said treaties, as infringing their legislative rights, and being contrary to the confederation. It will further appear by the said papers, that the treaty with the Chcrokees has been entirely violated by the disorderly white people on the frontiers of North Carolina. The opinion of the late Congress respecting the said violation, will sufficiently appear by the proclamation which they caused to be issued on the first of September, 1788. By the public newspapers it appears, that, on the 16th of June last, a truce was concluded with the Cherokees, by Mr. John Steele, on behalf of the State of North Carolina, in which it was stipulated that a treaty should be held as soon as possible, and that, in the mean time, all hostilities should cease on either side. As the Cherokees reside principally within the territory claimed by North Carolina, and as that State is not a member of the present Union, it may be doubted whether any efficient measures in favor of the Cherokees could be immediately adopted by the General Government. The commissioners for negotiating with the Southern Indians may be instructed to transmit a message to the Cherokees, stating to them, as far as maybe proper, the difficulties arising from the local claims of North Carolina, and to assure them that the United States are not unmindful of the treaty at Hopewell; and as soon as the difficulties which are at pre*ent opposed to the measure, shall be removed, the Government will do full justice to the Cherokees. The distance of the Choctaws and Chickasaws from the frontier settlements, seem to have prevented these tribes from being involved in similar difficulties with the Cherokees. The commissioners may be instructed to transmit messages to the said tribes, containing assurances of the continuance of the friendship of the United States, and that measures will soon be taken for extending a trade to them agreeably to the treaties of Hopewell. The commissioners may also be directed to report a plan for the execution of the said treaties respecting trade. But the case of the Creek nation is of the highest importance, and requires an immediate decision. The cause of the hostilities between Georgia and the Creeks, is stated to be a difference in judgment concerning three treaties made between the said parties, to wit: at Augusta, in 1788: at Galphintmi, m 1785; ami at Shoulderbone, in 1786. The State of Georgia assert, and the Creeks deny, the validity' of the said treaties. Hence arises the indispensable necessity of having all the circumstances respecting the said treaties critically in-' vestigated by commissioners of the United States, so that the further measures ol Government may be formed on a full knowledge of the case. In order that the investigation be conducted with the highest impartiality, it will be proper, in addition to the evidence of the documents in the public possession, that Georgia should be represented at this part ol the proposed treaty with the Creek nation. It is, however, to be observed, in any issue of the inquiry, that it would be highly embarrassing to Georgia to relinquish that part of the lands, stated to have been ceded by the Creeks, lying between the _ Ogeeche ana Oconee rivers, that State having surveyed and divided the same among certain descriptions of its citizens, who settled and planted thereon until dispossessed by the Indians. In case, therefore, the issue of the investigation should be unfavorable to the claims of Georgia, the commissioners should be instructed to use their best endeavors to negotiate with the Creeks a solemn conveyance of the said lands to Georgia. By the report of the commissioners, who were appointed, under certain acts of the late Congress, by South Carolina and Georgia, ii appears that they have agreed to meet the Creek* on the 15th of September ensuing. As it is with great difficulty the Indians arc collected together at certain seasons ol the year, it is important that the above occasion should be embraced, if possible, on the part of the present Government, to form a treaty with the Creeks. As the proposed treaty is of great importance to the future tranquillity of the State of Georgia, as well as ol the United States, it has been thought proper that it should be conducted, on the part of the General Government, by commissioners whose local situations mav free (hem from the imputation ol prejudice on tins subject. As it is necessary that certain principles should be fixed previously to forming instructions for the commissioners, the following questions, arising out of the foregoing communications, are stated by the President of the United States, and the advice of the Senate requested thereon: 1st. In the present state of aftairs between North Carolina and the United States, will it be proper to take any other measures for redressing the injuries of the Cherokees, than the one herein suggested.'2d. Shall the commissioners be instructed to pursue any other measures respecting the Chickasaws and Choctaws than those herein suggested? 3d. li the commissioners shall adjudge that the Creek nation was fully represented at the three treaties with Georgia, and that the cessions of land were obtained with the full understanding and free consent of the acknowledged proprietors, and that the said treaties ought to be considered as just and equitable: in this ease shall the Commissioners be instructed to insist on a formal renewal and confirmation thereof? And, in case ol a refusal, shall they be instructed to inform the Creeks ihat the arm* of the Union shall he employed to compel them to acknowledge the justice of the said cessions? 4th. But, if the commissioners shall adjudge that the said treaties were formed with an inadequate, or unauthorized representation of the Creek nation; or that the treaties were held tinder circumstances of constraint or unfairness of any sort, so that the United States could not. with justice and dignity, request, or urge, a confirmation thereof: in this case, shall the Couinissioners. considering the importance of the Oconee lands to Georgia, be instructed to use their highest exertions to obtain a cession of said lands? If so, shall the Commissioners be instructed, if they cannot obtain the said cessions on better terms, to otter for the same, and for the further great object of attaching the Creeks to the Government of the United States, the following conditions: 1st. A compensation in money or goods to the amount of------dollars, the said amount to he stipulated to be paid by Georgia, at the period which shall be fixed, or in failure thereof, by the United States. 2d. A secure port on the Altamaha. or St. Mary-* rivers, oral any other place between the same, as may be mutually agreed to by the commissioners and the Creeks. 3d. Certain pecuniary considerations to some, and honorary military distinctions to other influential chiefs, on their taking oaths of allegiance to (he United States. 4th. A solemn guarantee, by the United States, to the Creeks, of their remaining territory, and to maintain the same, if necessary, by a line ol military posts. 5th. But, if all otters should fail to induce the Creeks to make the desired cessions to Georgia, shall the commissioners make it an ultimatum? 6th. If the said cessions shall not be made an ultimatum, shall the commissioners proceed and make a treaty, and include the disputed lands within the limits which shall be assigned to the Creeks? If notj shall a temporary boundary be marked, making the Oconee the line, and the other parts of the treaty be concluded? In this case, shall a secure port he stipulated, and the pecuniary and honorary considerations granted? In other general objects, shall the treaties formed at Hopewell, with the Cherokees, Chickasaws, and Choctaws, be the basis of a treaty with the Creeks? 7th. Shall the sum of twenty thousand dollars, appropriated to Indian expenses and treaties, be wholly applied, if necessary, to a treaty with the Creeks? If not, what proportion? Richmond, August 5th, 1789. Sin: Two chiefs of the Cherokee, nation of Indians arrived here a few days ago, accompanied by Mr. Bonnet Ballew, who has full powers from a number of towns, to lay before you their grievances, and to make some proposals, which may eventually preserve harmony between the citizens of the United States and the Indians, and perhaps be productive of considerable advantages to both parties. It is at the particular request of these unfortunate people, that I introduce them to you. They appear to me to have been much oppressed; should you view them in this light, your well known regard to public, as well as private justice, will ensure to them every exertion of your power in their behalf. I am unacquainted with Mr. Ballew, but I think I owe it to him to inform you, that he is strongly recommended to me by the honorable William Fleming, as an honest, upright, intelligent man. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, Your obedient servant, BEVERLY RANDOLPH. To the President of the United States. To the President of the United States of .dmerica. The memorial of Bennet Ballew, agent plenipotentiary from the chiefs and head warriors of the Cherokee nation, resident and living in the towns of Cnota, Toquoh, Cutties, Little Telliquo, Timotly, Nioh or the Tassel’s town, Coettee, Chilhowah, Tallassee, Big Tilliquo, Big Highwassa, Cheestowa, Eastanolee, Chatanuga, Chickamaugah, Stickoee, Ottilletaraconohah, Catatogah, Nicogachee, Tuskeegah, and Cheesoheeha, lying on and being on the great rivers Tenasee, Telliquo, Highwassa, Ammoah, &c. respectfully sheweth: That your memorialist, sensible of your past exertions, and pleased with the thoughts of your continued efforts, for the welfare and happiness of the United States in particular, and of mankind in general, and that nothing which concerns them will be thought beneath your attention; your memorialist is encouraged to lay before you a brief account of the present unhappy and distressed situation of the Cherokee Indians, notwithstanding his want of abilities to do justice to a cause of such difficulty and importance. From his long residence, among them, and other Indian nations, on the southwestern frontiers of the Uuited States, he hath in some measure become acquainted with their language, manners, and politics; and more particularly, with their hardships and sufferings, from the Unrighteous and cruel war lately waged against them. Your memorialist, being importuned by the distressed chiefs of the nation, to lay their grievances before the beloved President of the United States, and solicit redress, being deeply impressed with compassion for their sufferings, and impelled by the apparent advantages that must accrue to the United States, should a firm and lasting peace and union be effected,'he was, from these considerations, induced to undertake the arduous though pleasing task, relying chiefly on the providential influence of the Supreme Ruler of the Universe; on the justice and energy of the Federal Government; and on the magnanimity and benevolence of its first magistrate, for success in his feeble, though earnest endeavors, to rescue a nation from the deepest imaginable distress, and to make them a prosperous and a happy people. They thought that they had a well grounded hope, that they might quietly and peaceably have enjoyed all their lands within the boundary lines established by the treaty of Hopewell, in the year 1785; but, to their great mortification and distress, the white people, chiefly from North Carolina, have made daily encroachments upon them: and there are now upwards of three thousand families settled within those boundary lines. After receiving reiterated insults and injuries from some of those settlers, a few of the young warriors killed a family of white people within those boundaries, and soon after, the nation in geueral experienced the most dreadful calamities that refined cruelty could devise, or the vindictive arm of vengeance inflict. Their flourishing fields of corn and pulse were destroyed and laid waste; some of their wives and children were burnt alive in their town houses, with the most unrelenting barbarity; and to fill up the measure of deception and cruelty, some of their chiefs, who were ever disposed to peace with the white people, were decoyed, unarmed, into their camp, by the hoisting a white flag, and by repeated declarations of friendship and kindness, and there massacred in cold blood. Among these, were the old Tassel and his son, who were characterised by their kind offices to the white people, and veneration for the American flag, insomuch that, for many years, it was constantly flying at their door. When your memorialist came to French Broad river, in January last, he found that part of the country in great confusion, and the war carried on with all its horrors, between a party of the North Carolinians and the Cherokees; the former, as it would appear, were determined to extirpate the Indians, and to claim the sole property in their lands. Many prisoners being taken on both sides, and an exchange being earnestly wished for by the Carolinians concerned, they chose your memorialist, as a neutral person, and one who was formerly acquainted with that nation, (having lived long among them as a prisoner, during part of our war with the British) to bring about the exchange. Your memorialist cheerfully undertook, and happily effected it, although strongly opposed by Messrs. Dromgoole and Martin, of North Carolina, whose scheme was apparently to draw the Indians into a treaty, with a view to extort their lands from them, though expressly contrary to a proclamation of Congress. The Carolinians, .to give a color to the war, allege that the Cherokees broke the treaty of Hopewell, in 1785; but this the Cherokees positively deny, and declare that their intention, even since that time, has uniformly been to preserve peace and a good understanding with the white people; and which they earnestly wishrio have once more restored: and after engaging your memorialist to assist them with his best endeavors,,.as far as is consistent with his duty as a citizen of the United States, they in a grand council of the nation, after long and mature deliberation, came to the following resolutions: 1st. That we will immediately treat with all nations with whom we are at war, and procure peace and reconciliation, if possible.” Which has been happily effected. “ 2d. That we will petition Congress to obtain a mutual, perfect, and strict alliance with the United States, and abide by their instructions in all matters of peace and war, provided they secure to us the lands of our forefathers, as bounded by the treaty of Hopewell, in the year 1785. “ 3d. That the part of the nation lying adjacent to the French Broad and Ilolstou rivers, be incorporated with the white people, and become subjects of the United States, living under the same laws with them.” These resolves, the Cherokee nation most ardently wish , may be, by your memorialist, (accompanied by two of their chiefs, Nontowakee and Kasohanse) laid before you sir, as chief Magistrate of the United States, and through you, communicated to the Congress; as some acts of the Legislature may perhaps be necessary to carry their system into full effect, and complete tneir wishes. If your memorialist can be, but in a small degree, instrumental in obtaining for those unfortunate people, and their posterity, the inestimable blessings of peace, liberty, and safety, he will feel himself one of the happiest of mankind. 1 BENNET BALLEW. New York, 22d August, 1789. We, the warriors, chiefs, and representatives, of the Cherokee nation, resident and living in the following towns of Chota, Toquohj Cettieo, Little. 'Telliquo, Timotly, Nioh or the Tassel’s town, Coettee, Chilhowah, Tallassee, Great Telliquo, Big Highwassa, Cheestowa, Eastanora, Chatanugah, Chickamaugah, Stickhoe, Ottilletaraconahah, Catatogah, Nicogachee, Tuskeegah, and Cheesoheeha, our said towns, lyingand being on the great rivers of Tenasee, Telliquo, Highwassa, Ammoah, &c. We, the said warriors, representatives, and chiefs, being met at our ancient and beloved town of Chota on Tenasee, at our council fire, having considered the nature and circumstance of our country and nation, are sorry to inform our elder brother, General Washington, and the great council of the United States, that, from the bad conduct of some of our young and inconsiderate men, too much encouraged by bad white men, who too often frequent our nation under pretensions of doing us good service, and keeping peace between us and our elder brothers, the Americans, have darkened our land with war, and stained our white chain of friendship with blood; but to our great joy the Great Spirit above has removed the cloud, and permits the sun to shine again in friendship upon each party, though the darkness has lasted so long that our country and towns have been spoiled, ourselves become naked, and suffer much with hunger. We now make known to the great Congress of America, that our desire ami intention is to live in the most perfect and strict friendship and alliance with our elder brothers, the Americans; that we shall forever listen to, and abide by, their instructions, advice, and determination, placing the strongest confidence that the great council is composed of such who have eyes of pity and hearts of humanity and compassion : that they will not divest us of our rights and possessions, which our ancient fathers and predecessors have enjoyed time out of mind. We still remember and abide by the treaty held with your commissioners in South Carolina in the year 1785; and though ourjiunting grounds and towns north of Tennessee and Holston rivers is sold unto white people for to settle upon without our consent, we still hope Congress will have mercy upon us: for if our country is all taken from us, we shall not be able to raise our children, neither is there any place left for us to remove to. We rejoice much to hear that the great Congress have got new powers, and have become strong. We now hope that whatever is done hereafter by the great council will no more he destroyed and made small by any State. We shall always be ready to listen, with open ears and willing hearts, to you or any one joined with you, and to no other, for protection, and regulating all matters. We beg leave to make it known to your great and beloved council, that we have appointed and constituted our beloved brother, Bennet Ballew, to be our chief and representative in and over all that part of the Cherokee nation comprehending the towns lying on the aforesaid rivers Tenasce, Highwassa, Telliquo, and Aminoah, and all lying north anti northwest of said rivers and towns'; that we have given and granted unto the said Bennet Ballew full powers and authorities to transact and negotiate all manner of things in any wise touching, appertaining, or relating to the aforesaid towns and that part of our nation, in our behalf, and in our name and stead, in the same manner and form as though we were personally present ourselves, in as full and ample manner, to all intents and purposes; and in testimony of which we have sent our great and beloved warrior and chief, the Rising Fawn Keenuhtcetah of Great Highwassa, to accompany our beloved chief and representative, Bennet Ballew. to Congress, then and there to make known to your great beloved council the truth and sincerity of this our instrument and writing, touching the premises, and to do whatever the said Bennet Ballew may think for the good, tranquillity, and safety of our nation, trusting that the great council and elder brothers will do u» justice, quiet us in our possessions, particularly our lands lying north of the river Tennessee and Holston; it is our hunting grounds, and we have no other to get our living on. Done in Council, at Chota, the 19th day of May, 1789. Signed and acknowledged before us. [Here are addetl the signatures of twenty-four Indians.] At a great talk held by the warriors and chiefs of the Cherokee nation, assembled in council at the great and beloved town of Chota, the 19th day of May. 1789, addressed to his Excellency the President of the United States: Great Brother: The great Being above lias directed our hearts to listen to the talks of peace, and sorry that ever any misunderstanding arose between us and our white brothers. Our last troubles have been occasioned by our rash inconsiderate young men. who. we doubt, have been too much encouraged by white men in our towns, that pretend you have sent them among us to do us justice and to direct our nation how to manage. There are a great many towns of us that live on Tennessee, lligliwassee, Telliquo, and Ammoah, who are near neighbours to the white people, and we wish to live in peace with them. We hope that Congress lias not forgot the treaty last held at Hopewell. South Carolina. We intend to abide by it, and hope Congress will do us justice, as we look up to them for it. and intend to hear their good talks, and also the talks of all them that are joined with (hem, but will not listen to any others. Brother: At our last treaty, held in South Carolina, we gave up to our white brothers all the land we could any how spare, and have hut little left to raise our women and children upon, and we hope you wont let any people take any more from us without our consent. We are neither birds nor lisli: we can neither fly in the air, nor live under water; therefore we hope pity will be extended towards us. We are made by the same hand, and in same shape with yourselves. We send some of our head-men and warriors to you with talk, and to represent the case and circumstance of our nation; and we hope you will settle matters with them to all our satisfaction, and that they may return home to our country with good tidings of peace and friendship; and any tiling done by Congress and our representatives will be held safe by us, and fast by us. We hear that Congress have £<>t strong powers now, and nothing can be spoiled that you undertake to do; this we hear from our elder brother. John Sevier, which makes us glad and rejoice at the news. We wish you to appoint some good man to do the business between us and our elder brothers. I.et us have a man that don't speak with two tongues, nor one that will encourage mischief or blood to be spilt. Let there be a good man appointed, and war will never happen between us. Such a one we will listen to; but such as have been sent among us, we shall not hear, as they have already caused our nation to be ruined, and come almost to nothing. T1CKAGISKA RING. 1st Congress.]
