NO. 252.	[2d SESSION. SALE OF CERTAIN LANDS IN NEW YORK BY THE SENECAS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, FEBRUARY 26, 1827. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, February 24, 1827. I transmit to the Senate, for their consideration, a conveyance by treaty from the Seneca tribe of Indians to Robert Troup, Thomas L. Ogden, and Benjamin W. Rogers, in the presence of Oliver Forward, commissioner of the United States for holding said treaty, and of Nathaniel Gorham, superintendent in behalf of the State of Massachusetts. A letter from the grantees of this conveyance, and a report from the superintendent of Indian affairs to the Secretary of War, relating to this instrument, are also transmitted; and with regard to the approval or ratification of the treaty itself, it is submitted to the Senate for their advice and consent. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. At a treaty held under the authority of the United States, at Buffalo creek, in the county of Erie, in the State of New York, between the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the Seneca nation of Indians, on behalf of said nation; and Robert Troup, Thomas L. Ogden, and Benjamin W. Rogers, Esquires, of the city of New York, in the presence of Oliver Forward, Esquire, commissioner appointed by the United States for holding said treaty, and of Nathaniel Gorham, Esquire, superintendent in behalf of the State of Massachusetts: Know all men by these presents, that the said sachems, chiefs, and warriors, for and in consideration of the sum of forty-eight thousand two hundred and sixteen dollars, lawful money of the United States, to them in hand paid by the said Robert Troup, Thomas L. Ogden, and Benjamin W. Rogers, at or immediately before the ensealing and delivery of these presents, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, have granted, bargained, sold, aliened, released, quit-claimed, and confirmed, and by these presents do grant, bargain, sell, alien, release, quit-claim, and confirm, unto the same Robert Troup, Thomas L. Ogden, and Benjamin W. Rogers, and their heirs and assigns, forever, all that tract of land commonly called and known by the name of the Caneadea reservation, situate, lying, and being in the county of Allegany, in the said State of New York, and containing sixteen square miles: Also, all that other tract uf land commonly called and known by the name of the Canawagus reservation, situate, lying, and being in the county of Livingston, in the said State of New York, and containing two square miles: Also, all that other tract of land commonly called and known by the name of the Big Tree reservation, situate, lying, and being in the said county of Livingston, and containing two square miles: Also, all that other tract of land commonly called and known by the name of the Squawky Hill reservation, situate, lying, and being in the said county of Livingston, and containing two square miles: Also, all that other tract of land commonly called and known by the name of the Gardeau reservation, situate’, lying, and being in the county of Genesee, in the said State of New York, and containing two square miles, and being that part of the original Gardeau reservation which was excepted and reserved out of the sale of a part of the same to John Greig and Henry B. Gibson, at a treaty held at Moscow, in the said county of Livingston, on the third day of September, une thousand eight hundred and twenty-three:	» Also, al) that other tract of land commonly called and known by the name of the Buffalo Creek reservation, situate, lying, and being in the county of Erie, and containing, by estimation, eighty-three thousand five hundred and fifty-seven acres: excepting, nevertherless, and always reserving out of the said Buffalo Creek reservation, the following tract, piece, or parcel thereof; that is to say, seventy-eight square miles, or forty-nine thousand nine hundred and twenty acres, bounded as follows: Beginning on the north line of the said reservation, at a point one mile and a half east of the Cayuga creek; running thence south, one mile and a half; thence east, parallel with the north line, so far as that a line tu be drawn from the termination thereof south, to a point one mile distant from the south line of the said reservation; and thence west, parallel with the said south line, to the west line of the reservation, and thence along the west and north lines of the same to the place of beginning, will contain the said quantity of seventy-eight square miles, or forty-nine thousand nine hundred and twenty acres: Also, all that other tract of land commonly called and known by the. name of the Tonnewanta reservation, situate, lying, and being in the said counties of Geneseo and Erie, and containing, by estimation, forty-six thousand two hundred and nine acres: excepting, nevertherless, and always reserving out of the said Tonnewanta reservation, the following tract, piece, or parcel thereof; that is to say, twelve thousand eight hundred acres, to be laid off in one body, in such a manner as that one-half thereof shall be on one side of the Tonnewanta creek, and the other half on the other side of the creek, and commencing at a point on the said creek one mile and a half west of where it crosses the line of the said reservation, and the said creek being the centre of the said twelve thousand eight hundred acres, until it strikes the northwest corner of the Tonnewanta reservation: Also, the following pieces or parcels of all that other tract of land commonly called and known by the name of the Cattaraugus reservation, situate, lying, and being in the counties of Chautauque, Cattaraugus, and Erie, in the said State of New York; that is to say, one square mile, or six hundred and forty acres, to be laid off in a square form, in the southwest corner of the said reservation; six square miles, nr three thousand eight hundred and forty acres, in the north part of the said reservation, bounded on the north and on the east by the north and east lines of the said reservation, on the west by a line parallel to the east line, and six miles distant therefrom, and on the south by a line parallel with the north line, and one mile distant therefrom; and one other square mile, or six hundred and forty acres, to be laid off in a square form, and bounded as follows, that is to say: on the east by the west line of the said reservation, on the west by a lino parallel thereto, and one mile distant therefrom, on the north by the south line of the piece last above described, and on the south by a line parallel thereto, and one mile distant therefrom. And which said several tracts, pieces, or parcels of land, so excepted and reserved as aforesaid out of the said Buffalo Creek and Tonnewanta reservations, are fully and clearly understood to remain the property of the said parties of the first part, and their nation, in as full and ample a manner as if those presents had not been executed; together with all and singular the rights, privileges, and appurtenances to the said hereby granted premises belonging, or in anywise appertaining, and all the estate, right, title, interest, claim, and demand whatsoever, of them, the said parties of the first part, and of their nation, of, in, and to the said several tracts, pieces, and parcels of land above described, except as is above excepted: to have and to bold all and singular the said granted premises, with the appurtenances, unto the said Robert Troup, Thomas L. Ogden, and Benjamin W. Rogers, their heirs and assigns, in trust, for the use, benefit, and behoof of themselves, and of such other person or persons as are respectively entitled to the right of pre-emption of the said several tracts, pieces, or parcels of land, or any part or portion thereof. In testimony whereof, the parties to these presents have hereunto, and to three other instruments of the same tenor and date, (one to remain with the United States, one to remain with the State of Massachusetts, one to remain with the Seneca nation of Indians, and one to remain with the said Robert Troup, Thomas L. Ogden, and Benjamin W. Rogers,) interchangeably set their hands and seals, at the councilhouse at Buffalo creek, the thirty-first day of August, one thousand eight hundred and twentv-six. ROBERT TROUP, THOMAS L. OGDEN, BENJAMIN W. ROGERS, By their Attorney JOHN GRAY. [Signed, also, by the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the Seneca nation of Indians.] Done at a treaty held with the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the Seneca nation of Indians, at Buffalo creek, in the county of Erie, and State of New York, on the thirty-first day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, under the authority of the United States. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal, the day and year aforesaid, by virtue of a commission issued under the seal of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, bearing date the thirty-first day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifteen, pursuant to a resolution of the Legislature of (he said Commonwealth, passed the eleventh day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one. N. GORHAM, Superintendent. I have attended a treaty of the Seneca nation of Indians, held at Buffalo creek, in the county of Erie, and State of New York, on the thirty-first day of August, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, when the fore going instrument was duly executed in my presence by the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the said nation, being fairly and properly understood and transacted by all the parties of Indians concerned, and declared to be done to their universal satisfaction. I do, therefore, certify and approve of the same. OLIVER FORWARD, Commissioner. g1R:	'	NEW YORK, January 26, 1827. In the month of September last, we purchased from the Seneca tribe of Indians their possessory right to part of the lands which they still occupy within this State. This purchase was effected by os as owners of the pre-emptive title under the State of Massachusetts, in the presence of Nathaniel Gorham, Esq., superintendent on behalf of that State, pursuant to the provisions of the deed of cession from New York to Massachusetts, made in the year 1786; and, also, in the presence of Oliver Forward, Esq., a commissioner on the part of the United States, with whom the conveyance, executed in quadruplicate, was deposited by common consent, to be delivered and to take effect when the grantees shall have secured in the public stocks an annuity or annual income to the amount of $2,583, fur the use and benefit of the Seneca nation of Indians. We understood it to be the wish and expectation of the Indians, at the time of the treaty, that the stock to secure this annuity should be placed in the name of the President, as was done under the treaty of 1797. We have now the honor to inform you that stock in the public debt of the United States, bearing an interest of six per cent., has been purchased by us to an amount sufficient to produce the stipulated annuity; and that we hold ourselves reads’ to transfer it to the President, or otherwise, as he may direct. You will he pleased to communicate to us his pleasure on the subject. It appears by Judge Forward’s certificate, endorsed on a copy of the Indian release, that one part of that instrument is to be delivered to the grantees, une to the Indians, one to the Government of the United States, and the other to that of Massachusetts, when the payment of thé annuity shall have been duly secured. Although, by the terms of the convention between Massachusetts and New York, the grantees of the former State have a right to treat with the Indians for the extinguishment of the native claim, under the superintendence of an agent to be appointed by her, still it appears to have been the practice of other proprietors of the pre-emptive title to negotiate their purchases in the presence of a commissioner on the part of the General Government; and, as far as we are informed, it has been the practice of the Government to ratify or sanction such negotiations. In conformity with such practice, we respectfully request that the proper sanction may be given to the instrument concluded between us and the Seneca Indians, which will, no doubt, be forwarded to you by the commissioner, when the necessary evidence shall have been furnished to him that rhe conditions on which it was to be delivered have been duly complied with on our part. We have the honor to be, very respectfully, sir, vour most obedient servants, '	ROBERT TROUP, .	T. L. OGDEN, To the Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War.	B. W. ROGERS. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, February 16, 1827. In regard to the treaty recently concluded between the Seneca tribe of Indians and the proprietors of the pre-emption right in the State of New York, I have the honor to state, that, in pursuance of law and usage, an agent, in the person of Oliver Forward, was appointed to represent the United States, under instructions from the Department of War; and to sanction, in behalf of the United States, the proceedings under said treaty. This trust has been executed. The intercourse law of 1802, which is a continuation of the act of 1790, with but slight variations, (and none in regard to this subject,) provides that no purchase, grant, lease, or other conveyance of lands, or of any title or claim thereto, from any Indian, or nation or tribe of Indians, within the boonds of the United States, shall be of anv validity, unless the same be made by treaty or convention, entered into pursuant to the constitution. There follows a proviso, which, it is presumed, is that under which the practice has been adopted, of authorizing an agent to represent the United States at such treaties as the one recently made with the Senecas. It is in these words: Section 12. “ Provided, nevertheless, That it shall be. lawful for the agent, or agents of any State who may be present at any treaty held with the Indians, under the authority of the United States, in presence and with the approbation of the commissioner or eomniissioners of the United States appointed to hold the same, to propose to and adjust with the Indians the compensation to be made, for their claims to lands within such State Hpch shall be extinguished by the treaty.”	'Under this provision, it is presumed a contract was made, in 1797, between Robert Morris and the Seneca Indians, under the authority or sanction of the United States—Jeremiah Wadsworth being the commissioner. In this contract, it is stipulated that $100,009 shall be vested in the stock of the Bank of the United States, by Robert Morris, and held in the name of the President of the United States, for the use and behoof of said Indians. This provision was accordingly executed. A similar provision was made in the treaty with the Wyandots and others, on the 4th of July, 1805, in which a similar investment, in as much stock as should produce an annuity of $175, was made. It is true those treaties provide the mode of investment, and refer the guardianship of the fond to the President; and, also, that there is no such provision in the late treaty—indeed, no provision which connects the President with the stipulation provided to be paid to the Indians. It appears, however, to be their wish that a similar disposition be made of the purchase money, by investing it in stock; and that, as in the treaties of 1797 and 1805, so in this of 1826, the President be the guardian of their interests.	. I do not see that it is binding on the President, except from the relation which lie holds to the Indians and the constitution, as the goardian of the rights of the Indians, to be their representative in such a case: I mean where the-treaty does not expressly provide for it. The stock could be entered in the name of the Secretary of War, or any other functionary of the Government whose office is perpetual. But there is no doubt, as the stock in former instances stands in the name of the President, it would be more agreeable that this should also. In conclusion, those treaties hitherto made under such circumstances were submitted to the Senate, except the treaty with the Senecas of the 3d ol September, 1823, executed in presence of Charles Carroll, commissioner on the part of the United States. It was esteemed to be a useless ceremony; the President approving it only. Respectfully submitted.	• To the Hon. SECUETARV OF WAR. 19th CONGRESS.]	
