No. 117. [1st Session. THE CIIOCTAAYS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 15, 1808. To the Senate of the United States: Although it is deemed very desirable that the United States should obtain from the native proprietors the whole left bank of the Mississippi, to a certain breadth; yet, to obliterate from the Indian mind, an impression deeply made in it, that we are constantly forming designs on their lands, I have thought it best, where urged by no peculiar necessity, to leave to themselves, and to the pressure of their own convenience only, to come forward with offers of sale to the United States. The Choctaws being indebted to certain mercantile characters, beyond what could be discharged by the ordinary proceeds of their huntings, and pressed for payment by those creditors, proposed, at length, to the United States, to cede lands to the amount of their debts, and designated them in two difterent portions ot their country. These designations not at all suiting us, their proposals were declined for that reason, and with an intimation that, if their own convenience should ever dispose them to cede their lands on the Mississippi, we should be willing to purchase. Still urged by their creditors, as well as by their own desire to be liberated from debt, they at length proposed to make a cession, which should be to our convenience. James Robertson, of Tennessee, and Silas Dinsmoor, were, thereupon, appointed commissioners to treat with them on that subject, with instructions to purchase only on the Mississippi. On meeting their chiefs, however, it was found that such was the attachment of the nation to their lands on the Mississippi, that their chiefs could not undertake to cede them,: but they offered all their lands south of a line tobe run from their and our boundary, at the Omochito, eastwardly, to their boundary with the Creeks, on the ridge between the Tombigby and Alabama, which would unite our possessions there, front Natchez to Tombigby. A treaty to this effect was accordingly signed at Pooshapukamik, on the 16th of November, 1805. But this being against express instructions, and not according with the object then in view, I was disinclined to its ratification, and therefore did not, at the last session of Congress, lay it before the Senate for their advice, but have suffered it to lie unacted on. Progressive difficulties, however, in our foreign relations, have brought into view considerations, other than those which then prevailed. It is now, perhaps, become as interesting to obtain footing for a strong settlement of militia along our southern frontier, eastward of the [Mississippi, as on (lie west of that l iver; and more so than higher up the river itself. The consolidation of the Mississippi territory, and the establishing a barrier of separation between the Indians and our southern neighbors, are also important objects. The cession is supposed to contain about five millions of acres, of which the greater part is said to be fit for cultivation, and no inconsiderable proportion of the first quality, on the various waters it includes; and the Choctaws and their creditors are still anxious lor the sale. I therefore, now transmit the treaty for the consideration of the Senate, and I ask their advice and consent as to its ratification. _ 1 communicate, at the same time, such papers as bear any material relation to the subject, together with a map on which is sketched the northern limit ol the cession, rather to give a general idea, than with any pretension to exactness, which our present knowledge of the country would not warrant. TH: JEFFERSON. January 15, 1808. Treaty of Limits between the United States of America and the Choctaw nation of Indians. Thomas Jefferson, President of the United States of America, by James Robertson, of Tennessee, and Silas Dins-moor, of New Hampshire, agent for the United States to the Choctaws, commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States, on the one part: and the mingoes, chiefs, and warriors, of the Choctaw nation of Indians, in council assembled, on the other part, have entered into the following agreement, viz: Art. 1. The mingoes, chiefs, and warriors, of the Choctaw nation of Indians, in behalf of themselves and the said nation, do, by these presents, cede to the United States of America, all the lands to which they now lave, or ever had claim, lying to the right of the following lines, to say: Beginning ata branch of the Iloomacheeto, where the same is intersected by the present Choctaw boundary, and also, by the path leading from Natchez, to the county of Washington, usually called McClarey's path; thence, easterly along McClarey's path, to the east or left bank of Pearl river; thence, on such a direct line as would touch the lower end of a bluff on the left bank of Chickasawhay river, the first above the Hiyoowannee towns, called Broken Bluff, to a point within four miles of the Broken Bluff; thence, in a direct line, nearly parallel with the river, to a point where an east line of four miles in length will intersect the river, below the lowest settlement, at present occupied and improved in the Hiyooniannee town: thence, -till east four miles; thence, in a direct line nearly parallel with the liver, to a point on a line to be run from the lower end of Broken Bluff, to Faluktabunnee, on the Tombigby river, four miles front the Broken Bluff: thence, along the said line, to Faluktabunnee; thence, east to the boundary between the Creeks and Choctaws, on the ridge, dividing the waters running into the Alabama; from thence, running into Tombigby; thence, southwardly along the said ridge and boundary, to the southern point of the Choctaw claim; reserving a tract of two miles square, run on meridians and parallels, so ad to include the houses and improvements in the town of Fiiketcheepoonta. and referring, also, a tract of five thousand one hundred and twenty acres, beginning at a post on the left bank of Tombigby river, opposite the lower end of Uatchatigbee Bluff; thence, ascending the river four miles front and two back, one half for the use ol'Alzira, the other half for the use ol Sophia, daughters of Samuel Mitchell, by Molly, a Choctaw woman, the latter reserve to be subject to the same laws and regulations as may be established in the circumjacent country. Anil the said mingoes of the Choctaws request, that the Government of the United States may confirm the title of this reserve in the said Alzira and Sophia. Art. 2. For, and in consideration of, the foregoing cession on the part of the Choctaw nation, and in full satisfaction for the same, the commissioners of the United States do hereby covenant and agree with the said nation, in behalf of the United States, that the said States shall pay to the said nation, fifty thousand five hundred dollars, for the following purposes, to wit: forty-eight thousand dollars, to enable the mingoes to discharge the debt due to their merchants and traders, and also, to pay for the depredations committed on stock, and other property, by evil disposed persons of the said Choctaw nation; two thousand five hundred dollars, to be paid to John Pitcfilyun, to compensate him for certain losses sustained in the Choctaw country, and as a grateful testimonial of the nation's esteem. And the said States shall also pay, annually, to the said Choctaws, for the use of the nation, three thousand dollars, in such goods (at nett cost of Philadelphia) as the mingoes may choose, they giving at least one year's notice of such choice. Art. 3. The commissioners of, the United States, on the part of said States, engage to give to each of the three great medal mingoes. Pukshiinniibbee, Mingo Hoomastubbee, and Ponshamataha. five hundred dollars, in consideration of past services in their nation, and also to pay to each ol them, an annuity ol one hundred and fitly dollars, during their continuance in office. It is perfectly understood, that neither of those great medal mingoes is to share any part of the general annuity of the nation. Art. I. The mingoes, chiefs, and warriors, of the Choctaws, certify, that a tract of land, not exceeding fifteen hundred acres, situated between the Tombigby river and Jackson's creek, the front or river line extending down the river, from a blazed white oak.Btamling on the left bank of the. Tombigby. near the head of the shoals, next above Hobeckenlopa, and claimed by John M'Grew, was, ill tact, granted to the said M'Grew by ()pi-a-mingo, Heuetta, and others, many years ago, and they respectfully request the Government of the United States to establish the claim of the said M'Grew to the said fifteen hundred acres. Art. 5. The two contracting parties covenant and agree, that the boundary, as described in the second article, shall be ascertained, and plainly marked, in such way and manner as the President of the L nited States may direct, in the presence of three, persons, to be appointed by the said nation, one from each of the great medal districts, each of whom shall receive for this service two dollars per day during his actual attendance: and the Choctaws shall have due and seasonable notice of the place where, and time when, the operation shall commence. Art. 6. The leave granted for establishments on the roads leading through the Choctaw country, is hereby confirmed in all its conditions; and except in the alteration of boundary, nothing in this instrument shall effector change any of the pre-existing obligations of the contracting parties. Art. 7. This treaty shall take effect, and become reciprocally obligatory, so soon as the same shall have been ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. Done on Mount Dexter, in Pooshapukamik, in the Choctaw country, this sixteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand .eight hundred and five, and of the independence of the United States ot America the thirtieth. * „ r JAS. ROBERTSON, [seal.] SILAS DINSMOOR, [seal.] And a number of Indian Chiefs. Extract of instructions from the Secretary of War to General James Robertson and Silas Dinsmoor, Esq. dated March mh, 1805. Gentlemen: The object of the proposed treaties with the Choctaw and Chickasaw nations being highly interesting, not only to the United States, but to the State of Tennessee and the Mississppi territory, it is confidently expected that no exertions, on your part, will be wanting in conducting the business confided to your direction, in such a manner as will be best calculated for securing, by all the fair and honorable means in your power, the object in view. You will find, herewith enclosed, a petition front the principal chiefs of the Choctaw nation, requesting the President of the United States to purchase so much of their lands, between the mouth of the. Yazoo river and the Chickasaw nation, as will satisfy a demand which Panton, Leslie, and Co. have against them. The lands to be ceded are to extend from the Mississippi, at the mouth of the Yazoo, along the present boundary to the Rig Black river, and there carrying the whole width of the said tract, between those two rivers, viz: the Mississippi and the Big Black, so far as to contain a sufficient quantity for the payment of the debt above mentioned, amounting, as stated in the enclosed account from the said house of Panton, Leslie, and Co. to the sum of $46,09 02. But, should?, cession be obtained, amounting in value to this sum, anil, on investigation, it be found that the Choctaws themselves do not, in fact, owe the whole, then, whatever balance may be left, after the payment of debts, actually and justly due from them to the said house, shall be paid to the Choctaw nation. You will endeavor to extend the cession, from the main source of the Big Black, say north or north northeast, and up the Mississippi to the Chickasaw boundary; and if the whole tract shall exceed what would be reasonable to demand, for the sum above mentioned, and the expense of the treaty, you will stipulate for the payment of such annuity to the Choctaws, in goods or money, as may be reasonable, but which shall not exceed the interest of such a capital, as, together with the debt aforesaid, and the expense of the treaty, will make the average price for the cession proposed, more than at the rate of two cents per acre. It may not be improper, when estimating the value of the lands with the Indians, to have particular reference, to the probable annual profit which they actually derive from them, in peltries and furs, as a data, by which you_ may enable the Indians to understand their present value, but which is constantly diminishing,from the decrease of the game. The average price paid for Indian lands, within the last four years, does not amount to one cent per acre. It is not, however, the wish of the Government, to insist on such average price with the Choctaws or Chickasaws. The whole amount of the tract, claimed by the Choctaws, and bounded as above, may, probably, amount from three and a half to four and a half millions of acres, allowing their boundary, on the Mississippi, to be, as stated by their chiefs, when at this place in the winter of 1804, viz: above the mouth of the river St. Francis, running from thence, southwardly, so as to strike a certain branch of the Tombigby, near their upper towns or settlements. It is presumed that a considerable proportion of the proposed cession is overflown every year, and, ot course, of but very little value, except for hunting, and until it shall be inhabited, which will, probably, never be the case. The Indians will be allowed to hunt on it, as heretofore, as long as they continue friendly to the United States. Two thousand dollars, by way of annuity, which will be equal to more than thirty two thousand dollars prompt pay, is considered the highest sum which ought to be given as an annuity, in addition to the debt above mentioned, together with the expense of treating for the whole tract as above described. Pensacola, 5th September, 1806. Sir: From what passed during our interview at Washington in 1804. I shall not, I hope, require any apology for again intruding the Indian claims of our house on your notice. On my arrival from Europe in April last, 1 was much gratified by the reports given me by my partners, of the prospect of their final extinguishment, which I flattered myself was, in part, owing to the favorable impressions entertained by your Government, that our influence with the Indians had not been altogether fruitlessly exerted, when called upon. A few months have elapsed, and circumstances have arisen in that short period of sufficient importance to awaken my fears, although they cannot destroy my confidence in your promises to Mr. Simpson and me. On reference to your letter addressed to me under date the 2d May, 1804, and the Choctaw petition forwarded to the Executive in the month of August same year, you will find that the latter is strictly comformable to the arrangements pointed out in the former, as being most agreeable to the views of your Government Why the original idea was given up, and the treaty of November last substituted in its place, it does not become me to inquire. It was no sooner suggested by the commissioners, that their object was the acquisition of the territory ceded by that treaty, than all our exertions were again employed in procuring the assent of the Indians; and, notwithstanding the interference of some despicable characters, who attempted, by the most contemptible untruths, to delude the Indians, we flatter ourselves that our influence was not without its due weight in the negotiation. Impressed as I am, therefore, that our house has not been unsucccseful in its endeavors to forward the views of the American Government, and assured as I have been, by the Indian agents, that our services were known and properly mentioned to the Executive, I must confess that I was disappointed in the result; and were it not for the high opinion I entertain of the honorable sentiments that guide your national councils, I should despair of seeing myself indemnified, notwithstanding the incalculable expense and trouble we have been at. But it is not alone the Choctaw treaty which gives rise to iny fears (for which I hope there is no foundation,) After a most expensive, troublesome, and disagreeable application to the Creek nation, a promise was obtained from them, in 1803, that they would pay theirdebts so soon as they sold the Oakmulgee lands; to this promise, the agent. Colonel Hawkins, was privy, aud, I may say, a party, as it was at his suggestion that the demand was urged, and pressed upon them in that form, as being connected with the favorite wish of your Government. The land has, at length, been sold, but our debts have been left out of the calculation. When the Indians met to ratily this treaty, in May last, one of my partners attended to claim the fulfilment of their promise, but, after much shuffling, they rejected my claim, on the ground alluded to in die enclosed letter from Colonel Hawkins. The fact is shortly this: finding the Upper and Lower Creeks unwilling to admit, as a part of my claims on them, the robberies committed by Bowles and his Seminoles, I treated for, and obtained, from the Seminoles, as an indemnification, a tract of land lying within the Spanish limits, for the cession of which, according to the Indian laws, they were fully competent, by which means my general claims against the nation were reduced within $40,000. This bargain, I do assert, was as fair a purchase as ever was made from red men, since the treaty of William Penn, and has been formally ratified in presence of the King of Spain’s representative, by all the chief men of the Seminoles, on whose hunting ground the land is situated, and you will the more readily admit my position, when informed, that, for a tract of country containing probably less, but certainly not more, than one million and a half of acres of poor land, we gave up claims to the amount of $47,000, principal of which, $ 16,000, ought to bear interest from 1791, and $ 11,000 from the year 1799. being the dates of Bowles’ two robberies, independent of our expenses in treating, &c. Had we been so base as to allow cupidity to influence us in our operations, the rejection of our remaining claims by the nation would have been a just punishment on us, but, so far from this being the case, my agent and partner was instructed, and accordingly offered, to give up the lands to the nation, on their agreeing to admitand pay our claim as originally presented to them; this they refused to do, in a very unexpected, and, I may say, unprincipled manner. I certainly had reason to expect different treatment, and, although I have had many hints given me that improper influence was used to bring aboutthe rejection, I am too well acquainted with the Indian character to doubt its having been a measure entirely their own. This sketch of our situation is given you, with the view of introducing a request that you will favor me with an answer, in which you can give me assurances that the Choctaw treaty will be probably ratified, or, that in any new treaty made with that nation, our claims, already acknowledged by that nation, will be attended to. Von will confer an obligation on me of the greatest importance, and you will add considerably thereto, by favoring me with your advice respecting the Creek debts, on the principle that we will have no objection to give up the land purchased of the Seminoles for what it cost, provided the residue of our claim can be secured. With respect to our claim on the Chickasaws, I have assurances from the chiefs that it will be paid as soon as provision is made for it by the United States; but, as I understand that a new agent has been appointed, will you be so good as to mention our names to him, in such a manner as to secure his active interference in our favor, in case of necessity. I remain, with sentiments of great respect and consideration, Sir. your obedient humble servant. JOHN FORBES. The Hon. Henry Dearborn, Esq. Secretary of JUar. W ar Department, Xovember 12th, 1806. Sir: Your letter of the 5th of September has been duly received and considered. In answer, I can only remark, that the Creeks absolutely refused to accede to my request, to have provision made in the convention for the payment of the balance due from them to your house: and observed, that a great part of your debt had been paid by lands sold to your house in Florida, ami that they should take proper measures for paying the balance. The Chiclcasaws will, [ presume, pay their debt, as soon as the appropriation is made by Congress, which will probably take place in the ensuing session. Whether the treaty with the Choctaws will ultimately be ratified or not, I cannot undertake to say. If it should be ratified, it is presumed there will be no obstacle to your recovering your due, out of the consideration to be paid for the land. I hope no influence of your house has been brought to bear on the free navigation of the Mobile, And am, very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant. II. DEARBORN, John Forbes, Esq. Pensacola, ~th February. 1S07. Sir: I hasten to reply to your letter of the. 12th November, which reached my hands on the. 3d instant. I flattered myself, by recalling to your memory the motives on which I had acted, and the assurances given me by you, personally, as well as by letter, that you would have been so good as to use your influence, in order that justice might be done ns by the Creeks, who, of all the Southern tribes, possess the means of indemnifying us with least prejudice to themselves. The ostensible motives of their refusal, 1 did myself the honor of detailing to you, in my letter of the 5th September last, with candor, and it is scarcely necessary to remark, that our having been paid a specific part is so far lrom being a reason for withholding the balance still due, that it ought to operate rather as a motive for completing the payment, as it can now be done at one half the original sacrifice demanded of them: but, unless the Executive of the United States will condescend to interpose, 1 fear the Indians themselves will be a longtime in taking measures to eflect it. I certainly was, and am yet, under the impression that your letter to me, dated the 2d May, 1801, was a pledge, on your part, that Government would assist us in this recovery, whenever the Oakmulgee lands should be obtained ; and I appeal to yourself, whether lam not justified in considering it in this light. On this principle, I would beg leave to request, as an act of justice, that Colonel Hawkins be instructed to insist on a final adjustment of our claims on the Creek nation, and that they take immediate steps to pay them, either by a further sale of their lands to the. United States, or by instalments from their other funds. The whole balance is now under $40,000, principal, as mentioned in my last, a sum of trivial importance to a nation, but too much for an individual to lose. You conclude with hoping that our influence may not have conduced in thwarting the free navigation of the Mobile. 1 can assure you, not; and what is more, that no olficer of his Catholic Majesty, on this side of the Atlantic, is vested with powers to permit the tree navigation of that river on the. terms demanded by your Government. The Captain General of the province has lately ordered a junta to report to him on the subject, and it is my intention to lay before it a memorial respecting the duties exacted at fort Stoddart on the packhorsemen going by land to the Choctaw and Chickasaw nations; but neither measure. I believe, will affect the present order of things, until the king’s pleasure is known. If I am thus candid with you, 1 have been equally so with others, who. if they do me justice, may easily give you unequivocal proofs, that our conduct has ever been uniformly that of conciliation betwixt the two Governments. The high standing we enjoy under the protection of his Catholic Majesty never has, and never shall be, prostituted to v iews we deem inconsistent with our honor. Our establishment is of a political nature, it is true, but it is such as we have no reason to disavow, and, however it may be narrowed in its operation, by circumstances, will ever be important to this province. It has, however, been my wish, for some time past, to relinquish, and I regret that the non-payment of our Indian debts obliges me still to continue in the country, after it has ceased to be the object of my choice. Requesting that you will favor me with an answer, and make use of this 'communication with the necessary reserve, I remain, with sentiments of great regard and personal esteem. Sir, your obedient humble servant, JOHN FORBES. The Hon. Henry Dearborn, Secretary of I Far. 10th Congress.] 
