No. 98. [2d Session. THE ONEIDAS AND SENECAS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 28, 1802. Gentlemen of the Senate: I lay before you, a treaty which has been concluded between the State of New York and the Oneida Indians, for the purchase ol lands within that State: One other, between the same State and the Seneca Indians, for the purchase of other lands within the same State: One other, between certain individuals, styled the Holland Company, with the Senecas, for the exchange of certain lands in the same State: And one other, between Oliver Phelps, a citizen of the United States, and the Senecas, for the exchange of lands in the same State, with sundry explanatory papers; all of them conducted under the superintendence of a commissioner, on the part of the United States, who reports that they have been adjusted with the fair and free consent and understanding of the parties. It is, therefore, submitted to your determination, whether you will advise and consent to their respective ratifications. TH. JEFFERSON. December 27, 1802. .'It a Treaty held luith the Oneida nation or tribe of Indians, at their village in the State of New York, on the fourth day of Jane, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and two. Present, John Taylcr. Esq. agent appointed under the authority of the United States, to hold the treaty, and Ezra L’llommedieii and Simeon De Witt, agents for the State of New York. The said Indians having, by their sachems, chiefs, and warriors, in the month of March last, proposed to the Governor of the said State, to cede the lands hereinafter described, for the compensation hereinafter mentioned; and the said Governor, together with the surveyor-general of the said State, and Ezra L’Hommedieu, Esq. an agent appointed by the said Governor, pursuant to concurrent resolutions of the Senate ami Assembly of the said State, bearing date the 23d and 24th days of February last, having acceded to the proposal of the said sachems, chiefs, and warriors, and on the 5th day of the said month of March, executed a provisional agreement with them, for the cession and purchase of the same, and advanced to them, at their desire, in part payment of the said compensation, three hundred dollars, to answer the immediate occasions of the said Indians: the said cession is, thereupon, in the presence, and with the approbation of the said commissioner, carried into etl'ect at this treaty, which hath, on the request of the said Governor, been appointed to be held for the purpose, as follows, that is to say: The said Indians do cede, release, and quit claim to the people of the State of New York, forever, the several tracts or parcels of land hereinafter described, being parts of the lands heretofore reserved to the said Oneida nation of Indians, to wit: All that certain tract of land, beginning at the southwest corner of the land lying along the Genesee road, and which was ceded in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-eight, by the said Oneida Indians, to the people of the State of New Y'ork, and running thence along the last mentioned tract easterly, to the southeast corner thereof; thence southerly, in the direction of the continuation of the east bounds of said last mentioned tract, to other lands heretofore ceded by the said Oneida nation of Indians, to the People of the State of New York; then along the same, westerly, to a part of said last mentioned land, called the “Two mile strip;"’ and thence along the same, northerly, to the place of beginning. Also, another tract of land, bounded on the south by the Genesee load, on the north, by a line drawn parallel to said road, and at the distance, on an average, of half a mile to the northward thereof, and extending from the west bounds of a tract of one hundred acres, now ceded, and including Myndert Van Eps Wemple’s house; westerly to the lands heretofore ceded as aforesaid: Provided, That the north bounds of the last described tract, shall be run with such right angular offsets, as to leave the Indian houses, near the northwesterly corner of said tract, twenty chains distant from the same. Also, one hundred acres, to be laid out in a square, and to extend, each way, from the house of said Myndert Van Eps Wemple, along the said Genessee road, fifteen chains, and northerly from said road, fourteen chains, and southerly from said road, twenty chains. Also, all that part of the land heretofore reserved by the said Oneida nation of Indians, along the Fish creek, which lies to the northward of the bridge over said creek, commonly called and known by the name of Bloomfield’s bridge. The said agents do, for the People of the State of New York, in conformity to the said provisional agreement, pay to the said Indians, in addition to the said sum of three hundred dollars, already advanced to them as above mentioned, the further sum of six hundred dollars, and do grant to the said Indians, that the People of the said State shall, annually, forever hereafter, on such day anti place, as are, or shall be appointed for the payment of other annuities to the said Indians, pay to the said Indians the sum of three hundred dollars. And the said agents do further grant to the said Indians, that the People of the State of New York, out of the lands above described, and hereby ceded to (hem, shall grant to Sarah Docksteder, one hundred acres, to be laid but in a square, adjoining the “ Two mile tract,” on the road commonly called Klock’s road, as the said one hundred acres shall be laid out by order of the surveyor-general, with the approbation of the said Sarah, to be held toiler during her natnral life, and thereafter to her heirs in fee; and also, to Michael Kern, one hundred and fifty acres, so as to include the house in which he now resides, with the other improvements made by him around the same. In testimony whereof, the said commissioner, the said agents, and the said Indians, have hereunto, and to other acts of the same tenor and date, the one to remain with the United States, another to remain with the State of New York, and another to remain with the said Indians, set their hands and seals, at the village aforesaid. the day and year first above written. JOHN TAYEER. EZRA L’HOMMEDIEU, &c. Jit a Treaty held at the city qf Albany, in the State of New York, on the twentieth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and two, with the Seneca nation of Indians, by their sachems, chiefs, and warriors. whose names are hereunto subscribed, and seals affixed, duly deputed, authorized, and empowered, by the said Seneca nation of Indians, for the purpose; Present: John Tayler, Esquire, commissioner appointed under the authority of the United States, to hold the treaty, and his Excellency George Clinton, Esquire, Governor of the said State of New York. The said Seneca nation of Indians, by their said sachems, chiefs, and warriors, agreeably to the authority, in them vested by the said nation, for the consideration hereinafter mentioned, do sell, cede, release, and quit claim, to the People of the said State of New York, all that tract of land, of one mile wide, on Niagara river, extending from Buffalo creek to Stedmau’s farm, including Black Rock, and bounded to the westward by the shore or waters of said l iver. The said Seneca nation of Indians reserving to themselves, nevertheless, the right and privilege of encamping their fishing parties on the beach of said river, for the purpose of fishing, which is the common right of both parties, and to be enjoyed without hindrance or interruption from cither; and while there encamped, to use the drift-wood for fuel, but not to tresspass on, or injure, the proprietor or proprietors of the adjacent lands. The said Seneca nation of Indians reserving also, to themselves, the right (which they now enjoy) of passing the ferry across the said Niagara river, at or near Black Rock, or at such other place in the vicinity, where such ferry may hereafter be established and kept, free of ferriage or toll, at all seasonable times, when the boats arc crossing with other passengers or freight. And the saitl George Clinton, Governor aforesaid, doth, for the people of the said State of New York, pay to the said Seneca nation of Indians, the sum of two hundred dollars; and doth giant to the said Indians, that the People of the said State of New York shall pay to them, or their order, at the city of Albany, the further sum of five thousand three hundred dollars; and also, to the value of five hundred dollars, in chintz, calico, and other goods, suitable for their women, on the fifteenth day of February, now next ensuing, in full of the purchase money for said tract of land. And the said Governor doth further grant to the said Indians, that the people of the said State of New York, out of the lands above described, and hereby ceded to them, shall grant to Jasper Parrish, and to his heirs arid assigns, forever. one mile square, to begin at the mouth of a creek, known by the name of Scoy-gu-quoides creek, nearly opposite the head of the Grand Isle, on the easterly side of the waters of the outlet of lake Erie, and to ruii from thence. up the said creek, as it winds easterly, to the line of the Massachusetts pre-emption: thence along the same, northerly one mile, thence westerly to the waters of the said outlet, and thence along the same to the place of beginning: and also, to Horatio Jones, and to his heirs and assigns, forever, one mile square, to begin at the most easterly corner of the above described lot, in the line of the Massachusetts pre-emption, and to run from thence along the same northerly one mile, then westerly to the waters of the outlet of lake Erie, thence along the same to the northerly corner of the aforesaid lot, and thence along the northerly bounds thereof to the place of beginning. And the said Governor. at the request of said Indians, expressed by their chiefs and warriors, and from a desire of accommodating them, dotii engage, that it shall be recommended to the Legislature, to provide, by law. for the passing of the said Seneca and other Indians of the said Six Nations, on their own proper business, on and along any turnpike-road, which may be hereafter established from the town of Canadarque to Buffalo creek, or its vicinity, or over any bridge that may be erected between those places, toll free. In testimony whereof, the said commissioner, the said Governor, and the saitl chiefs and warriors of the Seneca nation of Indians, have hereunto, and to other acts of the same tenor and date, the one to remain with the United States, another to remain with the State of New York, and another to remain with the said Indians, set their hands and seals, at the city of Albany aforesaid, the day and year first above written. JOHN TAYLER. GEORGE CLINTON, &c. State of New Yokk. ss. I, James Kent, one of the justices of the supreme court of judicature, do certify, that, on the. twenty-first day of August, in the year one thousand eight hundred and two, before me canie Jasper Parrish, to me known, and I having satisfactory evidence that he knew John Taylor, George Clinton. Honayawus, alias Farmer's Brother, Sog-goo-ya-wauthaw, alias Red Jacket, Sati-kying-walaghta, alias the Young King. Kaw-je-a-ga-onh, alias Heap of Dogs, Jesh-kaa-ga, alias Green Grass or Little Billy, Kallendewana, alias Pollard. Kuskoda, alias Standing Twig, Kun-nuii-da-gua, alias Fire Town, Sun-non-gais, alias Long Horns, and Kienthowa, alias In the Fields, by his oath before me, in which he swears that he knows them. and. being further sworn, said, that he saw the said several grantors above named execute the within deed; and that lie and Simeon De Witt, Abraham Bloodgood, and Benjamin De Witt, signed it as witnesses; and I, finding no erasures or interlineations therein, do allow it to be recorded. JAMES KENT. This indenture, made the thirtieth day of June. in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and tiro, between the sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the Seneca nation of Indians, of /he first part, and I Villi em JVil-link, Pieter Van Eeghen, Hendrick Voltenhoven, IV. JViliink, the younger, J. JVillink, the younger, (son of Jan) Jan Gabriel Van Staphorst, Port, of Van Staphorst, the younger. Cornelius Vollenhoven, and Hendrick Scye, all of the city of .Amsterdam, and Republic of Batavia, by Joseph Ellieott. Esquire, their agent and attorney, of the second part: Whereas, at a treaty, held under the authority of the United States, with the said Seneca nation of Indians, at Buffalo creek, in the county of Ontario, and State of New \ ork. on the day of the date of these presents, by the Honorable John Tayler, Esquire, a commissioner appointed by the President of the United States, to hold the same, in pursuance of the constitution, and of the act of the Congress of the United States, in such case made and provided, a convention was entered into, in the presence and with the approbation of the said commissioner, between the said Seneca nation of Indians and the said M ilhem \\'"i I link, Pieter Van Eeghen, Hendrick Vollenhoven, W. Willink, the younger, J. Willink. the younger, (son of Jan) Jan Gabriel Van Staphorst. Roel,ofVan Staphorst, the younger, Cornelius Vollenhoven, and Hendrick Seye, by the saitl Joseph Ellieott, their agent and attorney, lawfully constituted and appointed for that purpose: Now. this indenture witnesseth, that the said parties of the first part, for and in consideration of the lands hereinafter described, do hereby exchange, cede, and for ever quit claim to the said parties of the second part, their heirs and assigns, all those lands, situate, lying, and being in the county of Ontario, and State of New York, being part of the lands described and reserved by the said parties of the first part, in a treaty or convention held by the" Honorable Jeremiah Wadsworth, Esquire, under the authority of the United States, on the Genesee river, the loth day of September, 1797, in the words following, viz: “Beginning at the mouth of the Eighteen Mile, or Kogh-quaw-gu creek: thence a line or lines to be drawn parallel to lake Erie,at the distance of one mile from the lake, to the mouth of Cataraugus creek; thence a line or lines extending twelve miles up the north side of said creek, at the distance of one mile therefrom: thence a direct line to the said creek; thence down the said creek to lake Erie; thence along the lake to the first mentioned creek: and thence to the place of beginning." Also, one other piece at Cataraugus, ” Beginning at the shore of lake Erie, on the south side of Cataraugus creek, at the distance of one mile from the mouth thereof; thence running one mile from the lake; thence, on a line parallel thereto, to a point within one mile from the Con-non-daw-we-gea creek; thence up the said creek one mile, on a line parallel thereto; thence on a direct line to the said creek; thence down the same to lake Erie; thence along the lake to the place of beginning;*’ reference being thereunto had will fully appear, together with all and singular the rights, privileges, hereditaments, and appurtenances, thereunto belonging, or in any wise appertaining: and all the estate, right, title, and interest, w hatsoever, of them, the said parties of the first part, and their nation, of, in, and to. the said tracts of land above described; to have and to hold, all and singular the said granted premises, with the appurtenances, to the said parties of the second part, their heirs and assigns, to their only proper use. benefit, and behoof, for ever. And. in consideration of the said lands, described and ceded as aforesaid, the said parties of the second part, by Joseph Ellieott, their agent and attorney, as aforesaid, do hereby exchange, cede, release, and quit claim to the said parties of the first part, and their nation, (the said parties of the second part reserving to themselves the right of pre-emption) all that certain tract or parcel of land, situate as aforesaid, beginning at a post marked No. 0. standing on the bank of lake Erie, at the mouth of Cataraugus creek, and on the north bank thereof; thence along the shore of said lake, N. 11°, E. -1 chains; N. 13°, E. 45 chains; N. 19°, E. 11 chains, 65 links, to a post; thence east, one hundred and nineteen chains, to a post; thence south, fourteen chains, twenty-seven links, to a post; thence east, six hundred and forty chains, to a post standing in the meridian, between the 8th and 9th ranges; thence along said meridian, south, six hundred and seventeen chains, seventy-five links, to a post standing on the south bank of Cataraugus creek; thence west, one hundred and sixty chains, to a post: thence north, two hundred and ninety chains, twenty-five links, to a post; thence west, four hundred and eightv-two chains, thirty-one links, to a post; thence north, two hundred and nineteen chains, fifty links, to a post standing on the north bank of Cataraugus creek; thence down the same, and along the several meanders thereof, to the place of beginning: To hold to the saitl parties of the first part, in the same manner and by the same tenure as the lands reset veil by the said parties of the first part, in and by the said treaty or convention, entered into on Genesee river, the 15th day of September. 1797, as aforesaid, were intended to be held. In testimony whereof, the parties to these presents have hereunto, and to two other indentures of the same tenor and date, one to remain with the United States, one to remain with the said parties of the first part, and one other to remain with the said parties of the second part, interchangeably set their hands and seals, the day and year first above written. JOSEPH ELLICOTT, Jlttomey for the Holland Company. Done at a full and general treaty of the Seneca nation of Indians, held at Buffalo creek, in the county of Ontario, and State of New York, on the thirtieth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and two, under the authority of the United States. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal, the day and year aforesaid. JOHN TAYLER. At a Treaty held under the authority of the United Stutes, at Buffalo creek, in the county of Ontario, and State of New York, between the sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the Seneca Nation of Indians, on behalf of said nation, and Oliver Phelps, Esquire, of the county of Ontario, Isaac Bronson. Esquire, of the city of New York, and Horatio Jones, of the said county of Ontario, in the presence of John Tayler, Esquire, commissioner, appointed by the President of the United Stutes for holding said treaty: Know all men by these presents: That the said sachems, chiefs, and warriors, for, and in consideration of, the sum of twelve hundred dollars, lawful money of the United States, unto them in hand paid by the said Oliver Phelps, Isaac Bronson, and Horatio Jones, at or immediately before the sealing and delivery hereof, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, have, and by these presents do, grant, remise, release, and forever quit claim, and confirm, unto the said Oliver Phelps, Isaac Bronson, and Horatio Jones, and to their heirs and assigns, all that tract of land commonly called and known by the name of Little Beard’s Reservation, situate, lying, and being in the said county of Ontario, bounded on the east by the Genesee river and Little Beard’s creek, on the south and west by other lands of the said parties of the second part, and on the north by Big Tree Reservation, containing'two square miles, or twelve hundred and eighty acres, together with all and singular the hereditaments and appurtenances whatsoever, thereunto belonging, or in anywise appertaining, to hold to them, the said Oliver Phelps, Isaac Bronson, and Horatio Jones, their heirs and assigns, to the only proper use and behoof of them, the said Oliver Phelps, Isaac Bronson, and Horatio Jones, their heirs and assigns, forever. In testimony whereof, the said commissioner, and the said parties, have hereunto, and to two other instruments of the same tenor and date, one to remain with the United States, one to remain with the Seneca nation of Indians, and one to remain with the said Oliver Phelps, Isaac Bronson, and Horatio Jones, interchangeably set their hands and seals, dated the thirtieth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and two. „ Done at a full and general treaty of the Seneca nation of Indians, held at Buffalo creek, in the county of Ontario, and State of New York, on the thirtieth day.oi June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and two, under the authority of the United States. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal, the day and vear aforesaid. JOHN TAYLER. Albany, 10th July, 1802. Sin: I have the honor to transmit you, for the approbation of the President, the result ot a treaty held with the Oneida nation of Indians, at the request of the Governor of the State of New York, for the purchase of a part of their reserved lands. Also of two other treaties, held with the Seneca nation of Indians; the first, at the request of the Holland Land Company, the other, at the request of Oliver Phelps, Esquire, both for the exchange of lands, the pre-emption right of which had been.ceded by the State of New York to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The application of the Holland Company, you will recollect, was mentioned in your letter to me, enclosing the commission for holding of treaties with those Indians. 1 have, therefore, signed the duplicates, and delivered them to the parties; but, as the latter was not noticed in that letter, or in any other ollicial communication to me, I have signed the copy herewith transmitted only, and shall retain the duplicates, until I am directed by you to deliver them to the parties; indeed, I should have wholly declined holding the latter treaty, had not Mr. Phelps assured me that he had corresponded with you on the subject, and that you considered the holding of it by me as fully authorized by my commission. Agreeable to your instructions, I communicated the purport of both the above applications to Governor Clinton, to which he had no objections. The Governor will, 1 presume, inform you of the failure of the negotiations of his agents, for the purchase of the land of Black Rock; and I cannot help declaring, that the conduct of the Indians on that occasion, appeared to me to be very uncandid and exceptionable, and which, from the observations I was enabled to make, I am induced to ascribe to some improper influence. I have die honor to be. sir, your most obedient servant, JOHN TAYLER. The Hon. II. Dearborn, Secretary of JVar. Albany, 23d August, 1802. Sib: I have the honor to transmit to you, enclosed, a treaty held by me, at the request of his Excellency Governor Clinton, with the Seneca nation of Indians, for the extinguishment of their claim to the lands on Niagara river, including Black Rock, for the approbation of the President; and to assure you, that the business was conducted with the greatest fairness and cordiality. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your most obedient servant. JOHN TAYLER. The Honorable Henry Dearborn. Albany, July 2ith, 1802. Sir: I take the liberty to represent to you. that, in the centre of a tract of land, which I own, on the west side of the Genesee river, the Seneca nation of Indians bad a small reservation of two square miles, called Little Beard’s reservation; that the settlers on my land, and the Indians, from their different practices respecting their cattle, and various other matters, were mutually troublesome; and that, in consequence of this, the Indians were desirous of making an exchange of land with me. and taking an equal quantity adjoining some of their larger reservations: that, at the time it was expected that, at the request of the State of New York, a commissioner, on the part of the United States, would be appointed to attend the late treaty with the Seneca nation, I wrote to the Hon. De Witt Clinton, and to the present Postmaster General, requesting them to represent these facts to the Secretary of War, with a view to have it a part of the commission of the gentlemen who should be appointed, to attend the treaty which should be holden between the Indians and myself, respecting this reservation; that Mr. Clinton informed me, by letter, that the matter liatl been stated agreeable to my request; and that the commissioner would be authorized accordingly; and that, depending on this, I supposed it was intended to have been included in the commission, although, on examining it, there appears to be nothing explicit on the.subject. That, situated as this business was,   Judge Tayler attended a treaty winch I held for the purpose of making the exchange mentioned; that we easily came to an agreement, as our interests and views coincided: and that the commissioner on the part of the United States, signed the papers which were intended to carry our bargain into effect, in the manner lie has represented, or will represent to you. I hope this transaction may meet with your approbation, and, in order to accommodate the parties, without the delay and expense of another treaty, be carried into full effect, by obtaining the sanction of the President. I am, with respect, your Inimble servant, OLIVER PHELPS. Henry Dearborn, Esq. Philadelphia, 9th August, 1802. Sir: At the treaty held under the authority of the United States, on the Genesee l iver, in the year 1797, the right of the native Indians to a large tract of country, situate within the State of New York, and owned principally by a company of gentlemen in Holland, usually called the Holland Land Company, was extinguished by purchase, the Indians reserving, nevertheless, to their own use, certain tracts within the ceded country, described by specific boundaries. Among the lands thus reserved, a tract, usually called the Cattaraugus reservation, was afterwards tound to be located in a manner inconvenient to the Indians, which has occasioned, from them, frequent application to the agents of the company for an exchange of it for other lands belonging to the company, the native right to which was ceded by the same treaty. From a desire to secure the -friendship, and conciliate the good will of the Indians, these applications have been favorably regarded: but the difficulty and expense of holding a treaty, in the manner prescribed by the laws of the United States, and of the States of New York and Massachusetts, have hitherto rendered it impracticable to carry into effect the friendly and accommodating disposition of the company on this subject. At the treaty lately held, for another purpose, at Buffalo creek, the importunities of the Indians to effect this ex change were renewed, and Joseph Ellicott, Esq. the agent of the company in that country, actuated by a desire to remove this constant source of complaint and dissatisfaction, (having no opportunity, previously, to consult with me on the subject) without my privity, availed himself of the presence of the commissioner of the United States, to enter into the agreement, of which I have the honor to enclose you a copy, and which, 1 presume, has been, before this, submitted to the President. As, by the deed of cession between New York and Massachusetts, any grantee under the latter State is restricted from making any purchase, of the native Indians, unless in the presence, and with the approbation of, a superintendent, to he appointed of that State; and as, by an act of the Legislature of the State of New York, any contract for the sale, or other disposition of any lands within that State, without the authority and consent of the Legislature, is declared void, and the party making it, subject to punishment, it would seem, that the agreement thus made by Mr. Ellicott, although with the approbation of the commissioner of the United States, is of no binding force, unless it shall he sanctioned by some future act of the Legislatures of Massachusetts and New York. As this would be an object of essential importance, not only to the Holland Company, by saving to them the expense of another treaty, for the same object, but also to every other person who may be interested m the success of future negotiations with these Indians, by preventing that lu>s of confidence which would necessarily ensue, from what might appear to them a want of good laith, should the terms of an agreement, finis solemnly made under the authority of the General Government, not be adhered to, I take the liberty to suggest, for your consideration, the propriety of submitting this instrument to the respective Legislatures of New York and Massachusetts, for their approbation. If such a measure, on the part of the Government, should not appear improper, I flatter myself with the hope, that it will receive their attention. The Holland Company, whom I represent, have a strong interest, in common with all other landholder.-, in this remote frontier country, to secure the confidence, and conciliate the good will of the savages; but. beyond this, they can derive no advantage from the success of the application which I have now the honor to make. I have the honor to be, your most obedient bumble servant, PAUI/'BUSTI, ft air ml Agent of the Holland Lund Comp' y. The Hon. Henry Dearborn, Esq. Secretary of fTar. Albany, 21 st August, 1802. Sir: _l have the pleasure to inform you, that I yesterday effected the purchase of the lands on die Niagara river, including Black Rock, from the Seneca nation of Indians, and now stand ready to make a cession of such part of it to the United States, as may be necessary for the establishment of a military post there, on the terms and conditions prescribed in the act ol our Legislature, authorizing such cession, a copy whereof is herewith transmitted. The Indians, as you will perceive by the copy of the treaty, committed (he management of it to a number of their principal and most influential chiefs; and as I transacted the business on die part of the State, personally, it afforded me a lavorable opportunity of removing from their minds the unjust prejudices which had been excited against’the erection ot a fortress in that quarter, and which was the cause of their inconsistent and reprehensible conduct at their late meeting with my agents at Buffalo creek: and I Hatter myself this opportunity has been improved to advantage, as they now appear to ho reconciled to the measure, and to see it. in its true points of view, as calculated tor our mutual protection and defence, and I am persuaded they will return to their nation impressed with this favorable sentiment. A recent unfortunate event, which has taken place at New Amsterdam, (a settlement, near Buffalo creek) the murder oi a white man by one of those Indians, (of which. 1 find by the communications made to me, the President is apprised) lias occasioned a degree of alarm and apprehension among the inhabitants of that and the adjacent frontier settlements, and much anxiety among the Indians for the fate of the murderer, who stands committed in the county gaol at Canadarque, on warrant from a magistrate, to answer for the offence. This unhappy affair took place when the chiefs were at Canadarque, on their way hither. The inhabitants of that place treated them with hospitality and kindness, and the sheriff suffered the culprit to quit his prison, and mix with his friends, during the few days they tarried there. And. on their departure, they, very honorably, complied with their engagements, by delivering him up to the custody ol the sheriff The chiefs offered several reasons to me why the prisoner ought to i>e liberated. They' alleged, that, by our treaty with them, the crime was not cognizable in our courts, but punishable by their laws and customs: that five different murders had been committed, in cold blood, by our people, on theirs; that all these had been commuted for, and settled by presents from the President to the’ relations of the persons murdered, with which their nation was satisfied; and that this was the first murder committed by any of their people on ours, and this was perpetrated by a man intoxicated with strong liquor, in passion, for threats uttered against him: and concluded by requesting that, if be could not be pardoned, that he might be liberated from prison on bail. I endeavored to convince them, and I have reason to believe, not without effect, that tlieir construction ot the treaty was not the true one; that the settlements by presents, or commutation, for the murders committed on their people, was inapplicable to the present case, as they were sanctioned byr the consent of their nation, and wen4 conformable to their own laws and customs, but repugnant to ours: that (lie. Governors had not the power of pardoning a murderer, and that the crime was not even bailable by our law. But I promised them, at the same time, that the confinement ol the prisoner should be as humane and liberal as his safe-keeping would admit; that his friends should have liberty to visit him; and that I would faithfully communicate all they had mentioned to me, in extenuation ot his crime, to our Legislature, who alone had power to pardon the offender, and that, if convicted in their recess, I would suspend his execution until they met. to give them an opportunity to take his case under their consideration, i also gave them assurances, that I would take every measure in my power to prevent private revenge, or retaliation, for this offence, of which they appeared to he fearful. In coining to this explanation with iltem. 1 mentioned (lie propriety of its preceding the completion of the treaty for the purchase of the lands, lest their deliberations might be influenced by expectations that I could not realize. By this arrangement of the business, I was enabled to form a better judgment of the impressions my conduct had made upon them. With respect to the alarm which the murder has occasioned among tiie inhabitants of our frontiers, I presume it will cease the moment preparations commence for the military establishment at Black Rock; and which, as well from its great importance to the Union, as for the safety of the inhabitants in that quarter, I conclude, will meet with no delay. The actual execution of the deed of cession, I presume, need not retard the commencement of the business, as no obstacle can occur to prevent its completion. The enclosed letter from Mr. Ellicott, and petition from the inhabitants, will give you a full and circumstantial account of the murder, and of the turbulent conduct of the Indians, both previous and subsequent to that unhappy event. You will pardon the trouble I give you by this lengthy detail, as it may serve, in some measure, to relieve the President from the anxiety which the unfortunate event to which it relates must have produced; and believe me to he, very respectfully, Your most obedient servant. GEORGE CLINTON. The Hon. Henry Dearborn. An Act for holding a treaty with the Seneca nation of Indians, establishing a military post near lake Erie, and for other purposes Passed March 19th, 180-2. Whereas it is necessary that a treaty be held with the Seneca nation of Indians, to extinguish their claims to lands east of Lake Erie, to enable this State to cede their jurisdiction, or sell to the United States a sufficient quantity of the said land, at the eastern extremity of Lake Erie, at a place called the Black Rock, as may be sufficient for the establishment of a military post: Therefore, Be it enacted by the People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assembly, That it shall and may be lawful for the person administering the Government of this State, or his agent or agents, to hold a treaty (on the part of the People of this State) with the Seneca nation of Indians, to extinguish their claim to the whole, or such part of their lands, at the east end of lake Erie, of one mile wide on Niagara river, from Buffalo creek to Stedmaffs farm, including Black Rock, with so much land adjoining as shall be sufficient for establishing a military post, on such payments and annuities as he or they shall judge most conducive to the interest of this State. And be it further enacted, That it shall and may be lawful for the person administering the Government of this State, for and on behalf of this State, to convey to the United States, after the extinguishment of the claim of the said Indians as aforesaid, in fee simple, such part of the said land, at the eastern extremity of lake Erie, at a place called Black Rock, as may be sufficient lor the establishment of a military post: the United States paying therefor the expense of holding the said treaty, or such part thereof as the person administering the Government of this State shall judge reasonable: Provided always, that nothing in the foregoing grant to the United States shall be construed, so as to prejudice the right of portage of the People of this State, along the said river, through the tract of land which may be so conveyed, and the privilege of a road along the shore of lake Erie; and of a ferry across the Niagara river, at Black Rock. And provided further, that such conveyance shall in no wise prevent the execution of any process, civil or criminal, issuing under the authority of this State, within the bounds of the land so to be conveyed; and such conveyance shall expressly contain such condition. Ancl be it further enacted, That it shall and may he lawful for the person administering the Government of this State, or his agent or agents, at the said 'treaty, to purchase from the Cayuga and Onondaga nations of Indians, all, or such part of their lands, called their reservation lands, on such terms as he or they may deem expedient. And be it further enacted. That it shall and may be lawful for the person administering the Government of tliis State to draw from the treasury, a sum not exceeding five thousand dollars, for defraying the expense of the said treaty, and for paying such part of the purchase money ler the said lands as may be necessary. And be it further enacted. That, in holding the said treaty, it shall and may he lawful for the person administering the Government of this State, or his agent or agents, to stipulate with the said Seneca nation for the granting to Jasper Parrish and Horatio Jones, such quantity of land, not exceeding one mile square to each of them, separately, and to their respective heirs and assigns, forever, at such place or places, within the tract of one mile wide, on Niagara river, as aforesaid, as shall at such treaty be agreed on. Secretary's Office, of the Stale of New York, August 21s/, 1802. [ certify the preceding to be a true copy of the original act. now on file in this office. BENJAMIN FORD, Deputy Secretary. Albany, 26th January. 1803. Gentlemen: I had the honor of receiving, this morning, your letter of the 17th instant,enclosing a copy of the treaty made on the 30th of June, 1802, between the Seneca nation of Indians, and Oliver Phelps, and others. I do not find any thing exceptionable in this treaty; it is probable the irregularity in the application to the commissioners of the United States, may have arisen from the circumstance of the land purchased at this treaty, being part of a tract, the preemption of which was ceded by this State to Massachusetts. In these cases, as there is no particular law of the State authorizing such treaties, the application for the appointment of a commissioner on the part of the United States is not made as usual, by the Governor, nor has beany agency in the business, further than to see that nothing is done to interrupt the public peace. I am, with great respect, your most obedient servant, GEORGE CLINTON. The Honorable Governeur Morris and De Witt Clinton, Esquires. 7th Congress.] 
