NO. 227.	[1st SESSION. TREATIES WITH THE GREAT AND LITTLE OSAGE AND THE KANZAS TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 30, 1S26. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, January 30, 1826. I transmit, herewith, to the Senate, for their consideration and advice with regard to their ratification— 1. A treaty concluded on the 10th day of August, 1825, at Council Grove, by Benjamin H. Reeves, George C. Sibley, and Thomas Mather, commissioners on the part of the United States, and certain chiefs and headmen of the Great and Little Osage tribes of Indians, on the part of the said tribes. 2. A treaty concluded on the 16th day of August, 1825, at the Sora Kanzas creek, by the same commissioners on the part of the United States, and certain chiefs and headmen of the Kanzas tribe or nation of Indians, on the part of the said tribe. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. TREATY WITH THE KANZAS. Whereas the Congress of the United States of America, being anxious to promote a direct, commercial, and friendly intercourse between the citizens of the United States and those of the Mexican republic, and to afford protection to the same, did, at their last session, pass an act, which was approved the 3d of March, 1825, “ to authorize the President of the United States to cause a road to be marked out from the western frontier of Missouri to the confines of New Mexico,” and which authorizes the President of the United States to appoint commissioners to carry said act of Congress into effect, and enjoins on the commissioners su to be appointed that they first obtain the consent of the intervening tribes of Indians, by treaty, to the marking of said road, and to the unmolested use thereof to the citizens of the United States and of the Mexican republic; and Benjamin H. Reeves, George C. Sibley*-, and Thomas Mather, being duly appointed commissioners as aforesaid, and being duly and fully authorized, have this day met the chiefs and headmen of the Kanzas tribe of Indians, who, being all duly authorized to meet and negotiate with the said commissioners upon the premises, and being specially met forthat purpose, by the invitation of said commissioners, on the Sora Kanzas creek, two hundred and thirty miles southwestwardly from Fort Osage, have, after due deliberation and consultation, agreed to the following treaty, which is to be considered binding on the said Kanzas Indians from and after this day. ARTICLE 1. The chiefs and headmen of the Kanzas nation or tribe of Indians, for themselves and their nation, do consent and agree that the commissioners of the United States shall and may survey and mark out a road, in such manner as they may think proper, through any of the territory owned or claimed by the said Kanzas tribe or nation of Indians. ART. 2. The chiefs and headmen as aforesaid do further agree that the road authorized in article first shall, when marked, be forever free for the use of the citizens of the United States and of the Mexican republic, who shall at all times pass and repass thereon, without any hindrance or molestation on the part of the said Kanzas Indians. ART. 3. The chiefs and headmen as aforesaid, in consideration of the friendly relations existing between them and the United States, do further promise, for themselves and their people, that they will, on all fit occasions, render such friendly aid and assistance as may be in their power to any of the citizens of the United States or of the Mexican republic, as they may at any time happen to meet or fall in with on the road aforesaid. ART. 4. The chiefs and headmen as aforesaid do further consent and agree that the road aforesaid shall be considered as extending to a reasonable distance on either side, so that travellers thereon may, at any time, leave the marked track for the purpose of finding subsistence and proper camping places. ART. 5. In consideration of the privileges granted by the chiefs of the Kanzas tribe in the three preceding articles, the said commissioners on the part of the United States have agreed to pay to them, (the said chiefs,) for themselves and their people, the sum of five hundred dollars; which sum is to be paid them, as soon as may be, in money or merchandise, at their option, at such place as they may desire. ART. 6. And the said chiefs and headmen, as aforesaid, acknowledge to have received from the commissioners aforesaid, at and before the signing of this treaty, articles of merchandise to the value of three hundred dollars; which sum of three hundred dollars, and the payment stipulated to be made to the said Kanzas in article five, shall be considered, and are so considered by said chiefs, as full and complete compensation for every privilege herein granted by said chiefs. In testimony whereof, the said Benjamin H. Reeves, George C. Sibley, and Thomas Mather, commissioners as aforesaid, and the chiefs and headmen of the Kanzas tribe or nation of Indians, have hereunto set their hands and seals, on the Sora Kanzas creek aforesaid, this sixteenth day of August, in the year of ' our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five. B. H. REEVES, G. C. SIBLEY, THOMAS MATHER. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headmen of the Kanzas tribe.] TREATY WITH THE GREAT AND LITTLE OSAGES. Whereas the Congress of the United States of America, being anxious to promote a direct, commercial, and friendly intercourse between the citizens of the United- States and those of the Mexican republic, -and to afford protection to the same, did, at their last session, pass an act, which was approved the 3d of March, 1825, “ to authorize the President of the United States to cause a road to be marked out from the western frontier of Missouri to the confines of New Mexico,” and which authorizes the President of the United States to appoint commissioners to carry said act of Congress into effect, and enjoins on the commissioners so to be appointed that they first obtain the consent of the intervening tribes of Indians, by treaty,'to the marking of said road, and to the unmolested use ' thereof to the citizens of the United States and of the Mexican republic; pnd Benjamin H. Reeves, George C. Sibley, and Thomas Mather, commissioners duly appointed as aforesaid, being duly and fully authorized, have this day met the chiefs and headmen of the Great and Little Osage nations, who, being all duly authorized to meet and negotiate with the said commissioners upon the premises, and being specially met for that purpose by the invitation of said commissioners, at the place called the Council Gruvc, on the river Nee-o-zho, one hundred and sixty miles southwest from Fort Osage, have, after due deliberation and consultation, agreed to the following treaty, which is to be considered binding on the said Great and Little Osages from and after this day. ARTICLE 1. The chiefs and headmen of the Great and Little Osages, for themselves and their nations, respectively, do consent and agree that the commissioners of the United States shall and may survey and mark out a road, in such manner as they may think proper, through any of the territory owned or claimed by the said Great and Little Osage nations. ART. 2. The chiefs and headmen as aforesaid du further agree that the road authorized in article first shall, when marked, be forever free fur the use of the citizens of the United States and of the Mexican republic, who shall at all times pass and repass thereon without any hindrance or molestation on the part of the said Great and Little Osages. ART. 3. The chiefs and headmen as aforesaid, in consideration of the friendly relations existing between them and the United States, do further promise, for themselves and their people, that they will, on all fit occasions, render such friendly aid and assistançe as may be in their power to any of the citizens of the United States or of the Mexican republic, as they, may al any time happen to meet or fall in with on the road aforesaid. ART. 4. The chiefs and headmen as aforesaid do further consent and agree that the road aforesaid shall be considered as extending to a reasonable distance on either side, so that travellers thereon may at any time leave the marked track for the purpose of finding subsistence and proper camping places. ART. 5. In consideration of the privileges granted by the chiefs of the Great and Little Osages in the. three preceding articles, the said commissioners on the part of the United States have agreed to pay to them, (the said chiefs,) for themselves and their people, the sum of five hundred dollars; which sum is to be paid them, as soon as may be, in money or merchandise, at their option, at such place as they may desire. ART. 6. And the said chiefs and headmen as aforesaid acknowledge to have received from the commissioners aforesaid, at and before the signing of this treaty, articles of merchandise to the value of three hundred dollars; which sum of three hundred dollars, and the payment stipulated to be made to the said Osages in article five, shall be considered, and are so considered by said chiefs, as full and complete compensation for every privilege herein granted by said chiefs. In testimony whereof, the said Benjamin H. Reeves, George C. Sibley, and Thomas Mather, commission- * ers as aforesaid, and the chiefs and headmen of the Great and Little Osage tribes of Indians, have hereunto set their hands and seals, at Council Grove, this tenth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five. B. H. REEVES, G. C. SIBLEY, THOMAS MATHER. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headmen of the Great and Little Osage tribes.] 19th CONGRESS.]	
