No. 27. [1st Session. N0RTIIWESTERN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEBRUARY' 8, 1792. The Speaker laid before the House a letter.from the Secretary of War, accompanying certain communications with the Executive of Virginia, relative to the existing temporary defensive protection of the exposed frontiers of that State, pursuant to the orders of the President of the United States. No. 1. , From the Secretary of War to the Governor of Virginia. War Department, October 28, 1791. 'Sir: The President of the United States has directed me to inform your Excellency that he has received your letter of the 20th instant, enclosing the letter of the 4th instant, written by the commanding officer of Russell county, stating the depredations thereon by the Indians. _ The President of the United States begs leave to confide the defence of Russell county to your Excellency; that, if you should judge that the situation of the said county demands the services of a full company from the interior counties of Virginia, you will please to order the same from such places and for such time as you shall judge proper. ... That the United States will pay for the services of such a company of militia as your Excellency shall so order, according to the rates established by law; a schedule of which is enclosed: [See the act for regulating the military establishment of the United States, passed 30th April, 1790.] Provided, that the said militia shall be mustered by some impartial and competent officer of the militia upon the commencement and termination of the services of the said militia. Your Excellency will please to appoint some suitable character to furnish the said company with rations by contract, the price of a ration of the description specified in the schedule No. 2, [See the said act.] not to exceed eight cents, unless the most formal and authentic evidence be produced to your Excellency that the ration is not attainable for such price, in which case your Excellency will allow a sum conformable to the price of the ration. If your Excellency should call into service the company of militia herein contemplated, 1 request you will have the goodness to notify me of the same, specifying its numbers and time of service. THE NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. 221 No. 2. From the Secretory of I For to the Governor of Virginia. War Department, November 16, 1*91. Sir: Upon the statement of Mr. Moore, a Representative for Virginia in Congress, it appears that some doubts exist whether the protection authorized by the President of the United States on the 28th ultimo, and transmitted to the Governor of Virginia, should be extended to the exposed parts of the counties of Wythe, Montgomery, and Washington. I am authorized by the President of the United States to assure your Excellency that it is his desire that the defensive protection for the abovementioned counties should be as effectual as the defence of Russell county: and further to inform your Excellency, that the expense of any measures which you may think necessary on the occasion, proportioned to the object, and consisting of the militia, and to be supported with provisions in the manner as pointed out in my said letter of the 28th of last month, will be paid by the General Government, on the accounts and vouchers of the services and supplies being produced at this office. No. 3. Governor Randolph to the Secretary of War. Council Chamber, Richmond, 24th November. 1791. Sir: Agreeable to your request, I do myself the honor to transmit to you the act of the Executive providing for the defence of the county ot Russell. You will observe that a company of men is to be recruited and continued in service until the first of December, 1792.   This measure was adopted because it was considered as a more effectual defence, and was more economical, inasmuch as the frequent changes of militia in the course of such length of service, would, at certain periods,.make it necessary to have double the number in pay. There was no difficulty in procuring a proper person to undertake the contract for supplying rations, on condition of striking off from the articles composing the ration, vinegar, candles, and soap, which articles would be useless to troops engaged in this kind of service. The ammunition which has been advanced by this State, will. 1 hope, be reimbursed, together with that formerly furnished the Chickasaw Indians. _ If there be any thing in the arrangements which have been made for the defence of Russell county which may be contrary to the wishes or intention of the Federal Executive, we beg that you immediately communicate it, that the error be corrected. I have the honor to be, Ac. BEVERLEY RANDOLPH. The Act of the Executive of Virginia, enclosed in the aforegoing. In Council, November \7th. 1791. The Governor laid before the Board a letter from the Secretary of W ar of the 28th ultimo, authorizing the Governor to provide for the defence of the county of Russell, together with a resolution of the present General Assembly, on the subject of the Western defence: Whereupon, it is advised, That a company of men be raised for the defence of Russell county, consisting of sixty-six rank and file, with the proper proportion of non-commissioned officers: to be recruited and commanded by Andrew Lewis, as captain, James Hawkins, as lieutenant, and Robert Robertson, as ensign: that two and a half dollars per month be paid hy this State to the non-com missioned, officers and privates in addition to'the allowance made by the General Government; that the loth of March next be the time, and the court-house of Russell county the place, of rendezvous; and that the service terminate on the 1st of December. 1792, unless the company be sooner discharged; that Colonel Cowan be appointed to muster the men at the time of their assembling, and when they shall be discharged, and report, on oath, the actual number present at each muster. That Mr. Joseph Kent be appointed contractor to supply the men with rations, each ration to consist of one pound of beef, or three quarters of a pound of pork, one pound of bread, or flour, half a gill of rum, brandy, or whiskey, and'one quart of salt for every hundred rations; the price of the ration to be eight cents; and it is further advised, that two hundred pounds of powder, and eight hundred pounds of lead, be furnished from the post at the point of Fork, to the order of Captain Lewis, for the service aforesaid. The Governor-orders accordingly. Attest, A. BLAIR, 0. 0. No. 4. The Secretary of War to the Governor of Virginia. War Department, 5th December, 1791. Sir: , . The letter of his Excellency Governor Randolph, dated Council Chamber, 24th November, 1791, was received by the last post, and submitted to the President of the United States. And I am directed, sir, by the President, to inform you, that having confided the defence of the exposed counties of the Southwestern parts ot’ Virginia to the Executive thereof, he feels satisfied that the defence will be proportioned to the object, and that the means to be employed will be such only as he is authorized by the law's to use for the defensive protection of the frontiers. In raising, therefore, the company of militia mentioned in the aforesaid letter of the 24th of November, the President ot the United States requests that it may be clearly understood, that he conceives the law passed the 30th of April, 1790, authorizes him to call out mere militia, who shall be entitled to receive the same pay and subsistence ow\y as the troops of the United States, which are specified in the said law. To this may be added, such means of transportation as shall be indispensable; but he caiinot promise either bounty, clothing, or any other compensation than the pay and subsistence before mentioned. I have the honor to be, &c. 29 II. KNOX. No. 5. Governor Lee to the Secretary of Jt ar. Council Chamber, Richmond, December 12th, 1791. Sir: My predecessor transmitted to you, in his letter of the 24th of November, the act of the Executive providing for the defence of the county of Russell, and stated the reasons which induced a departure from the mode designated in your letter of the---ot October. . .. I flatter myself, sir, you will not hesitate to sanction the system adopted, as it combines protection with order and economy. Since information reached this place, announcing the late signal defeat of our army, various applications have been made to this government for temporary aid, from the representatives of those counties which lay exposed to Indian hostility. We waited for many days,in the expectation of being honored with your reply to Governor Randolph’s letter of the 24th.; as then we should have explicitly known you;- opinion, with respect to that mode of defence which had been established by the Executive, and might have accommodated our future measures thereto. Being disappointed in this expectation, and longer delay inadmissible, as the General Assembly would soon adjourn, we have adopted our arrangements for the defence ol the district of Monongalia and the counties of Greenbriar, Kenhawa, Wythe, and Montgomery, on the same principles which regulated the Executive, in their act providing for the defence of the county of Russell, with the addition of a patrol to each county, consisting of two men, for the purpose of procuring and communicating intelligence. This expensive species of troops, you will discover, sir, are reduced to a very small number, nor would they have been employed in any degree, but from a conviction,, on the fullest information, that they are indispensably requisite. Vain, indeed, would be military preparations, if the means of knowing were inhibited. And really I must consider troops systematically without these means, who are not allowed the only mode of procuring intelligence practicable in the country in which they are to act. When you compare the military events of this year with those of the last, the temporary aid now given to that furnished then, you will agree, that, although our prospects are more gloomy, our preparations for defence have not been.so expensive, and yet we trust will be found equally effective,-from the alterations introduced.'In so extensive an empire, occasions will occur, where the councils and money of the members of the confederacy, in their State capacities, will necessarily be used for the accomplishment of objects belonging constitutionally to the General Government; nor will the happiness and safety of the people, in certain events, permit that delay which must otherwise result, were this beneficent instrumentality denied. From the evident necessity of such temporary efforts on the part of the Commonwealth, with respect to the defence of our citizens, whose safety seeiiis’ to continue precarious, notwithstanding the zealous and formidable military exertions of the United States, did thq General Assembly, during the last and present sessions, authorize the Executive to take such measures for the defence of our frontier counties, as in their judgment mightbe deemed necessary. Under this authority was the money of the Commonwealth expended last year, in defensive operations, which terminated in obedience to the directions received from the Secretary of the Department of War. The expenses accruing from these measures have been discharged in part by the General Government, and some remain yet to be paid. A claim has lately been exhibited from the county of Randolph, against this Commonwealth, a copy of which is enclosed, wherein the second of May is fixed as the period from which the General Government considers itself properly chargeable with the disbursements issuing from the system.of defence above mentioned. I profess, sir, I must consider this distinction resulting from misinformation, and hope'that' the explanations which I now do myself the honorto make, will conclude this business in a manner just and satisfactory. The Commonwealth of Virginia is certainly, in the first instance, liable for moneys stipulated to be paid for the services performed during the last year, under the authority of the Executive, previous to the commencement of the operations of the General Government, and being the only judge of the justice of such claims, propriety demands that they should be presented here for settlement. But, at the same time, I trust it will not be denied, that the moneys thus disbursed, being applied in the execution of a duty belonging to the General Government, constitute a proper charge against the United States; inasmuch as- the protection, of the people from an enemy to which they were exposed, was the only end of such expenditures, and that protection from the then existing circumstances, could not be afforded in due time, without the interposition of the Legislature of the State. Under these impressions, 1 have directed the proper officer to prepare an account of these expenses, which I will do myself the honor to forward to you with the requisite documents, and confidently hope, that you will, as soon as convenient, inform me where, and in what manner, the expected restitution will be made. ' 'Permit me, sir, to say, that the Executive of this Commonwealth take very great pleasure to contribute, by any efforts in their power, towards the successful execution of the measures of the General Government, and more especially when those measures comprehend the safety of a part of this community, in whose welfare we are so deeply interested. <  , . . I herewith transmit the act of the Executive of this date, the resolution of the General Assembly, copies of letters from the lieutenant of the county of Harrison, and my instructions to the commandants of the troops to be raised, for your further information. . '1 have the honor to be, &c. HENRY LEE. Sir: From the Representatives of the county of Ohio to the Governor of Virginia. The alarming intelligence lately received, of the defeat of the army in the Western country, fills our minds with dreadful fears and apprehensions, concerning the safety of our fellow-citizens in the county we represent, and we confidently hope will'be an excuse to your Excellency, whose zeal has been so frequently evinced in behalf of the distressed frontier counties,’for the request we are now compelled to make. In the course of last year, upwards of fifty of our people were killed, and a great part of our country plundered, notwithstanding the aid afforded by the Pennsylvanians, who joined the Virginians in our defence. The success of the Indians in their late engagement with General St. Chur, will, no doubt, render them more daringand bold in their future incursions and attacks upon our defenceless inhabitants'; those adjoining the county of Harrison,, extending a hundred miles, covering the county of Monongalia; and. we conceive that1 not less than sixty or seventy men will be sufficient to defend them. Through you, sir, we beg leave to request this assistance. WILLIAM McMACHEN, BENJAMIN BIGGS, ' Representatives from Ohio county. An Act of the Executive of the State of Virginia, providing for the defence of the frontiers. In Council, December 12, 1791; The Governor laid before the Board, sundry letters from the Representatives of the Western counties, urging the necessity of making more extensive provision for the defence of the frontiers, as the late defeat of the'federal troops, under command of General St. Clair, will render them more exposed to the ravages of the Indian enemy. Whereupon, in pursuance of the resolution of the General Assembly, authorizing the Executive to direct such temporary defensive operations in the county of Russell, or other of the Western frontier counties, (not extending to the district of Kentucky) as will secure the citizens thereof, from the hostile invasions of the Indians, it is advised— ■ _ That an additional company, consisting of a captain, lieutenant and ensign, four sergeants, four corporals.and sixty-six privates, be allowed for the defence of the counties of Wythe. Russell, and Montgomery. That two companies be allowed for the defence of the counties of Ohio, Harrison, Monongalia, and Randolph: the men to be distributed as follows: a captain, ensign, two sergeants, two corporals, and forty-one privates, tor the county of Ohio. The same for the county of Harrison. A lieutenant, two sergeants, two corporals, and twenty-five privates, for Monongalia. The same tor the county of Randolph. That one company be allowed for the defence of the counties of Greenbriar and Kenhawa. That the men be entitled to the same pay and rations (the rations to be of the same quality, and at the same price) as were allowed the.company heretofore ordered lor the defence of Russell county, and their service to commence the fifteenth of March, and terminate the first of December. 1792. unless sooner discharged; that they be regularly mustered at the time of their rendezvous, and when they shall be discharged, by persons hereafter to be appointed, who shall report, on oath, the number actually present at each muster. That two scouts be allowed for each of the aforesaid counties, with the allowance of five shillings per day each, as full compensation for their pay and subsistence. The scouts to be appointed by the commanding officers of the respective companies, and subject to their orders. That John Preston be appointed and commissioned Captain, Robert Crockett,Lieutenant, and William Preston. Ensign, of the additional company to be raised, for the Southwestern defence. William McMahon, and William Lowther, Captains. Matthias Whiteman and John Evans, jr. Lieutenants, John Brown, jr. and Joseph Biggs. Ensigns, of the two companies allowed for Ohio. Harrison. Monongalia and Randolph. William Clendinnon, tTaptain, Leonard Cowper, Lieutenant, and John Young, Ensign, of the Kenhawa company. That Robert Sayers be appointed to muster the additional Southwestern company, and Joseph Kent to supply them with provisions: John P. Duvall to muster the two companies for Ohio, Harrison. Monongalia, and Randolph, and George Jackson to supply them with provisions; Thomas Lewis to muster the Kenhawa company, and Daniel Boon to supply them with provisions. Tliat the evidence of the services, herein specified, be the same as was required by the regulations of the twenty-ninth of December last, for the Western defence; and, It is further advised, that the Superintendent at the point of Fork be directed to furnish, from the public stores, two hundred,weight of powder, and eight hundred weight of lead, for the use of each of the aforesaid companies. The Governor orders accordingly. Attest, A. BLAIR, C. C. ■ From the Lieutenant of the county of Harrison to the Governor of Virginia. Richmond, 27/A November, 1791. Sir: The exposed situation and the frequent depredations which are committed in the county of Harrison by the savages, constrain me to lay before your Excellency the distressed situation of the frontiers of the said county. On the fourth day of the last month, a party of Indians fired on a party of men who were driving a drove of cattle to the Muskingum settlements; and, within five or six miles thereof, thev killed four persons, took one prisoner, and wounded one. One of the party only escaped, wlm had several balls shot through his clothes. A few days before they fell on this party they tilled a man near the Ilockhocken. and took a negro boy from the little Kenhawa, who. at the time of the attack on the drivers, made his escape. Sir, we have frequent information of hostilities being committed on some part of the Ohio, or other; our situation is distressing indeed, as there appears no protection is to be had from the Federal Government, they supposing the present expedition to be a protection to us. which is a mistaken idea, as I conceive it as an injury, rather than a protection at this time; as, no doubt, but they may suppose that we are off our guard, depending on the success of the campaign; which is truly the ease. There is, at this time, a number of scouts in service, although without any authority; but your Excellency will see'; the necessity of the measure by the enclosed papers. I must beg leave further to inform you, that, in’ February. 1790. 1 was called on, by the frontiers of the county, for protection, as there appeared great danger at that time: and. for my own justification. I called a council ot the officers of the militia, whose result was, that I should order out eight scouts, which I accordingly did; and, at the same time, the council requested of me to go in person to the President at Newr York, which I also did, but received no instructions from the Board of War, until the second of May, therefore can receive no pay from the United States, prior to that date, for the said scouts; so that there is from the first of March until the second of 3lay which I could wish your interference, in order to get them paid. Tne favor will be greatly acknowledged, by. sir, &e. JOHN P. DUVALL, County Lieutenant. From th'e same, to the Governor of flrginia. Richmond. 8th December, 1791. Sir:   'The late murder committed by the savages, on the 4th of October last, near to Muskingum, as well as the frequent depredations on the Western frontiers, and. in particular, the county of Harrison) and, also, the defeat of General St. Clair, which w ill encourage them to persist in their cruelties; I do, therefore, in behalf of my constituents, take the liberty to request of your Excellency to grant, for the protection of the said county, a sufficient number of men, which may be thought necessary to answer the purpose. Sir, a» to the idea held out, that the federal troops are a protection to us, is but a mere shadow without substance; and, am sure, that your own knowledge, and experience of a military life, is sufficient to satisfy you that it is the case. 1^ should suppose that a company of men, from the county, would be sufficient: and that the counties of Ohio and Kenhawa are in extreme danger. I am. &c. JOHN P. DUVALL. No. (3. From the Secretary of JVar to the Governor of the State of Virginia. War Department, 24th December, 1791. Sir: . I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's letter of the 12th instant, together with its enclosures, all of which have been submitted to the President of the United States. The letter’of the 24th of November, written, sir, by your predecessor, w'as received, by the post, on the third, and answered on the fifth instant. 224 INDIAN AFFAIRS. [1792. The President of the United States has directed me to assure your Excellency, lie considers the United States responsible for the necessary expense to be incurred, at this time, for the defensive protection of the frontiers. That the arrangement, which has been ordered by the Executive of Virginia, by their act of the 12th instant, appears judicious, and as economical as the state of the case will admit; and that it will, therefore, be paid by the General Government, according to the restrictions stated in my letter to your Flxcellency of the 5th instant. It is, however, to be observed, that the employment of the scouts were not contemplated in my letter of the 5th instant; but, as they, are considered essentially necessary, and as Congress have, within a few days past, made appropriations for their pay on a former occasion, the President of the United States assents fully to their adoption: at the same time, it is conceived, that the number for Ohio county are not sufficient, it having such an extended frontier. . . ' . The county lieutenant, therefore, will be permitted to call out a number, not exceeding eight, for the said county; and if your Excellency should conceive an additional number necessary to any other county, you will please to direct the same and inform me thereof. . > As Major General St. Clair is empowered on the subject, it is presumed he will make an arrangement with Brigadier General Scott for the temporary defensive protection of Kentucky. I take the liberty to request that your Excellency would be pleased to direct the county Lieutenants to make monthly returns to this office, of all militia, or scouts, employed at the expense of the United States. When the accounts of the expenses, for the defensive protection of the past year, mentioned in your Excellency’s letter, shall be received, they will be examined, and the result thereof transmitted to you. The expenses for the scouts of Randolph county, which you enclose, shall be paid to the order of the lieutenant of the said county.   ■ . . The President of the United States has directed me to thank your Excellency for your assurance of the ready concurrence of the Executive of Virgina, in the measures of the General Government, taken for the defence of the frontiers. Although this assurance, had been wanting, he should have entirely relied upon the patriotism of the Executive, of which you are the head, to support every proper measure for the common good of our country. No. 7. . From the Secretary of I Far to the Lieutenant of Ohio county, Virginia. War Department, December-1^,.1791. Sir; . . . ..... His Excellency the Governor ol Virginia has transmitted information to this office, that he had made an arrange ment for two scouts for the county of Ohio. The President of the United States, having considered of the extended frontier of your county, has directed me to inform you, that,, if it should be your judgment, that the scouts should be increased to any number, not exceeding, in all, eight, that the expense thereof shall be borne by the General Government, according to tne regulations hereinafter mentioned. It will depend upon you to make a proper choice of these scouts, for which you will be both responsible, with your character, to the people of your county, who may be exposed by an injudicious choice, and to the United States, who will pay the money. And, as an inducement for suitable characters to perforin the service,'the United States will pay such scouts the great pay of five sixths of a dollar per day, in lien of all charges or expenses whatever. The service of such men must be proved in the manner hereinafter mentioned, to wit: . On their entrance into sendee they must be mustered, in your presence, by a justice of the peace, and sworn to the faithful discharge of their duty.’ ’ v'In the muster, then taken, the ages, names, and residence of the scouts must be taken, and whether married or single; at the expiration of their services, they must be again mustered, and sworn that they have faithfully performed service for the number of days mentioned, and in the distance specified. An account is then to be made by you of the same service, w hich account must be supported by the muster rolls aforementioned, certified by you, and transmitted to this office for examination and payment, accompanied by a pow'er from you to receive the money. ' ' ' v Yon will please to acknowledge the receipt of this letter, and transmit me an account of your proceedings thereon. ‘No. 8. Extract of a letter from the Governor of Virginia to the Secretary of fVar, dated Council Chamber, Richmond, January, 5th, 1792/ '  Sir; „ . , Your I etter of the 24th of last month I had- the honor duly to receive; and feel myself peculiarly pleased id being told, that the system of temporary defence, adopted by the Executive of this Commonwealth, meets with the approbation of the President. I will avail myself of his permission to enlarge the patrol allowed to the county of Ohio; a regard to whose extent of front was had, in my directions heretofore given to the commanding officer of the company to be raised for its defence, although not specified in my letter to you: and will, also, if .it shall appear necessary, make a proportionate increase to the patrol allotted any other county, whose, situation may require, the same. .. ' 'Yrou will find, sir, by reference to our late arrangements, that the Executive have confided the protection of the frontiers solely' to the captains of the volunteer militia, ordered to be levied, and not to the county lieutenants, as before. This change they considered as amelioration. I enclose you a list of the officers appointed to the district of Monongalia, and the counties of Greenbriar and Kenhawa, lest it may so happen that yonrself or General St, Clair may have occasion to write to them. 1 will give orders to the captains to make the monthly returns you reuuire, and will direct the county lieutenants to forward their claims'for moneys expended during the past year, in order to bring to conclusion that business. v But, sir, I fear, notwithstanding the very agreeable tenor of your letter, that this matter cannot be concluded justly, unless a change take place in the laws of Congress. You will observe, that the Executive'have been obliged to allow the pay', granted by the laws of this Commonwealth, to her militia, or to have abandoned the plan ot voluntary enlistment, and relied on the disagreeable and fallacious system of legal compulsion. This extra pay being absolutely necessary to answer the end, 1 consider it as a proper charge against the United States; and, although the President may be pleased to view it in the same light, unless the law above’ mentioned be amended, or special provision lie made by Congress for the purpose, the object of my requisition will remain unfulfilled. 1 Our Southwestern frontier lying contiguous to the territory under the care of Governor Blount, I thought projier to advise that gentleman (having had an occasion to write to him) of the measures adopted on the part of this Commonwealth, for the temporary defence of that quarter of the State, and asked his communication to the commandant of our volunteer militia, of every relevant information which might occasionally occur. 1 List of the Officers appointed to command the Volunteer Militia, raisedfor the defence of the district of Monongalia, and of the counties of Grecnbriar and Kenhawa. \ % District of M ONONGALIA. Captains, . . . William McMahon, William Lowther. Lieutenants, . . John Evans Jun. Matthias Whiteman. Ensigns, . . . John Brown Junr. Joseph Biggs. Greexbriar and Kenhawa. Captain, .  . . Hugh Caperton. Lieutenant, . . Leonard Cooper. Ensign, . . John Young. 2nd Congress.] 
