No, 63. [2d Sessiok. INDIAN LANDS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEBRUARY 23, 1795. Mr. Nichoi.as, from the committee to whom was refeiTed so much of the message from the President of the United Statesj of the seventeenth instant, as relates to the disposition of Indian lands, by the Legislature of the State of Georgia, made the following report: That, it appears to your committee, that the Legislature of the State of Georgia, by an act of the 7th day of January last, nave contracted and provided for an absolute conveyance of certain portions of lands held by the Creek and other Indian tribes, within the limits claimed by that State, under the sanction of treaties made with the United States, amounting to three-fourths of the lands so held by the said Indians. That your committee cannot but foresee great danger to the peace of the United States, in vesting interests in individuals, the enjoyment of which is to depend on the extinguishment of the Indian titles, from the constant excitement which they produce, to embroil the Government with the neighboring Indians, in hope of their extinction or banishment. That rights, so dangerous to the general happiness, should reside only in the bodies constituted for the guardianship of the general good of society, as being alone capable of comparing the various interests, alone disposed to promote a happy result to the community. That your committee are of opinion, that it is highly incumbent on the United States to secure, to the neighboring Indians, the rights acquired by treaty, not only for obtaining their confidence in our Government, blit, for preserving an inviolate respect in the citizens of the United States, to its constitutional acts. Your committee, therefore, submit the following resolutions: Resolved, That it be recommended to the President of the United States, to use all constitutional and legal means, to prevent the infraction of the treaties made with the Indian tribes by the citizens of the United States, with an assurance, that Congress will co-operate in such other acts,- as will be proper for the same end. Resolved, That it be further recommended to the President of the United States, not to permit treaties for. the extinguishment of the Indian title to any lands, to be holden at the instance of individuals or of States, where it shall appear that the property of such lands, when the Indian title shall be extinguished, will be in particular persons: And that, wherever treaties are held for the benefit of the United States, individuals claiming rights of pre-emption, shall be prevented from treating with Indians, concerning the same: and that, generally, such private claims be postponed to those of the several States, wherever the same may be consistent with the welfare and defence of the United States. Resolved, That the President of the United States be authorized. W'hcnever claims under prior contracts may cease to exist, to obtain a cession of the State of Georgia, of their claim to the whole or any part of the land w'ithin the present Indian boundaries, and that------dollars ought to be appropriated to enable him to effect the same. Resolved, That all persons wrho shall be assembled or embodied in arms, on any lands belonging to Indians, out of the ordinary jurisdiction of any State, or of the territory south of the river Ohio, for the purpose of warring against the Indians, or of committing depredations upon any Indian town, property, or persons, shall thereby become liable and subject to the rules and articles of war, which are or shall be established for the government of the troops of the United States. 3d Congress.] 
