No. .25.   _ [1st Session. S EN E C A S. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 27, 1792. Mr. Butler, from the Committee on Indian Affairs, to whom was referred the speeches of the, Seneca Chief, Corn-planter, of the 9th December, 1790; 10th January, 7th February, and 17th March, 1791; made the following report: 1 - That Oliver Phelps, of whom Cornplanter makes mention, produced some affidavits, and other papers? relating to the purchase of lands, made by him of the Indians, which your committee examined, and are of opinion that the said affidavits, ami other papers, should be filed in the Secretary's office; and that the committee be discharged from the further consideration of this subject. The following are the papers referred to: ' >. Tht speech of the Cornplunter, Half-Town, and the Great-Tree, Chiefs and Councillors of the Seneca nation, to the Great Councillor of the Thirteen Fires. Father: The voice of the Seneca nation speaks to you, the great councillor, in whose heart the wise men of all the Thirteen Fires have placed their wisdom. It may be very small in your ears, and we therefore entreat you to hearken with attention: for we are about to speak of things which are to us very great. When your army entered the country of the Six Nations, we called you the Town Destroyer; and to this day, when that name is heard, our women look behind them and turn pale, and our children cling close to the necks of their mothers. Our councillors and warriors are men, and cannot be afraid; but their hearts are grieved with the fears of our women and children, and desire that it may be buried so deep as to be heard no more. When you gave us peace, we called you father, because you promised to secure us in the possession of our lands. Do this, and, so long as the lands shall remain, that beloved name will live in the heart of every Seneca. Father: We mean to open our hearts before you, and we earnestly desire that you will let us clearly understand what you resolve to do. When our chiefs returned from the treaty at fort Stanwix, and laid before our council what had been done there, our nation was surprised to hear how great a country you had compelled them to give up to you, without your paying to usany thing for it. Every one said that your hearts were yet swelled with resentment against us for what had happened during the war, but that one day you would reconsider it with more kindness. We asked each other. What have we done to deserve such severe chastisement? ^Father: When you kindled your thirteen fires separately, the wise men that assembled at them told us, that you were all brothers, the children of one great father, who regarded, also, the red people as his children. They called us brothers, and invited us to his protection; they told us that he resided beyond the great water, where the sun first rises; that he was a king whose power no people could resist, anti that his goodness was bright as that sun. What they said went to our hearts; we accepted the invitation, and promised to obey him. What the Seneca nation promise, they faithfully perform; and when you refused obedience to that king, he commanded us to assist his beloved men in making you sober. In obeying him,'we did no more than yourselves had led us to promise. ..The men who claimed this promise told us that you were children, and had no guns; that when they had shaken you, you would submit. We hearkened to them, and were deceived, until your army approached our towns. We were deceived; but your people, in teaching us to confide in that king,had helped to deceive us, and we now appeal to your heart—Is the blame all ours? Father: When we saw that we were deceived, and heard the invitation which you gave us to draw near to the fire which you kindled, and talk with you concerning peace, we made haste toward it. You then told us that we were in your hand, and that, by closing it, you could crush us to nothing, and you demanded from us agreat country, as the price of that peace which you had oil'ered us; as if our want of strength had destroyed our rights. Our chiefs had felt your power, and were unable to contend against you, and they therefore gave up that country. W'liat they agreed to, has bound our nation; but your anger against us must, by this time, be cooled; and, although our strength has not increased, nor your power become less; we ask you to consider calmly, Were the terms dictated to us by your commissioners reasonable and just? Father: Your commissioners, when they drew the line which separated the land then given up to you from that which you agreed should remain to be ours, did most solemnly promise, that we should be secured in the peaceable possession ot the lands which we inhabited east and north of that line. Does this promise bind you? ; Hear now, we entreat you, what has since happened concerning that land. On the day in which we finished the treaty at fort Stanwix, commissioners from Pennsylvania told our chiefs that they had come there to purchase from us all the lands belonging to us, within the lines of their State, and they told us that their line would strike the river Susquehannah below Tioga branch. They then left us to consider of the bargain till the next day; on the next day we let them know that we were unwilling to sell all the lands within their State, and proposed to let them have a part of it, which we pointed out to them in their map. They told us thatthey musthave tne whole; that it was already ceded to them by the great king, at the time of making peace with you, and was their own: but they said that they would not take advantage of that, and were willing to pay us for it, after the manner of their ancestors. Our chiefs were unable to contend, at that time, and therefore they sold the lands up to the line, which was then shewn to them as the line of that State. What the commissioners had said about the land having been ceded to them at the peace, our chiefs considered as intended only to lessen the price, and they passed it by with very little notice; but, since that time, we have heard so much from others about the right to our lands, which the king gave when you made peace with him, that it is our earnest desire that you will tell us what it means. Father: Our nation empowered John Livingston to let out part of our lands on rent, to be paid to us. He told us, that he was sent by Congress, to do this for us, and we fear he has deceived us in the writing tie obtained from us: for, since the time of our giving that power, a man of the name of Phelps has come among us, and claimed our whole country northward of the line of Pennsylvania, under purchase from that Livingston, to whom, he said, he had paid twenty thousand dollars for it. He said, also, that he had bought, likewise, from the council of the Thirteen Fires, and paid them twenty thousand dollars more lor the same. And lie said, also, that it did not belong to us, for that the great king had ceded the whole of it. when you made peace with him. Thus he claimed the whole country north of Pennsylvania, and west of the lands belonging to the Cayugas. He demanded it; he insisted on his demand, and declared that lie would have it all. It was impossible for us to grant him this, and we immediately refused it. After some days, he proposed to tuna line, at a small distance eastward of our.western boundary, which we also refused to agree to. He then threatened ns with immediate war, if we dicj not comply. Upon this threat, our chiefs held a council, and they agreed that no event of war could be worse than to be driven, with their wives and children, from the only country which we had any right to, and. therefore, weak as our nation was, they determined to take the chance of war, rather than submit to such unjust demands, which seemed to have no bounds. Street, the great trader at Niagara, was then with us. having come at the request of Phelps, and as he always professed to be our great friend, we consulted him on this subject. He also told us, that our lands had been ceded by the king, and that we must give them up. Astonished at what we heard from every quarter, with hearts aching with compassion for our women and children, we' were thus compelled to give up all our country north of the line of Pennsylvania and east of the Genesee river, up to the fork, and east of a south line, drawn from that fork to the Pennsylvania line. For this land, Phelps agreed to pay us ten thousand dollars in hand, and one thousand dollars a year for ever. He paid us two thousand and live hundred dollars in hand, part of the ten thousand, and he sent for us to come last spring, to receive our money; but instead of paying us the remainder of the ten thousand dollars, and the one thousand dollars due for the first year, he offered us no more than five hundred dollars, and insisted that lie had agreed with us for that sum, to be paid yearly. We debated with him for six days, during all which time he persisted in refusing to pay us our just demand, and he. insisted that we should receive the five hundred dollars; and Street, from Niagara, also insisted on our receiving the money, as it was offered to us. The last reason he assigned for continuing to refuse paying us, was, that tlic king hud ceded the lands to the Thirteen Fires, and that he hail bought them from you, and paid you for them. We could bear this confusion no longer, and determined to press through every difficulty, and lift up our voice that you might hear us, and to claim that security in the possession of our lands, which your commissioners so solemnly promised us. And we now entreat yon to inquire into our complaints and redress our wrongs. Father: Our writings were lodged in the hands of Street, of Niagara, as we supposed him to be our friend; but when we saw Phelps consulting with Street, on every occasion, we doubted of bis honesty towards us, and we have since heard, that he was to receive for his endeavors to deceive us, a piece of land ten miles in width; west of the Genesee river, and near forty miles in length, extending to lake Ontario; and the lines of this tract have been run accordingly, although no part of it is within the bounds which limit his purchase. No doubt he meant to deceive us. Father: You have said that we are in your hand, and that, by closing it, you could crush us to nothing. Are you determined to crush us? If you are, tell us so, that those of our nation who have become your children, and have determined to die so, may know what to do. In this case, one chief has said he would ask you to put him out of pain. Another, who will not think of dying by the hand of his father or of his brother, has said lie will retire to the Cliateaugay. eat of the fatal root, and sleep with his lathers in peace. Before you determine on a measure so unjust, look up to God, who made as as well as you. We hope he will not permit you to destroy the whole of our nation. Father: Hear our case; many nations inhabited this country; but they had no wisdom, and, therefore, they warred together. The Six Nations were powerful, and compelled them to peace; the lands, fora great extent, were given up to them: hut the nations which were not destroyed, all continued on those lands, and claimed the protection of the Six Nations, as the brothers of their fathers. They were men, and when at peace, they had a right to live upon the earth. The French came among us, and built Niagara; they became our fathers, and took care of us. Sir William Johnston came and took that fort from the French; he became our father, and promised to take care of us, and did so. until you were too strong for his king. To him we gave four miles round Niagara, as a place of trade. We have already said, how we came to join against you; we saw that we were wrong; we wished for peace; you demanded a great country to be given up to you; it was surrendered to yon, as the price of peace, and we ought to have peace and possession of the little, land which you then left us. Father:, When that great country was given up, there were but few chiefs present, and they were compelled to give it up, and it is not the Six Nations only that reproach those chiefs with having given up that country. The Uhippewas,and all the nations who lived on those lands westward, call to us, and ask us, Brothers of our fathers, where is the place which you have reserved for us to lie down upon? Father: You have compelled us to do that which has made us ashamed; We have nothing to answer to the children of the brothers of our fathers. When, last spring, they called upon us to go to war, to secure them a bed to lie upon, the Senecas entreated them to lie quiet, until we had spoken to you. But, on our way down, we heard that your army had gone toward the country which those nations inhabit, and if they meet together, the best blood on both sides will stain the ground. Father: We will not conceal from yon, that the great God, and not men, has preserved the Cornplanter from the hands of his own nation. For they ask, continually. Where is the land which our children, and their children after them, are to lie down upon? You told us, say they, that the line drawn from Pennsylvania to lake Ontario, would mark it forever on the east, and the line running from Beaver creek to Pennsylvania, would mark it on the west, and we see that it is not,so: for, first one. and then another, come, and take it away, by order of that people which you tell us promised to secure it to us. He is .silent, for ,lie lias nothing to answer. When the sun goes down, he opens his heart before God, and earlier than that sun appears again upon the hills, he gives thanks for his protection during the night: for he feels that, among men, become desperate by their danger, it is God only that can preserve him. He loves peace, and all that he had in store, lie has given to those who have been robbed by your people, lest they should plunder the innocent to repay themselves. The whole season wliich others have employed in providing lor their families, he has spent in his endeavors to preserve peace; and, at this moment, his wife and children are lying on the ground, and in want of food; his heart is in pain for them, but: he perceives that the great God will try his firmness, in doing what is right. Father: The game which the Great Spirit ?.ent into our country for us to eat, is going from among us. We thought; he intended that we should till the ground with the plough, as the white people, do, and we talked to one another about it., But before we speak to you concerning this, we must know from you whether you mean to leave us and our children any land to till. Speak plainly to us concerning this great business. All the lands we have been speaking of belonged to the. Six Nations; no part of it ever belonged to the King of England, and lie could not give it to you. The land we live on, our fathers received from God, and they transmitted it to us, for our children, and we cannot part with it. . Father: We told you that we would open our hearts to you. Hear us once more. At fort Stamvix, we agreed to deliver up those of our people who should do you any wrong, that you might try them, and punish them according to your law. We delivered up two men accordingly, but instead of trying them according to your law, the lowest of your people took them from your magistrate, and put them immediately to death. It is just to punish murder with death; but the Senecas will not deliver up their people to men who disregard the treaties of their own nation. Father: Innocent men of our nation are killed one after another, and of our best families; but none of your people who have committed the murder have been punished. We recollect that you did not promise to punish those who killed our people, and we now ask, Was it intended that your people should kill the Senecas, and not only remain unpunished by you, but be protected by you against the revenge of the next of kin? Father: These are'to us very great things. We know that you are very strong, and we have heard that you are wise, and we wait 1o hear your answer to what we have said, that we may know that you are just. Signed at Philadelphia, the first day of December, 1790. CORNPLANTER, his x mark. HALF-TOWN, his x mark. > GREAT-TREE, his x mark. Present at signing, Joseph Nicholson, Interpreter. T. Matlack. The speech of the Cornplanter, Half-Town, and the Great-Tree, Chiefs of the Seneca nation, to the President of the United States of .America. Father: Your speech, written on the great paper, is to us like the first light of the morning to a sick man, whose pulse beats too strongly in his temples, and prevents him from sleep. He sees it, and rejoices, but he is not cured. You say that you have spoken plainly on the great point. That you will protect us in the lands secured to us at fort Stamvix, and that we have the right to sell or to refuse to sell it. This is very good., But our nation complain that you compelled us at that treaty to give up too much of our lands. , We confess that our nation is bound by what was there done; and, acknowledging your power, we have now appealed to yourselves against that treaty, as made while you were too angry at us, and, therefore, unreasonable and unjust. To this you have given us no answer. Father: That treaty was not made with a single State, it was with the thirteen States. We never would have given all that land to one State. We know it was before you had the great authority, and as you have more wisdom than the commissioners, who forced us into that treaty, we expect that you have also more regard to justice, and will now, at our request, reconsider that treaty, and restore to us a part of that land. Father: The land which lies between the line running south from lake Erie to the boundary of Pennsylvania, as mentioned at the treaty at fort Stamvix, and the eastern .boundary of the land which you sold, and the Senecas confirmed to Pennsylvania, is the land on which Half-Town and all his people live, witli other duets, who always have been, and still are, dissatisfied with the treaty at fort Stamvix. They grew out of this land, and their fathers’ fathers grew out of it, and they cannot be persuaded to part with it. We therefore entreat you to restore to us this little piece. Father: Look at the land which we gave to you at that treaty, and then turn your eyes upon what we now ask you to restore to us, and you will see that what we now ask you to return is a, very little piece. By giving it back again, you will satisfy the whole of our nation. The chiefs who signed that treaty will be in safety, and peacehetween your children and our children w ill continue so long as your land shall join to ours. Every man of our nation will then turn his eyes away from all the other lands Which we then gave up to you, and forget that our fathers ever said that they belonged to them. Father: We see that you ought to have the path at the carrying place from lake Erie to Niagara, as it was marked down at fort Stamvix, and we are all willing it should remain to be yours. And if you desire to reserve a passage through the Conewango, and through the Chataugue lake and land, for a path from that lake to lake Erie, take it where you best like. Our nation will rejoice to see it an open path for you and your children while the land and water remain. But let us also pass along the same way, and continue to take the fish of those waters in common with you. . ... Father: You say that you will appoint an agent to take care of us. Let him come and take care of our trade; but we desire he may not have any thing to do with our lands: for the agents which have come amongst ns, and pretended to take care of us, have always deceived us whenever we sold lands; both when the. King of England and when the States have bargained with us. They have by this means occasioned many wars, and we are therefore unwilling to trust them again. Father: When we return home, we will call a great council, and consider well how lands may be hereafter sold by our nation. And when we have agreed upon it, we will send you notice of it. But we desire that you will not depend on your agent for information concerning land: for, after the abuses which we have sufl’ered by such men, we will not trust them with any thing which relates to land. _ Father: We will not hear lies concerning you, and we desire that you w ill not hear lies concerning us, and then we shall certainly live at peace with you. ’ ; — Father: There arc men who go from town to town and beget children, arid leave them to perish, or, except better men take care of them, to grow up without instruction. Our nation has long looked round for a father, but they found none that would own them for children, until you now tell us that your courts are open to us as to your own people. The joy which we feel at this great news, so mixes with the sorrows that are passed, that we cannot express our gladness, nor conceal the remembrance.of our afflictions. We will speak of them at another time. Father: We are ashamed that we have listened to the lies of Livingston, or been influenced by threats of war by Phelps, and would hide that whole transaction from the world, and from ourselves, by quietly receiving what Phelps promised to give us for.the lands they cheated us of. But as Phelps will not pay us even according to that fraudulent bargain, we will lay the whole proceedings before your court. When the evidence which we can produce is heard, we think it will appear that the whole bargain was founded on lies, which he placed one upon another; that the goods which he charges to us as part payment were plundered from us; that, il Phelps was not directly concerned in the theft, he knew of it at the time, and concealed it from us; and that the persons we confided in w ere bribed by him to deceive us in the bargain. And if these facts appear, that your court will not say that such bargains are just, but will set the whole aside. ’ 'Father: We'apprehend that our evidence might be called for, as Phelps was here, and knew what we have, said concerning him; and as Ebenezer Allen knew something of the matter, we desired him to continue here. Nicholson, the interpreter, is very sick, and we request that Allen may remain a few' days longer, as he speaks our language. . Father: The blood which was spilled near Pine creek is covered, and we shall never look where it lies. We know that Pennsylvania will satisfy us for that which we spoke of to them before we spoke to you. The chain of friendship will now, we hope, be made strong as you desire it to be. We will hold it fast; anil our end of it shall never rust in our hands. Father: We told you what advice we gave to the people you are now at war with, and we now tell you that they have promised to come again to our towns next spring. We shall not wait for their coming, but will set out very early, and shew to them what you have done for,us, which must convince them that you will do for them everything which they ought to ask. We think they will hear and follow our advice. Father: You give us leave to speak our minds concerning the tilling of the ground. We ask you to teach us to plough and to grind corn: to assist us in building saw mills, and supply us with broad axes, saws, augers, and other tools, so as that we may make our houses more comfortable and more durable; that you will send smiths among us, and. above all, that you will teach our children to read and unite, and our women to spin ami to weave. The manner of your doing these things for us we leave to you, who understand them; but we assure you that we will follow your advice as far as'we are able. CORNEL ANTE E, his x mark. HALF-TOWN, his x mark. Present at signing, Joseph Nicholson, Interpreter. GREAT-TREE, his x mark. T. Matlack. John Dechart, his x mark. Jem Hudson, his x mark. Philadelphia, lQth January, 1791. The speech qf Cornplanter, Half-Town, and the Big-Tree, Seneca Chiefs, to the Great Councillor of the ~ Thirteen Fires. Father: No Seneca ever goes from the fire of his friend, until he has said to him, “ I am going.** We therefore tell you, that we are now setting out for our own country. Father: We thank you, from our hearts, that we now know there is a country we may call our own, and on which we may lie down in peace. We see that there will be peace between your children and our children; and our hearts are very glad. We will persuade the Wyandots, and other Western nations, to open their eyes, and look toward the bed which you have made for us, and to ask of you a bed for themselves, and their children, that will not slide from under them. We thank you for your-presents to us, and rely on your promise to instruct us in raising corn, as the white people do; the sooner you do this, the better for us. And we thank yon for the care you have taken to prevent bad men coming to trade among us: if any come without your license, we will turn them back: and we hope our nation will determine to spill all the rum which shall, hereafter, be brought to our towns. Father: W e are glad to hear that you determine to appoint an agent that will do us justice, in taking care that bad men do not come to trade amongst us; but we earnestly intreat you that you will let us have an interpreter in whom we can confide, to reside at Pittsburg. To that place our people, and other nations, will long continue to resort; there we must send what news we hear, when we go among the Western nations, which, we are determined, shall be early in the spring. We know Joseph Nicholson, and he speaks our language so that we clearly understand what you say to us, and we rely on what he says. If we were able to pay him for his services, we would do it; but, when we meant to pay him, by giving him land, it has not been confirmed to him: and he will not serve us any longer unless you will pay him. Let him stand between us, we intreat yon. Father: You have not asked any security for peace on our part, but we have agreed to send nine Seneca boys, to be under your care for education. Tell us at what, time you will receive them, and they shall be sent at the time you shall appoint. This will assure you that we are. indeed, at peace with you, and determined to_ continue so. If you can teach them to become wise and good men. we will take care that our nation shall be willing to receive instruction from them. . CORNPLANTER, his xj mark. HALF-TOWN, his * mark. BIG-TREE, his ^ mark. Signed at Philadelphia. 7th February, 1791, in presence of Joseph Nicholson, Interpreter. Thomas Procter. T. Matlack. Pittsburg. March ! 7, 1791. Sir : When we raised from the great council of the Thirteen Fires, we mentioned that we meant to have a council with the chiefs of the bad, angry Indians. Through the whole Quaker State, as we came up the road, we were treated well, and they took good care of us until we came here. One misfortune happened only, that one of our wagons is not yet arrived here, the one we first engaged, with the goods you presented to us. Father: Your promise to me was, that you would keep all your people quiet; but, since I came here, I find that some of my people have been killed—the good honest people who were here trading. Father: We hope you will not suffer all the good people to be killed; but your people are killing them as fast as they can. Three men and one womaii have been killed at Big Beaver creek, and they were good people, and some of the white men will testify (he truth of this. When I heard the news, 1 found one boy had made his escape, and got to the trader’s house, who saved his life: I now want to see him. Father: We have been informed that twenty-seven men came from another State, and murdered these men in the Quaker State, and took away nine horses, and all the goods they had purchased from the trader. Our father, and ruler over all mankind, now speak and tell me, did you order these men to be killed? Father: Our words are pledged to you that we would endeavor to make peace with all warrior nations. If we cannot do it. do not blame us: you struck the innocent men first. We hope you will not blame us, as your people have first broke good rules; but, as for our people, they are as friendly and as firm as ever. Father: We must now acquaint you with the men’s names who did this murder at Beaver creek: Samuel Brady, formerly a captain in j our army, and under your command, also a Balden, were persons concerned in this murder. Father: I can inform you little more, therefore will conclude with asking you how I should have come to the knowledge of this, or how I could have informed you. had it not been for our good friend Joseph Nicholson? I therefore beg you may grant him an appointment as interpreter: for we cannot see how we will do without him. I know of no other man that speaks your language and ours so well as him. CORNPLANTER, his -f- mark, NEW-ARROW, his 4- mark, HALF-TOWN, his + mark, BIG-TREE, liis -f- mark. P. S, The boy who made his escape at Beaver creek has arrived at this place, and I have taken him under my protection. Father, your despatches for Detroit have been unavoidably detained, heretofore; but to-morrow Big-Tree and one other shall set off with them, and will also take the boy mentioned here, and deliver him to his relation's. We part to-day at this place: Big-Tree is going-amongst the cross Indians, to see if they will make peace, and I go to my own people, to call them to council. CORNPLANTER. To all People to whom these presents shall come, greeting: Know yc, that we, the sachems, chiefs, and war* riors, of the Five Nations of Indians, for, and in consideration of, the sum of two thousand one hundred pounds, lawful money of the State of New York, paid, and received by us, to our full satisfaction, of Oliver Phelps, of Granville, in the county of Hampshire, and Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Esquire, and Nathaniel Gorham, of Charlestown, in the county of Middlesex, in the Commonwealth aforesaid, and of which we do hereby release and discharge them, the said Oliver and Nathaniel; and particularly, in consideration of the covenant and engagement made and executed by the said Oliver Phelps, in behalf of the said Nathaniel and himself, by deed of even date with these presents, have given, granted, ceded, bargained, sold, aliened, conveyed, and continued, and'by these presents do hereby give, grant, cede, bargain, sell, alien, convey, and confirm, unto them, the said Oliver Phelps and Nathaniel Gorham, and to their heirs and assigns, forever, all that territory or country of land lying within the State of New York, contained within, and being parcel of, the lands and territory, the right of pre-emption of the soil whereof, from the native Indians, was ceded by the State of New York aforesaid, to the Commonwealth aforesaid, by deed of cession, executed at Hartford, by commissioners for that purpose, on the sixteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-six, within the following limits and bounds, that is to say: Beginning in the north boundary line of the State of Pennsylvania, in the parallel of forty-two degrees north latitude- at a point distant eighty two miles west from the northeast corner of Pennsylvania, on Delaware river, as the said boundary line hath been run and marked by the commissioners appointed by the States of New York and Pennsylvania, respectively; and from said point or place of beginning, running west upon said line to a meridian which will pass through that corner or point of land made by the confluence of the Shanahasgwaikoreehi (so called) with the waters of the Genesee.river; thence, running north along the said meridian to the corner or point last mentioned; thence, northwardly along the waters of the said Genesee river, to a point two miles north of Shanawageras village, so called; thence, running in a direction due west, twelve miles; thence, running a direction northwardly, so as to be twelve miles distant from the most westward bends of said Genesee river, to the shore of the Ontario lake: thence, eastwardly along the shores of said lake, to a meridian which will pass through the first point or place of beginning abovenientioned; thence, south along said meridian to the first point or place of beginning, aforesaid; together with all and singular the woods, houses, streams, rivers, ponds, lakes, upon, within, and in any wise appertaining to, said territory: to have and to hold the above granted and bargained premises, together with all the appurtenances and privileges thereunto belonging, or in anywise appertaining, to them the said Oliver Phelps and Nathaniel Gorham, and to their heirs and assigns forever. And we, the underwritten sachems, duels, and warriors, do hereby covenant and engage, to and with the said Oliver Phelps, Nathaniel Gorham, and their heirs, executors, and administrators, that we. will warrant and defend the above granted and bargained premises to them, said Oliver, Nathaniel, and their heirs and assigns, against all claims whatsoever. In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our. hands and seals, this eighth day of J.ulv, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty -eight. 'MOHAWKS, t ' '‘ Hendrink Takarihoga. and a seal and a mark. ' Jos. Bran, and Thayendanegea, and a seal and a mark. ■ Thomas Shasennowane, and a seal"and a mark. , . .. .ONEtDAS. . , Kennawagenton, and a seal and a mark. ■ Shoratowane, and a seal and a mark, a Oglmaongoghton, and a seal and a mark. . ONONDAGOES. Yonghwenjowanin, and a seal and a mark. Sharonejowanen, and a seal and a mark. ■ Olkwenlageghte, and a seal and a mark. Kagontenayen, and a seal and a mark. Araghkevente, and a seal and a mark. Onereraghhere, and a seal and a mark. Kashighstogh, and a seal and a mark. Kayendakheugh, and a seal and a mark. ’ CAYOGAS. Tekainyon, and a seal and a mark. Oghniekwenton, and a seal and a mark: Teyothounghgongh, and a seal and a mark. , . . Thoheres, and a seal and a mark. Karonghgaetea, and a seal and a mark. Ojageghte, and a seal and a mark, Olstenragongh, and a seal and a mark. Tekaraghgugh, and. a seal and a mark. Tewaghlagligote, and a seal and a mark. Oghslnglianesene, and a seal and a mark. tiie female governesses, on chief women. Ononghsonlyon, and a seal and a mark. Karagiigosene, and a seal and a mark. Ka.wagnjyenenghtha, apd a seal and a mark. Kannonisen, and a seal and a mark.. Gonwaghsennawi, and a seal and a mark. Kaghhcaretighsha, and a seal and a mark. Karoghlonghs, and a sea! and a mark., CAYOGAS. Aristates, and a seal and a mark. Shagoyethwatha, and a seal and a mark. , Gonghsanigonte, and a seal and a mark. Kamntagonra, and a seal and a mark. Karenhoten, and a seal and a mark. Alayaseronn, and a seal'and a mark. Tehaweanokee, and a seal and a mark. Teisinontawcrnogh, and a sea! and a mark. Teghhaninharingtonghs, and a seal and a mark. Tewataseriyage, and a seal and a mark. Shoyonwesee, and a seal and a mark. Tehaghsharanogeaghs, and a seal and a mark. Signed, sealed, and delivered, in the presence of John Butler, Deputy Agent, Sant. Kirkland, Superintendent in behalf of Massachusetts. Janies Dean, Interpreter, Elisha Lee, Jos. Brandt, Benj. Barton. David Smith, Ezl. Scott. SENECAS. Oghnenrayewaghs, and a seal and a mark. Teyorenhagwente, and a seal and a mark. Karontowanengh, and a seal and a mark. Slmltswaas, and a seal and a mark. Skenlyoghwadigh, and a seal and a mark. Tekaghsakatsle, and a seal and a mark. Simnoghsowane, and a seal and a mark. Shegwarentonghkwe. and a seal and a mark. Kanaase, and a seal and a mark. Tewatogharanegea, and a seal and a mark. Jonondaweaghtaghsia, and a seal and a mark. Shagoyeghwatha, and a seal and a mark. Kayentwaghgeh, and a seal and a mark. Shorehowane, and a seal and a mark. Karonghyagera, and a seal and a mark. Tekahonwaghshea, and a seal and a mark. Arajongwaghs, and a seal and a mark. Tsiskekeh, and a seal and a mark. Shoghsharowane, and a seal and a mark. Ratsirageron, and a seal and a mark. Osaweturough, and a seal and a mark. Olonghwenjagehte, and a seal and a mark. Teghonegwengksohane, and a seal and a mark. Pursuant to a resolution of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, passed March t lie 30th, 1788, 1 have attended a full and general treaty of the Five Nations of Indians, at the chief village in their territory, on Buffalo creek, alias Teyoheghseolea, when the foregoing instrument or deed of conveyance, made to the Honorable Nathaniel Gorham, and Oliver Phelps, Esqrs.ofa certain part of the lands belonging to the said Five Nations, the description and boundaries thereof being particularly specified in the same, was duly executed, signed, sealed, and delivered, in my presence, by the sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the above mentioned Five Nations, being fairly and properly understood and transacted by all the parties of Indians concerned, and declared to be done to their universal (satisfaction and content. And I do therefore certify and approve of the same. SAMUEL KIRKLAND, Missionary, superintendent in behalf of the Ctuninonweulth of Massachusetts. Comvionwf.ai.tii of Massachusetts: 1, Henry Alline, notary and tahellion public, by lawful authority duly admitted and sworn, dwelling and practising in Boston, within said Commonwealth, do hereby certify all whom it may concern, that the foregoing instrument or deed of conveyance, and caption thereon, are true copies from the originals, which were carefully examined and compared by me the said notary. Thus done at Boston aforesaid, this twentieth day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set mv hand, and affixed my notarial seal. [l. s.] HENRY ALLINE, Notary Public. 1790. Commonwealth of .Massachusetts: By his Excellency John Hancock. Esquire, Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 1 do hereby certify, that Ilenry Alline is a notary public, within and for the county of Suffolk, in the said Commonwealth, duly constituted and sworn, and that, to his acts and attestations, as on this paper, full faith and credit is, and ought to be given, both in and out of court. In testimony whereof, I have caused the public seal of the Commonwealth aforesaid to be hereto affixed, this twentieth day of October. Anno Domini 1790, and in the fifteenth year of the independence of the United States of America. , 4 '[l. s.] JOHN HANCOCK. By his Excellency’s command: John Avfkv, Jun. Secretary. .1 epiit chum from the Pour Nations of Indians acknowledging payment. \Ve, the sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the Mohaw k, Onondago, Cuyahnga, and Tuscarora nations, for ourselves, and in behalf of the four nations aforesaid, have heard read and explained, in public council at this play, the papers passed between Oliver Phelps, Esq. and the Five Nations of Indians, in full and public council, at our great council fire, at Buffalo creek, in July. 1788;_ and find said papers conformable to the agreement then and there made, between said Phelps and the said Five Nations, and do hereby ratify and confirm said agreement, as being fairly and properly done, agreeable to the ancient customs of our forefathers; and having given up to the Seneca nation, our several proportions of the payment now due and ottered to the said Five Nations by said Phelps, in a just and proper manner, in a full council of the Five Nations, viz: two thousand five hundred dollars in cash, and two thousand five hundred dollars value in goods, we hereby quit all claims, right, title, or demand. Whatsoever, to all that certain tract, parcel, land, and territory, purchased from the Five Nations, by said Phelps, agreeable to the deeds given him, the said Phelps, by the Five Nations aforesaid, at Buffalo creek; and to all moneys, goods, or other pay ments whatsoever, due by said Phelps lor said lands, except always reserving our just share and proportion of five hundred dollars, the annual rent to lie paid on said lands lorever. Given under our hands and seals, at Canadqua, this 4th day of- August, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine. In presence of Samuel Street, Lemuel Wilmet. Sharonyewanen. Kagoiidenayen, Tchodageranden. Ojageghte, Karonyageten, Skagoyeghwatha. Tewaghtagote, Agbslngwaresere, Tekaraghke, Otstenragongh. Ka rough von tye, Thayenaanegea, + [l. s.] + [i„ s.j + [l. s.] + [1. . s.] + [l. s.] + [l. s ] + [l. s.] + [».. s.] + [l. s.l + [1. . S.l + [l. s.l + [I. . s.] Newton Point, in the State of New Fork, July 7th, 1791. At the request of Oliver Phelps, Esq. I questioned the Onondaga chief, Sharonyowanen, and the Cayuga chief, Ojagegte, (usually called the Fish Carrier) relative to the contents of the foregoing written paper, to which their names are subscribed. They said they did not remember what were the papers therein mentioned to have been read and explained to them; but they well remember the bargain made between Mr. Phelps and the Five Nations, for the land he purchased of them at the treaty at Buffalo Creek, was this: that Mr. Phelps was to pay five thousand dollars for the purchase, and five hundred dollars every year forever. That this is well known to the other chiefs of their two nations, and that they never heard one of them say any thing to the contrary. Then, when at Kon-naudaugua about two years ago, they, with other chiefs of their nation, and of the Mohawks and Tuscaroras, signed a paper to confirm the bargain which had been made with Mr. Phelps, at Buffalo Creek. Joseph Smith and Jasper Parrish, my interpreters, inform me, that the Onondaga chief and the Fish Carrier, above named, are the head chiefs of their two nations. TIMOTHY PICKERING, , Commissioner in behalf of the United States, for holding a treaty with the Six Nations. Timothy Pickering's certificate. I certify that Oliver Phelps, Esq. has shewn me a number of depositions of gentlemen of reputation, who were present at the treaty held by him at Buffalo creek, with the Six Nations of Indians, in the year 1788, when he purchased of them a tract of land, since called the purchase of Phelps and Gorham; and from their testimony, it appears that the bargain made with the Indians was for five thousand dollars purchase moneys and five hundred dollars annual rent; that the papers exhibiting the bargain were openly interpreted by Mr. Kirkland, Mr. Dean, Colonel Butler, and Captain Brandt; and that the Indians then appeared entirely satisfied. I further certify, that, at the request of Mr. Phelps, I-examineu the Fish Carrier and Sharonyowanen, (the two head sachems of the Cayuga and Onondaga nations, now attending the treaty, held by me, with the Six Nations at this place) relative to the same bargain; and they declared that it was as above stated; that the other chiefs of their two nations knew it; and that they never heard one of them say any thing to the contrary. I further certify, that yesterday the principal sachems and chiefs of the Seneca nation came to my quarters, and declared that they were entirely satisfied in respect to the bargain they had made with Mr. Phelps for their lands; and that all they now asked of Mr. Phelps was, that he would perform his engagements with them, as the writings now stand. ... , Upon the whole, though from the complaints made last fall by the Seneca chiefs at Tioga, and by the Cornplanter last winter at Philadelphia, there appeared some room for believing that the bargain was for ten thousand dollars purchase money, yet I anv now entirely convinced that they were under a mistake; and that the writings shewing that the purchase money was five thousand dollars, and the annual rent five hundred dollars, are exactly agreeable to the bargain made with them in their full council. . TIMOTHY PICKERING. Newtown, in the State of New York, July 16/ft, 1791. Philadelphia, Wednesday evening, January 18th, 1792. Mr. Phelps asks me if I remember some conversation which I had with Big Log (otherwise called Great Tree) last July, at the treaty held by me with the Five Nations of Indians at Newtown, relative to the Cornplanters complaints made last winter to the President, respecting his purchase of Seneca lands? I do. I repeated the substance of it to-day to Mr. Sherman and Mr. Wingate, upon their Saying that the Cornplanter’s speech had been read in the Senate, and Mr. Wingate’s noticing that part of it which referred to Mr. Phelps. I asked Big Log if he was present with the Cornplanter when he spoke to the President? He answered that he was. I asked liim if the Cornplanter, in his speech, said that Mr. Phelps had threatened his nation with immediate war, if they did not let him have their lands? Big Log; with apparent surprise in his countenance, answered. No! but that John Livingston had threatened them. , TIMOTHY PICKERING. The Cornplanter, in his speech to the President, says the annual rent which Mr. Phelps agreed to pay the Senecas, was one thousand dollars. The Seneca chiefs, at the treaty which I held with them in the fall of 1790, at Tioga, complained of their being wronged by Mr. Phelps, and said that he agreed to pay them ten thousand dollars purchase tnoney, but that the annual rent was to be but five hundred dollars. So the matter rests on my mind. Their speeches (which I reported to the President a year ago) will ascertain the facts. TIMOTHY PICKERING. The deposition of James Dean. The deposition of James Dean, of lawful age, testified! and saith, that this deponent attended a treaty which was held by Oliver Phelps, Esq. with the Indian nations at Buffalo creek; that this deponent officiated at the said treaty as an interpreter; that the Senecas, as far as this deponent had an opportunity to discover their sentiments, did unanimously agree to dispose of part of their country to the above mentioned Oliver Phelps, Esq.; that this deponent, although he does not perfectly recollect the particulars of the contract made between the said Phelps and Senecas, yet conceives that the said Phelps engaged to pay to the said Senecas the sum of five thousand dollars the first year after the date of the said contract, and five hundred dollars per year forever; that, as far as this deponent was concerned in negotiating said contract, he conceives that every matter and thing respecting the same was fully and clearly explained to the said Senecas; and that the writings respecting the said contract were deposited in the hands of Colonel John Butler. And further this deponent saith not. JAMES DEAN. Whitestown, November 9.5th, 1790. Montgomery, November 3.5th, 1790. Personally appeared James Dean, signer to the foregoing deposition, and after being duly examined, and cautioned to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, made solemn oath that the foregoing deposition, by him subscribed, was the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. Before me, EPHRAIM BLACKMER, Justice of the Peace. Judge Hollenback's deposition. Matthias llollenback. Esq. of Wilkesbrough, in the county of Luzerne, and State of Pennsylvania, of lawful age, testifies and says, that, in July, in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-eight, lie was present at a treaty held by Oliver Phelps, Esq. with the Six Nations of Indians, at Buffalo creek: that he, with a number of gentlemen, attended every public council held during said treaty: that, after some time was spent in determining the quantity of lands to be sold, it was agreed that the said Oliver Phelps; Esq. should pay the Indians (for their lands) the sum of five thousand dollars, and the sum of five hundred dollars yearly, as a receipt: that the writings were made according to said contract, and were read and explained in public councils by Colonel Butler, Captain Brandt, Messrs. Dean, and Kirkland; and that the Indians appeared perfectly satisfied with the contract as explained to them. M ATTHI AS HOL1 ,EN 15 AC K. Tioc.a County, ss. Personally came before me, Brinton Paine, Esq., M. llollenback. Esq., signer to the above deposition, and made solemn oath to the truth of the same on the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God. Taken and sworn before me. this 14th day of July, 1791. BRINTON PAINE. N. B. The question being put to the above deponent, whether he heard the said Oliver Phelps, Esq. use any threatening words to the Indians, whereby he has any reason to think the Indians sold their land through fear to him? “ I did not. ’’ t , MA LTHAS HOLLENBACK. Question asked by me. BRINTON PAINE. Elisha Lee. of Sheffield, in the county of Berkshire, and Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Esquire, of lawful age. testificth and saith: That he accompanied the lion. Oliver Phelps, Esq. to a treaty holden with the chiefs and warriors of the Six Nations, at Buffiilo Creek, in July, 1788—the object of the treaty being the purchase oflands within the Massachusetts pre-emption district. The Indians were very generally there. Various propositions were made by Mr. Phelps, in their public council, relative to the quantity of land which lie inclined to purchase. To fix upon the quantity, limits, and boundaries, of such lands as they would sell, and which Mr. Phelps was inclined to purchase, was a work of some difficulty, and was the business of the council for a number ol days successively. The business was at length amicably effected. at a council in w hich Captain O'Bee), and a select number of the Indian chiefs, were present on the part of the Indians, and in the presence of the Rev. Samuel Kirkland, the superintendent appointed by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Mr. Dean, Colonel Butler, and Captain Brandt, who understood both the English and Indian languages, and of Ezekiel Gilbert. Esq. Dr. Benton, and myself. The limits of the intended purchase being agreed, and a request from Captain O'Beel. to know' what compensation Mr. Phelps would make for it. being made, it was agreed by Mr. Phelps and the said Indians, to refer the consideration of the compensation which ought to be made them to Col. Butler, Mr. Kirkland, and Capt. Brandt. Agreeably to their opinion thereupon. Mr. Phelps offered and proposed to pay them, in satisfaction for the lands agreed to lie conveyed. the sum of five thousand dollars, to be paid in some convenient time after the treaty, and an annuity ot five hundred dollars forever afterwards. > This proposal was interpreted to them by Mr. Kirkland, Mr. Dean, or both of them; and. after n due time given them for deliberation, w as accepted by them. After the business was so far settled, Mr. Phelps, agreeably to a request of the Indians, further agreed to make them a present of some cattle and nun. On the day subsequent to their agreeing to the proposals of Mr. Phelps, relative to the compensation, the necessary writings and instruments to carry into execution the aforesaid agreements of the parties were draughted byr the deponent, at the request of Mr. Phelps: and, agreeably to notice given to the said Indians by him. These writings were truly and honestlyTnade lor that purpose, and were executed by the respective parties in a public meeting of the Six Nations, at which were present the gentlemen beforetnentioned. as well as a Mr. Johnson, and several British officers from Niagara. At the time of their being executed, they were publicly read and interpreted to the Indians,by C. Butler, Mr. Kirkland, Captain Brandt, and Mr. Dean. And the deponent further saith, that there neither was nor could he any fraud, deceit, or unfair management, in the whole of this business; the bonds and obligations given to them by Mr. Phelps being fully and completely written, and no blanks left therein, and seen to be in this situation by the deponent, immediately previous to their execution by Mr. Phelps. ELISHA LEE. Taken and sworn before me, this 4th day of July. 1791. BRINTON PAINE. One of the Judges of the county of Tioga, in the State of Xcw I or/r. During Mr. Phelps's negotiation with the Indians for the purchase of the lands referred to in the foregoing deposition, did he use any threats to intimidate the Indians, to induce them to agree to a sale ol' the lands, and on the terms proposed by Mr. Phelps? Particularly, did he threaten them with immediate war if they did not comply? Answer. Mr. Phelps did not use any threats of any kind to intimidate the Indians, to my knowledge; and I was present at all the public councils that were holden with them. The above question was asked by the lion. Timothy Pickering, Esq. and the answer given by Mr. Lee, in my presence, this 4th day of July, 1791. BRINTON PAINE, Judge. Question ashed bu Brinton Paine, Esq. Was you, at the time of the purchase made by Mr. Phelps, interested, either directly or indirectly, in the purchase of said lands? Answer. I was not. BRINTON PAINE. Thomas Rees, of Northumberland, in the State of Pennsylvania, of lawful age, testifies and says: That he accompanied the Seneca nation of Indians from the treaty held at Newtown Point, to the Genesee river, and, at the request of the said Indians, he, together with Messrs. Thomas and William Morris, received a thousand dollars of Oliver Phelps, Esq. (rising of seven hundred dollars of which sum was in cash, and the residue in calicoes and linens, estimated at a reasonable price) and delivered the same to the chiefs of the Seneca nation, in the presence of their nation, and a number of white people; and, on the receipt of said cash and goods, the chiefs delivered to Mr. Morris and myself an obligation, given by said Oliver Phelps, Esq. payable to the .Seneca nation, dated at Buffalo Creek. July, A. I). 1788, promising to pay five hundred dollars per annum to the Five Nations forever. Air. Thomas Morris, in my presence, by the order of the chiefs, endorsed on said obligation, ‘* one thousand dollars, in full, for two years rent;” winch the said Indians then declared to be in full of all demands against said Phelps to that time. And the chiefs departed in great harmony, appearing to be well satisfied with the payment they had received. And the deponent further says, that, soon after the above payment, he was at Buffalo creek and other Indian towns, and that the Indians appeared wrell satisfied with the said Oliver Phelps, Esq. and much attached to him. Further the deponenent saith not. THOMAS REES, Jr. Sworn before JOHN BARCLAY, Mayor. Pm i.a delimit a, January 20, 1791. 28 * Sworn before James Wadsworth, of the town of Genesee, in the county of Ontario, and State of New York, of lawful age, testifies and says: That lie was present when the payment was made by Oliver Phelps, Esq. to the Seneca nation of Indians, some time in the month of August last, at Genesee river, and that he saw Messrs. Thomas Rees, Thomas and William Morris, count out the money, estimate, and deliver the goods to the chiefs of the Seneca nation. And the deponent further says, that, on Oliver Phelps, Esqr. informing the chiefs that he was about to leave the country for the winter, the chiefs and other Indians gathered around him, expressed their attachment to him, declaring that they ever applied to him for advice and instruction, and requested him to appoint a chief of the white people in his absence. The deponent further saith, that he continued at the Genesee river .until some time in the month of September, and that he never heard any one of the Indians express any mark of disapprobation, but, on the contrary, appeared pleased with the payment they had received of Oliver Phelps, Esq. JAMES WADSWORTH. Sworn before mo. JOHN BARCLAY, Mayor. Philadelphia, January 21, 1791. I was present at the payment made by Oliver Phelps, Esqr. on account of himself and Nathaniel Gorham, Esqr. to the Seneca nation of Indians, in the month of July last, at the Genesee river. This payment consisted of the sum of one thousand dollars, (two annual payments being then due) the greater part in money, andthe remainder in goods, (which goods were valued by a Air. Reese, who was appoinied by the Indians as their agent.) I assisted in counting out the money and in distributing the goods, and signed the endorsement on the bond as a witness of the payment. The Indians appeared universally well satisfied with the payment. There was some little difference among themselves, with respect to their proportions, but they declared, more than once, that, with respect to Mr. Phelps, they hail nothing to complain of, but were perfectly satisfied that he had paid them honestly. In this opinion they went home, and separated in much harmony with Air. Phelps. AVAL AV. AlORRIS. January 18//i, 1792. ■ I, Elcazer land ley, of lawful age, testify and say, that I was present at Canandaigua some time in August, 1789, and that the chiefs of the Six Nations were assembled for the purpose of receiving their pay for the purchase of their lands in the Genesee country, which purchase I understood was made by Oliver Phelps and Nathaniel Gorham, Esqrs. and that the chiefs then appointed five agents (to receive their money and goods for them) to wit: Jones, Smith, Roz.ee-ranty, Jack Berry, and one Matthews, who acted as an interpreter for the Cornplanter; that the agents counted the money, and appraised the goods, and then declared to the chiefs that it was right; that they had laid oft'money and goods to the amount of five thousand dollars, according to the form of the bond, and that the chiefs came forward and received the money and goods, and expressed their entire satisfaction; that then the Corn planter gave up the bond to Oliver Phelps, and said they had received the full amount thereof. . I further say, that, after the goods were appraised, and the money counted by the above mentioned agents, the said Oliver Phelps, Esqr. insisted that the chiefs should examine the money and goods for themselves, to see that they had received the full consideration of the bond; which they accordingly did, and.appeared satisfied. , And further say not. ELEAZER LINDLEY. Subscribed and sworn at Newtown Point, this fifth day of July, in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety one. e Before me, JONA. GAZLEY J. P. Extract from the proceedings of Colonel Timothy Pickering with the Seneca J/ulians, held at Tioga Point, November 21s/, 1790. [Then Red Jacket rose and spoke as follows:] Brother: Now you begin to hear of the situation of our lands. Air. Phelps and Doctor Benton came on to rake open the fire again at Canedesago. After they were come there. Air. Phelps passed on to Niagara, and went to our old friend Colonel Butler, whom he met at a tavern. Colonel Butler asked him of his business. He answered that lie came to kindle a fire at Canedesago. Then Colonel Butler told him that Canedesago was not a fit place at which to kindle a fire; and that our old custom was to kindle a fire at our own castle. Colonel Butler told him that he thought he must build a fire at Buffalo creek; and if he did, that he believed he should attend the treaty. Air. Phelps expressed iiis fears, that if he held the treaty there, he should meet some difficulty. Then, I, Billy, and Cajeagayonh, (Heap of Dogs) went to Canedesago, took Air. Phelps by the hand, and led him to our council fire at Buffalo creek. All these people here know' what speech Mr. Phelps sent us—(then pointing to the Farmer’s Brother, Billy, and others, said)—these went.to Canedesago, to see what the business was. These all know,and Air. Street knows, that Air. Phelps held up a long paper, with a sea! as big as my hand. AVhen he opened his mind to us, we took it hard. AVc wanted to keep a large piece of land, but it was not in our power. Air. Street, (pointing to him on the bench) you know very well, a treaty was held ail night, to fix the boundary, and the price of the land. These men (Mr. Smith, the Farmer’s Brother, O’Beel, Little Billy, Heap of Dogs, China Breast-plate, and I, were there) know very well, the proposal was, that Air. Phelps should give us ten thousand dollars for the purchase, and five hundred dollars annual rent. That was the agreement made that night. The bargain was not finished till morning: and just as we went out of the house, the sun rose. Then we sought for persons to draw the writings. The persons chosen were Air. Kirkland. Colonel Butler, and Captain Brandt. Mr. Street was not then present. After this, the bargain being completed, Air. Street took our papers with him to Niagara. And, last summer a year ago. we came to Canandaigua, expecting to receive ten thousand dollars; but then we found we had but five thousand to receive. When we discovered the fraud, we had a mind to apply to Congress, to see if the matter could not be rectified: for, when we took the money and shared it, every one here knows, that we had but about a dollar a piece, for all that country. Air. Street! you very well know, that all that our lands came to, was but the price of a few hogsheads of tobacco. Gentlemen who stand by, (looking round, and addressing himself to the white people who were present,) do not think hard of whathas been said. At the time of the treaty, twenty broaches would not buy half a loaf of bread, so that when we returned home, there was not a bright spot of silver about us.' The last spring, again. General Chapin stretched out his hand to us to open a little fire at Big Tree Flats; and then I had a little talk with him; and finding we. had but a shilling a piece to receive, we desired him to shut up his hand again. This is all we have to say of that time. Air. Street knows how hard it was for us to part with our land. And this we have said, because we wish the President to know how we have been treated. Now, BoTHEn—the Thirteen States: you must open your ears. You know what has happened respecting our lands. You told us, from this time the chain of friendship should be brightened. Now, brother, we have begun to brighten the chain of friendship, and we will follow the steps of our forefathers. We will take those steps, that we may sit easy, and choose where and how large our scats should be. The reason we send this message, is, that the President, who is over all the thirteen States, may make our scats easy. AYe do it that the chain ot friendship may be brightened with the thirteen States, as well as with the British; that we may pass from one to the other, unmolested. Brother, this is what your brothers, chiefs, and warriors, have to say to you, relative to brightening the chain of friendship. AYe wish to be under the protection of the thirteen States as well as of the British. 1792.] THE NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. 215 [Then he delivered me the belt, after which, hiking up a parcel of papers, lie proceeded thus:] Brother: You know all relating to our lands; you know the whole affair. We have just told you it was two rears that we have wanteil to have a conference with Congress. Mr. Phelps did not purchase, but he leased tin-land. We opened our ears, and understood that the land was leased. This happened to us from our not knowing papers. Here they are, and you may see what they contain. [He then handed me the papers. They were Mr. Phelps's bond for the 500 dollars annual rent of the land he bought of them, some copies of it, and a copy of their deed to him. He then proceeded.] Brother: We have a little more to say to you. Here are Billy, and some others, who were at the treaty at the Ohio. They brought with them these papers, which we wish you to see. It is the mind of the Six Nations to keep these papers, that we may show them at treaties held by the thirteen States. It is our mind that you should know it. This belt came with these papers, and on the parchment annexed to it is mentioned the price of the land. [He then handed to me the papers. One contained articles entered into between them and General St. Clair, describing certain boundaries between their lands and those of the United States. The subject of the other paper I do not recollect. The parchment label annexed to the belt, showed that it had been delivered by Richard Butler and John Gibson, whose names were written upon it: but nothing about the price of any land. The Indians desired of me information of the nature of the papers, which I gave them in general terms.] -2nd Congress.] 
