No. 16. ' [3d Session. INDIAN DEPREDATIONS. i 1   * » COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, JANUARY 24. 1791."Gentlemen of the Senate ■ . ‘ and of the House'of Representatives:   'I lay before you a statement relative to the frontiers of the United States, which has been submitted to me by the Secretary for the Department of War. I rely upon your wisdom to make such arrangements as may be essential for the preservation of good order, and the effectual protection of the frontiers. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, January 24, 1791. ' 'The Secretary of War, to whom the President of the United States was pleased to refer a letter of his Excellency the Governor of Virginia, dated the 10th of December last, enclosing the joint memorial addressed to him, of the delegates of Ohio,' Monongalia, Harrison, Randolph, Kenhawa, Greenbriar, Montgomery, and Russell counties, ‘ on the Ohio, reports: That the said memorial states, that the said counties form a line of nearly four hundred miles along the Ohio; exposed to the hostile invasions of their Indian enemies, and destitute of every kind of support. That, notwithstanding all the regulations of the General Government in that country, the memorialists have reason to lament that they have hitherto been ineffectual. That the arrangements and regulations for their defence, as declared by the Secretary of AN ar, are impossible to be complied with. , ■ That the old experienced mode of keeping out scouts and rangers, for the information and protection of the inhabitants, is exploded, as the memorialists are informed, because the new plan is less expensive. That there is reason to fear the defeat of the army on the frontiers will be severely felt, as there is no doubt but the Indians will, in their turn, flushed with victory, invade the settlements. That the memorialists, therefore, for the reasons assigned, think the only measure which will establish the confidence of the frontier people in the Government, and also bring about the proposed end, to wit, their safety and protection, is to empower -the county lieutenants, in each of those counties, to send out a few scouts to watch the passes of the enemy when the winter breaks up, and to place some rangers on the outside of the settlements. That this arrangement be temporary, until more effectual measures are adopted for the protection of the country. ' <'That the expense of the scouts and rangers be settled by the auditor of Virginia, and the Government debited with the amount thereof. That, if the Executive Council of Virginia should not possess sufficient power to extend to the memorialists that relief which dieir necessities require, that the Governor would lay die complaints before die proper tribunal, where they may be redressed. ■ On the subject of this memorial, the Secretary of War observes, that, on the 26th of February, 1790, a report upon the subject of scouts, and an estimate thereof, was submitted to the President of the United States, who was pleased today the same before Congress; a copy of which, with die estimate, is herewith submitted, No. 1. ' That, as the danger of some of the frontier coundes was imminent, the President of the United States was pleased to permit a certain number of scouts to be called forth, under the regulations described in paper marked No; 2.* That, as it did not appear to be the judgment of Congress to authori/.e the scouts upon any higher rate of pay than the militia, and as offensive measures were directed on the 7th of June, the President of the United States directed that the employment of the scouts should be discontinued, and. in lieu thereof, that die militia should be employed as rangers, under the regulations described in the paper herewith annexed. No. 3.* It, however, appears, from the memorials, that the permission lias been rendered nugatory by the regulations prescribed, and .that the memorialists propose, in lieu of the former arrangement, that the county lieutenants should be invested with discretionary power, on the occasion, to call forth scouts and rangers. It is to be observed, that no partial measures can be adopted by die Government. That any arrangement for the eight counties to which the memorialists belong, must also comprehend the county of Washington, in Pennsylvania, eight counties in Kentucky, the exposed parts of Cumberland settlements, and die settlements lying upon, and between, the Ilolston and French Broad rivers; making in all, districts or divisions equal to twenty-two counties. That it is to be observed, that the scouts, so called, are the most active hunters or woodsmen, well acquainted with the paths by which Indians enter the.country; that experience of their utility seems to have stamped an extraordinary value upon their sen ices, in the opinion of the frontier people. They seem, however, from information, to have received an exceeding high pay, and greatly disproportioned to any known compensation for military services. . » But, considering the confidence of the frontier people in the said scouts, the Secretary of War is inclined to the opinion, that it might be proper to indulge them therein; provided, their services could be obtained for a reasonable pay, and regulated in such manner as to prevent abuse. The pay allowed by Virginia was five-sixths of a dollar per day, for each person or scout, but no rations. The Secretary of War is of .opinion that'pay, at the rate of ten or twelve dollars per month, and one ration per day. to be given for each person acting as a scout, would be as high a sum as ought to be given for any military service; that no greater number than six or eight should he allowed to any county, and, in no instance, a greater number than have heretofore been allowed by Virginia. 'That, conformably to these ideas, the estimate is herewith submitted, No. 4, in order to show the greatest aggregate expense of this business. That this measure be adopted only as a temporary expedient, and be continued no longer than the President of the United States shall judge necessary. . . It ought, however, to be observed, that, while the pay of the troops is greatly reduced, and the pay of this species of militia greatly advanced, it may have the effect to prevent the recruiting of the regular troops, on the established pay, and to create discontents in the minds of those already in service on the frontiers. But it is conceived, that, although this objection may occur, yet, perhaps, it is not of sufficient importance to prevent the adoption of such reasonable measures as may conciliate and attach the people of the frontiers to the General Government. If, therefore, it should be the judgment of the President of the United States, that it would be proper to adopt the scouts, it will be necessary to lay the subject before the Congress, for their consideration and approbation: for, if a species of troops are to be adopted at a higher rate of pay than the rate established by law, it will be necessaiy to make,the provision for that purpose, by a special act. The rangers are a species of militia, for which a higher rate of pay does not seem to be necessary. All which is humbly submitted to the President oi the United States. II. KNOX, Secretary of JVar. War Department, 5th January, 1791. Not on file. : War Office. February 2,6th, 1790. Sir: , ,  ’ '   (  < ,, . , > ' ;   . _ In obedience to yoyr otder, I have received the communications of Colonel John Pierce Duvall, Lieutenant of Harrison county in Virginia,, the result of which I have the honor to submit to you.. The paper No .l, is a representation from the field officers of the said,county, on the subject of their exposed situation. . . ’ , ' ' .   ■'Colonel Duvall states, that there are five counties of Virginia, lying on the, western waters, exposed to the incursions of the Indians; all of which are to the east of the Kentucky line, to wit: Monongalia, Ohio, Randolph, Harrison, Kcnhawa.,- f , ‘ That these.counties have'been permitted to keep out, for their own immediate protection, at the expense of Virginia, certain pgrti'eS.of'Scouts and rangers.,.’ .... ~ . That, during the last year, the Governor of Virginia directed the said'scouts and rangers to be discharged, in consequence of a letter from the President of the United States, a copy of which, with the letter from the saiu Governor, is herewith submitted, marked No. 2. - ■ ' .■ ■'   ’ - (■"     ': That, since the discharge of the said scouts and‘rangers, the said counties have suffered great injury from the Indians: and that Harrison county, in particular, has had fifteen persons killed, besides houses'burnt and horses stolen. -   n. . '  r That the object of the said Colonel Duvall is, that he, should be permitted .to call into service again, the said scouts and rangers, at the expense of the United States. . ., " -   . *.. That the expense of the said scouts and rangers would, according to his information, for the ensuing season, and for Harrison county only, amount to three thousand four hundred and forty dollars, agreeably to the estimate herewith submitted, marked No. 3. ... . , , ■ , " r, - That' this arrangement would give perfect satisfaction to the inhabitants of said county. On this information, it may be observed, that an arrangement of this nature for one county, involves a>imilar arrangement, not only for the other four-counties of Virginia, but for the, nine counties of the district of Kentucky, all of which are exposed, in greater or leSs degree, as Harrisoii county! ,.  * * That it would be proper, that' Ibis representation from Harrison county, together with the memorial of the representatives of the counties of the district of Kentucky, dated the 28th of November, 1789, requesting a post to be established at Great Bonelitk, and the petition from the inhabitants of Miro settlement, dated the 30th ot -November, 1789, should be laid before the Congress, for their information, in addition to other papers of the .same nature, which you were pleased to lay before them, on the 4th of January last. i No. 1. ~ ' . . \ ** 'An estimate of the expense of a guard of one captain and thirty rangers, and eight men, termed scouts, for the period of seven months, required by the Lieutenant of Harrison county, for the protection of the same, against the depredations of parties of Indians—the estimate being formed from information'given the subscriber by Colonel Duvall, the Lieutenant of said county.  ; . 40 rations, at 6d. per day, . - - - : - , - . - £214' -. r- . , 1 The pay of I captain for 7 inonths, at 35 dollars per month, - 73 10 The pay of 2 sergeants for 7 months, at 6 dollars per month, - - , 25 .4 The pay of 28 privates for the same period, at 4$ dollars per month, ■ 264 12 The pay of 8 scouts for 7 months, say. 214 days, at 5s. 7d. per day, 428 , Powder and lead furnished by Government, suppose ‘ - SO ' ' £1,035 6, or $3,451. -If protection be given to the other, four counties pf Virginia, arid the nine counties of the district of Kentucky, and the same be estimated on the above scale, the expense would amountto 48,314 dollars. .- . ‘ ‘ War Office, February 2.6th, 1790. ' *'   ' . : * The Secretary of War, to whom the President of the United States was pleased to refer a letter from his Excellency the Governor of Virginia, of the 4th instant, transmitting certain papers,' stating the measures which the Legis-' lature and ,Executive of Virginia have adopted, for the temporary defence of the western frontier of that State, reports: > . , . '■ ‘ ’ . . .< That.it appears, from the.said papers, that, .upon the,20th day of December last, the Legislature of Virginia authorized the Executive of said State to direct such temporary defensive operations in the frontier counties of said State, as would secure the citizens thereof from the hostile invasions of the Indian enemy. ' \   . That, at the same time, the said legislature also requested the Executive to transmit to the President of the United States, the memorial from the representatives of the frontier counties, and communicate to him such defensive measures as they may think proper to direct, in consequence of the authority vested in them, for the sole purpose of affording defence to the frontier citizens, until the General Government can enter into full and effectual measures to accomplish the said object. ■ i ' ’ That the memorial of the representatives of the frontier counties alluded to by the said Legislature, was transmitted by the said Governor to the President of the United States, the 10th day of December last, and the same was reported upon, by the Secretary of War, the fifth instant.   ’ ' i 'That the, measures directed by the Executive of Virginia, in consequence of the before recited power vested in them by the Legislature, are detailed in No. 2, and amount to ten lieutenants, ten ensigns, and five hundred and eighteen non-commissioned arid privates, at,the same rate of pay allowed by the law of the United States, besides a brigadier general, who shall be allowed the .pay and rations of lieutenant colonel when in actual service. That it does not appear, that any denomination of troops, termed scouts, at.an higher rate of. pay than the militia, have been ordered out by the Executive of Virginia. ' : . That the expense of the said defensive, system, for nine,months, would, if the same should be necessary for so long a term, amount-to thirty-six thousand seven hundred and forty-seven dollars and sixty cents', as per estimate herewith submitted, No. Sr ' ■ , ' ’ - -     , : That the total ot the estimate submitted on the 5th instant, amounts to thirty.-eight thousand six hundred and sixty-nine dollars and forty cents. Hut, about four-twenty-second parts are to be deducted from the said estimate!, for the county of, Washington in Pennsylvania, and the districts, amounting to about three counties, for the settlements upon Cumberland and between the forks of. Holston and French-broad. This would leave about eighteen parts of the said estimate for the expense of the counties of Virginia and the district of Kentucky, amounting to thirty-one thousand six-hundred and thirty-eight dollars and sixty cents. Comparing, therefore, the expense of the plan suggested in the report of the 5th instanri with the system directed by the Executive of Virginia, the difference will be live thousand one hundred and rane dollars greater for the latter than the former plan. But, in the plan suggested in the said report of the 5th instant, only the number of three hundred and fifty-four non-commissioned officers and privates were stated to be employed, besides commissioned officers.; The number directed by Virginia, amounts ,to five hundred and eighteen non-commissioned officers and privates, besides the commissioned officers. The reason that the difference of the expense is not proportioned to the difference of numbers, is, that the species of militia termed scouts, are not ordered in the system directed by Virginia. From this statement, the following questions .arise: ‘ ■ , \ > , 1st. Is the exposed situation of the frontier counties of Virginia such as to require that they should be protected at the expense of the United States? 2d. If so. is the system, directed by the Executive of Virginia, of such a nature as to be confirmed by the General Government and ordered into execution at the expense ot the United States? 3d. If not, shall a regular and efficient plan be devised for the same object, and put into execution at the expense of the United States? On the first question, the Secretary of War is of opinion, that the existing circumstances relative to the Indian hostilities are such as to cause just apprehensions for the safety of the frontier settlers during the approaching season. That principles of sound policy, therefore, as well as of justice, require that the said settlers should be afforded all reasonable protection at tne expense of the United States. On the second question, the Secretary of War is of opinion, that, however proper the system of defence directed by die Executive of Virginia may have been, considering the circumstances under which it was ordered, yet, there are several well founded objections against its being confirmed by the General Government, and ordered into execution at the expense of the United States. First—Because it is too uncertain as to any material effect to be produced thereby. Secondly—Because it is destitute of those principles of unity and responsibility, essentially necessary to guard die public from abuse. Thirdly—Because the detachments ordered out for the other counties besides Kentucky, are evidently designed for local service only, and not to be drawn into one body, however necessary the measure may be. Fourthly—Because it is evident die Legislature of Virginia considered the arrangement which should be made by the Executive of the said State, as a temporary measure of affording defence to the frontiers, until the General Government could enter into full and effectual measures to accomplish the said object. On the third question, the Secretary of War is of opinion, that the following plan for defence of the frontiers, in addition to the regular troops, would be the most proper for the ensuing season. For the defence of the exposed counties of Virginia and Kentucky, and the Cumberland and Uolston settlements, one regiment of rangers, to consist of one lieutenant colonel-commandant, two majors, ten captains, and fourteen subalterns, and seven hundred and thirty-eight non-commisioned and privates. That these rangers be enlisted on the continental establishment of pay, rations, and clothing; to serve from the first day of March next, until the 30th of November, unless sooner discharged. That a proportion of clothing, equal to the annual allowance to the federal troops, be issued to the said rangers. That, if an expedition be formed against the Indian towns, the rangers raised for the counties of Virginia and Kentucky should be assembled for that purpose; that, in other cases, they should be employed in ranging the frontiers most liable to inroads. That the expense of the said corps for nine months wouhhimount to forty-nine thousand four hundred and fifty-four dollars, as per estimate herewith submitted. But the Secretary of War conceives the efficacy and service of said corps would amply compensate for the difference of expense between the same and the system directed by Virginia. That the expense of defending the frontiers for the ensuing year, seems tobe inevitable. But there is a choice in the manner of defence. The regular troops art* inadequate to afford that extensive protection required from the county of Washington, in Pennsylvania, down the Ohio, to the settlements on the Cumberland river, and the other settlements in the southwestern territory of the United States. They must be assisted by auxiliaries, in order to defend the frontiers effectually. The question seems to be reduced to one point: whether the defence shall be afforded in a regular efficient manner, with full proof of the service having been rendered, or whetherit shall be performed in a manner less efficient, and neither regular or certain? The Secretary of War submits the idea, that the whole business of the defensive protection afforded the frontiers, during the last year, by the General Government, the system directed by the Executive of Virginia, and the plan herein proposed, should be laid before the Congress of the United States for their information and decision. The Secretary of War will, in another report, which he will shortly submit to the President of the United Slates, take the liberty of suggesting some observations respecting the issue ol the late expedition against the. M iami towns, and of the circumstances which may require another and more etfectual expedition against the Wabash Indians. But, in case of another expedition, it is conceived that the defensive provision should he made: for, although, while the expedition will be in operation, the Indians will not probably mate incursions, yet, their predatory parties may be expected on the frontiers both before and after the expedition. All which is humbly submitted to the President of trie United States. 11. KNO\, War Office, 15th January, 1791. Secretary of War. No. 1. The Governor of Virginia to the President of the. United States. Council Chamber, January 4th, 1791. Sir: In conformity to a resolution of the General Assembly of this State, herewith enclosed, 1 do myself the honor to transmit a memorial from the representatives of the frontier counties, and the proceedings of the Executive, respecting a temporary system of defence for the western frontier. 1 beg leave also to lay before you, copies of two other resolutions of the General Assembly, together with ihe petition of sundry officers of the Virginia line on continental establishment, on the subject of the bounty lands allotted to them on the northwest side of the Ohio. 1 have the honor to be, with the highest respect, your obedient servant, BEVERLEY RANDOLPH. The President of the United States. No. 2. In Council, December 29th, 1790. 'ITe Board resumed the consideration of a resolution of the General Assembly, authorizing the Executive to direct such temporary defensive operations in the frontier counties of this State, as will secure the citizens from the hostile invasions of the Indian enemy. Whereupon, the Board are of opinion, that the best system of defence which can be established under the present circumstances, will he to order into service in the different western counties, a small number of men, proportioned to the degree in which they are respectively exposed. That the officers commanding these parties be instructed constantly to range the frontiers most open to invasion, and either to alarm the inhabitants upon the approach of a large body' of the enemy, or repel the incursions of predatory parties. It is, therefore,advised, that a lieutenant, two sergeants, and forty rank and file, be allowed to the county of Harrison; an ensign, two sergeants, and thirty rank and tile, to Monongalia; a lieutenant, an ensign, three sergeants, and fifty rank and file, to Ohio; a lieutenant, ail ensign, three sergeants, and fifty rank and file, to Kenhawa; an ensign, two sergeants, and twenty rank and file, to Randolph; an ensign, three sergeants, and thirty-two rank and file, to Wythe; and a lieutenant, an ensign, three sergeants, and fifty rank and file, to Russell. The rangers to be ready for service by the first day of March next; to.be stationed at such places as in the opinion of the commanding officer of each county, respectively, shall be most convenient, to enable them, by ranging the lrontiers, to give effectual protection. 15 That the commanding officers of the several counties be directed to procure, by voluntary engagements, the complement of men allowed for the defence of their counties, respectively; but, should they be unable to obtain the required number by this means, that they detach them, with the necessary officers, by detail and rotation of duty, agreeable to the act to amend and reduce into one act, the several laws for regulating and disciplining the militia, and guarding against invasions and insurrections. That, for the defence of Kentucky, it is advised, that a brigadier general be appointed to command the whole militia of the district, who shall be allowed the pay and rations of a lieutenant colonel when in actual service. That the said brigadier general do immediately endeavor to procure, by voluntary engagements, two hundred and twenty-six men, to range the most exposed parts of the frontiers of the district, to be so stationed as will, in his judgment, afford the best protection to the inhabitants; but, should he be unable to obtain the required number by voluntary engagements, that he direct the commanding officer ol the respective counties composing the district, to detach their just proportion, with the necessary officers, by detail and rotation of duty, agreeable to the militia law, to be ready for service by the first day of March next. That, in the execution of this business, he be not considered as in actual service, nor have authoiity to appoint the staff and other officers allowed by law, but shall be reimbursed all such reasonable expenses as he may necessarily incur. That the said rangers be furnished with rations in such manner as the brigadier .general of Kentucky, and the officers commanding the several counties without that district shall think proper: six pence to be allowed for each ration; a subaltern to be allowed two, and the non-commissioned and privates one ration, each. The pay and rations of both officers and privates to be the same as is allowed by law to the continental troops. That the following evidence of the service of the rangers be required: 1st. A return of die names, rank, and time of service, of each of the said rangers. 2d. A pay abstract or account for the number of said rangers, agreeable to the aforesaid return; .these papers to be verified by the oath of the officers commanding the several detachments, and by the signature of the brigadier general in Kentucky, or by that of the commanding officers of the several counties without that district. 3d. An abstract of the rations agreeably to the aforesaid return, to be signed by the officer receiving them, and countersigned by the brigadier general in Kentucky, or by the commanding officers of the several counties without that district. And it is further advised, that Charles Scott, Esquire, be appointed brigadier general of Kentucky. All which matters, so advised, the Governor orders accordingly. Extract from the Journal. Attest, SAM. COLEMAN, A. C. C. No. 3. Resolution of the Commomvealth of Virginia. Virginia: In the House of Delegates, Monday, the 20th of December, 1790. Resolved, That the Executive be authorized to direct such temporary defensive operations in the frontier counties of this State, as will secure the citizens thereof from the hostile invasions of the Indian enemy. Resolved, That the Executive be requested to transmit to the President of the United States the memorial from the representatives of the frontier counties, and communicate to him such defensive measures as they may think proper to direct, in consequence of the authority vested in them for the sole purpose of affording defence to our frontier citizens, until the General Government can enter into full and effectual measures to accomplish the said object. Attest, CHARLES HAY, C. H. D. 1790, December. Agreed to by the Senate. II. BROOKE, C. S. No. 4. To his Excellency Beverley Randolph, Esquire, Governor of Virginia. The joint memorial of the Delegates of Ohio, Monongalia, Harrison, Randolph, Kenhawa, Greenbriar, Montgomery, and Ilusscll counties, humbly represents: That the defenceless condition of those counties, forming a line of nearly four hundred miles along the Ohio river, exposed to the hostile invasions of their Indian enemies, destitute of every kind of support, is truly alarming: for, notwithstanding all the regulations of the General Government in that country, we have reason to lament that they have been hitherto ineffectual for our protection; nor, indeed, could it happen otherwise: lor tile garrisons kept by the continental troops on the Ohio river, if they are of any use, it must be to the Kentucky settlements, as they immediately cover that country; to us they can be of no service, being from two to four hundred miles below our frontier settlements. We further beg leave to represent, that, agreeably to the last arrangement for our defence, as declared by the Secretary of War, a subaltern officer, a sergeant, a corporal, and twelve privates, were allotted to some of the above mentioned counties,'for their defence, and them only to be continued in service when the continental commanding officer in the Western country may approve of it, they at the same time to be under such regulations as it is impossible for the inhabitants of our country to comply with, the communication betwixt him and us being cut off by a distance of two to four hundred miles, and that through an uninhabited country, exposed to the Indians, having entirely exploded our old experienced mode of defending our frontiers, by keeping out scouts and rangers lor their information and protection, owing, as we are informed, that it is supposed that the new plan is less expensive; but surely, if our operations must be on the defensive, a small saving [for a small saving it must be) ought not to be deemed a good reason to alter from a known measure to one that is only supposed to be as good, when the lives of so many ol your citizens are exposed to the enemy. We further beg leave to observe, that we have reason to fear that the consequences of the deleat of-our army by the Indians on the late expedition, will be severely felt on our frontiers, as there is no doubt but that the Indians wil l, in their turn, (being flushed with victory) invade our settlements, and exercise all their horrid murder upon the inhabitants thereof, whenever the weather null permit them to travel. Then is it not better to support us where we are, be the expense what it may, than to oblige such a number of your brave citizens, who have so long supported, and still continue to support, a dangerous frontier, (although thousands of their relatives in the flesh have, in the prosecution thereof, fallen a sacrifice to savage inventions) to quit the country, after all they have done and suffered, when you know that a frontier must be supported somewhere? Permit us, therefore, to assure you, that we think the only measure that will establish the confidence of your frontier people in the Government, and also be the means of bringing about the end proposed, to wit: their safety and protection, will be to empower the county lieutenants in eacli of those counties to send out a few scouts to watch the passes of the enemy, and when the winter breaks up, to place some rangers on the outside of the settlements. This we mean oidy as a temporary matter, to continue until more effectual measures are adopted for the protection of that country, the expense of which scouts and rangers, to be settled with your auditor, and paid by Virginia, and the General Government to be debited with the amount thereof, for which the State of Virginia ought to be credited in her accounts with that Government. And we hope and trust that Congress will comply therewith, until they extend to us that protection that we, as citizens of Virginia, have a right to expect. And we further trust and hope that the State of Virginia will never quietly rest inactive until peace is restored to all her citizens, be their situation ever so remote. Under these impressions, we have taken the liberty to address you upon this subject, praying that, should not the Executive Council of Virginia possess power sufficient to extend to us that relief which our necessities require, you will, in that case, lay our complaints before the proper tribunal, where we may be redressed. We have the honor to be. with great respect, &c BENJAMIN BIGGS. JOHN HENDERSON JOHN EVANS. J Attest, ^ j Ohio. JOHN EVANS. Jr. 7 > WM. McCLEERY. \Mo^ng»ha. GEO. JACKSON. 7 ~ JOHN PRUNTY.5^ ° CORNELIUS BOGARD. 7 Rnndnhh ABRAHAM CLAYPOOL. 5 "m°7 ANDREW DONNALLY, 7 -GEO. CLEND1NEN, 5 Kt,n1uma-THOS. EDGAR, 7 Crppnhr W. H. CAVENDISH. 5 ^ b II. MONTGOMERY. R. SAWYERS, I (IV. ^ Montgomery. SAM. COLEMAN, A. C. C. No. 5. An estimate of pay. subsistence, and forage, for 9 months, from the .first day of March to the 50th of November, 1790, according to the arrangement of Virginia. 1 Brigadier General, with the pay. subsistence, and forage of a lieutenant colonel, estimated to be in service 4 months. Pay, at 60 dollars per month, is, for 4 months, - - - - - - $240 00 Subsistence. 6 rations per day, for 4 months, is 720 rations, a 121 ct-. - 86 40 Forage, 12 dollars per month. --------- 36 00 362 40 10 Lieutenants, for 9 months. Pay at 22 dollars per month, is for 9 months, - - - - 1.980 00 Subsistence.- 2 rations per dav, 5,400 rations a 12 cents ' - '- - - 648 00 --------- 2.628 00 10 Ensigns for 9 months. Pay, at 18 dollars per month, is. for 9 months. - - - - 1,620 00 Subsistence, 2 rations per day, 5.400 rations, a 12 cents - 648 00 --------- 2.268 00 40 Sergeants, at 5 dollars per month, is. for 9 months - 1.800 00 478 privates, at 3 dollars per month, is, for 9 months - - - - 12.906 00 14.706 00 Subsistence for 518 non-commissioned and privates, at one ration per day, is for 9 months 139,860 rations, a 12 cents - - - - - - 16.783 20 ------------- 31.489 20 $36,747 60 M ar Office, 15th January, 1791. H. KNOX. Secretary of JVar. No. 6. An estimate for pay. subsistence, forage, and clothing, for nine months, for one regiment of Hangers, formed as follows: PAY. 1 Lieutenant Colonel-commandant, at $60 per month, is, for 9 months, 2 Majors, 40 - - 10 Captains, SO - 10 Lieutenants, 22 - - 10 Ensigns, 18 - - 1 Paymaster, additional. 5 - - 1 Quartermaster, do. 5 - - 1 Adjutant, do. 10 ” 40 Sergeants, 5 40 Corporals, 40 Drummers, 4 * “ 40 Filers, 178 Privates, I 1 > O “ Deductions for clothing. 40 Sergeants, at $1 40 per month, is, for 9 months, 40 Corporals, 115 658 Musicians and privates, 90 - - $1,800 00 1.440 00 17.766 00 $21,006 00 $540 00 720 00 2,700 00 1.980 00 1,620 00 45 00 45 00 90 $7,740 00 $ 504 00 414 00 5,329 80 -------------- 6,247 80 ■--------- 14,758 20 Amount of pay. SUBSISTENCE. 1 Lieutenant Colonel-commandant, 6 rations 2 Majors, - - - 4 10 Captains, - -3 10 Lieutenants, - - 2 10 Ensigns, - - - 2 738 Non-commissioned and privates. 1 per day. is, for 9 months, 1,620 rations, 2,160 do. 8,100 do. 5.400 do. 5.400 do. 199.260 do. $22,498 20 Amount of Subsistence. 221.940 rations.at 7-100 15,535 30 Forage. 1 Lieutenant Colonel-commandant, 12 dollars per month, is, for 9 months, 2 Majors, - - 10 - - i -Paymaster, quartermaster, and adjutant, each, - 6 - - - - , $108 00 - 180 00 - 162 00 Amount of Forage, ------ Clothing. - 450 00 738 Non-commissioned and privates, at 15 dollars, - 11,070 00 H. KNOX, $49,454 00 War Office, January 15, 1791. Secretary of War. The Secretary of War, to whom the President of the United States _ referred the consideration of various papers and information, relative to the frontiers of the United States, respectfully reports: That the frontiers, from several causes, are, at present, so critically circumstanced, as to claim an immediate consideration, and such arrangements as may, upon investigation, be found indispensably necessary for the preservation of good order, and the protection of the inhabitants exposed to the hostilities of certain Indian tribes. That, in order to obtain a clear view of the existing circumstances of the frontiers, the following sunnnarv statement is submitted; aud, also, that a judgment may be formed of the measures necessary to be adopted on the occasion. That, in the first place, it may be proper to explain the relative situation of the Government of the United States, with the Choctaw, Chickasaw, and Cherokee nations of Indians. It will appear by the Journals of the late Congress, and the paper herewith submitted, Marked A, No. 1,* that the United States did, in November, 1785, and in January, 1786. form treaties with the Cherokee, Choctaw, and Chickasaw nations of Indians, by which their boundaries were defined. That the State of Georgia claims the right of pre-emption to nearly all the lands belonging to the said Indian nations. That it will appear by the act of Legislature of the said State, passed the 21st day of December, 1789, a copy of which is herewith submitted, marked A, No. 2, that the said Legislature has granted and sold to three private companies, its said right of pre-emption to' almost the whole of the lands of the Choctaws and Chickasaws, and part of the Cherokees, amounting in all to 15,500,000 acres. That, although the right of Georgia to the pre-emption of said lands should be admitted in its full extent, yet, it is conceived, that, should the said State, of any companies or persons, claiming Under it, attempt to extinguish the Indian claims, unless authorized thereto by the United States, that the measure would be repugnant to the aforesaid treaties, to the constitution of the United States, and to the law regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes. That the President of the United States, apprehensive that individuals belonging to said companies might, from ignorance,- or otherwise, pursue a line of conduct derogatory to the United States, caused the said treaties, and the law to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, to be published on the 25th day of August, 1790, together with his proclamation, requiring all persons to'govern themselves accordingly. But, notwithstanding this warning, it appears, from the information contained in A, No. 3, that certain persons, claiming under the said companies, are raising troops for the purpose of establishing, by force, one or more settlements on the lands belonging to the aforesaid Indian nations. The authority of the linked States is thus set at defiance; their faith, pledged to the said Indians, and their constitution and laws, violated, and a general Indian war excited, on principles disgraceful to the Government. But, there is another point of view in which this subject may be placed. It is said, the Spanish officers stationed on the Mississippi, alarmed at the proposed settlements, have decided to prevent them by force. Although the settlements should be made in opposition to the Government of the United States, yet,,the interference of the Spaniards, would start a new subject of discussion, which merits some consideration. Hence arises the following question: Is not the General Government bound, by the indispensable obligations of its own rights and dignity; by the principles of justice and good faith to the aforesaid Indian nations; by the principles of humanity, as it respects the innocent inhabitants ot the frontiers, who may fall victims to an unjust Indian war; to interpose its arm, in an effectual manner, to prevent the intended settlements? That, in the second place, the protection to be afforded the frontiers, during the ensuing year, requires an immediate arrangement. That it is to be apprehended, the late expedition against the Miami Indians will not be attended with such consequences as to constrain the said Indians to sue for peace; but, on the contrary, that their own opinion of their success, and the number of trophies they possess, will, probably, not only encourage them to a continuance of hostilities, but may be the means of their obtaining considerable assistance from the neighboring tribes. In addition to which, they will, probably, receive all possible assistance in the power of certain malignant whites, who reside among them. That it, therefore, appears, from the examination of this subject, to be incumbent on the United States to prepare immediately for another expedition against the Wabash Indians, with such a decided force as to impress them strongly with the power of the United States. That the objects of the expedition will, in a considerable degree, regulate the nature and number of troops 'to be employed. That, if the measure of establishing a strong fortification aud garrison at the Miami village, should be decided upon as proper and necessary, a considerable increase of the regular force for that and the other objects mentioned in this report, would be requisite. That a strong post and garrison, at the said Miami village, with proper subordinate posts of communication, have always been regarded as but little inferior to the possession of the post at Detroit. But, while there were existing hopes of obtaining the latter, it did not appear proper to incur the expense of an establishment at the former place. Those hopes, however, having vanished for the present, it seems to be a point of real importance to effect an establishment at the Miami village. That a post established at the said place, as the consequence of a successful expedition, would curb and overawe not only the Wabash Indians, hut the Ottawasand Chippewas, and all others who might be wavering, and disposed to join in the war. The said post would more effectually cover the line of frontier along the Ohio, than by a post at any other place whatever. That it would, therefore, of consequence, afford more full security to the territory of the United States, northwest of the Ohio. In this point of view, it would assist in the reduction of the national debt, by holding out a security to people to purchase and settle ihe public lands. The purchasers ofland from the Government will have a right ot protection, and there will be no doubt of their claiming it forcibly. The regular force, upon the frontiers, seems utterly inadequate for the essential purposes of the United States. The frontiers, from the northeast to the southwest, are nearly enclosed by the possessions, garrisons, and claims of two formidable foreign nations, whose interests cannot entirely coincide with those of the United States. Not on file. 1791.] I X I) IA N D E P R E D A T10 X S. 113 Numerous Indian tribes reside in the vicinity, whose hostilities arc easily excited by their jealousy of the encroaching settlements and rapid population of the frontiers. Bold and unprincipled adventurers will arise, from time to time. who. in advancing their own schemes of avarice. or ambition, will be incessantly machinating against the public peace and prosperity. These several circumstances, and the distance from the seat of Government, require that a wise and rigorous system should be adopted and executed, as well to protect effectually the inhabitants of the frontiers, as to curb the licentious, and prevent the evils of anarchy, and prevent the usurpation of the public lands. But, besides these considerations, it would appear, from information, that the State of Georgia is desirous that more troops should be placed on its frontiers. Tnere are at present three companies in Georgia, and another is raising there. Those four companies amount to one quarter part of the establishment. The paper marked B. No. 1. will show the number and stations of the troops, at present in service, and the numbers wanting to complete the establishment of one thousand two hundred and sixteen non-commissioned officers and privates. If the intended settlements upon the Choctaw, Chickasaw, and Cherokee lands are to be effectually prevented, and the Government enabled to place troops upon the Tennessee, which would at once awe the Creeks, if turbulent, and thereby comply with the desires of Georgia, and prevent the projected settlement on the Muscle. Shoals, and if an establishment should be made at the-Miami village, it would require that the establishment should be augmented, so as to form a legionary corps of two thousand one hundred and twenty-eight non-commissioned officers and privates. If this augmentation should take place, two modes present themselves, by which the object could be effected, both of which, and estimates thereon, are contained in the paper marked B.No. 2. the one amounting to 101.466 40 dollars, and the other to 98,542 40 dollars. The question, which arises on this subject, is. . Whether the objects, proposed to be accomplished by the troops, will fully compensate for the additional expense? The United States have come into existence, as a nation, embarrassed with a frontier of immense extent, which is attended with all the peculiar circumstances before enumerated and even with others, which are obvious, but which are. unnecessary to recite. The population of the lands lying on the Western waters is increasing rapidly. The inhabitants request and demand protection: if it be not granted, seeds of disgust will be sown: sentiments of separate interests will arise out of their local situation, which will he cherished, either by insidious, domestic, or foreign emissaries. It therefore appears to be an important branch of the administration of the General Government, to afford the frontiers all reasonable protection, as well in their just rights as against their enemies: and. at the same time, it is essential to show all lawless adventurers that, notwithstanding the distance. Government possess the power of preserving peace and good order on the. frontiers. It is true economy to regulate events instead of being regulated by them. But. whether the regular establishment he increased or not. it seems indispensable that another expedition be made against the Wabash Indians. Affairs cannot remain where they are. Winter imposes peace for the present; but, unless the attention of the Indians be called to their own country, they will, upon the opening of the spring, spread general desolation on the frontiers by their small parties. That the said Wabash Indian* amount to about eleven hundred warriors: to this number may. perhaps, be added, of other more distant Indians, one thousand. If this should be the case, the army, for the campaign, ought to consist of three thousand well arranged troops, in order to be'superior to all opposition, and to prevent the trouble and expense of being repeated. That the reports, herewith submitted, marked G, No. 1, will exhibit the species of defensive protection permitted. during the last year, by the General Government : the system directed by the Executive of \ irginia, during the month of December. 1790; and the plan of a regiment of rangers, proposed to be raised on the frontiers, to answer the same purpose, and an estimate of the expense thereof. That, in case the said plan of a regiment of rangers should be adopted, the same would furnish five hundred noncommissioned officers and privates for the proposed expedition. That the other force, necessary to complete the number of three thousand, might be raised under the term levies, to serve for the expedition, which, it is presumed, would not exceed four months. That, to induce the. men to engage voluntarily for the said object, it is respectfully suggested, that it might he proper to appoint the best and most popular officers in Kentucky, and the frontier counties, to superior commands, with delegated authority to appoint their subordinatejofficers; and the idea is a No submitted, bow far a bounty of live dollars in money, or clothing, would be proper. That the result, therefore, of the ideas suggested herein, and in the report marked t'. No. 1. are. 1. That the situation of the frontiers requires an additional defensive protection, at least until offensive measures -hall be put into operation. The plan of a regiment of rangers is therefore submitted. 2. That the peculiar situation of the frontiers requires the augmentation of one regiment of regular troops, to consist of nine hundred and twelve non-commissioned officers anil privates. 3. That anotherexpedition. which shall effectually dispose the \\ abash, and other hostile Indians, to peace, seems indispensable. That the army, for the said expedition, might be. thus composed: Regular troops, if the same should be augmented. - - - - - f.200 Rangers^ if the same should be adopted. ...... 500 Ames, so called for the sake of distinction. ------ 1.300 3.000 But, if the regulars should not be augmented, nor the rangers adopted, then the number of levies ought to be proportionably increased. That a corps of levies, raisetl for the expedition, whose officers should be selected by the General Government, and who should possess a pride of arrangement and discipline, would he more efficacious* and more economical, than draughting the. militia, cannot be well questioned. lit is to be observed, that the engagements of four hundred and twenty of the troops, on the frontiers, expire during the present year: and that, by the last accounts, only sixty of that number had re-enlisted on the new establishment. As the reduced pay of the late establishment has therefore discouraged the recruiting service, the idea is suggested, that a bounty of eight dollars should be given to all the recruits who have, or shall re-enlist for three years, on the said establishment. Were Congress to authorize this bounty, the subscriber is of opinion, that all the recruits required would be immediately obtained. That the [taper marked B. No. 3, contains an estimate of the expense of the proposed number of levies. That the paper marked B, No. 4, contains in one view the extraordinary expense, which would be incurred by the rangers, levies, and other objects of the proposed expedition. All which is humbly submitted. If. KNOX, Secretary of Jf'ar. War Department, January 22rf. 1791. A. No. 2. An Act for disposing of certain vacant lands or territory ivithin this State. Whereas divers persons from the States of Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina, have made application for the purchase of certain tracts and parcels of land, lying and bordering on the Tennessee, Tom or Don Bigby, Yazoo, and Mississippi rivers, within this State, and have offered to engage to settle the same, a part of which territory has been already settled, on behalf of some of the applicants, under and by virtue of an act of the General Assembly of this State, bearing date the seventh of February, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, at Savannah, entitled “ An act for laying out a district of land situated on the river Mississippi, within the limits of this State, into a county to be called Bourbon:” Now, therefore, Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the Slate of Georgia, in General Assembly met. That all that tract or part of territory of this State, within the following limits, to wit: Beginning at the mouth of Cole’s creek, on the Mississippi, continuing to the head spring or source thereof; from thence a due east course to the Tom or Don Bigby river; thence, continuing along the middle of the said river, up to the latitude thirty-three; thence down along the latitude thirty-three, bounding on the territory of the Virginia Yazoo company, a due west course to the middle of the Mississippi; thence, down the middle of the Mississippi; to the mouth of Cole’s creek aforesaid; and containing about five millions of acres; shall be reserved as a pre-emption for the. South Carolina Yazoo company, for two years, from and after the passing of this act; and if the said South Carolina Yazoo company shall, within the said term of two years, pay into the public treasury of this State the amount of sixty-six thousand nine hundred and sixty-four dollars, then it shall be lawful for the Governor, at. the time being, and he is hereby empowered and directed, to sign and deliver a grant, in the usual form, to Alexander Moultrie, Isaac Huger, William Clay Snipes, and Thomas Washington, Esquires, and the rest of their associates, and to their heirs and assigns forever, in fee simple, as tenants in common, all the tract of land included in the aforesaid boundaries. And be it further enacted, That all that tract or part of territory of this State, included within the following limits, that is to say; beginning at the mouth of Bear creek, on the south side of the Tennessee river, running thence, up the said creek, to the head or source; thencea due west course, to the Tom or Don Bigby, or Twenty-mile creek;thence down the same, to latitude thirty-three; thence, along the said latitude, bounding on the South Carolina Yazoo company’s line a due west course, to the middle of the Mississippi; thence, up the said river in the middle thereof, to the northern boundary of this State; thence, along the said boundary line a due east course, to the Tennessee river; thence, up the middle of the said river, to the beginning thereof, and containing seven millions of acres; shall be reserved as a pre-emption for the Virginia Yazoo company, tor the term of two years from and after the passing of this act; and if the said company shall cause to be paid into the public treasury of this State, within the said term of two years, the amount of ninety-three thousand seven hundred and forty-one dollars, then it shall be lawful for the Governor, at the time being, and he is hereby empowered and required, to sign and deliver, in the usual form; a grant of the aforesaid tract of land, to Patrick Henry. David Ross, William Cowan, Abraham B. Venable, John B. Scott, William Cock Ellis, Francis Watkins, and John Watts, Esquires, and the rest of their associates, and to their heirs and assigns forever, in fee simple, as tenants in common of all the tract of land included in the aforesaid boundaries. And be it further enacted, That all that tract or part of the territory of this State, included within the limits fol lowing, to wit: Beginning at the mouth of Bear creek, on the south side of the Tennessee river, in the latitude of thirty-four degrees forty-three minutes; running thence, up Bear creek, to the head or source; thence a due west course, to the Tom Bigby, or Twenty-mile creek; thence, down the said Bigby, or Twenty mile-creek, to the latitude thirty-four degrees; thence, a due east course one hundred and twenty miles: thence, a due north course, to the northern boundary line of this State; thence, a due west course, along the northern boundary line, to the great-Tennessee river; thence, up the middle of the said river Tennessee, to the place of beginning, and containing three millions and a half acres; shall be reserved as-a pre-emption for the Tennessee company, for the term of tw o years, from and after the passing this act; and if the said company shall cause to be paid into the public treasury of this State, within the said term ot two years, the amount of forty-six thousand eight hundred and seventy-five dollars, then it shall be lawful for the Governor, for the time being, and he is hereby empowered and required, to sign and deliver, in the usual form, a grant of the aforesaid tract of land to Zachariah Cox, Thomas Gilbert, and John Strother, Esquires, and to the rest of their associates, and to their heirs and assigns forever, as tenants in common of all the tract of land included in the aforesaid boundaries: Provided, That the said grantees of each separate grant, shall forbear all hostile attacks on any of the Indian hordes, which may be found on or near the said territory, if any such there be, and keep this State free from all charge and expenses which may attend the preserving of peace between the said Indians and grantees, and extinguishing the claims of the said Indians under the authority of this State: And provided further, and it is hereby expressly conditioned, That this State, and the government thereof, shall at no time hereafter be subject to any suit at law or in equity, or claim or pretension whatever, for, or on account of, any deduction in the quantity of the said territory, by any recovery w hich may or shall be had on any former claim or claims. And, for the better direction of the Governor, Beit enacted, That the treasurer of this State shall, on application of any agent of either of the said companies, within the said term of two years, receive the sum or sums of money, which they are hereby respectively directed to advance; a certificate or certificates of which payments, under the hand of the treasurer, shall be a sufficient voucher for the Governor to issue the grants to the respective companies as aforesaid. _ And be it further enacted, That all the remaining vacant territory belonging to this State, shall be disposed of as this or a future General Assembly shall direct, and in no other manner whatever. SEABORN JONES, Speaker of the House of Representatives. N. BROWNSON, President of the Senate. Concurred, December 21, 1789. EDWARD TELFAIR, Governor. Georgia, Secretary's Office, 12th January, 1790. The foregoing is a true copy, taken from the original, deposited in this office. D. LONGSTREET, for John Milton, Secretary. A, No. 5. Extract of a letter from Lieutenant John Armstrong to the Secretary of War, dated Philadelphia, January 20, 1791. Sir: Being a public officer, I shall take the liberty of communicating to you some conversation that passed between a Doctor O’Fallon and myself a few days before I left Kentucky, with some other circumstances relative to a settlement about to take place at the Yazoo, on the Mississippi, under the direction of that gentleman. Having seen a proclamation published by the President of the United States, I observed to Doctor O’Fallon that I thought the sanction of Government was necessary in order to give the color of success to his undertaking. He replied, it was immaterial; that Congress were concerned with him; offered to read a letter from one of that honorable body, but who he was I don’t recollect In the course of conversation, he assured me that many of the gentlemen of Congress were concerned in the business. I was also informed that a Mr. Mitchell had raised a company of adventurers in the district of Kentucky. I saw a Mr. ChijSty, who informed me that he hat! an appointment, and expected in a little time to fill a company also. I understood from him that the business of those men was to protect the settlement: they were to be fed, and have a bounty of land. O'Fallon had also contracted with a Mr. Kirby, at the rapids of Ohio, to frame several houses, ami have them ready to raft down the river early in the spring. On my way to this place, travelling through a part of North Carolina, I was there informed that an extensive settlement would be formed at the Big Bend of the Tennessee. This was the general subject of conversation in the back parts of Virginia also, and, from an advertisement, a copy of which I gav e you, a number of families were to, and I doubt not but they did, meet on the 10th instant, on French Broad river, in order to proceed to the place above mentioned. Jili'ertisemcnt of the proprietors of the Tennessee Company. Avgusta, Geo. September 2. 1790. This is to inform those who wish to become adventurers to the Tennessee Company's purchase, that the said company will embark, from the confluence of llolston and French Broad rivers, on the tenth day of January next, for the purpose of forming a settlement on the said purchase at or.ncar the Muscle Shoals. And, for the encouragement of migration to the aforesaid intended settlement, the said Tennessee Company have thought proper to set apart four hundred and eighty thousand acres of land in the said purchase, to lie in a true square, on the south side of the Tennessee river; which said tract of country, so set apart for the encouragement of migration, will be first laid off into bounties of five hundred acres of land each: and to every family who may become adventurers to the aforesaid settlement will be allowed a bounty, as aforesaid, of five hundred acres each, and to every single man. half a bounty; that is to say, two hundred and fifty acres each, until the whole of the land so set apart is appropriated. Preference to the adventurers will be given by ballot. It is desired that those who Ivish to become adventurers will rendezvous, at the place appointed for setting out, time enough previous to the tenth of January to have their boats anil necessary provisions prepared to embark. Z AC D ARI AH COX, THOMAS CARR. Agents to the 'Tennessee Company. Those who wish to be further interested in land on the Tennessee river may be supplied on reasonable terms, by applying at the abovementionel place of rendezvous, on the first of January next, at which time and place the proprietors of the Tennessee Company purchase (as holding the land on the north side of the Tennessee river, commonly called the Bent) will open an ofhee for the sale of the same. The said office will continue at the confluence of Holston and French Broad rivers until the tenth of January, and after, at the intended settlement of the Tennessee. until the whole of the land, or that part of the Bent (included by the Tennessee Company purchase) is sold, amounting, in the whole, to about six hundred thousand acres of the most valuable part of the said Bent. Undoubted titles, in fee simple, to adventurers and purchasers, for land in the '1 ennessee Company, will be given. Given under our hands, as proprietors to the Tennessee Company, this second day of September, 1790. ZACIIARIAH COX, - THOMAS GILBERT, JOHN STROTHER, Proprietors Tennessee Company. Janies O'Fallon's letter to the President of the United States. Lexington, September 25, 1790. Sir: Having, since the sealing up of the despatches herein enclosed to your Excellency, noticed a clause in the late Creek treaty, and another in an act of the Legislature of the United States, of Monday. January [the 4th, of this year, and a third in the same act, respecting persons passing into Indian nations, holding treaties on the subject of kinds, and trade with them; and as, in my present agency. I may occasionally have from the Spanish and Indian borders intelligence of vital import to transmit to your Excellency, to the Governor of Georgia, to the Company, to the new ally of the States, Mr. McGillivray, through the Choctaws and Chickasaws, and may likewise have to determine on the trading intercourse between these nations and the people of my colony, so remote from your Excellency, or your Excellency's Indian superintendent, and may further have to purchase more lands within the company's State charter, from the Choctaws, I, in consequence, submit it to your Excellency, whether or not it would comport with your Excellency's arrangement and official plans to extend to ine. as the agent general of the company, sufficient authority in the premises, and to transmit it as speedily as may be. Your Excellency may depend on my discretion in the uses of sncliauthortfy, and that your confidence will, in no one instance, be abused; without such trust, evils may happen. In regard to trade and purchases of the Choctaw tribes, it would perhaps be better to place this authority in the hands of tlie company; but the power of passing expresses from one. in the directions just mentioned, ought, I should presume, to be speedily invested in the acting general agent of the colony. These are submitted to your Excellency’s better judgment, with becoming diffidence, and am, your Excellency's most devoted and respectful humble servant, JAMES O'FALLON, .1%ent (leneral fur, and proprietor with, the South Carolina Yazoo Company. P. S. By persons just now arrived from General Harmar’s army, it is banded about, very confidently, that the expedition against the Northern Indians must prove abortive. The militia (then about half ways to the Indian towns) began to mutiny for want o(meal. They hail not at the time more beeves than would last the army five days, nor were any ordered on. They lost near one hundred in the woods. This disgusts the people here, because they think it will inspirit the savages to greater hostility. The expedition, it is said, has been, by General St. Clair, too preci-pitatch/ taken up, and hastily provided for. The country abounds with-every supply, and the people, if called on, are willing to support the expedition. But, they are not called on. If it fails, a new uproar, I foresee, will be set up against the Governor. Military Articles rf contract, §-c. entered into between the South Carolina Yazoo Company and their troops, of the Yazoo Battalion. Military articles, proposals, and terms of contract, hereby ottered, made, and solemnly entered into, for and on behalf of the South Corolina Yazoo Company, (as proprietors of that extensive territory on the Mississippi, and adjoining to the Natchez district, now proposed for populous colonization, by them, under a grant from tlie State of Georgia, and a deed of gift from the Choctaw nation) by the underwritten, who himself is a co-proprietor, and likewise the said company’s general agent in and over their affairs, throughout the whole of the Western territory of the United States, and in New Orleans and Pensacola, on the one part, and the officers and privates, as undersigned, on the other. And this for the sole purpose of raising, recruiting, and enlisting, and ;for that of placing on the spot of settlement, a well appointed, well armed, and well accoutred military corps, in full form and organization of a regular battalion, aptly detailed and apportioned into one troop of cavalry, one company of artillery, and eight companies of infantry riflemen, as in order arranged, at foot; enlisted, or to be enlisted for the space of eighteen months certain; to be computed from the time of the battalion’s arrival at the place destined and appointed by the company, or their agent general, for the first establishment of the colony, capital, and fort; or for a snorter time, it the said company shall have thought proper: these troops being intended, although no danger is, at present, apprehended, to ensure the greater security of the company’s rights, and their own; as well as to the rest of their fellow settlers’ lives, liberties, and properties. Detail of officers and privates in this battalion, with their apportionments of stipendiary lands, respectively. 1 Colonel-commandant. 1 Lieutenant Colonel, - 6,000 1 Lieutenant of horse, - 2,400 1 Cornet of do. .... 2,400 1 Captain of artillery, - 5,600 First Lieutenant of do. - - - - 2,400 Second Lieutenant of do. - - - 2,400 8 Captains of infantry, 3,000 acres each, '- 24,000 I Major, ..... 5,000 1 Captain of horse, .... 3,600 1 Quartermaster-sergeant, - - - 400 1 Adjutant of horse, - .- - - 400 2 Sergeants of horse, 350 each, - - - 700 16 Sergeants of infantry, 300 acres each, - 4,800 2 Sergeants of artillery, 350 each, - - 700 8 Lieutenants of infantry, 2,000 acres each, - 16,000 . 8 Ensigns of do.. do. do. - 16,000 1 Adjutant of the battalion, - - - 2,000 1 Surgeon of do. - - - 2,000 1 Quartermaster .... 2,000 1 Sergeant-major, .... 400 47 Privates of horse, each 250 acres, - - 11,750 46   Do. of artillery, 250 each, - - 11,550 400 Do. of infantry, 200 each, - - 80,000 2 Gunners for the artillery, 400 each,- - 800 Total of acres, - 201,300 I11 addition to the stipendiary allotments of plantation rights, as above mentioned, each private as well as officer is to have one town lot of half an acre, and one out lot' of five acres, adjoining to the capital. The plantation lands are to be laid out and drawn for, consonant to rank, in enumerated sections of 400, 550. 300,250, and 200 acres; all in the vicinage of the said capital, where, it is presumed, the land must, in quality, be excellent. The town lots are, likewise, to be enumerated and drawn for, in half acre sections, and the out lots in sections of five acres, the company drawing lot for lot, alternately, with each officer and private, so that the troops (with respect to the quantity ol their lands) will be on an equal footing with the company. These military lots within the town, may exist in any of the streets thereof, saving one; which the agent, in behalf of the company, shall reserve for such uses as the said company may, hereafter, nave them applied to. The battalion is still additionally to be maintained by the company, in the subsistence of daily rations, so long as the troops shall have been retained in the service of the said company. officers’ and privates" daily rations. Colonel-commandant. - - - - - - 5 per day. Lieutenant Colonel, - - - - - - 5 do. Major,   - - - - - -4 do. Captains, - - - - - - - 3 do. Lieutenants and Ensigns, - - - - - 2'. do. Adjutant of the battalion, - - - - - 2 ,. do. Surgeon, - - - - - - - 2 do. Quartermaster, - - - - -   - 2 do. All others, - - - - - - - t do. RATIONS TO * CONSIST OF— Bacon, salted pork, flour, or Indian corn meal, - - - - f of a lb. 'Or, if Bread, instead of flour, - - - - - - 1 lb. Corn, instead of these, - - : r l quart, Salted beef, instead of bacon, or salted pork, - - - - 1 lb. Fresh meat or fish, instead of cither of these, - - - - I5 lb. One gill of whiskey, or halfa gill of taffia, per day, shall accompany each ration. The company engages to receive of the hunters and fishermen? all the fresh meat, fish, and peltry, which they shall bring into the garrison, at the customary price. The troops are to have their plantation lots and lands laid out for them, as soon after their arrival as may be; but not to receive their grants or final titles for the same, before they shall have been honorably discharged, at or. before the expiration of eighteen months, as the company shall optionally determine on. The time of enlistment, then, is to be lor eighteen months certain; or for so long (within that period) as the company shall judge this military establishment of defensive force absolutely necessary. The company is to exact no other services of the troops, but such as shall be purely military. Should a soldier labor for the company in any other respect, it. shall be voluntarily, and for a stipulated compensation. No soldier whatsoever is, in any wise, to be punished, as such, for any crime, under a military tribunal, but by a forfeiture of his stipendiary lands and lots, for the greater crimes, and this by the solemn trial of a court martial; or, for the lesser ones, by an abridgment of his rations of whiskey or taffia, as his proper captain shall adjudge, in conjunction with the subalterns of the same company, or a majority of them. The greater chines are, murder, or any act tending  to the same; disobedience; desertion; cowardice; mutiny; neglect of appointed duty; drunkenness, nmile on duty; striking an officer; insult to his authority; and theft. The lesser crimes arc, all else beside the above, which tend to unmifitary or immoral examples. The colonel-commandant (or, in his absence, the next to him iircommand) shall, with his corps of commissioned officers, possess the exclusive authority of arranging the system of discipline, and of directing that of duty, as well of the officers as of the private men; and of adjusting the mode and (lie manner of holding courts martial. They shall, likewise, be invested with a similar authority respecting the regulation, inspection, and issuing military stores and provisions. (The--------is to have the command of the battalion. The lieutenant colonel shall command under him; and in the absence of these, the command of the battalion shall devolve upon the senior officer in rank, then present. The captain of the cavalry is to hold precedence of him of the artillery; and he, of those of the infantry-riflemen. The same preference in rank is to hold good in regard to the lieutenants of horse and artillery, as well with respect to each other, as to those two, and those also of the infantry. The cornet of dragoons is to rank above the oldest lieutenant of infantry. All the infantry officers are to rank, in their respective grades, by priority, consonant to the priority of the dates of their commissions. Forfeiture of lands and lots (for the greater crimes) shall equally affect the officers as the soldiers, with the superadded ignominy of casliierment, by sentence of court martial. No officer, however, shall be put under arrest, but by a senior one, who shall not be the complainant; and all such complaints shall be in writing. The troop?, whether of the horse, artillery, or infantry, shall procure their respective manual arms and accoutrements. The cavalry are to have themselves furnished with good horses, and with competent equipment for the same; and all are to find their own uniform and habiliments. The arms of the horse are, swords, or cutlasses, pistols, or carbines. Their uniforms are to consist of a light-horseman's, cap, covered with bearskin; a short skirted coat of blue, faced with buff and yellow metal buttons. The arms of the artillery are to be swords, or cutlasses, and their uniforms are to consist of yellow hunting-shirts, bound about the waist with broad, black, leathern belt?: of a hat, with its leaf flapped up behind, and the crown thereof covered with a piece of bearskin; with overalls of blue. The infantry-riflemen are to wear the same uniform with the artillery: and their arms are to be, each, a good rifle, or musket, shot or.bullet-poueh, and powder-horn. All military stores and ammunition, for duly, are to be furnished by the, company. Should anv person demise, while in service, his stipendiary lands are to revert to his heirs, or to pass over to his assigns, as fully, absolutely, and legally, as if be had duly served out the whole period of his enlistment. The company will grant (as a bounty of encouragement to female adventurers, who shall have enterprised into this territory, at the time the battalion moves to it) live hundred acres of land to the first woman who shall land there; and five hundred more to her who shall bring forth in it the first live child, bastard or legitimate. All those, of whatever class or rank, who shall take provisions of solid food, or w hiskey, dow n with them to this settlement, shall be paid for the same in cash, or in goods, on the delivery of these provisions to the agent's orders. Every woman, married or marriageable, who shall accompany the troops to the place of settlement, shall have one hundred acres of land. The articles being obligatory on the company, and on their troops, the one to the other, are to be signed, for the company, by the agent general, and, for the battalion, by the officers and privates thereof; as hereinafter specified by their signatures, respectively. Officers of the Yazoo battalion, commissioned as well as warranted: their names and grades, respective/;/. , Battalion filled, mustered, and enrolled, on the 16th day of September. 1790. Colonel commandant, Lieutenant Colonel, Major, Captain, Lieutenant, Cornet, 'John Holder, Esq. Thomas Kennedy, Esq. Henry Owen. Esq. HORSE. Ebenezer Platt, gentleman. Charles Scott, jun. gentleman. Sherwood Harris, gentleman. Captain, Lieutenant, 2d Lieutenant, ARTILLERY. Thomas Reynolds, gentleman. James Noland, gentleman. Andrew' McCroshie. gentleman. Captains, Lieutenants. Ensigns. INFANTRY. 1st. John Mclntire, gentleman. RIFLEMEN. 2d. Martin Nall, gentleman. 3d. John Sappington. gentleman. 4th. Charles Ilazlewrigsr, gentleman. 5th. Francis Jones, gentleman. 6th. Philip Alston, gentleman. 7th. James Dromgold. gentleman. 8th. Joseph Blackburn, gentleman. 1st. Gabriel Hardin, gentleman. 2d. John Price, gentleman. 3d. William Briscoe, gentleman. 4th. Martin Johnson, gentleman. 5th. Robert Knox, gentleman. 6th. John Alston, gentleman. 7th. Daniel Scott, gentleman. 8th. George Logan, gentleman. 1st. Francis McDowell, gentleman. 2d. William Boyd, gentleman. 3<J. Asa Seafroy. gentleman. 4th. John Holtlen. gentleman. 5th. Philip Bush, gentleman. 6th. Anthony McGuire, gentleman. 7th. Tobias Pal mash, gentleman. 8th. Nath'1 Howard, gentleman. Quartermaster, Quartermaster sergeant. Adjutant of the battalion, Surgeon of' the battalion, Sergeant-major, Adjutant of horse, WARRANTED OFFICERS. William Kennan. John Drake. James Mitchel. William Sappington. Patrick Irwin. Charles Davis. kt St. Mary’s. Rock Landing, Beard’s Bluff; Augusta, B, No. 1. Statement of the Troops in the service of the United States, IN GEORGIA. Burbeck's company, consisting of Savage’s. J. Smith's. Rudolph’s, 69 55 51 non-commissioned and privates. 16 WESTERN FRONTIERS. Fort Washington, Six companies, - - - ■ Fort Knox, St. Vincennes, Two ditto, - - - -Fort Franklin, Detachment, - - - -Fort Harmar, Two companies, Halifax, N. C. recruiting, Montfort’s company, - - -Kentucky, recruiting, 15. Smith’s -West Point, Detachment, - ’ -  295 non-commissioned and privates 142 18 87 . 50 12 21 V In ser.vice, Wanting to complete. 820. 396 Establishment, 1,216 War Office, 22d January, 1791. 15, No. 2. H. KNOX, Secretary of War. ■ Estimate of the modes of augmentation of the 'Troops. The present military establishment of the United States consists of one regiment of infantry and one battalion of artillery; the whole number of non-commissioned and privates amount to 1216. , The Regiment of Infantrxf is composed as follows: ■ regimental staff. i I Lieutenant Colonel-commandant, 1' Paymaster, 1 Surgeon, 2 Surgeon’s mates; And three battalions, each of which consists of 1 Major, 1 Adjutant, 1 Quartermaster; And four companies, each of 1 Captain, 1 Lieutenant, . . 1 Ensign, 4 Sergeants, 4 Corporals, 2 Musicians, 66 Privates. The battalion of artillery is of the same formation as the battalions of infantry, excepting having a paymaster. If it should be thought proper to augment the establishment with another regiment of infantry of the same proportions, the establishment would consist of 2,128 non-commissioned and privates, formed as follows: Infantry, 1,824 non-commissioned and privates—r-2 regiments, each of 3 battalionsyeach battalion of four companies, each company of 76 non-commissioned and'privates. .Artillery, 304 non-commissioned and privates—1 battalion of four companies each, 76 non-commissioned and privates. In this case the following would be an estimate of the expenses for one year: 1 Lieutenant Colonel-commandant, 3 Majors, 12 Captains, - 12 Lieutenants, 12 Ensigns, 3 Surgeon’s mates, 1 Adjutant,. - 1 Paymaster, - 1 Quartermaster, 3 Sergeant-majors, 3 Quartermaster sergeants, 48 Sergeants, 48 Corporals, 24 Musicians, 784 Privates, PAY. 54 Sergeants, 48 Corporals, 808 Musicians and Privates, at $60 per month.  - - $720 00 at 40 do - - - 1,440 00 at 30 do - - - 4,320 00 at 22 do - - - 3,168 00 at 18 do   - '  - - 2,592 00 at -24 do - - 864 00 at 10 do - - - , 120 00 at 5 do - * - 60 00 at 5 do - - 60 00 at 6 do - - 216 00 at - 6 do - - 216 00 at 5 do - - - 2,880 00 at 4 do  - - 2,304 00 at 3 do ‘ - - - - 29,088 00 Deductions. $1 40 per month, 1 15 ' do 90 do $48,048 00 $907 20 662 40 8,726 40 Amount of pay. 10,296 00 $37,742 00 i Lieut. Col. Commandant, 3 Majors, - - - - 12 Captains, 12 Lieutenants, 12 Ensigns, 3 Surgeon’s mates, 910 Non-commissioned and privates, SUBS1S TENCE. 6 rations, 4 do 5 do 2 do 2 do 2 do I do 2.190 4,380 13,140 8.760 8.760 2.190 332,150 At 12 cents per ration, 371,570 44,588 40 FORAGE. 1 Lieut. Col. Commandant. - - - $12 per month, - 3 Majors, - - - - 10 do I Adjutant, 1 Paymaster, 1 Quartermaster. 6 do 3 Surgeon’s mates. - - - 6 do $144 00 360 00 216 00 £16 00 ----------- 936 00 CLOTHING. 910 Non-commissioned and privates, at 20 dollars. 18,200 00 $101,466 40 But if the principle of the augmentation should be agreed to. but not the foregoing mode, then the following plan is submitted: The whole establishment of infantry and artillery to consist of 20 companies, each company of 108 non-commissioned, and privates, amounting in total, to 2,160. Each company, in consideration of the augmentation from "6 to 108, to have an additional lieutenant, 2 sergeants, and 2 corporals, and to be formed as follows: 1 Captain, 2 Lieutenants, 1 Ensign, 6 Sergeants, 6 Corporals, 2 Musicians 94 Privates. The infantry to be formed into two regiments, each of two battalions of four companies. The artillery to remain formed into one battalion of four companies. 'In this case, the following statement would be the precise number of the augmentation, and an estimate of the expenses thereof: PAY. 1 Lieutenant Colonel-commandant, at $60 per month, - - - - - $ 720 00 1 Major, *  One battalion complete, at 40 per month,     480 00 4 Captains, - - at .70 do - - - - 1,440 00 8 Lieutenants, - - - at 22 do - - - - 2,112 00 4 Ensigns, - - at 18 do - - - - '864 00 1 Adjutant, - - at 10 do - - - 120 00 1 Quartermaster, - - at 5 do - - - 60 00 1 Paymaster, - - at 5 do - - - 60 00 1 Sergeant-major, - - at 6 do - - - 72 00 L Quartermaster sergeant.  - at 6 do . - - - 72 00 24 Sergeants, - - at 5 do - - - - 1,440 00 24 Corporals, - - at 4 do - - - - 1,152 00 8 Musicians, ?   at 3 do    - 12,624 00 376 Privates, $ 26 Sergeants, 24 Corporals, 384 Musicians and pri\ ates, Deductions. at $1 40 per month, at 1 15 do at 90 do $21,216 00 $436 80 331 20 4.147 20 4,915 20 Amount of pay. - - - $16,300 80 SUBSISTENCE. 1 Lieut. Col. Commandant, ■ - 6 rations, - - 2.190 1 Major, - 4 do - - 1,460 4 Captains, - - - - 5 do - - 4,380 8 Lieutenants, - i ? do - - 5,840 4 Ensigns. - -  o do - - 2,920 134 Non-commisdoned and privates.  1 do - - - 158.410 At 12 cents per ration. 175.200 ------------ 21.024 00 FORAGE. 1 Lieutenant Colonel-commandant, - at $12 per month, - - 144 00 1 Major. - - - - at 10 do - - 120 00 1 Adjutant, 1 Quartermaster. 1 Paymaster, each 6 216 00 CLOTHING. 434 Non-commissioned and privates, at $20 - - - 8,680 00 16 Additional lieutenants to the sixteen existing companies of infantry and .artillery, at $22 per month, - 4.224 00 32 Additional sergeants, at 5 do - - - - 1,920 00 32 Corporals.1 - - at 4 do - - - - 1,536 00 448 Privates, being 28 additional to each of the aforesaid companies of artillery and infantry, at $3 per month. ----- 16.128 00 23,808 0(1 Deductions. .32 Sergeants, - - $1 40 - - $537 60 32 Corporals, - - . - 1 15 - - - 441 60 448 Privates, 0 90 » - - 4,838 40 --------- 5.847 60 480 00 17,990 40 $64,475 20 SUBSISTENCE. 16 Lieutenants. - -2 rations. 512 Non-commissioned and privates. 1 do At 12 cents per ration, CLOTHING. 512 Non-commissioned and privates, at 820 - - - 11,680 - 186,880 198,560 ---------- 23,827 20 10,240 00 98,542'40 By this plan the additional non-commissioned officers and privates would amount to 944 By the farst mode, to - - - - -   - - 912 , Difference, - - 32 It appears that the difference of expense .would be greater for the former than the latter mode, by the sum of 82,924. Butthe Secretary of War submits it as his opinion, that the additional regiment of three battalions would be the best formation, considering the nature of the service to be performed on the frontiers. But if the augmen tation should take place in either mode, or, indeed, if it should not take place, it seems essential for the public interests, that an officer of high rank and responsibility should command on the frontiers: the public interest in that quarter requires the best security to be obtained. The idea is, therefore* hereby suggested, that a Major General should be appointed to the command of the troops on. the frontiers. In this case, the following expense would be incurred: . ‘ _ The pay of a major general, 8166 per month, - ' - - - 81,992 00 Subsistence, 15 rations, per day, - 5,475 rations, at 12 cents, - 657 00 Forage, 824 per month - - - - - - - - 288 00 QUARTERMASTER. Pay, $60 per month, - - - . - Subsistence, 6 rations is 2,190, at 12 cents, Forage, 812 per month,   - 2,937 00 ■ 720 00 262 80 144 00 8i;i26 80 The articles in the quartermaster’s department are at present supplied by the contractors. .But, it. is apprehended, that a quartermaster fo the troops would be more economical. The idea is, therefore, submitted, that a quartermaster should be appointed, who should govern himself by such regulations, respecting his said duty,- as the President of the United States should, from time to time, direct. It is proposed that the quartermaster should have the pay, rations, and forage, of a lieutenant colonel-commandant. B, No. 3. An est imate of the expense of the corps of Levies, consisting of 1,500 non-commissioned and privates, for four months. pay. '1 Brigadier General, at 8100 per month, 2 Lieutenant Colonels. 60 do 5 Majors, 20 Captains, 20 Lieutenants, 20 Ensigns, 1 Adjutant, 1 Quartermaster, 1 Paymaster, -5 Surgeon’s mates, 80 Sergeants, . -80 Corporals, -40 Musicians, and I 1,300 Privates, j 40 do - 30 do - 22 do - 18 do - - 10 do - 5 do - 5 do - - 24 do - 5 do - - 4 do    - 3 do - - 8 400 00  480 00 800. 00 2,400 00 1,760 00 1,440 00 40 00 20 00 20 00 480 00 1,600 00 1,280 00 16,080 00 1 Brigadier General, 2 Lieutenant Colonels, 5 Majors, ... 20 Captains, 20 Lieutenants, -  20 Ensigns, - 5 Surgeon’s mates, 1500 Non-commissioned and privates, Amount of pay, SUBSISTENCE. At 12 cents, - $26,800 00 8 rations, - - - 960 6 do - - 1,440 4 do - - 2,400 3 do - - 7,200 2 do - - 4.800 2 do  - 4,800 2 do - - 1,200 1 do   " - 180,000 202,800 24,336 FORAGE. 1 Brigadier General, 818 - - - - - - 8 72 00 2 Lieutenant Colonels, 12 - - - - - 1 - 96 00 5 Majors, 10  - - - * - 200 00 1 Adjutant, - 6 - - - - - - 24 00 1 Quartermaster, 6 - - - - - - 24 00 1 Paymaster, 6' - - - - - - 24 00 5 Surgeon’s mates, 6 - - - -  - - 120 00 ' 560 00 851,696 00 In order that the levies should be on a footing with the regular troops, they ought to have, for the four months’ service, one-third part of the clothing of the said regulars, but subject to a pro-protional deduction. The clothing, so given, should be of the most useful kind, so as to enable the levies to render the most service. It is to be observed, that many of the militia are soon rendered unfit for service by want of clothing. The clothing, therefore, for the aforesaid 1,500 non-commissioned and privates, amount, at $6 2-3. to - - - ... . - SI0,000 From which the following deductions are to be made, agreeably to law: 80 Sergeants, - - - 46 2-3 cents per month, $ 149 34 80 Corporals, - - - 38 1-3 do do - 122 66 1340 Musicians and privates. 30 do do - 1,608 00 ---------1,880 00 8,120 00 $59,816 00 If only 1,300 levies should be raised, then 2-15th parts of the above sum would be deducted. On the contrary, if the levies should be augmented to 2,000, then the aforesaid estimate to be increased one-fourth part. viz. If 1,300, there is be deducted, - ------- ",962 00 If 2,000, there is to be added, --------- 14,954 00 II. KNOX, Secretary of War. War Office, January 22, 1791. B, No. 4. A general estimate of the extraordinary expenses which would he incurred by an expedition against the 11 'abash Indians, calculated for four months, and the expense of a proposed regiment of Hangers for nine months. The rangers, as per estimate, marked C, No. 6, -   - - - - - - $49,454 00 The levies, as per estimate, marked ----------. the greatest sum being taken, - - - 74,"0 00 The difference between the price of 2,500 rations per day on the Ohio, and the proposed place of operation, the one being stated 6j cents, and the other 15j cents, calculated at 120 days, 300,000 rations, at 8| cents difference, - -- -- -- -- 25,500 00 The same difference for 600 continental troops. ------- 6.120 00 Quarternastf.r’s Department. Camp equipage of all sorts, boats, horses, tents, &c. and the transportation, including hospital stores and baggage for the army, and cannon and stores to establish a post at the Miami, estimated in the gross, - - - - - - - - - - - 50,000 00 Medical and hospital stores, - - - - *- - - - 4,000 00 Arms and ammunition are not estimated, the principal articles being in the public stores. Contingencies, ----------- 25,000 00 $234,844 00 II. KNOX. Secretary of War. War Office, 22d January, 1791. 1st Congress.]
