NO. 218.	[2d SESSION. PLAN FOR REMOVING THE SEVERAL INDIAN TRIBES WEST OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 27, 1825. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, January 27, 1825. Being deeply impressed with the opinion that the removal of the Indian tribes from the lands which they now occupy, within the limits of the several States and Territories, to the country lying westward and northward thereof, within our acknowledged boundaries, is of very high importance to our Union, and may be accomplished on conditions and in a manner to promote the interest and happiness of those tribes, the attention nf the Government has been long drawn with great solicitude to that object. For the removal of the tribes within the limits of the State of Georgia, the motive has been peculiarly strong, arising from the compact with that State, whereby the United States are bound to extinguish the Indian title to the lands within it, whenever it may be done peaceably and on reasonable conditions. In the fulfilment of this compact, I have thought that the United States should act with a generous spirit; that they should omit nothing which should comport with a liberal construction of the instrument, and likewise be in accordance with the just rights of those tribes. From the view which I have taken of the subject, I am satisfied that, in the discharge of these important duties, in regard to both the parties alluded to, the United States will have to encounter no conflicting interests with either; on the contrary, that the removal of the tribes from the territory which they now inhabit to that which was designated in the message at the commencement of the session, which would accomplish the object for Georgia, under a well-digested plan for their government and civilization which should be agreeable to themselves, would not only shield them from impending ruin, but promote their welfare and happiness. Experience has clearly demonstrated that, in their present state, it is impossible to incorporate them in such masses, in any form whatever, into our system. It has also demonstrated, with equal cer- . tainty, that, without a timely anticipation of, and provision against, the dangers to which they are exposed, under causes which it will be difficult, if not. impossible, to control, their degradation and extermination will be inevitable. The great object tn be accomplished is, the removal of these tribes to the territory designated, on conditions which shall be satisfactory to themselves and honorable to the United States. This can be done only by conveying to each tribe a good title to an adequate portion of land to which it may consent to remove; and by providing for it there a system of internal government, which shall protect their property from invasion, and, by the regular progress of improvement and civilization, prevent that degeneracy which has generally marked the transition from the one to the other state.	. I transmit, herewith, a report from the Secretary of War, which presents the best estimate which can be formed, from the documents in that Department, of the number of Indians within our States and Territories, and of the amount of lands held by the several tribes within each; of the state of the country lying northward and westward thereof, within our acknowledged boundaries; of the parts to which the Indian title has already been extinguished; and nf the conditions on which other parts, in an amount which may be adequate to the object contemplated, may be obtained. By this report, it appears that the Indian title has already been extinguished to extensive tracts in that quarter, and that other portions may be acquired, to the extent desired, on very moderate conditions. Satisfied I also am that the removal proposed is not only practicable, but that the advantages attending it to the Indians may be made so apparent to them, that all the tribes, even those most opposed, may be induced to accede to it at no very distant day. The digest of such a government, with the consent of the Indians, which should be endowed with sufficient power to meet all the objects contemplated; to connect the several tribes together in a bond of amity, and preserve order in each; to prevent intrusions on their property; to teach them, by regular instruction, the arts of civilized life, and make them a civilized people, is an object of very high importance. It is the powerful consideration which we have to offer to these tribes as an inducement to relinquish the lands on which they now reside, and to remove to those which are designated. It is not doubted that this arrangement will present considerations of sufficient force to surmount all their prejudices in favor of the soil of their nativity, however strong they may be. Their elders have sufficient intelligence to discern the certain progress of events in the present train, and sufficient virtue, by yielding to momentary sacrifices, to protect their families and posterity from inevitable destruction. They will also perceive that they may thus attain an elevation to which, as communities, they could not otherwise aspire. To the United States, the proposed arrangement offers many important advantages, in addition to those which have been already enumerated. By the establishment of such a government over these tribes, with their consent, we become, in reality, their benefactors. The relation of conflicting interests, which has heretofore existed between them and our frontier settlements, will cease. There will be no more wars between them and the United States. Adopting such a government,'their movement will be in harmony with us, and its good effect be felt throughout the whole extent of our territory, to the Pacific. It may fairly be presumed that, through the agency of such a government, the condition of all the tribes inhabiting that vast region may be essentially improved; that permanent peace may be preserved with them, and our commerce be much extended. With a view to this important object, I recommend it to Congress to adopt, by solemn declarations, certain fundamental principles, in accord with those above suggested, as the basis of such arrangements as may be entered into with the several tribes; to the strict observance of which, the faith of the nation shall be pledged. I recommend it also to Congress to provide, by law, for the appointment of a suitable number of commissioners, who shall, under the direction of the President, be authorized to visit and explain to the several tribes the objects of the Government, and to make with them, according to their instructions, such arrangements as shall be best calculated to carry those objects into effect. A negotiation is now depending with the Creek nation for the cession of lands held by it within the limits of Georgia, and with a reasonable prospect of success. It is presumed, however, that the result will not be known during the present session of Congress. To give effect to this negotiation, and to the negotiations which it is proposed to hold with all the other tribes within the limits of the several States and Territories, on the principles and for the purposes stated, it is recommended that an adequate appropriation be now made by Congress. JAMES MONROE. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, January 24, 1825. In obedience to your instructions, directing a statement of the names of the Indian tribes now remaining within the limits of the different States and Territories, the number of each tribe, and the quantity of land claimed by each; also, an estimate of the amount of appropriation necessary to commence the work of moving the Indians beyond the Mississippi, to be laid before you, I herewith enclose a report from Colonel McKenney, to whom is assigned the charge of the Office of Indian Affairs, which contains all of the information required, except the estimate of the sum that will be necessary to be appropriated to commence the removal. In forming the estimate required, it will be necessary to take a summary view of the number and position of the several tribes to be removed, and to form a plan in detail for their removal. It appears, by the report enclosed, that there are in the several States and Territories (not including the portion of Michigan Territory west of Lake Michigan and north of the State of Illinois (about 97,000 Indians, and that they occupy about 77,000,000 of acres of land. The arrangement for the removal, it is presumed, is not intended to comprehend the small remnants of tribes in Maine, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Virginia, and South Carolina, amounting to 3,023. To these also may be added the remnants of tribes remaining in Louisiana, amounting to 1,313, as they are each of them so few in number that it is believed very little expense or difficulty will be found in their removal; making, together, 4,336: which subtracted from the 97,000, the entire number in the States and Territories, will leave 92,664 to be removed. Of these, there are residing in the northern parts of the States of Indiana, Illinois, in the peninsula of Michigan, and New York, including the Ottawas in Ohio, about 13,150, which, I would respectfully suggest, might be removed, with advantage to the country, west of Lake Michigan and north of the State of Illinois. The climate and the nature of the country are much more favorable to their habits than that west of the Mississippi; to which may be added, that the Indians in New York have already commenced a settlement at Green Bay, and exhibit some disposition to make it a permanent one; and that the Indians referred to in Indiana, Illinois, in the peninsula of Michigan, and Ohio, will find in the country designated kindred tribes, with whom they may be readily associated. These considerations, with the greater facility with which they could be collected in that portion of the country, compared with that of collecting them west of the Mississippi, form a strong inducement to give it the preference. Should the proposition be adopted, the Indians in question might be gradually collected, as it became necessary, from time to time, to extinguish the Indian title in Indiana, Illinois, and Michigan, without incurring any additional expense other than what is usually incidental to such extinguishment. Deducting, then, the Indians residing in the northwestern parts of Indiana, Illinois, in Michigan, and New York, with the Ottawas in Ohio, amounting to 13,150, from 92,664, will leave but 79,514. It is proper to add, that a late treaty with the Quapaws stipulates and provides for their removal, and that they may also be deducted from the number for whose removal provision ought to be made. They are estimated at 700, which, deducted from 79,514, will leave 78,S14 to be removed west of the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas, should the views of the Department be adopted. Of these, there are estimated to reside in the States of North Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee, Alabama, and Mississippi, 53,625, consisting of Cherokees, Creeks, Choctaws, and Chickasaws, and claiming about 33,573,176 acres, including the claim of the Cherokees, in North Carolina; 3,082 in Ohio, and in the southern and middle parts of Indiana and Illinois, consisting of Wyandots, Shawanees, Senecas, Delawares, Kaskaskias, Miamies, and Eel Rivers; 5,000 in Florida, consisting of Seminoles and remnants of other tribes; and the remainder in Missouri and Arkansas, consisting of Delawares, Kickapoos, Shawanees, Weas, loways, Piankeshaws, Cherokees, Quapaws, and Osages. The next subject of consideration will be to acquire a sufficient tract of country west of the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas, in order to establish permanent settlements in that quarter of the tribes which are proposed to be removed. The country between the Red river and the Arkansas has already been allotted to the Choctaws, under the treaty of the 18th October, 1820. The country north of the river Arkansas, and immediately west of the State of Missouri, is held almost entirely by the Osages and the Kanzas: the principal settlement of the former being on the Osage river, not far west of the western boundary of Missouri; and of the latter, on the Missouri river, near Cow Island. There is a band of the Osages situated on the Verdigris, a branch of the Arkansas. Governor Clark has been already instructed to take measures to remove them from the Verdigris, to join the other bands on the Osage river. To carry this object into effect, and to extinguish the title of the Osages upon the Arkansas and in the State of Missouri, and also to extinguish the title of the Kanzas to whatever tract of country may be necessary to effect the views of the Government, will be the first object of expenditure, and would require an appropriation, it is believed, of not less than $30,000. After this is effected, the next will be to allot a portion of the country to each of the tribes, and to commence the work of removal. The former could be effected by vesting in the President discretionary power to make the location; and the latter, by commencing with the removal of the Cherokees, Piankeshaws, Weas, Shawanees, Kickapoos, and Delawares, who now occupy different tracts of country lying in the northwestern portion of the Arkansas Territory, and the southwestern portion of the State of Missouri. It is believed that the Cherokees, to whom has been allotted a country lying between the Arkansas and White rivers, will very readily agree to removing their eastern boundary farther west, on the consideration that, for the lands thereby ceded, they may have assigned to them an equal quantity farther west, as they have evinced a strong disposition to prevent the settlement of the whites to the west of them. It is probable that this arrangement could be effected by an appropriation of a few thousand dollars, (say five thousand,) for the expense of holding the treaty. Nor is it believed that there will be any difficulty in inducing the Piankeshaws, Weas, Shawanees, Kickapoos, and Delawares to occupy a position that may be assigned to them west of the State of Missouri, or that the operation will be attended with any great expense. The kindred tribes in the States of Ohio and Indiana, including the Wyandots, the Senecas, and the Miamies and Eel Rivers, in those States, and the Kaskaskias in Illinois, it is believed, might be induced, without much difficulty, to join them, after those now residing in Missouri are fixed in their new position west of that State. Of the sum that will be necessary for this purpose, it is difficult to form an estimate. These tribes amount to 3,082. The expense of extinguishing their title to the lands occupied by them will probably be high, in comparison with the price which has been usually given for lands in that quarter, as they (particularly the Indians in Ohio) have made some advances in civilization and considerable improvements on their lands. The better course would be to remove them gradually, commencing with those tribes which are most disposed to leave their present settlements; and if this arrangement should be adopted, an appropriation of $20,000 would be sufficient to commence with. It may, however, be proper to remark, that these tribes, together with those in New York, have indicated a disposition to join the Cherokees on the Arkansas; and that a deputation of the former, with a deputation from those Cherokees, are now on their way to the seat of Government, in order to make some arrangement to carry the proposed union into effect. Should it be accomplished, it would vary the arrangement which has been suggested in relation to them, but will not probably materially vary the expense. It only remains now to consider the removal of the Indians in Florida, and the four southern tribes residing in North Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee, Alabama, and Mississippi. It is believed that immediate measures need not be taken with regard to the Indians in Florida. By the treaty of the 18th September, 1823, they ceded the whole of the northern portion of Florida, with the exception of a few small reservations, and have had allotted to them the southern part of the peninsula; and it is probable that no inconvenience will be felt, for many years, either by the inhabitants of Florida, or the Indians, under the present arrangement. Of the four southern tribes, two of them (the Cherokees and Choctaws) have already allotted to them a tract of country west of the Mississippi. That which has been allotted to the latter is believed to be sufficiently ample for the whole nation, should they emigrate; and if an arrangement, which is believed not to be impracticable, could be made between them and the Chickasaws, who are their neighbors, and of similar habits and dispositions,-!! would be sufficient for the accommodation of both. A sufficient country should be reserved to the west of the Cherokees on the Arkansas, as a means of exchange with those who remain on the east. To the Creeks might be allotted a country between the Arkansas and the Canadian river, which limits the northern boundary of the Choctaw possessions in that quarter. There is now pending with the Creeks a negotiation, under the appropriation of the last session, with a prospect that the portion of that nation which resides within the limits of Georgia may be induced, with the consent of the nation, to cede the country which they now occupy for a portion of the one which it is proposed to allot for the Creek nation on the west of the Mississippi. Should the treaty prove successful, its stipula- lions will provide for the means of carrying it into effect, which will render any additional provision, at present, unnecessary. It will be proper to open new communications with the Cherokees, Choctaws, and Chickasaws, for the purpose of explaining to them the views of the Government, and inducing them to remove beyond the Mississippi, on the principles and conditions which may be proposed to the other tribes. It is known that there are many individuals of each of the tribes who are desirous of settling west of the Mississippi, and, should it be thought advisable, there can be no doubt that (if, by an adequate appropriation, the means were afforded the Government of bearing their expense) they would emigrate. Should it be thought that the encouragement of such emigration is desirable, the sum of $40,000, at least, would be required to be appropriated for this object, to be applied under the discretion of the President of the United States. The several sums which have been recommended to be appropriated, if the proposed arrangement should be adopted, amount to $95,000. The appropriation may be made either general or specific, as may be considered most advisable. I cannot, however, conclude without remarking, that no arrangement ought to be made which does not regard the interest of the Indians as well as our own; and that, to protect the interest of the former, decisive measures ought to be adopted to prevent the hostility which must almost necessarily take place, if left to themselves, among tribes hastily brought together, of discordant character, and many of which are actuated by feelings far from being friendly towards each other. But the preservation of peace between them will not alone be sufficient to render their condition as eligible in their new situation as it is in their present. Almost all of the tribes proposed to be affected by the arrangement are more or less advanced in the arts of civilized life, and there is scarcely one of them which has not the establishments of schools in the nation, affording, at once, the means of moral, religious, and intellectual improvement. These schools have been established, for the most part, by religious societies, with the countenance and aid of the Government; and, on every principle of humanity, the continuance of similar advantages of education ought to be extended to them in their new residence. There is another point which appears to be indispensable to be guarded, in order to render the condition of this race less afflicting. One of the greatest evils to which they are subject is that incessant pressure of our population, which forces them from seat to seat, without allowing time for that moral and intellectual improvement, fur which they appear to be naturally eminently susceptible. To guard against this evil, so fatal to the race, there ought to be the strongest and the most solemn assurance that the country given them should be theirs, as a permanent home for themselves and their posterity, without being disturbed by the encroachments ofour citizens. To such assurance, if there should be added a system, by which the Government, without destroying their independence, would gradually unite the several tribes under a simple but enlightened system of government and laws formed on the principles of our own, and to which, as their own people would partake in it, they would, under the influence of the contemplated improvement, at no distant day, become prepared, the arrangements which have been proposed would prove to the Indians and their posterity a permanent blessing. It is believed that, if they could be assured that peace and friendship would be maintained among the several tribes; that the advantages of education, which they now enjoy, would be extended to them; that they should have a permanent and solemn guaranty for their possessions, and receive the countenance and aid of the Government for the gradual extension of its privileges to them, there would be among all the tribes a disposition to accord with the views of the Government. There are now, in most of the tribes, well educated, sober, and reflecting individuals, who are afflicted at the present condition of the Indians, and despondent at their future prospects. Under the operation of existing causes, they behold the certain degradation, misery, and even the final annihilation of their race, and, no doubt, would gladly embrace any arrangement which would promise to elevate them in the scale of civilization, and arrest the destruction which now awaits them. It is conceived that one of the most cheap, certain, and desirable modes of effecting the object in view, would be for Congress to establish fixed principles, such as have been suggested, as the basis of the proposed arrangement; and to authorize the President to convene, at some suitable point, all of the well-informed, intelligent, and influential individuals of the tribes to be affected by it, in order to explain to them the views of the Government, and to pledge the faith of the nation to the arrangements that might be adopted. Should such principles be established by Congress, and the President be vested with suitable authority to convene the individuals as proposed, and suitable provision be made to meet the expense, great confidence is felt that a basis of a system might be laid, which, in a few years, would entirely effect the object in view, to the mutual benefit of the Government and the Indians; and which, in its operations, would effectually arrest the calamitous course of events to which they must be subject, without a radical change in the present system- Should it be thought advisable to call such a convention, as one of the means of effecting the object in view, an additional appropriation of $30,000 will be required; making, in the whole, $125,000 to be appropriated. All of which is respectfully submitted.	J. C. CALHOUN. To the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, January 10, 1825. I have the honor herewith to submit, in compliance with your directions, a table containing a statement of the names of the Indian tribes now remaining within the limits of the different States and Territories, the number of each tribe, and the quantity of land claimed by each. . There is no land assigned (as will be seen on reference to the table) to the Indians in Louisiana;yet it is believed the Caddoes have a claim, (but to what extent is not known;) so also have the Cherokees, (whose numbers are not known,) to a tract in the northwest corner of the State of North Carolina, which, it is believed, does not exceed 200,000 acres. In New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and perhaps in Maryland, a few Indians are remaining; but how many, or what quantity of land is owned by them, (if any,) there are no means of ascertaining. There are now remaining within the limits of the different States and Territories, (as is shown by the table,} sixty-four tribes land remnants of tribes of Indians, whose “ names” and “ numbers” are given; who number, in the aggregate, 129,266 souls, and who claim 77,402,318 acres of land. It will be seen, by adverting to the table, that the Indians residing north of the State of Illinois, east of the Mississippi, and west of the lakes, are comprehended in the estimate of the number in Michigan Territory; although, in estimating the quantity of land held by Indians in that Territory, the portion only so held in the peninsula of Michigan is estimated. It was found impossible, from any documents in possession of this office, to distinguish the number of Chippewas and Oltawas residing in the peninsula of Michigan, from those residing on the west side of Lake Michigan. It is, however, believed that the whole number residing in the peninsula does not exceed 3,500; and these, as has been stated, are principally of the Chippewa and Ottawa tribes. It may be proper also to remark, that of the 6,400 Sacs and Foxes, who are included in the estimate as part of the 129,266, and who occupy lands on both sides the Mississippi, not more than one-third of that number are supposed to reside on the east side; and of the 5,200 Osagcs, who by the table are assigned to Missouri and Arkansas, it is believed that not more than one-third of that number reside within the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas. If, therefore, the number assumed for the peninsula of Michigan be correct, and two-thirds of the Sacs and Foxes (as is believed to be the fact) reside on the west of the Mississippi, and two-thirds of the Osages west of Missouri and north of Arkansas, there will remain “ within the limits of the different States and Territories” (confining the Michigan Territory to the peninsula) 97,384 Indians, possessing (if the 200,000 acres which are believed to be claimed by the Cherokees in North Carolina be added) 77,602,318 acres of land. In obtaining this information, resort has been had for the “ names” and “ numbers” of the Indian tribes to the reports to this office, and to other sources of information which are deemed to be the most accurate; and for the quantity of land claimed by them, to the files of this office, to the General Land Office, and to computations carefully made from the best maps, by Colonel Roberdeau of the Topographical Bureau. The 4,000,000 acres assumed as the quantity claimed by the Cherokees in Arkansas, although but an estimate, is believed to be nearly correct. The precise quantity, however, cannot be ascertained, until it is known how much they ceded on this side the Mississippi, for which, by the treaty of 1817, they are to receive an equal numbçr of acres on the other. I have the honor to accompany this with a note from Colonel Roberdeau in relation to the difference between his estimate of last year, of the lands claimed in Georgia, and his recent corrected compulation of them. I have the honor to he, very respectfully, your most obedient servant, . ■	THOS. L. MCKENNEY. To the Hon. the SECRETARY OF WAR. TOPOGRAPHICAL BUREAU, January 10, 1825. The quantity of land in the State of Georgia not ceded to the United States by Indians was, last year, reported at 10,240,000 square acres. Upon a review of the calculations, and having more correct documents than were then referred to, the whole quantity in the State appears to be 9,537,920 acres; of which 5,292,160 are of the Cherokees, and 4,245,760 of the Creeks, as nearly as can be computed. '	'	I. ROBERDEAU, Lieutenant Colonel Topographical Engineers. Colonel THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Indian Department. Statement showing the names and numbers of the different tribes of Indians now remaining within the limits of the several States and Territories, and the quantity of land claimed by them, respectively. Names of the tribes. St. John’s Indians, - Passamaquoddies, - Penobscots, - Marshpee,	■ Herring Pond,	• Martha’s Vineyard, Troy, -	• Narragansets, Mohegan, Stonington, Groton, Senecas, Tuscaroras, Oneidas, Onondagas, Cayugas, Stockbridge, Brotherton, St. Regis Indians, Nottaways, Catawbas, Wyandots, Shawanees, Senecas, Delawares, Ottawas, Wyandots, - Pattawatamies, - Chippewas and Ottawas, (the funner by far the most numerous,) -	- Menomonics, - Winnebagoes, - States or Ter. in which located. No. of each tribe. Number in each State or Ter. No. of acres claimed by each tribe. Maine, - 300 Do. - 379 100 Do. - 277 956 92,160 Massachusetts, 320 Do. - 40 Do. - 340 - Do. - < 50 750 - Rhode Island, 420 3,000 Connecticut, 300 4,000 Do. - 50 300 Do. - 50 400 - New York, - 2,325 "1 Do. - 253 Do.	- 1,096 I Do.	- Do.	- 446 90 1 246,675 Do. - 273 Do. - 360 1 J Do. - 300 5,143 Virginia, - 47 27,000 South Caro., - 450 144,000 Ohio, - 542 163,840 Do. - 800 117,615 Do. - 551 55,505 Do. - 80 5,760 Do. - 377 50,581 — 2,350 Michigan Ter. 37 "1 Do. - 106 - 1 1 > 7,057,920 1 Do. - 18,473 Do. - 3,900 Do. •• 5,800 - J — 28,316 Remarks. No information as to their lands. 1 All the Indians in this State reside on their I respective reservations, at the places by ! which they are designated. The quantity \ of land occupied by them is not known, I nor is there' any information in this office J ' by which it can be ascertained. No information as to their lands. r- These Indians own and possess, together, J sixteen reservations of land, containing, -( in the whole, according to the report of the agent, on file in this office, about the I number of acres stated. I 1 The quantity of land claimed by these tribes 1'	is contained in several reservations, se cured to them, respectively, by treaty; besides these, there are a number of other . reservations secured separately to indi- [ vidual Indians, containing, together, 16,200 acres; making the whole quantity claimed in this State'409,501 acres, ac! cording to information obtained from the J General Land Office. ('These tribes reside, in.some degree, promiscuously; and the number [stated comprehends all those inhabiting-the country north of Illinois, and between Lake Michigan and Mississippi river, as' well as , those residing on the peninsula formed by ' Lakes Erie and Michigan, and the northern boundary of Indiana. The quantity of land mentioned is that claimed by the Indians in the peninsula only; but in what proportion by the respective tribes, . cannot be ascertained. STATEMENT—Continued. Names of the tribes. States or Territories in which located. No. of each tribe. Number in each State or Ter. No. of acres claimed by each tribe. Miami & Eel River, Indiana, - - 1,073 10,104,000 Menomonies,	- Illinois, - 270 Kaskaskias,	- . Do. - 36 - 5,314,560 Sacs and Foxes, - Do. - 6,400 6,706 Pattawatamies and Chippewas,	- Indiana & II. 3,900 Creeks,	- Geo. & Ala. 20,000 Cherokees,	- Geo. Ala. & Tqnn. - 9,000 - > 33,571,176 Choctaws,	- Miss.& Ala. 21,000 Chickasaws,	- Mississippi, - 3,625 Seminoles,and other remnants of tribes, Florida Ter. - 5,000 4,032,640 Billoxie,	- Louisiana, - 55 - Apolashe,	- Do. - 45 Pascagoula,	- Do.	- 121 - Addees,	- Do. - 27 Yaltasses,	, - Do. - • 36 Coshattees,	- Do. - 180 Caddoes,	- Do.	- 450 Delawares,	- Do. - 51 Choctaws,	- Do. - 178 • - Shawanees,	- Do.	- 110 Natchitoches,	- Do. - 25 Quapaws,	- Do. - 8 • Piankeshaws,	- Do. - 27 - - 1,313 Delawares,	- Missouri, - 1,800 21,120 Kickapoos,	- Do. - 2,200 - ■ 9,600 Shawanees,	- Do. - 1,383 - 14,086 Weas, -	- Do. - 327 - - loways,	- Do. - 1,100 - Osages,	- Mo.&A.T. 5,200 - 3,491,840 Piankeshaws,	- Do. - 207 Cherokees,	- Ark. Ter. - 6,000 - 4,000,000 Quapaws,	- Do. - 700 - - Choctaws,	- Do. - 8,858,560 • 18,917 Remarks. A part of these lands is claimed by the Pattawatamies and Chippewas, (who reside partly in this State and in Illinois;) but in what proportion, there dre no means of ascertaining. ("This is the whole quantity of land claimed I by Indians in this State, including the Pattawatamies and Chippewas, but there | are no means of distinguishing the quan- ( tity owned by each tribe. The number of Sacs and Foxes embraces those on both sides of the Mississippi; there being no means of ascertaining the particular number of them in Illinois. Claim lands in both States; quantityclaimed by them separately from other tribes not known. 'The quantity of land here stated is the whole quantity claimed by all these tribes within the States mentioned; of which Creeks claim in Ga. - Cherokees ditto, - <( Creeks and Cherokees in Ala. Choctaws,	ditto, Chickasaws,	ditto, Cherokees in Tennessee, - , Choctaws and Chickasaws in Mississippi, -	- 4,245,760 5,292,160 9,537,920 5,995,200 781,440 495,936 7,272,576 1,055,680 15,705,000 Quantity of land computed from the survey made by Col. Gadsden. These Indians are all hunters, and reside principally on Red river, in this State. There is no information as to the lands * claimed by them. Their numbers are taken from the report of the agent, on file in this office. Hold the lands they occupy under the treaty with them of 3d October, 1818. Hold their lands under treaties of 30th July, and 30th August, 1819. These Indians emigrated a few years ago from the east of the Mississippi to their present residence in this State. Under the treaties of 1818 and 1820. the Weas sold out all their claim to lands in Indiana, Ohio, and Illinois, and emigrated to this State. There is no information as to the lands now owned or occupied by them. No information as to the lands claimed by these Indians. The Osages reside partly in Missouri and in Arkansas, and the greater portion west of both. Of the lands stated as claimed by them, 2,737,920 acres are in the former, and 753,920 acres in the latter. No information as to their lands. The Cherokees claim about this quantity of land in this Territory, under treaties of 1817 and 1819: the precise quantity not yet ascertained. These Indians have recently sold out all their claim, and are about to remove beyond the limits of the Territory. Very few or none of this tribe reside in the Territory; but they claim in it the quantity of land stated under the treaty of 18th October, 1820. CONGRESS.] 
