NO. 229.	[1st SESSION. TREATY WITH THE FLORIDA INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEBRUARY 6, 1826. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 1, 1826. Pursuant to a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 5th ultimo, directing the Secretary of War “to communicate to that House the instructions to the commissioners for negotiating the treaty with the Florida Indians; the extent of the reserves made to certain chiefs; the amount of money paid under the treaty; the objects for which it was paid; the present situation of the Indians; and the complaints, if any, against the said treaty; with any other information or correspondence touching the condition of the Florida Indians at this time;” I have the honor to report, herewith, documents numbered from 1 to 48,* inclusive, which furnish all the information required, except as to the extent of the reservations, and the amount of money paid under the treaty, and the objects for which it was paid. The reservations are four in number, and are those which are provided for by the treaty; and the amount paid under the treaty is $87,068 21. The objects for which this sum was paid are those for which the treaty stipulates, viz: for farming utensils, cattle, hogs, &c., $6,000; for annuity, $5,000; for rations, $65,700; for improvements, $4,500; for transportation, $2,000; for blacksmith and school, $2,000; and, of the sum of $5,000, appropriated for running the lines, (this work not being yet completed,) $1,868 21. By reference to the correspondence communicated, it will be seen that a further provision, in two sums, (one of $2,000, and the other of $5,000,) has been authorized, to save these Indians from starving; but no part of this provision has been yet drawn for. When it shall be, (if at all,) the payments will be made from the contingent fund of the Indian Department. I have the honor to be your obedient servant, '	JAMES BARBOUR. The SPEAKER of the House of Representatives. No. 3. Extract of a letter from Colonel James Gadsden to the Secretary of War, dated CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA, November 14, 1823. In reply to your communication of the 29th of October, I have to state it as my impression that the rations of bread, meat, and salt, provided for in the fifth article of the treaty with the Florida Indians, were, agreeably to the intentions of the commissioners, to be limited in quantity to the bare subsistence of those individuals embraced within its provisions; and to be confined in the issues to those who might be compelled to remove, and not extending to those already residing within the limits of the country allotted. The terms bread, meat, and salt, were left indefinite, so that the issues might be controlled at the discretion of the agents, by such circumstances as could not be anticipated by the commissioners, or such instructions as might emanate from the Department of War. It was • The papers under Nos. 1 and 2, here referred to, were published in No. 198, page 429; which see. believed that this provision was not only equitable to those Indians who, by abandoning fields already cultivated for a wilderness, might be distressed the first year for the subsistence of life, but would present a strong motive for immediate concentration, and, at the same time, produce impressions on the savage favorable to American humanity. It will he distinctly recollected that the Florida tribes had been but recently embraced within our territorial boundaries; that they consisted of the most discordant materials that were to be brought into harmonious union; that a majority were refugees from the southern tribes, still hostile in their feelings, which had been irritated by repeated chastisements, and kept alive by foreign or individual instigations. To embody these materials together, to obtain a control over the savages, and conciliate their friendship, seemed to require the application (however expensive) of all such means as would produce immediate and most permanent effects. The subsisting those who would be embarrassed by the removal necessary, until they could be made as coinfurtable in the country to which they were assigned, appeared one of the most equitable and salutary provisions. The commissioners, in endeavoring to effect the objects the Government had in view, did not attempt to balance between necessary expenditures of money and probable Indian aggressions. The estimate of the Indian population in Florida, accompanying the treaty and other documents, was furnished by the Indians themselves, but was always believed by me to be imperfect and exaggerated. It must ever be difficult, under any circumstances, to ascertain with minute accuracy the probable population of wandering tribes; but more so, when the information must be derived solely from the Indians themselves, having a positive interest in exaggerating their numbers. From the data, therefore, within my possession, modified in some degree by conjecture, I am able tu afford you, agreeably to your request, the following imperfect estimate of the probable number Fresh beef may be contracted for in Florida and Georgia, deliverable at the agency, at a moderate price; and the bread stuff (corn being preferred by the Indians) can be obtained in Orleans, and shipped to the Bay of Tampa, at a very inconsiderable expense, so soon as the Mississippi begins to discharge its waters. .	No. 4. The Secretary of War to Governor Duval.	■ SIR:	DEPARTMENT OP WAR, December 24, 1823. I enclose for your information a copy of a letter to Colonel Humphreys, who is now in Washington. As there may be some little delay in his arrival in Florida, you will, in the mean time, take such steps as you may deem proper to prepare the Indians for a speedy execution of the treaty. It is impossible to give specific instructions here on the subject, and the agent is therefore directed to consult with Colonel Gadsden and yourself in the measures to be taken. You will, accordingly, afford him your advice, and take the course which may in your judgment be necessary and proper, having the most rigid regard to economy. I have the honor, &c. His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL, St. Augustine.	J. C. CALHOUN. [Accompaniment to No. 4.] The Secretary of War to Colonel Humphreys. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OP WAR, December 24, 1823. The treaty with the Florida Indians, as I understand, being ratified by the Senate, you will immediately repair to your post, to attend to its execution. It is impossible to give you full instructions on the subject, until the appropriation to carry into effect the treaty is made by Congress. In the mean time, you will make such preliminary arrangements as may be necessary for concentrating the Indians on the lands assigned to them, with as little delay as possible; and to defray the expense of which, you are authorized to draw on this Department for a sum nnt exceeding $6,000. But you will not draw until it is absolutely necessary, and then will accompany your bills with a statement of the expenses to which the money is to be applied. In all the measures to be taken for the execution of the treaty, you will consult with Governor Duval and Colonel Gadsden; the former of whom is advised of the ratification of the treaty, and requested tu take, during your absence, such steps as he may deem proper to prepare the Indians for a speedy execution of the treaty agreeably to its provisions. I have the honor, &c. .	J. C. CALHOUN. Tu Colonel HUMPHREYS, now in Washington. No. 5. From Governor Duval to the Secretary of War, dated SIR:	PENSACOLA, January 12, 1824. I have the honor to inform you that, since my departure from St. Augustine, I have carefully examined the interior of Florida, which is, in my opinion, the most desirable and valuable region in all the southern country. Captain Burch, no doubt, has made his-report to you of his route to St. Augustine from this place, and, of course, has given in his report a description of the country, soil, &c. I visited all the Indian towns on my route to this city, and endeavored to impress on the minds of the chiefs the importance of restraining their warriors, and preserving the friendship of the United States. I am sorry to say that the Indians under the immediate command of Neamathla have been concerned in killing the cattle, in two days after the troops at St. Mark’s were removed. I have taken great pains to ascertain the real feeling of the Indians towards us, and can rely with some confidence on the friendship of all the chiefs except Neamathla. He is a man of uncommon capacity; bold, violent, and restless. He cannot submit to a superior, nor endure an equal. No reliance can be placed on him, and his men are the most lawless and vile of the Indians in Florida. I feel confident that they will not remove into the boundary given to them by the late treaty, unless there is a military force in the vicinity to overawe them. I do not believe that these Indians will dare to commence hostilities; but they steal from, and kill the cattle of, the white settlers, whenever they have an opportunity. A few men kept at St Mark’s, until the Indians are removed, I deem necessary. I am, respectfully, &c. WILLIAM P. DUVAL. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. » No. 6.	. Extract of a letter from His Excellency W. P. Duval, to the Honorable J. C. Calhoun, Secretary of War, dated PENSACOLA, April 11, 1824. Your letter of the 24th last December, relating to the removal of the Indians, and also a copy of your letter of the same date, on the same subject, to Colonel Humphreys, did not come to hand untjl three days since. It is now too late to remove the Indians until September. Time will be important, if any regard is paid to economy. Contracts must be made for the supply of the Indians, and some time must elapse before they can be executed; besides, there are other arrangements for tools, stock, &c. required by the treaty, which the Indians expect will be faithfully and punctually provided. To attempt a hasty removal of these people, before we are ready on the part of the Government to execute what we are bound by treaty to perform, would not only increase the dissatisfaction of the Indians, but greatly enhance the expense. The Indians would also lose their present crops, which are now planted, and no positive disadvantage can result from this delay. In addition to what is stated, I will add, that the boundary of the country intended for their occupation has not yet been finally settled. Colonel Gadsden wrote to me from Charlotte Harbor that the lands in the peninsula are by no means equal to his expectation. The northern line of the Indian boundary will, I presume, be extended according to the treaty. Colonel Humphreys met with Colonel Gadsden on his way from St. Augustine to Pensacola, and conversed with him on these subjects. I am happy to say, his opinions are decidedly with me in the views I have expressed on these subjects. It will be less expensive to furnish the Indians with beef than pork. The beef can be driven to the several points required, for even less than the pork could be purchased for in New Orleans. Corn and salt (or flour, if corn cannot be obtained,) will be had cheapest in New Orleans. I am satisfied that many of the Indians will leave the Seminoles, and settle among the Creeks, before the next fall. It is my opinion that not more than fifteen hundred will remove into the boundary; this opinion has been formed on my own observation, and intelligence derived from the Indians while I was with them during last winter. Whatever order you may deem proper to give, either as to the removal or manner of supplying the Indians, shall be promptly executed, should you entertain any views different from my own. If the arrangements are left to my discretion, the most rigid economy, consistent with the fair and just execution of the treaty, will govern me in the expenditure of the funds which may be transmitted for this object. No. 7. From Governor Duval to the Secretary of War. PENSACOLA, April 11, 1824. At the moment the mail was about to be closed, I received from Colonel Humphreys a copy of a letter, the original of which he handed me at the same time, and which I transmit for your information. Neamathla and his chiefs are fully apprized of their situation, and say they will remove whenever ordered, but beg time to gather their present crop. Under all the circumstances, I have determined to permit them to remain, (subject, however, to your order, which they perfectly understand.) I enclose to you the advertisement for supplying the Indians, which Colonel Humphreys, with my approbation, has issued; it will be immediately sent to St. Augustine for publication. Before any contracts will be made, you will have time to countermand the measure, if it should be deemed by you inexpedient; so an early answer from you will be expected. Neamathla is a most uncommon man; he ought to be induced to remove with his people. This chief you will find, perhaps, the greatest man you have ever seen among the Indians. He can, if he chooses to do so, control his warriors with as much ease as a colonel could a regiment of regular soldiers: they love and fear him. If this man can be made (as I have nu doubt he can) the firm friend of our Government, no means should be spared to induce him to go with his people, and to continue as the chief of his nation. The hospitality and manly feelings of this chief have always kept him in poverty. If Congress should allow him to sell his reservation of land, and direct the money to be laid out in cattle for him, it will awaken his gratitude to the Government, and render him of essential service in commanding the nation. This chief should be seen by you, and then you can judge of the force and energy of his mind and character. Neamathla, and the chiefs who will go withjiim to the city, have never seen the interior of the United States, and have no precise knowledge of the strength and power of our country. I am, &c. WILLIAM P. DUVAL. Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. [Accompaniment of No. 7.] From Colonel Humphreys to Governor Duval. S,R:	.	PENSACOLA, April 7, 1824. In compliance with the requisition made by you in our last conversation, I have the honor to submit my views in relation to the removal of the Indians of this Territory to the new limits assigned them under the late treaty. In the examination of this subject, the following points obviously present themselves for consideration: First, whether, under existing circumstances, is it practicable to effect a removal now; and, if so, it is advisable, or would it be more proper to defer it to a future period? In answer to this, I would remark, that the measure does not appear practicable at this time, without infinite difficulty and expense, both of which might in a good degree be avoided bj' a few months occupied in preparation. An earlier removal than the ensuing fall does not appear essentially important to the interest of the Government or the prosperity of the Territory. The increase of its population (the grand desideratum) cannot, it is conceived, be affected by the proposed delay. The season is already so far advanced, that persons intending to become settlers, who have been deterred by the presence of the Indians, and are awaiting their departure, have ere this commenced making crops elsewhere, and will not, it is presumable, abandon them. The Indians have, also, at most of the towns, planted their corn, &c.; and, if they are allowed to remain for the harvest, it will, it is fair to calculate, in no inconsiderable degree diminish the expenses incident to the stipulated supply of provisions. In addition to these considerations, another of great weight is suggested, which, in equity at least, appears conclusive against a hurried and unprepared removal. It has not been practicable to make sufficient arrangements for furnishing the supplies alluded to, the promise of which forms to the Indians an indispensable and important item in the treaty, and one without which they must inevitably severely suffer, and, in many instances, it is feared, perish. However eagerly some of their unfeeling white neighbors may urge a hasty expulsion of these unhappy people, humanity loudly exclaims against the idea of driving them from their present habitations before the means of subsistence are provided to carry them to, and sustain them at, their new positions. Nor would such a step well accord with the promises of friendship and protection made by the Government, or sustain its wonted character for justice; besides which, it cannot be expected that the Indians, however amicably disposed they may be, will readily, or without complaint, enter upon the performance of the contract they have made with the United States, (at the best disagreeable to them,) should they not discover a disposition on the part of the Government to comply with the terms of the treaty with promptitude and fidelity. Another reason to be offered why the removal should not take place at this time, may be found in the fact that the commissioner appointed to run the boundaries has not been able, notwithstanding his laborious and extraordinary exertions, to declare that duty executed; and it will be recollected that, by the treaty, the establishment of one of those boundaries depends, in some measure, upon the opinion of that officer as to whether there is a sufficiency of good land for the purposes of cultivation within the limits defined in that instrument. A removal, before a report is made upon this subject, would be premature and injudicious, inasmuch as it might involve the necessity of a second change of ground, and, consequently, produce embarrassment and extra expense. With respect to the mode to be adopted for the procurement of the promised supplies of provisions, in that way which shall best effect the object, having a due regard to economy, and, at the same time, insure a punctual delivery, I can only say that, so far as my experience and knowledge extend upon the subject, the plan of obtaining proposals for contracts by advertisement in the public prints has been found the most advisable, for the reason that it encourages competition, and thus affords a security against extortion. I will add, that I feel authorized to say, the opinions expressed in the foregoing, relative to the suitable period for removing the Indians, as well as to the mode proper to be adopted for furnishing their supply.of provisions, are in perfect coincidence with the opinions entertained upon the same subjects by Colonel Gadsden, commissioner, whom I met at Okihnmky, in my route to this place. I cannot close this communication without repeating the sentiments I gave you on a former occasion in regard to Neamathla, the principal chief of the Florida Indians. By the terms of the treaty, he is located upon a reservation very remote from the main body of the nation. The offer of this arrangement, designed to gratify and sooth the feelings of this aged and respectable man, was wise and judicious, as calculated to have a beneficial effect upon the pending negotiations; but I cannot consider the consummation of it less than unfortunate, inasmuch as it removes from the immediate government of the nation the only individual in it who possesses a perfect and undisputed authority over a people, some of whom are often troublesome to manage. The promptitude with which Neamathla has uniformly, since the war, punished the offences of his people, particularly those against the white inhabitants of the country, has excited in the Indians an awe and respect for his character, and given him unbounded influence over them, and, at the same time, furnishes the surest proof of the strength of his desire to be on terms of amity with the United States. The immediate presence of such a man among the Indians, it is evident, would be most salutary, and afford an ample barrier against the evils which might otherwise be produced by the machinations of white men without the nation, or the turbulent spirits among the red within. I have reason to believe that, were Neamathla permitted to sell his reservation, by means of which he might procure a valuable stock, and place himself on an eligible footing in point of property, he might be induced to take up his residence within the limits assigned to the Indians in the sooth; an event, let me repeat, I must look upon as promising great benefit to the United States, as well as to the Indians themselves. I have the honor, &c. G. HUMPHREYS, His Excellency WILLIAM P. DUVAL.	Agent for Indian Affairs, Florida. No. 8. From the Secretary of War to Governor Duval. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 2, 1824. I had the honor of writing to you on the 3d ultimo, and in that letter (the season for removing the Indians being deferred) requested you to furnish me with an estimate of the cost which is likely to attend upon the emigration, upon the best data which you might be able to command. Since then, the act of Congress has passed containing the appropriation to carry into effect that object, and fixes it at sixty-five thousand seven hundred dollars. The same act appropriates the sum of six thousand dollars for implements of husbandry, stock uf cattle, and hogs; five thousand dollars annually, for twenty years, for the annuity; four thousand five hundred dollars for compensation for improvements that the Indians may abandon; two thousand dollars for transportation of the different tribes to the land assigned them; two thousand dollars annually, for twenty years, for the establishment of a school ’ and the support of a gunsmith; and five thousand dollars for running the line of the land assigned to the Indians. In making your estimates under the appropriation of sixty-five thousand seven hundred dollars for the expense of rations to be furnished to the Indians, agreeably to the fifth article of the treaty, you will be guided by a strict regard to economy; taking care that the sum does not go beyond the appropriation, but bringing it as much within it 'as may be practicable, consistent with the objects contemplated by the act. On submitting your estimates, you will notify the Department of the time when you will require the remittances to be made, and where; which will be attended to. You will appoint a disinterested and suitable person to ascertain the value of the improvements that may be abandoned by the Indians, and will instruct him to adjudge each case separately, and accompany it with a description of it, and the reasons for its allowance. On receiving the whole of which, yon will transmit them to this Department for its approval; when the amount will be remitted to carry into effect the provisions of the treaty in relation thereto. 78 E It will be important that immediate measures be taken to secure to the Indians a gunsmith, provided for by the sixth article of the treaty. The further provision for a school will be the subject of future arrangement, under propositions which, it is presumed, will be made to the Department by some of the missionary establishments acting under regulations which have been adopted by the Government for the improvement of other tribes. Colonel Gadsden will be informed of the appropriation of five thousand dollars for running the line of the land assigned to the Indians. You will be careful to direct the agent, in making up his accounts, to place every item of disbursement under its appropriate head; so that corresponding charges may be made on the books of the Treasury. In all letters of advice, you will, in naming the sum, add for and on account of the particular branch of the expenditure which the draft is designed to cover.	» You will be careful to send in the estimates under the various heads of appropriation, in time for the remittances, respectively, to be made.	I have the honor, &c. J.	C. CALHOUN. To His Excellency WILLIAM P. DUVAL, Pensacola. No. 9. Extract of a letter from His Excellency William P. Duval, Governor of Florida, to the Hon. J. C. Calhoun, Secretary of War, dated	1 PENSACOLA, June 18, 1824. I have this day received letters, by an express from St. Mark’s and Tallahassee, from the Indian agent and other respectable gentlemen in that quarter; by which I am informed that the Indians seem very unfriendly to the settlers, and have commenced killing their cattle, and are daily becoming more and more insolent. Neamathla, who has been for more than a year past soliciting permission to visit Washington city, now refuses to go. The Indians in that neighborhood have lately procured a considerable quantity of powder and lead. Judge Robinson, who resides on the waters of the Ochlochne, and who has heretofore had great confidence in the Indians, now advises strongly that a military force should be sent there. I have, therefore, applied to the commanding officer at this post for a company to be sent to St. Mark’s, where the expense of supplying them will not be greater than at this place, as the sloop Florida, which belongs to the quartermaster’s department, can, without any inconvenience to the service, transport whatever may be required. I go to Tallahassee immediately; and nothing but bad health would have prevented me from being there in April last. I deem it proper to request that the officer who may command the detachment should be directed to act under my orders; otherwise,.much difficulty might occur, as the captain in command might act contrary to my views and knowledge. I regret that my ill health did not permit me to meet Colonel Gadsden at Tallahassee, as I intended to have done. I have written to him, and requested that he will come to Tallahassee as soon as possible. A personal conference with him is of much importance in making the future arrangements for the removal of the Indians. I do not believe that more than fifteen hundred Indians will Be entitled to rations, though the advertisement is for a much larger number. I shall contract only for the necessary supplies, with the privilege to increase or diminish the amount at pleasure, upon suitable notice. I am convinced that a respectable military force should be at Tallahassee by the 1st of October next, at which time I shall order the Indians to remove: they will not go willingly, and will refuse, unless a respectable force is present. This is the opinion of Colonel Gadsden and the agent, and has long been mine. I shall personally attend the execution of the treaty. Economy and despatch shall govern me. I do not expect to leave Tallahassee until the Indians are removed; and my personal attention, I flatter myself, will save considerable expense to the Government. No. 10. From Governor Duval to the Secretary of War. SIR:	PENSACOLA, June 21, 1824. I have been waiting for two days past for a change of wind to sail to St. Mark’s. I am determined to remain in that quarter for the next four months, and see and personally make all the contracts for the fulfilment of the treaty with the Indians. Several propositions for supplying the rations for the Indians have been received. The most favorable for the whole is eighteen cents. I am determined not to submit to any such imposition on the Government; and I request you (should you deem it advisable to do so) to allow me to act according to my discretion, if more favorable terms are not offered by contract. I shall be enabled to purchase beef, salt, corn, or .flour, with the funds of the Government, so as to insure a saving of thousands of dollars. I can employ a man to make the purchase of the beef, and to drive them to any point; and I can send the sub-agent to New Orleans for the other articles required by the treaty. Near the head of St John’s river there must be one place of deposite; and the other will be at Tampa Bay, or some other convenient point. To allow eighteen cents for the ration (only allowing fifteen hundred rations per day) will cost the Government, for one year, ninety-eight thousand dollars. I am ready to perform any duty or service that'will diminish the expense attending on this treaty. Let some funds be deposited as early as possible at New Orleans; for, should I have to superintend the purchase ■ of the rations, I wish to be about it in due time. Any directions you may think proper to transmit shall be strictly attended to. The six thousand dollars given by the treaty for the purchase of agricultural instruments and stocks of hogs and cattle, as well as the one thousand dollars given for the services of a black and gunsmith, and for tools, iron, steel, &c., should be placed at an early period under my control, so that these supplies might be procured; for the smiths’ tools, ploughs, hoes, iron, axes, &c., by sending to the north, can be had on much better terms than in this southern country. I have the honor, &c. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. No. 11. Extract of a Utter from His Excellency William P. Duval, Governor of Florida, to the Hon. J. C. Calhoun, Secretary of War, dated ST. MARK’S, July 12, 1824. Last night a company of the 4th infantry, under the commaod of Captain Lear, arrived here. The temper of the Indians in this quarter demands the presence of some troops; and I now assure you that, unless a respectable military force is sent here by the 1st of October, the Indians will not move. They are now as busy in clearing land and building their habitations as if they were never to remove. Neamathla is assuming and insolent; he has threatened to drive off the white settlers. I must take some decided step with this chief: he is the only turbulent man in the nation. He is creating daily more and more dissatisfaction among the Indians. He has avoided me since my arrival here, although he was to meet me on a day appointed, which he promised, but failed to do. I have understood from Captain Lear that he has received orders not to move out of St. Mark’s, or to send any detachment out, under any pretence. I consider these orders may prove very injurious to the public service; for, surely, as I am on the spot, something should be left to my discretion and judgment. The troops should act under my orders, or they are worse than useless at this point. Whatever step I take will be such as the soundest discretion and coolest and most mature reflection would require. But if a single chief should be fractious, or should, in a fit of rage or drunkenness, do mischief, I should certainly like to send a detachment and immediately arrest him. As to using any improper severity, that shall not be permitted. If a chief deserves punishment, 1 will call the other chiefs to try him. I regret that no sub-agent has yet been appointed: I shall want his services very much, and his presence will be required either at the deposite on St. John’s river, or at Tampa Bay, to superintend the issues to the Indians. I am inclined to believe that many of the Indians in this region will go back to the Creeks, where they properly belong, sooner than go south. I am, &c. WILLIAM P. DUVAL. No. 12. Extract of a letter from Governor William P. Duval to the Secretary of War, dated ST. MARK’S, July 12, 1824. The estimate you require I herewith transmit to you. It is impossible to say whether there will be more or less than fifteen hundred Indians to feed daily. I am inclined to the opinion that there are not more and not many under that number. Many of the Indians in this section of Florida are from the Creek nation, and have removed ^nto this country in the last three or four years. As they of right belong to the Creek nation, I shall encourage as many of them as I can persuade to return to their own country. I have drawn on you in favor of F. H. Nesbit for one thousand dollars, which you will of course deduct from the estimate. I shall contract for the cattle and hogs to be delivered at Tampa Bay in October, and I have ordered the tools of husbandry, to be brought from the north, to be distributed at the same time. I was anxious to pay Neamathla his five hundred dollars, which, by the last article of the treaty, you will see was to be paid to him. I have the money in silver for him. I should be much pleased if Colonel Gadsden would value the improvements under the treaty. He could do better than any one I can obtain, and would give more satisfaction to the Indians than any person known to them. All the chiefs have the highest respect for him, and unbounded confidence in his justice and impartiality. I shall write to the colonel immediately on the subject, and request you will aid me by your influence in this matter. The Indians on the Appalachicola river behave very well; they seem anxious to follow all my directions, and are rapidly improving in their building fences and mode of cultivation. I have great expectations that they will improve in civilization even faster than was expected by those the most sanguine in their calculations on this subject. I cannot, before closing this letter, forbear to urge the appointment of a sub-agent, and that he be directed to report himself directly and without delay to me at Tallahassee. You may rest assured that all possible attention will be given by me to the execution of the Indian treaty, and that economy shall govern all my movements. Extract of so much of the estimate of Governor Duval, referred to in his letter to the Secretary of War of July 12, 1824, as relates to rations. To 500 rations, furnished daily at some point near Lake George, on the St. John’s river, East Florida, at 124 cents per ration, as the lowest estimate, commencing the 1st of October next, -	- $22,817 50 To 1,000 rations, furnished daily at Tampa Bay, for the period of ten months, at the same price, -	38,030 00 To 1,000 rations, to be furnished for two months, at St. Mark’s, preparatory to the removal of the Indians from their lands, at the same price,	-	-	-	7,605 50 I shall be compelled to feed many Indians at this point [St. Mark’s] until they start, and then all will draw provisions here for their journey. No. 13. The Secretary of War to Governor Duval. SIR:	‘	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, July 17, 1824. Your letter of the 21st ultimo has been received. The proposals for furnishing rations to the Indians at eighteen cents, which you state are the most favorable that have been offered, are considered entirely too high, and should by no means be accepted. The removal of the Indians having been deferred, at your suggestion, until the fall, sufficient time is afforded to obtain the supplies on better terms; and 1 would, therefore, advise you to publish the advertisement for them in the New Orleans, Milledgeville, and Charleston newspapers. Should there be no proposals made, after allowing a reasonable time for them to be sent in, offering more advantageous terms than those you have received, you will then adopt the plan which you propose, exercising your discretion as to the arrangements necessary to carry them into effect; which should, however, be so made as to keep the whole expense for provisions within the sum of $65,000, the amount of the appropriation for that object. On examining your printed proposals, I find they are not sufficiently explicit on some points, and enclose you a form. The time of the first and subsequent deliveries is left blank, which, of course, you will fill up as may be re quired. I fix upon Tampa Bay as the place of delivery, from the belief that provisions will be required only at that point. If they should, in your opinion, be required elsewhere, you will add such places specifically, so as to avoid the possibility of dispute with the contractor, by leaving the place of delivery at large. Three months’supplies have been required at the first delivery, so that there may be one month’s supply on hand to meet contingencies. At the subsequent deliveries, (except the last,) two months’ provisions will be required, which will always leave one month’s supply on hand when such subsequent delivery is made. It is believed that the daily rations cannot possibly exceed two thousand five hundred, particularly as you will issue only half rations to children. It is thought they will fall far below it; consequently, I have fixed one thousand two hundred and fifty as a minimum. Should you see cause to vary their numbers, you may alter either extreme. By advertising in New Orleans, Mobile, Milledgeville, and Charleston, as suggested, ample competition for the contract will be secured. It is necessary to be very particular, in issuing the rations to the Indians, and taking an account of them, so as to procure the necessary vouchers for settlement with the proper accounting officer of the Government. A descriptive roll should be kept of the number of Indians who may receive rations, distinguishing them by tribes, and the number of men, women, and children in each tribe, to whom rations may issue. None will be entitled to rations who do not remove. This roll should be duly certified by the agent to be correct. There being no subagent, you are authorized to employ a person to assist the agent in making issues, whose salary will be at the rate of $500 per annum. In making the daily issues, the same forms in issuing and certifying should be observed by the agent as are used in the army. Any of the assistant commissaries will, if applied to, give you the necessary information for your guidance on this subject. The amount daily issued will be certified by the agent, and approved of by you, in consolidated quarterly returns. It will not be necessary to purchase the implements of husbandry until the Indians have moved on the lands assigned them. As soon as this is done, the means for carrying into effect the treaty, in this respect, and for payment of the annuity for which it stipulates, will be placed at your disposal. Funds will also be placed at your disposal for the purchase of rations, as soon as you shall have transmitted to this Department an estimate of the probable amount that will be required for that purpose.	’ ,	I have the honor to be, &c. J.	C. CALHOUN. To His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL, St. Mark’s, Florida. No. 14. Extract of a letter from Governor Duval to the Secretary of War, dated TALLAHASSEE, July 22, 1824. I I have the honor to inform you that I have this day made a contract with Benjamin Chaires, Esq., of St. Augustine, to furnish one thousand rations to lhe Indians under the late treaty—six hundred rations daily at Tampa Bay, and four hundred daily on St. John’s river, at or near the mouth of the Okelawaha; the ration to be furnished at eleven and a half cents. Governor Clarke was present, and several other gentlemen, who offered proposals, hut none so favorable to the United States were offered as those proposed by Mr. Chaires. I know the securities that he offers to be ample. As to the few rations which must be furnished at St. Mark’s for the Indians who will quit their present possessions, and go to their reserves which are now unimproved, (to wit: Neamathla and his connexions, and the chief Emathlochee, who is to remove to the Appalachicola,) I have contracted for these rations at ten and a half cents. Captain M. Crupper has taken the contract, and offers good security. I have no doubt that the utmost reliance may be placed on the gentlemen who have taken the contracts. As soon as the securities shall sign the bonds, copies shall be transmitted to you. I beg, sir, you will direct the sub-agent'to report to me as early as possible. The agent and sub-agent must attend at Tampa Bay, to receive the nitrons from the contractors, and to give them vouchers. Unless they do attend at the several points of delivery, it will be impossible for me to know how much is furnished daily to the Indians. If one thousand rations are not sufficient, daily, by the contract, on giving thirty days’ notice, I can demand one thousand five hundred rations daily, if I find they shnuld be required. Neamathla has conducted himself very strangely for some time past; he has threatened strongly to take up arms. He will not come near; he has ordered off some of the settlers, and certainly has created no small alarm among the people. I have ordered a meeting of all the chiefs at St. Mark’s on the 25th instant, and will, in addition to the troops at St. Mark’s, have sixty or seventy of the militia at the talk. I must take some decisive step with this chief immediately, or he will become, perhaps, troublesome, if not dangerous. I shall act with prudence, but I shall do whatever may be necessary to give security to our inhabitants quickly. I again assure you that I am fully convinced, unless a respectable force is urdered here by the last of September, or first of October next, that the Indians will not leave this country. As the troops are to work on the road in this region, it would be good policy to have them at Tallahassee by the last day of September next. No. 15. Extract of a letter from Governor William P. Duval to the Secretary of War, dated POST ST. MARK’S, July 29, 1824. I have had some difficulty with the Indians in this quarter. They did not make an attack on our citizens, but they were extremely insolent, and made many threats. Their chiefs had, in some instances, killed our cattle and hogs. They also had gone with their men to several of our settlers, and ordered them off; they threatened to drive the people out of the country, and to make war on me. In short, the whole of their conduct was such, that I saw immediate hostilities must ensue, if they did not receive a timely check. The military sent to this post, not being under my command, (as I think they should have been,) were of no use to me in stopping the Indians in their course. I determined at once to call out the few men that reside in this quarter. They came as volunteers to the new seat of Government, well armed. In the mean time, I called the chiefs and warriors of the Appalachicola, to meet me at Judge Robinson’s, about thirty miles from their towns. They all promptly attended, and.were ready to act as 1 might order. This sudden movement so surprised the Tallahassee and Mickasuky Indians, that they hurried to meet me, and promised to obey my orders and to respect my authority. The chiefs were greatly alarmed, and I think they will be more circumspect in future; but I have but little confidence in them. The next day I took the interpreter with me, and went to Neamathla’s town. I found there about three hundred warriors, and I saw many of them armed. 1 immediately went into their square yard, (which is their forum,) and gave them a talk, and or dered them all to meet me on the 26th instant at St. Mark’s; and assured them that their ruin and destruction was certain.unless they obeyed my orders. On the day appointed, about six hundred Indians attended at this place, and I delivered to them a talk that made considerable impression on them. 1 then appointed John Hicks, their head chief, to lead them south, to their land; and I selected the eldest sun of King Hijah as his chief counsellor: these appointments the warriors confirmed. These chiefs are men of sense, and will execute my orders. I hope now no further difficulty will shortly occur with these people. I have directed the Indians to prepare to move, and to be on their land by the first day of October next; at which time they will receive their rations. The want of funds has impeded my operations; but, from your last letter, I trust soon to be relieved from that difficulty. I cannot omit to impress on you the importance of having a respectable force in this quarter by the 15th of September next. The Indians are restless, and much dissatisfied with the treaty. If the Big Swamp, near the north line, were given up to them, it would completely satisfy them. The chiefs insist that they have sent men to examine the country, and that their report is, the good land within their present boundary is insufficient. This is, in fact, the only obstacle on the part of the Indians; and as there are Spanish grants (newly made, I have no doubt) that cover this swamp, perhaps it would be best to let them have it. I can now venture to say that the expense of carrying the treaty into effect will not exceed my estimate transmitted to you, and I hope to make it even less. I have not heard a word from the agent since May last, or about the first of June. The whole trouble of attending to the Indians in this quarter, and of issuing their rations, has been performed by me; the agent is, no doubt, engaged in discharging his duties about Tampa Bay. I will repeat to you that it is important for the public interests that the sub-agent should report to me as early as possible. He will have to repair either to St. John’s river or to Tampa Bay, to attend to the rations to be issued to the Indians. No. 16.	■ SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, August 17, 1824. 1 have received your letters of the I2th ultimo, accompanied by an estimate of the expense of the rations to be furnished to the emigrant Indians in Florida, according to the late treaty. The estimate for the rations exceeds the appropriation; but the expense on that account must, by no means, be permitted to exceed the sum appropriated by Congress. I am decidedly of the impression that that sum will be found sufficient, as I cannot doubt, from all I can learn, that the estimate of the number of Indians in Florida is greatly exaggerated; and must believe that the meat and bread part of the ration will not cost twelve and a half cents, as you have estimated: a price exceeding the average rate of the complete ration throughout the United States, With those impressions, and the fact that children will receive but half rations, I cannot doubt but that the sum appropriated will be ample. I have, however, entire confidence in your judgment and zeal to serve the public, and that you will take such measures so to conduct the concentration of the Indians in Florida as will be most effectual and economical. A requisition will issue, as requested by you, for ($13,500) thirteen thousand five hundred dollars; that is to say, six thousand dollars, as provided for by the third article of the treaty; five thousand dollars, as provided for by the third article; two thousand dollars, as provided for by the fifth article; and five hundred dollars, being a balance due under the sixth article. This sum will be placed to your credit in the Bank of New Orleans. Ybu state that you have paid to Neamathla five hundred dollars under the treaty. On inquiring of the agent, I understood from him, verbally, that the same amount had been expended by his direction to purchase cattle, at the request of this chief. I directed the agent to make a report of this case; which, however, he has neglected. I fear there will be some embarrassment in the disbursement, as the appropriation provides only for five hundred dollars, and it will be impossible that both of you can receive a credit. This subject ought to be immediately attended to. I cannot believe that the Indians can be so infatuated as to make any decided objection to the removal, and that the hostile disposition which they now show is intended to produce some relaxation in the terms of the treaty; but, when they find the Government is resolved to carry its provisions into effect, they will acquiesce without trouble, particularly as they are eminently beneficial to the Indians. It will be impossible to augment the number of troops now in Florida, unless it should become necessary to apply force to a much greater extent than I now anticipate. The officer commanding at St. Mark’s has received instructions to consult with you, and to act under your directions.	t Your draft in favor of Colonel Nesbit, for one thousand dollars, has been paid. The accounts and estimates of the agent will be rendered through you, and will be specifically approved by you. Punctuality in their rendition will be required. You are authorized to appoint a sub-agent for one year, at five hundred dollars per annum, payable quarter-yearly; you will report his appointment to the Department for confirmation. It is believed the services of a sub-agent will not be required after the Indians shall have been concentrated on their 'reservation. The agent has rendered a statement of his accounts, by which it appears he has advanced, under your orders, on a contract made by you with Mr. Chaires, the sum of three thousand dollars. It is proper you should be apprized that, under existing laws, no advances should be made; and that neither yourself nor the agent can obtain payment for the sum advanced, till the cattle are delivered under the contract and receipted for. I have the honor, &c. J. C. CALHOUN.- To His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL, St. Mark's. No. 17.—Extract. SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, August 31, 1824. I had the honor, on the 29th day of July last, to inform you of the difficulties which had arisen with the Indians in this Territory, and the measures I had taken to enforce their submission. I received your letter of th© 17th ultimo, by express, last evening, from Pensacola; and you will find by my former letters, which must have reached you before this time, that I have closed the contracts for supplying the Indians on terms highly advantageous to the United States. I enclose to you a copy of the contract entered into with Benjamin Chaires, Esq., a gentleman of high standing and character, who has the means of certainly complying, and will, I am confident, fulfil his contract. Some disagreement existed between Mr.’Chaires and myself at the time the contract was made; but I determined to make the contract as you see it, and to submit to you the circumstances fairly, so that you might, if you deem it just, make the change in his favor which he believes he is entitled to expect. The person who made the lowest proposals was General Clarke, of Georgia, who offered to furnish the ration at Tampa Bay and the St. John’s river at fourteen cents. A Mr. Parham offered the following proposals, (see the enclosed copy.) These last proposals only extended to St. Mark’s and Tampa Bay; the security was not sufficient, even if the terms had been lower. I also enclose you a copy of Mr. Chaires’s proposal, so you may at once judge of his claim. Mr. Chaires admits that, at Tampa Bay, he is bound to furnish the ration at eleven and a half cents, which was offered by Mr. Parham; but as his (Parham’s) offer did not extend to St. John’s river, Mr. Chaires contends he should be allowed fourteen cents for the ration at that point—that being the offer made by General Clarke, and the lowest of all the proposals for the whole nation. I told Mr. Chaires I could not, nor would not, enter into any but the contract as it is written, but would submit the point in dispute to you. To this he at length agreed. Mr. Chaires returned to St. Augustine the day after the contract was signed by him, in order to get the securities to sign also. I know them personally; they are ample. I learn that Mr. Chaires will be here in a few days. Since, 1 have reflected more on this subject; perhaps, in strict justice, he should be allowed fourteen cents for the rations issued on St.John’s river; certain I am he would not have made a contract for less than fifteen cents per ration, but for the reasons he has assigned in his letter of proposals on this subject. I can do nothing, however, but submit the matter to you; and by your determination Mr. Chaires will abide. Captain M. Crupper contracted to deliver the rations at ten and a half cents which I might want at St. Mark’s, until the removal of that portion of the Indians who will go south. There are two chiefs and their followers (Emathlochee and Neamathla) who will have to remove from their present residence to their reserves of lands: these chiefs and their followers will be justly entitled to rations, as they will have to commence new settlements entirely. I do not believe that there will be more than one hundred and twenty in this section of the Territory who will be entitled to draw rations, and they will be furnished at St. Mark’s. The whole number of rations daily to be issued, I now believe, will not much exceed one thousand one hundred. The Indians in this quarter have some violent quarrels among themselves; and, lately, two towns fought with clubs and knives, and several of them are maimed and severely beaten. I have interposed my authority to prevent open and deadly war among them, and expect to make them settle their dispute, and abide by the opinion of their steady old chiefs. Between the settlers and the Indians I have been constantly engaged in preserving order, whenever my health would permit. The duties which I have performed, and the exposure to the hot sun and rain in a wilderness such as this, have seriously injured my constitution. I have, for several weeks, been wholly unable to quit my cabin, and much of the time confined to my bed. I mention this as my apology for not writing more fully to you on the subject of the contracts I have made. Since my arrival at St. Mark’s, I have continued to issue rations partially to the Indians. I purchased pork, flour, and salt, and had their rations issued under my own eye; but, finding that the little pork, flour, and salt which I had purchased for this purpose cost too much, I made an agreement with Captain M. Crupper to furnish, from time to time, the rations which I might want at twelve and a half cents, until the 1st day of August, when I expected to issue rations regularly to the Indians entitled to draw until their removal. This was done, also, under my own view, until the 1st of the present month, when the ration, by contract, was to be furnished at ten and a half cents; and they have been regularly issued at that price, under my inspection. The want of the services of the agent, or any one to assist me, has imposed heavy duties on me, and engrossed the whole of my time. The $6,000 which, by the treaty, was to be laid out in purchase of stock, cattle, &c., as well as the $1,000 for a gunsmith and his tools, $2,000 for transportation, and the $4,500 to be given for compensation for Indian improvements, will be wanted as early as possible; the $6,000 for the purchase of stock cattle is not a part of the annuity, as I understand the treaty. It will be time enough to remit the annuity some time hence. I have the honor, &c. ,	WM. P. DUVAL. The Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. [Accompaniments of No. 17.] SIR:	JULY 20, 1824. In pursuance to your nutification to receive proposals for furnishing the Florida Indians with rations for one year, I beg leave again to offer to contract for supplying them. I will furnish the entire rations, as required, of beef, corn or flour, and salt, for fifteen cents per ration; or, under the peculiar situation in which I am placed, (having, as I believed, obtained the contract from the Indian agent, and having, with his advice, made extensive purchases of provisions for the fulfilment.of said supposed contract, which must inevitably perish on my hands, and considerable loss and injury be sustained by me,) should the contract now be refused me, under all these circumstances, I will further offer to furnish said rations as low, or for the same price which may be offered by any other person or persons, for each and all the component parts of said rations; or, should your excellency be of opinion thatrny situation entitles me to no preference, I will further offer to furnish the said rations for one-twentieth part of a cent less than any other person or persons who may offer, and who may offer good and sufficient security for the fulfilment of the contract. From the observation which you made, of your intention to divide or sever the contract, permit me to say, that my proposal is intended only for Indians who are to be located in East Florida, or on the eastern side of the Suwanee river. I heretofore offered as my securities John Bellamy, Edward R. Gibson, John Y. Garey, and Francis I. Ross, who were by the agent considered sufficient, and who are again offered; but should your excellency be of opinion that the abovenamed persons are not sufficient, you may rest assured that any other or further security will he given which may be by you required. I am, very respectfully, your most obedient servant, BENJAMIN CHAIRES. His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL, Governor of Florida and Superintendent of Indian Affairs. , Know all men by these presents, that we, Benjamin Chaires, John Bellamy, Edward R. Gibson, John Y. Garey, and Francis I. Ross, all of St. John’s and Duval counties, in the Territory of Florida, are held and firmly bound unto the United States of America in the penal sum of one hundred thousand dollars, which, well and truly to be paid to the United States of America, we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, and administrators, jointly and severally; as witness our hands and seals, this 22d day of July, 1824. The condition of the above obligation is such, that the said Benjamin Chaires has contracted to deliver to the Indian agent or sub-agent of the Florida Indians, or such other person as the Governor of Florida may appoint, six hundred rations, for the use of the Florida Indians, daily, at or near the military post at Tampa Bay, in the said Territory; each ration to be one pound and a quarter of fresh beef, or three-quarters of a pound of good salt pork, one quart of coro, or one pound of good flour, and one quart of salt for every hundred rations. And the said Chaires is also to select the most convenient high ground which can be travelled to from the interior, of the country above, at, or near the mouth of Okelawaha river, a branch of the St. John’s river, as the point where he will issue four hundred rations daily, or in such manner as the agent or person acting may consent to, under the direction of the Governor of Florida, (a ration to be composed of the proportions as before mentioned,) for the, use of the emigrant Florida Indians in that quarter. The said Chaires, at cither of the aforesaid points, is never to have less than thirty days’ provisions on hand, nor more corn or flour than sixty days’ rations, (except at his own risk.) The said Chaires is bound to put up such buildings as will secure the said provisions from the weather and depredations, at each of the aforesaid points. The issues of the said rations may be increased in number to fifteen hundred per day, at the option of the superintendent, or on the order of the Secretary of War, by giving to the said Chaires thirty days’ notice. The United States, on their part, by their agent, William P. Duval, bind themselves to pay to the said Chaires eleven and a half cents for each ration as aforesaid issued and delivered to the agent authorized to receive the same, provided no more rations are issued per day than are agreed for by this contract. And the agent is authorized to give to the said Chaires vouchers for all such rations. The said Chaires shall commence the issue of the rations at Tampa Bay, and on the St. John’s river, at the point aforesaid, from the 10th day of next October; the issues on the St. John’s to continue one year, and those at Tampa Bay ten months, from the. 10th day of next October, and no longer. William P. Duval, as the superintendent of Indian affairs, will, at the end of every sixty days, as the rations are issued, upon proper vouchers, pay to the said Chaires the amount that may be due to him for rations up to that time. But in the event of a failure on the part of the said Chaires to comply with this contract, either in the whole or in part, then, and in that case, the said Duval shall procure the rations on the best terms he can obtain them. When these conditions are complied with, then this obligation is to be void; otherwise, it shall remain in full force and virtue. BENJAMIN CHAIRES. SIR:	FORT ST. MARK’S, July 18, 1824. I will furnish and deliver, at this place and Tampa Bay, as many rations as you may require for the use of the Indians, at eleven and a half cents per ration. The ration to consist of fresh beef or salt pork, corn or flour, and salt. I offer Jesse Bird and Martin Hardin for my security. R. PARHAM. To WM. P. DUVAL, Governor of Florida. No. 18. From the Secretary of War to Governor Duval. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, September 11, 1824. * You have been informed, by my letter of the 17th ultimo, that a requisition for $13,500 had issued in your favor for the objects specified in your letter of the 12th July preceding. On examining your estimate for rations, of the same date, it was found to exceed the sum appropriated by Congress, $3,453. It was not possible, therefore, to make the remittances as requested by you, under that estimate. Moreover, if the estimates had not exceeded the appropriation, the regulations of the Department requiring that the remittances should be upon quarterly estimates, and no such estimates having been received, no remittances, for the want of the proper information, have been, because they could not (consistently with those regulations) be made. I have been waiting till now, in the expectation of receiving such estimates; which having not yet come to hand, and apprehending that inconvenience might result from any further delay, I have this day issued a requisition in your favor for $12,650 50; $5,000 payable at Charleston, and $7,650 50 at New Orleans. No further remittances can be made but upon quarterly estimates furnished by you, agreeably to the régulations; and these it will be essential to keep within the sum appropriated by Congress. Colonel Gadsden is appointed commissioner to value the property which may be abandoned by the Indians, under the fifth article of the treaty. His commission and letter of instructions are herewith enclosed. I have the honor, &c. J. C. CALHOUN. To His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL, Pensacola. No. 19. SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, October 1, 1824. On yesterday I had the honor to receive your letter of the 17th of last August, and confess that some remarks in it surprised me greatly. In the first place, I assure you the agent did not pay one cent, either in money or cattle, to the chief Neamathla, although he informed me he had funds in his hands. (I believe he said you had authorized him to draw for $6,000.) I did order the agent to pay this chief, and was much disappointed when I found, on my arrival here, that it had been neglected. You state, “ The agent has rendered a statement of his accounts; by which it appears he has advanced, under your orders, on a contract made by you with Mr. Chaires, the sum of $3,000.” There must be, surely, some great mistake in this matter; for I never made a contract with Mr. Chaires, (except for the rations, which was loog since the agent left this part of the country, and on which I did not advance him a cent, or agree to do so;) nor have I ever heard from the agent that he paid the sum of $3,000 to Mr. Chaires, or that he had made any contract with him or any other person for the purchase of stock cattle. Long since the agent left this part of the country, I was informed, by a letter from Mr. Chaires, that he had made a contract with the agent (Colonel Humphreys) for stock cattle; but he never informed me that the agent had paid him one dollar in advance. Nothing more is known to me of the contract, nor has the agent made any report to me of the fact, although he wrote to me on the 26th July from St. Augustine. A copy of his letter I enclose to you. The agent has never, as I now recollect, presented any of his accounts to me forexamination or approval. I have been always ready to attend to my duty in this respect. The agent received from me written instructions on the subject of receiving proposals, on the 23d of May last, for furnishing of the rations to the Indians, as well as on the subject of contracting for stock cattle. My instructions directed him only to receive proposals, and to transmit them to me; and if any of the proposals should be approved of by the proper authorities, the party would be duly informed, &c. Enclosed is a copy of a letter from the agent, dated St. Mark’s, 1st Juoe, 1824; and, also, a copy of a letter dated Tallahassee, 31st May, 1824, from Mr. Chaires to the agent. Mr. Chaires’s proposals I would not accept at eighteen and one-quarter cents, as I informed you. I also enclose to you an extract of that part of my instructions to the agent on the subject of purchasing stock cattle. My reason for allowing the agent, at his discretion, (if it was necessary tu do so,) to advance $3,000 for the stock cattle, was, thaffew men could purchase and incur the expense of driving a large herd of cattle so far into the interior; and those who had the means to make, would not, perhaps, engage in the contract. It is very important to act promptly with the Indians, in paying up what they claim under the treaty, without delay. The very circumstance of the Indians learning that their agent was purchasing stock cattle for them, to be driven within their boundary, would induce many of them to remove cheerfully, who at the time were much dissatisfied. Besides, I was confident, if the contract was made for cowsand calves in the spring, to be delivered this fall, that a very considerable advantage would accrue to the Indians, as the cattle would be growing for six or seven months at the risk and expense of the contractor. Under this view, I gave the instruction just in the words written, which is all that was given on this part of the subject. If the five chiefs had gone with the agent to Washington, and which I desired, it would have answered a good purpose. You well know that, during the absence of the chiefs, the Indians would not have acted the least improper; the chiefs would be, by the nation, considered as hostages in our hands for their good behavior—until their return, at least. Hence I wished the leading clliefs to visit you. It would have allowed me time to make, in peace and quietness, all my contracts for their removal, and at the same time you would have made an impression on the chiefs that would have confirmed them forever as our decided friends; hut as the chiefs failed to go, and as the Indians were ready to take up arms, the agent should never have left the Territory without permission, under such circumstances. I believe you will be perfectly satisfied with my arrangement and economy in executing the treaty; and whatever I do shall be performed with a single eye to the public interest. I am, respectfully, <fcc. WM. P. DUVAL. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. [Accompaniment’to No. 19.] An extract from the written instructions delivered by the Governor of Florida, on the Idth of May, 1824, to Colonel G. Humphreys, Indian Agent of the Territory of Florida. If you find it necessary, to enable the person whom you may contract with to furnish the stock cattle to the Indians, according to the late treaty, you may advance to him such sum as you may have at your disposal, (not exceeding $3,000,) on his giving bond and ample security for the faithful performance of his contract. [Accompaniment to No. 19.] Colonel G. Humphreys to His Excellency William P. Duval, Governor of Florida, fyc. dated DEAR SIR:	ST. AUGUSTINE, July 26, 1824. After waiting at Tampa Bay until the 17th instant for an answer to my application to you for a short leave of absence, without receiving one, I was led to the conclusion that your messenger had failed on the way; and believing your letter, if received, would favor my wishes; and believing, also, that the indulgence (although, in some degree, conditional) contained in your letter uf instructions of the 16th of May, might, in the exigency of my case, be embraced without impropriety or injury to the public service, I am induced to proceed, without further delay, to the north; where, by recent letters, I learn that my presence is much required in a business matter of considerable importance to me. I shall, however, go by the way of Washington city, and be governed by such information or instructions as I may there receive from the Secretary of War. I have not now time to make a detailed report of my tour into the Indian country from the bay. I can only say, that the land, throughout where I visited, is wretchedly bad; and, in my opinion, cannot long sustain the Indians, should any considerable number come from the west. I am truly sorry to differ so widely in opinion from Colonel Gadsden, for whom I have the highest respect; but I conceive, to withhold the expression of my sentiments on this subject (although they are unasked) would be to fail in my official obligations, and might possibly hereafter subject me to unmerited censure. I am further urged to the avowal from an interview I had a few days since with Miconopy, Jumper, and other chiefs, near Okihumky. It seems evident that that article in the treaty providing for an extension of the northern boundary will be insisted upon by the Indians; and I feel it a duty to state, a failure in this particular on the part of the Government will produce much dissatisfaction among them, and may lead to serious difficulty. It is due to the Indians, however, to say, that, as far as can be ascertained, they are perfectly pacific in disposition, and appear to place great reliance on the justice and fidelity of the United States. I cannot close this letter without doing an act of justice to Colonel Gadsden, in declaring my belief that the story told me by Neamathla, of the colonel having advised him against the journey to Washington, is destitute of foundation in truth, and that it is a tale fabricated by the old man to justify his own discrepancy; this I judge, from discovering on the subject a sort of concert between him and the chiefs south. This is evident, though each avows ignorance of the other’s sentiments, and says he cannot act in the case without a meeting; thus clearly manifesting a wish to avoid the measure. But whether this proceeds from aversion to extend their acquaintance with the whites, or a fear of being entrapped, (as has been intimated to me,) I am unable to say; the latter is very possible, as they have still fresh in recollection the treachery practised on their nation, on a somewhat similar occasion, by the Spanish Government, at St. Augustine; and they are not thoroughly capable of making a proper distinction between that Government and the one under which they now live. I will write again from Washington. , I am, with the highest respect and esteem, your obedient servant, G. HUMPHREYS, Indian Agent. His Excellency WILLIAM P. DUVAL, Governor, <ÿc. of Florida. [Accompaniment to No. 19.] From G. Humphreys to Governor Duval. SIR:	ST. MARK’S, June 1, 1824. Enclosed, herewith, I have the honor to transmit to. you all the proposals made for supplying the Indians, according to the treaty, with beef, flour, corn, and salt. Those of Major B. Chaires, of St. Augustine, taking into view the ampleness of his security, in connexion with the lowness of the price at which he offers to furnish the supplies, I could not hesitate to consider “ the best,” and bave, therefore, under your instructions of the 16th ultimo, advised him that his proposal for the entire ration will be accepted, should this mode of supplying be approved by the proper authority. Accompanying this, you will receive a copy of his letter in reply. The proposal of Mr. Robert Mitchell, of Pensacola, for the salt and flour part of the ration, would have been accepted as the lowest, had it not been saddled with provisoes and conditions foreign to my advertisement, and had the requisites of that advertisement, in relation }o security, (which Mr. Mitchell was well -aware of,) been complied with. As it is, however, whatever confidence I might have in his declaration of ability to guaranty the performance of an engagement of such magnitude, I could not feel myself authorized or warranted to jeopardize the interests of the country, or the comfort of the Indians, by leaving the supplying of provisions to depend upon a contingency so precarious and unpromising, particularly as an opportunity presented to place the contract for the whole ration upon terms which appear highly advantageous to tfie Government, in the hands of an individual whose responsibility and qualifications are unquestionable and without exception. With respect, &c. G. HUMPHREYS, Agent for Indian Affairs. His Excellency W. P. DUVAL, Governor of Florida. I have never had an opportunity of writing or communicating with Colonel Humphreys since the date^of this letter. WILLIAM P. DUVAL. [Accompanying No. 19.] SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, May 31,1824. I have just received your note, informing me that my proposal for furnishing the entire ration for the Indians was the lowest, and accepted. I presume neither the Governor nor yourself will doubt that my best exertions will be used to comply fully with the contract. Permit me to remark, however, that this contract, in the way which it has to be filled, is unwieldy, and no time ought to be lost. I hope the Governor will say, as soon as convenient, to whom the bond shall be given for the fulfilment of it; until that is done, and the contract formally entered into, it will be hazardous for me to purchase cattle, which must be brought from Georgia, or to make the necessary arrangement for the purchase and shipping of corn and salt. I shall, nevertheless, risk the consequences, and commence making the arrangements necessary to be made, and continue so doing until advised to the contrary. Houses for the reception of the com and salt must be prepared, which, I presume, will be done under your direction, at the expense of the United States. You will oblige me by stating whether my impressions are correct or not on that point. Should that be considered my duty, please let me know where they must be fixed. Very respectfully, your most obedient servant, BENJAMIN CHAIRES. Col. GAD HUMPHREYS, Agent Florida Indians. No. 20. Extract of a letter from His Excellency W. P. Duval, Governor of Florida, to the Honorable J. C. Calhoun, Secretary of War, dated TALLAHASSEE, October 2, 1824. The object of this letter is to explain to you my objects and views in relation to the removal of the Indians, as well as the reasons for their immediate payment, under the treaty, of such sums as can be paid with justice and propriety before their removal. You have long since been apprized that the Seminoles were very much dissatisfied with the treaty. I therefore deem it prudent, before their removal, to pay them for their improvements according to the treaty, valued as you have directed. I intend to call the Indians to St. Mark’s, and to pay them, and furnish as many rations at that point as will serve them on their march to the country assigned them. I have held out, as an inducement for the Indians to go in canoes by water, and thus provide for their own transportation, a certain sum of from five to ten dollars for each canoe they should make for this purpose, which should be paid by me to the individuals who made them, after the acting sub-agent should see these canoes, and report the size and number of them to me. I expect perhaps forty or fifty canoes will be ready in three weeks. I find it very difficult to purchase a horse of any kind here; and, as some must be had, 1 shall send a man to procure a few in Georgia. The stock cattle intended for the Indians south, will be driven there as soon as I can ascertain any contract has been made for them. The gunsmith (who should also be a blacksmith) I will procure, if the agent does not. The ploughs, hoes, axes, &c. will be sent to Tampa Bay, as soon after the removal of the Indians as a vessel can be had to transport them from Pensacola, where these articles have just arrived according to my order. The Ap- palachicola Indians, being stationary, ought to have their part of the $6,000 paid to them immediately, and, also, their share of the annuity. I have, therefore, made engagements to have them furnished with cattle and some sheep, as many of them now spin, and several of them weave; and also ploughs, &c., amounting to $800, which was the sum allowed to them out of the $6,000, and was much less than it should have been. Of the annuity, the Appalachicola Indians should be allowed $1,500 per year; for, on the reserves, there are 249 men, besides their women and children, and they are at least one-fourth of the whole population. Besides, these people will receive no benefit from the school, or the gun and blacksmith. I hope, therefore, as the power is with the President to say what proportion of annuity shall be given to them, that the facts above stated will have their due weight. You will see by the contract which I made with Mr. Chaires for the delivery of the rations, that he was to issue only for ten months at Tampa Bay: my reason for this was, that, by furnishing the Indians in this quarter with rations, it would induce them to sell out their crops, and add to the inducements for them to remove; besides, the ration is furnished by Captain Crupper one cent cheaper than those furnished by Mr. Chaires. This step, I feel confident, was as judicious as prudent, and I daily see the effects anticipated. I have not, as yet, paid Captain Crupper, who has furnished all the rations at St. Mark’s up to this time, one cent. On referring to your letter of the 20th of last April, you acknowledge the receipt of my letter of the 25th March, enclosing the estimate of expenses on account of Indian affairs under my superintendency, for the first two quarters of the present year, which you say is admitted. I have sent to New Orleans for the money mentioned in your last letter, intended for the objects mentioned therein, and amounting altogether to $13,500. This was absolutely necessary, as paper money will not be received by the Indians, and the silver could not be had short of New Orleans. The moment I receive the specie,.it shall be paid over to the Indians, and they forthwith shall march to their future residence. This will be about the last of this month. You may rest perfectly satisfied that the appropriation, under no state of things, shall be exceeded; but every attention shall be given to the reduction of the expenses, consistent with justice and good faith to the Indians. 79 E No. 21. From the Secretary of War to Governor Duval. SIR:	.	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, October 8, 1824. I have received your letter from Tallahassee of the 31st of August last. It would have been better if Mr. Chaires, the contractor, and yourself, had agreed definitively upon the price of the ration, instead of referring it to the decision of the Department. You have, however, so unequivocally expressed your recommendation that an increase upon the delivery at St. John’s river, to fourteen cents, be allowed; and the offer by General Clarke being for that price, and no person having offered for less, I have concluded to approve of your recommendation to allow fourteen cents the ration, for the number which may be delivered under the contract at St John’s, deducting the one-twentieth part of a cent, according to Mr. Chaires’s own offer. The delivery at Tampa Bay and St. Mark’s will be at the contract price, to wit, eleven and a half cents per ration. You will forward to the Department the original contract, certifying to the solvency of the securities, and retaining for yourself a copy. I received two letters from you, each dated the 12th July. In one, you say “ you will appoint a disinterested and suitable person to ascertain the value of the improvements that may be abandoned by the Indians, &c.;” in the other, you “ should be much pleased if Colonel Gadsden would value the improvements under the treaty. He could do better than any one I can obtain, and would give more satisfaction to the Indians, &c.” On this recommendation, I accordingly appointed Colonel Gadsden, as per letter of instructions and commission forwarded to him through you, as per my letter bearing date the 11th ultimo. I have no objection, however, to your appointment of Mr. Bellamy, provided you can make the proper arrangements with Colonel Gadsden; in which case, the allowance, to Mr. Bellamy will be the same as that proposed to be made to Colonel Gadsden. Your instructions under your letter of appointment are approved. I have issued requisitions in your favor, under the several heads of appropriation to carry into effect the treaty with the Florida Indians, for $26,105 50; $12,604 50 of which being on account of the expense of rations. On the receipt of your quarterly estimates, further remittance will be made, according to the information conveyed in my letter of the 11th ultimo. The remittance for Indian improvements will be made when the report of the commissioner is received and approved. All remittances on account of the Indian Department are required to be made on estimates of the superintendent. You will attend to this in future. I have issued my requisition in your favor, on account of expenses of your superintendency, for $2,000, to be accounted for in your returns. 1 have the honor, &c. To His Excellency WILLIAM P. DUVAL, Tallahassee.	J. C. CALHOUN. No. 22. Extract of a letter from Governor William P. Duval to the Secretary of War, dated at TALLAHASSEE, October 26, 1824. The requisition for $13,500, mentioned in your letter of [11th ultimo,] and the draft for the same on the Branch Bank of the United States at New Orleans, were received, and duly acknowledged. I had long since applied to Colonel James Gadsden to value the Indian improvements; but the death of his venerable father, and his private affairs, induced him to decline acting. I therefore appointed John Bellamy, Esq., . a gentleman of known reputation and standing, who has performed this disagreeable duty. The difficulty of reconciling the Indians to the late treaty, and to restrain them from outrage, has not been inconsiderable; but to persuade and threaten them into a peaceable removal from this truly delightful country required the exercise of uncommon patience, time, and prudence. I now believe, confidently, they will go without force, but evidently with reluctance. I hesitate not to aver that, even now, were I to leave this country, not one would move. When it is recollected that the Florida Indians never were controlled until the United States took possession of this country, and that, even since, they have not, for the greater part of the time, had either an agent or sub-agent with them to inform and reduce them to order, it must be obvious that my duties have been as arduous as they are unpleasant. Many of the Indians speak of joining the Creek nation; and my opinion is, that several hundred will go north. I have not dissuaded them from this step, or encouraged them to leave the Territory. That portion of the annuity which is to be distributed among the Indians who are to remove south, to the lands allotted to them under the treaty, will not be given to them until their removal. This will be an inducement to hasten their march, as they are informed by me that, until they are located, no such distribution will be made. I consider it would, however, be just and proper to pay them for their improvements on the eve of their departure. These people are extremely poor—more so than any Indians in all the southern country. The money distributed to them for their improvements will furnish them with blankets, and such things as will render them comfortable, in some degree, on their march, and will give them a stronger desire to share the annuity. I have, therefore, sent to New Orleans for the specie, to meet thijs object, and to provide them transportation, (for they will not receive any paper money,) and it is expected in eight or ten days. In my letter of the 2d day of October last, the reasons were assigned for my not contracting for the delivery of rations at Tampa Bay for a longer period than ten months. The Indians, by receiving rations at St. Mark’s, have been induced to sell their crops, and, whenever the issues are stopped, they will be compelled to remove. The commission and instructions to Colonel Gadsden are received, as well as the drafts for $12,650 50; $5,000 payable at Charleston, and $7,650 50 at New Orleans. -	, The certified returns of the rations that have been, and will be, delivered at St. Mark’s, will, as soon as the final meeting with the Indians is over, be transmitted to you. I have, according to the power given to me by your letter of the 17th day of August last, appointed Owen Marsh, Esq. acting sub-agent for one year, from the 1st day of September last; and he immediately entered on the duties of his office, and has continued to act much to my satisfaction. . I have but lately returned from the Appalachicola river, where I was compelled to attend to receive some stock, cattle, and sheep, for the Indians residing there; and on the 10th of November next the residue of the stock will be delivered to them: for all that I contracted for were not delivered on the 15th of this month, as I had expected. These Indians are more civilized than any others in Florida. The sheep were purchased at their own solicita- . tion, in lieu of hogs, of which they have large stocks. The houses and fields of these people are equal to the best of the improvements among the white people in this section of Florida. While writing this letter, I received one from Colonel Gadsden, in which he informs me that he has resigned his seat in our council, and would not be in this quarter shortly, as he intended to complete the survey of the land allotted south to the Indians. I therefore took the liberty *of opening your letters of instruction to him, relating to the valuation of the Indian improvements, and find that my instructions to Mr. Bellamy differed from yours so far only as the naming of the individuals that are to receive compensation. I directed the valuation to be made of each town. I was influenced in giving this direction, by knowing that many of the southern Indians have no name. The chiefs are named, but common men, generally, must perform some serviceable act before they receive any name. It is, with them, a mark of honor: hence it will be impossible, in many instances, to obtain the name of the Indians. I intend to pay them off by towns, and will require each chief of a town to sign the receipt for the money paid to the Indians of his town for improvements: this is the only way that this business can be satisfactorily performed. After the number of houses and the improvements are ascertained and valued, the chiefs can then point'out the men who are entitled to compensation, so that he cannot impose on me mure than the number I have had valued; and it will be to his interest to give satisfaction to those men who are alone entitled to compensation, by personally calling them up before all the town to receive payment. No. 23. I From Governor Duval to the Secretary of War. TALLAHASSEE, November 2, 1824. I have been obliged to hire an express to carry some instructions to St. Augustine and Hamley’s old store relative to the issue of rations on the St. John’s river to the Indians, and send by the same conveyance my several communications herewith enclosed. Not having received any report from the agent of his return to Florida, and understanding that he is confined in New York by ill health, I have appointed Samuel Garey, Esq., of St. Augustine, to attend at Hamley’s old store, on St. John’s river, to the issue of rations to the emigrant Indians who may be most convenient to that point. I send you a copy of my letter and instructions to Mr. Garey. I hope in a few days to have all the Indians on their march south, who intend to go in that quarter. I am, most respectfully, your obedient servant, WILLIAM P. DUVAL. Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. [Accompanying No. 23.] From Governor Duval to Samuel Garey. SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, November 2, 1824. Having understood that the agent of Indian affairs for the Territory of Florida is confined by sickness in the State of New York, and it being uncertain when the state of his health will permit him to return, I have therefore determined to obtain your services to superintend the issue of rations at Hamley’s old store, on the St. John’s river. I enclose to you an extract of a copy of a letter from the Secretary of War, to which I beg leave to call your particular attention.	. You will be able to procure the forms mentioned in his letter by application to the proper officer now stationed at St. Augustine, and the utmost exactness and attention in making out your returns will be required. In addition, I also transmit you instructions intended for your government in the discharge of your duties, as also for the acting sub-agent at Tampa Bay; and it will be proper for you to communicate with him frequently, which you may, no doubt, readily do through Mr. Chaires, who will be often passing between the two places. Your compensation is not fixed; and all I can say at present on the subject is, that no doubt is entertained but that the Secretary of War will allow you what is reasonable. He will be immediately made acquainted with your appointment. I hope that nothing on your part will be wanting to give satisfaction to the War Department and to the Indians concerned. I am, respectfully, &c.	• WILLIAM P. DUVAL. SAMUEL GAREY, Esq. If you accept, and will discharge the duties required, you must not lose a day in repairing to your station on the St. John’s river, at Hamley’s old store.	W. P. D. [Accompanying No. 23.] I Instructions to regulate the issues of rations at Tampa Bay and Hamley's old store, on the St. John's river. 1st. You are to issue no rations to any but toemigrant Indians, and those only who have removed and continue to reside within their boundary. Children are to have only half rations. 2d. According to the instructions herewith enclosed to you from the Secretary of War, you will keep a regular roll of all the emigrant Indians, according to the form used in the army, which you will certify once in two months, and deliver them over to Mr. Chaires, taking care to keep duplicate copies, (at least two,) which at different times you will transmit to me, or the acting Governor in my absence. The utmost care must be taken to prevent any Indian from drawing more than his rations, and never issue but to those who are present, unless the chief of the town himself attends; in that ease, you will then issue for the number of his town. But, in all eases, you must first ascertain the number of each town or tribe; and you will direct them al! to attend at once, so that you may count them yourself, and prevent fraud or imposition. You are, under no pretence whatever, to issue more than four hundred rations daily at Hamley’s old store, on the St. John’s river, and six hundred rations daily at Tampa Bay. At the first place, the rations will issue for twelve months from the IOth day of October last. At Tampa Bay, the rations will issue on the same day, but continue only ten months. 3d. If less rations should daily issue at either place than are contracted for, and more should be required at the other, the supernumerary Indians at one point should be sent to draw rations at the other. After understanding what, number draw rations, if in the whole they exceed 1,000, I must be informed as early as practicable of the number who are justly entitled to draw. . 4th. As the rations have been due at both points since the 10th of October, 1824, the back rations will supply all the Indians who may be entitled to draw for a considerable time, even if there should be 1,500. It will be prudent not to issue all the back rations until you can ascertain the whole number who claim rations at each point of deposite; and, according to circumstances, you will act as may seem best in the distribution of these back rations. 5th. Whenever you ascertain the whole number of any town or tribe entitled to draw rations, you will issue to the town so much beef, on foot, as they will receive of their rations, not exceeding sixty days, if they will take it; and as much salt, and corn, or flour; but the Indians must not be forced to receive more of either at one time than they are willing to take, and never more than sixty days’ rations must be issued at any one time, and no more should then be issued until the expiration of the sixty days. These people are so careless and improvident, that it will be improper to make any issues for more than sixty days, and none must be allowed for a longer period. In order to ascertain the weight of the beef, you will kill one of the smallest and one of the largest, and take the average weight. it will not answer to keep the Indians on the ground to draw their rations daily; for they would, in that event, make no fields, and their idle habits would be too much encouraged and confirmed. With the contractor, Mr. Chaires, you may make any arrangement as to the issues, not inconsistent with these instructions or his contract; and if, by experience, any change for the mutual benefit of all parties can be made, you will, from time to time, inform me or the agent, Colonel Humphreys, so that he may in his discretion act as he may think prudent. You are not to permit any spirituous liquors to be sold at the place where the rations are issued; and it will be considered as a part of your duty strictly to guard against the sale of liquors to the Indians in your vicinity, and, where the law is violated, to inform the agent of the facts. WILLIAM P. DUVAL. No. 24. From the Secretary of War to Governor Duval. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 3, 1824. Your two letters of the 1st and 2d. of October last, together .with an extract from yours of the 16th May to Colonel Humphreys, the agent, authorizing him, in his discretion, to contract for stock cattle, and to advance, if necessary, on account thereof, a sum not exceeding $3,000, together with copies of correspondence between you and Colonel Humphreys and Major Chaires, are received. I am satisfied that, in authorizing Colonel Humphreys to make the advance above referred to, you consulted the public interests; and I would have no hesitation in approving it, were it not that the act of Congress, approved 31st January, 1823, provides that “ no advance of public money shall be made in any case whatever,” which puts it wholly out of my power to sanction it. The adjustment of this advance, therefore, will be an affair between yourself and the agent, in which I take for granted there will be no difficulty. You will receive a credit for it when your accounts show that the cattle fur which this sum was paid have been delivered. I have directed the agent to report himself forthwith to you. Confiding in your discretion, and in compliance with your request, I have issued a requisition in your favor for $4,500, the amount appropriated to pay for the improvements which the Indians may abandon. You will be particular in its application, upon the returns of the commissioner appointed to value the improvements. Your plan of providing canoes for the transportation of the Indians appears judicious. It is, no doubt, more convenient than would be the cost of horses. It is approved. You will apportion the annuity among the Indians according to their numbers, giving to the Appalachicolas whatever may, upon this basis, fall to their share. Since the remittance of the 17th August of $13,500, I have issued a requisition, on the 11th September, for $12,605 50, of which you were informed, and which has, I presume, been transmitted by the Treasurer: thus anticipating your demand for funds for the expenses of the Indian Department, and for other purposes. I have this moment received your letters of 26th October and 2d of November, together with the estimates for rations for the first and second quarters. Your appointment of Mr. Bellamy to value the property, and that of Mr. Garey to issue the rations in the absence of the agent, are approved; and you will pay Mr. Garey at the rate of $500 per annum (the salary of a sub-agent) during the time for which he may be employed, and enter it as an item in the expense of issuing the rations. Your report of your proceedings, so far, is satisfactory. I am, &c. JOHN C. CALHOUN. His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL, Pensacola. •	No. 25. From Thomas L. McKenney to Governor Duval. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE INDIAN AFFAIRS, January 28, 1825. I have the honor to inform you that a requisition was issued in your favor on the 3d instant for $7,000, which, it is presumed, has been remitted to you from the Treasury. Of this sum, $5,000 is to be applied to the payment of the annuity to the Florida Indians, and $2,000 to carry into effect the provision of the treaty relative to a school and a gunsmith for the present year. The press of business in the office has prevented you from being earlier apprized of the remittance. I have the honor, &c. THOMAS L. McKENNEY. To His Excellency WILLIAM P. DUVAL, Tallahassee. No. 26. From Governor Duval tn the Secretary of War. SIR:	' WASHINGTON CITY, February 11, 1825. I have the honor to lay before you a letter from Benjamin Chaires, Esq., a gentleman of reputation and intelligence, residing in Florida, describing the country laid off for the concentration of the Florida Indians. I feel considerable interest for these unfortunate people; and, from the best informatinn that I can obtain, I do.believe they have not good land sufficient to support them. I hope the President will alter the northern line of the Indian boundary, so far as to give them the Big Swamp, near which the present line passes. This alteration will give entire satisfaction to the Indians, and justice and humanity require they should possess it. I have informed the chiefs that they might repose with confidence on the justice of the Government. It was this assurance that reconciled them to the treaty. I have the honor, <fcc.	WM. P. DUVAL. . Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary oft War. [Accompanying No. 26.] Benjamin Chaires to Governor Duval. SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, January 13, 1825. Having been called on to state my views of the country laid out for the future residence of the Florida Indians, I can only say that my knowledge of the country from observation is limited, having only travelled through it two or three times; but, sir, so far as I have seen it, it is the poorest part of Florida, and a large portion of it generally inundated. There are interspersed through the country small light sandy hammocks, which will bear cultivation a few years; but I know of no one spot of good land sufficiently large for one of the several tribes or towns of Indians. My opinion is therefore clear that the said Indians cannot possibly subsist on their present location, and that an extension of the line so far as to include the Big Swamp, (which is a hammock, containing about five or six thousand acres of pretty good land,) ought to be granted to them, which is all that is asked by them, so far as I have heard. I am, very respectfully, &c.	BEN. CHAIRES. His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL. No. 27. From T. L. McKenney to Governor Duval. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, February 25, 1825. I have the honor of enclosing, herewith, a copy of the President’s approval of the extension of the northern boundary line, as defined in the Florida treaty, and as recommended by you. You can now direct Colonel Humphreys, the agent, in regard to a selection of a location for his agency, about which it appears (nwing to a want of a salubrious spot within the hitherto ceded limits) he found some difficulty. I have the honor, &c. THOMAS L. McKENNEY. To His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL. No. 28. SIR:	EXECUTIVE OFFICE, TERRITORY OF FLORIDA, TALLAHASSEE, May 26, 1825. I regret to be compelled to report that a murder has been committed by a Semioole Indian on the person of a Mr. Swearingen, and that, owing to causes beyond my control as superintendent, some depredations have been committed by the Indians on the property of the whites residing in their immediate vicinity. No time was lost io calling the attention of the agent to the subject, and requiring the aid of the military force at Tampa Bay; which measures, 1 trust, will put a speedy end to these irregularities, and restore tranquillity to the settlements on the Indian boundary. I am by no means of the opinion that these depredations, or even the murder, have been committed with the remotest idea of settled hostilities, but that they have arisen from causes inseparable from the difficulty which must always be met with in transferring a nation of Indians from one location to another, especially when such change is more one of necessity than of choice, and that, too, leaving a country highly desirable, from its situation, for lands where they have ever declared they could not live. There are no people more attached to their native soil than Indians, or who are more averse to emigration, even under the most favorable and advantageous circumstances fur them. These causes have operated so forcibly, that one hundred and twenty Indians are yet reported to be west of the Suwanee river. It has now become indispensably necessary to request your attention to the subject of subsisting these Indians; for, unless some provision be speedily made for that object, they must inevitably be plunged into the most deplorable condition, both from their new location and their well known improvident character. In a state of starvation, they will be driven to commit acts of depredation highly injurious to the interests of the Territory, which ought to be provided against by all means in our power; besides, humanity, as well as a sense of justice, dictates that their women and children should not be left to perish. The issues on the St. John’s, in Tampa Bay, and on the Appalachicola, (including the Indians not yet within their boundaries,) have been, hitherto, 1,800 rations per day. Having positive instructions not to exceed the appropriation, on any account whatever, I have been compelled to restrict the issues in future at St. John’s and Tampa Bay to 1,000 rations, and on the Appalachicola to 150 rations per day, affording to the emigrant Indians, for the rest of the year specified in the treaty and the contract, not quite half rations; which, however, will be somewhat augmented in quantity by the distribution of the back rations on hand at the St. John’s, for October and November, agreeably to my orders. I have, however, directed that no more back rations be given to Indians coming within the limits, but that they shall receive rations from the time they arrive, up to the date the contract terminates; although I believe that they are justly entitled to their year’s subsistence, let them apply when they may. I am perfectly aware of the difficulties and distress which must ensue upon this order; but I am constrained to this course from the knowledge that even these issues will exhaust the appropriation. The issues on the St John’s cease on the 10th October; at Tampa Bay, on the 10th August; and on the Appalachicola river, on the 30tb June: after which dates the emigrant Indians have,no possible means of obtaining subsistence but through the bounty of the United States, until the crops come in. But even that resource must fail these Indians, as they cannot have, as yet, cleared and planted new land; consequently, they will be equally dependant for the next year’s support as they are during the present. I request that you will be pleased to take this subject into consideration, in all its bearings, and instruct me as to the course proper to be adopted. I will, however, take the liberty to suggest (if it can be done) that funds be placed in my hands, with authority to cause to be furnished, from time to time, at convenient places, such supplies uf provisions as are found to be necessary, after the contract now in existence shall have been completed. I suggest this mode, because the contractor or agent will be more immediately under my control, and the issues will be confined to the quantity absolutely neces sary. I have found, by experience, that the contract system for issuing regular rations to Indians cannot be relied on, and is productive of great inconvenience to them. It has been thus far attended with continual causes of dissatisfaction and complaint. The orders in relation to runaway negro slaves residing in the nation, the order for the extension of the Indian boundary line, and the order in relation to persons selling spirituous liquors to Indians, have been attended to. Receipts for the funds transmitted to me have been regularly forwarded. My accounts and vouchers for disbursements in the Indian Department will be duly forwarded on the 30th June, by which date there will be a balance on ' hand equal to the payment of the debts which will then be due. I enclose, herewith, documents numbered from 1 to 11, to which I beg leave to refer you, as being connected with the discharge of my duty as superintendent, and the subjects spoken of in this communication. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE WALTON. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War.	. (No. 1.) [Accompaniment to No. 28.] OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF INDIAN AFFAIRS FOR FLORIDA, SIR:	•	TALLAHASSEE, February 24, 1825. It has been reported to me that the emigrating Indiàns are still in Alachua, and at the Natural Bridge of St. Fe, committing depredations upon the property of the citizens. There are some of them located upon the east side of the Ansilla. You will forthwith send out runners, and take other measures to have them assembled within their proper territorial limits, from whence they must not be allowed to roam through the country at pleasure, giving constant cause of dissatisfaction and complaint. It is expected that every party of Indians leaving their towns to enter the territory of the white inhabitants will have a written pass or order from you or the sub-agent. The Indians themselves complain that they are put to great inconvenience by reason of the distance they are compelled to go after their rations on the St. John’s river, insomuch that it is almost impossible for them to obtain them. When the contract was entered into, it was believed that a proper point had been designated for the delivery of these rations. You are required to give immediate attention, personally, to this subject; and, if the rations be not delivered according to the contract, notify the contractor forthwith that none will be received, excepting at the proper places, for which he will be held strictly responsible on bis bond. Touching these matters, you will make special reports to me in writing as soon as possible, addressed to me at this place. I am, respectfullv, your obedient servant, GEORGE WALTON. Colonel G. HUMPHREYS, Agent of Indian Affairs for Florida. (No. 2.) [Accompaniment to No. 28.] SIR:	,	FLORIDA AGENCY, April 6, 1825. - I regret to be obliged to report that a murder in the neighborhood of Hamley’s old store, on St. John’s, has recently been committed upon a white man by an Indian living near the Okelawaba river. The cause which led to the outrage, or whether there was any provocation, I have not yet learned, though there is much reason to believe that the deed was wanton and unprovoked. On being informed of the offence, I sent for some of the principal chiefs, who promptly attended, and declared their unqualified disapprobation of the act. Indeed, so exasperated were they by it, particularly the emigrants who have settled on the Big Swamp, that much difficulty was experienced in restraining them, and preventing the infliction of summary justice, according to the Indian mode. But as the murderer is of the Seminole tribe, between which and the tribes from the west there unfortunately does not appear to exist a perfect cordiality, I deemed it advisable, in order to harmonize, and check, if possible, an increase of unkindly feelings, to stop proceedings in the matter, until measures could be entered into to bring the different tribes to act in concert. The occasion (though a melancholy one) seemed favorable for commencing a union among them, so essential to their welfare and the interest of the United States; and I accordingly detained some of the headmen from the west, and sent for Miconopy and Juniper, who were understood to be absent in the first instance, but who, it was said, had now returned from the hunting grounds. Jumper was still out, and Miconopy confined to his lodge by severe sickness; of course, neither attended. Under these circumstances, I concluded to send Tuskehenaha (whom you know) to Miconopy, to ascertain his sentiments in relation to the murder, and whether he was disposed to join in bringing the perpetrator to justice. His conduct upon the occasion (as reported to me by Tuskehenaha) was correct, and such as I had a right to expect. He said the murderer deserved death by their own laws; and, although he was unable to go himself to aid in carrying the law into execution, he should give his voice in favor of immediate punishment, and would sanction whatever the other chiefs thought it right to do. And it was resolved by the chiefs that the offender should expiate his offence by death; and a party, headed by Tuskehenaha, proceeded to enforce the sentence. At the request of the Indians, I sent a young man named Breeton (who has been some time employed by me to herd the public cattle) as a witness; they desired this, (they said,) in order to satisfy the whites, some of whom might otherwise doubt them. I strongly urged that the murderer should be given up, to be tried by the laws of the white people; but to this the Indians as strongly objected, as being contrary to their custom: they never attempted to take a murderer alive; it would be attended with danger, and might cause the death of one or more of their party; and, on the whole, although I should have been willing to see them pursue a course more in consonance with the received notions of civilization, yet I could not believe it to be a point of sufficient importance to authorize me to press it, at the risk of a total failure of justice. I therefore told them to pursue their own method. The party went, but did not entirely succeed, though there is reason to believe the object in view was in part effected; the fugitive was seen and fired on, but succeeded in reaching a deep swamp, wounded, as was evident front the blood found where he ran. I was yesterday informed, likewise, that all search of the friends of the fugitive (which has been constant since the day he was fired on) has proved unavailing; and the conjecture is, that, in attempting tn swim the Okelawaha, (which is now very full,) in his wounded condition, he has been drowned; and such is probably the fact. I have conceived it a duty to be thus explicit in stating what I know of this unpleasant affair, in order to correct the erroneous impression which unwarranted and unauthenticated statements that may be made in relation to it might otherwise produce; and that the fact may be known that there does not exist any thing like a national feeling, on the part of the Indians, justifying this outrage, but that a general sentiment of a decidedly opposite character prevails. I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, &c. G. HUMPHREYS, Agent for Florida Indians. GEORGE WALTON, Esq., Acting Governor of Florida. P.	S. I have this moment received information that the body of Mr. Swearingen’s murderer has been found in the swamp to which he fled when fired upon; and, from circumstances detailed to me, I can entertain no doubt of his death. G. H. (No. 3.) [Accompaniment to No. 28.] OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF INDIAN AFFAIRS FOR FLORIDA, SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, April 14, 1825. I had occasion to address you on the 24th of February last on the subject of having immediately removed within their limits the Indians in Alachua and west of the Suwanee, who were committing depredations on the property of the inhabitants. I have just received information, to be relied on, that the Indians have committed a murder in Alachua, and are destroying the prdperty of the inhabitants and threatening their lives; preventing the surveyors of the United States from the execution of their duty, and destroying their landmarks. I had hoped you would have taken efficient measures, on the receipt of my letter above alluded to, and have had the Indians concentrated and regularly supplied with rations; but I am informed they are literally starving, and say that there are no rations to furnish them. That such a state of things exists, is painful in the extreme, and requires measures on your part of the most prompt and efficient character, to effect their concentration, and relieve the inhabitants of this Territory from-such painful apprehensions. I have written to Colonel Brooke on the subject of furnishing you with such aid as may, uuder any circumstances, secure the accomplishment of this desirable object. The_inhabitants must be protected; and your situation as agent, with the means which Colonel Brooke will furnish, if necessary, renders it imperious on your part to secure them that protection from the Indians. I expect that you will not lose one moment in restoring order, and having the guilty apprehended, who have committed this murder and otherwise depredated on the inhabitants.	• The preservation of the lives of these people will only be effected by teaching them a proper obedience and submission to the authorities placed over them; and, unless this is done, they will continue to outrage the settlème.nts, until their doom will be sealed by extermination. Enclosed you have a copy of the President’s approval of the extension of the Indian limits, which will be satisfactory to them, and enable you to select a spot for the location of the agency the most desirable. You will acknowledge the receipt of this communication on its reaching you, and accompany a report of all and every circumstance relating to these subjects, that have come to your knowledge, together with such measures as you may have adopted, or contemplate adopting, to relieve the Territory from such embarrassing and niuch-to-be- lamented circumstances. I am, with the highest respect, your obedient servant, GEORGE WALTON. To Colonel G. HUMPHREYS, Indian Agent. (No. 4.) [Accompaniment to No. 28.] ,	EXECUTIVE OFFICE, TERRITORY OF FLORIDA, SIR: '	TALLAHASSEE, April 14, 1825. Information of a painful nature has been received from Alachua, purporting that the Seminole Indians have murdered a man by the name of Swearingen, and threatened the lives of other citizens, and are daily committing depredations on the stock of the inhabitants, and preventing the United States’ surveyors from executing their duties, and destroying their landmarks. I had contemplated that a concentration of this tribe within the limits assigned them would have been effected long since; but it seems that many are still west of the Suwanee, and others in Alachua. The Department of War authorized the Executive of this Territory to use the troops stationed at St. Mark’s for the effectual removal of the Indians to their limits under the treaty; but it was believed it could be effected without their aid. They have subsequently been removed; and, were they here, the distance is too great to where the Indians are, to have them employed in this duty. I have this day communicated to Colonel Humphreys, Indian agent, requiring the immediate and effectual concentration of these Indians within their limits, and informed him that I should request you to furnish, if necessary, a force sufficient to accomplish that object, and relieve the inhabitants of this Territory from the painful apprehensions under which they at present labor. The citizens of the Territory must be efficiently protected; and 1 therefore call on you, in the exercise of your military command, to aid the agent to bring to punishment the perpetrators of the murder of Mr. Swearingen, together with others who have threatened the lives and destroyed the property of our citizens, by a detachment of United States troops competent to that end, and to effect their immediate removal within the boundary assigned them, which has been enlarged recently by the President of the United States. ■	I have the honor to be, &c. To Colonel G. M. BROOKE,	GEORGE WALTON. Commanding United States troops at Cantonment Clinch. (No. 5.) [Accompaniment to No. 28.] SIR:	AGENCY, May 1, 1825. At your request, I give a statement of what I know with regard to the suffering condition of the Indians, as stated in the report of the United States surveyor, which you have recently received from the superintendent at Tallahassee. About the 1st of March, I issued to the Indians, at Hamley’s old store, on the St. John’s river, between six and seven hundred bushels, [of corn,] which, in conjunction with former issues, amounted to upwards of .forty thousand rations that had been issued to the emigrant Indians after their arrival to that period; and there never has been a period, since November last, (at which time I arrived at Hamley’s, to superintend the issues,) that there has not been a sufficiency of corn of good quality on hand, and which has been as regularly issued, when applied for by those entitled to draw, (with the exception of three or four weeks in March and April, which was occasioned by the loss of two cargoes at sea destined for supplies;) but even those losses very slightly affected the issues I was instructed to make. The sickness and mortality adverted to by the above report is not attributed to the right cause; but, from a conversation I had with Hicks, one of the principal chiefs of the Mickasuky town, in February, I am induced to believe it was owing to the irregularity of their young women previous to their emigrating, as Hicks and Tuskehenaha both told me several of them had died on their journey to the Big Swamp. Respectfully, your humble servant, »	t SAMUEL Y. GAREY. Colonel HUMPHREYS. (No. 6.) [Accompaniment to No. 28.] SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, May 13, 1825. I have the honor to enclose, herewith, my account of disbursements during the quarter ending the ,31st of March, and also the abstracts of Mr. Marsh and Mr. Garey, of the issues of provisions made at their respective posts. Descriptive rolls are likewise sent, by which it will be seen that the number of Indians who have received and are entitled to rations greatly exceeds the calculation heretofore made upon that subject. I was aware that there would be an excess, but was unable to determine how great, until I received the descriptive roll above mentioned; for which reason, an earlier report has not been made. Independently of the number borne on the rolls, there is one entire town (Chefirsico’s) to be included, for which, probably, about one hundred and twenty daily rations will be required. I take the liberty of suggesting the propriety of having all the surplus rations delivered at the issuing store on St. John’s, as being much the most convenient point for those who are to receive them; and I am informed that the contractor is willing to deliver them there at the same price which he is allowed at Tampa Bay, reserving to himself, however, the right to make a question of equity whether he is not entitled to receive, for a fair proportion of the extra rations, the St. John’s price. , I am, &c. G. HUMPHREYS, Agent Florida Indians. GEORGE WALTON, Esq. Acting Governor of Florida, Tallahassee. (Na. 7.) [Accompaniment to No. 28.] STR:	TALLAHASSEE, May 14, 1825. Your letters of the 14th and 17th of April, by the hands of Tennelle, I had the honor to receive about* the 1st instant, as I was on the point of commencing my journey hither to see you, partly in relation to the matters of which your letters treat, and also in regard to others connected with my agency; and, as there appeared nu necessity for postponing the journey, but, on the contrary, additional reasons for prosecuting it, I concluded to defer answering your communications until my arrival here. You state in your letter of the 14th April that you had occasion to address me on the 24th of February' last, on the subject of having immediately removed the Indians in Alachua and west of the Suwanee, who were com- emitting depredations on the property of the inhabitants. Your letter, from causes to me unknown, did nut reach me; its failure, however, if I am fully apprized of its contents, has not been the cause of public injury. I was sufficiently aware of my duty, as respects the removal and concentration of the Indians within the limits of the territory reserved by them, to know that it was obligatory on me to make use of all the means placed within my reach to effect this desirable object with the utmost practicable despatch; and, under this conviction, my efforts have been steady and unceasing. That they have fallen short of entire success, is true, and to be regretted; but I venture to aver, that there cannot, in consequence, be any censure fairly applicable to me; nor does it, indeed, appear to me that blame can be attached to any one. The inconveniences (greatly exaggerated by reports, various and extravagant, according to the fears or dispositions of the reporters,) that the inhabitants of the country through which the Indians had to pass have been subjected to, were, in a great degree, unavoidable, and inseparable from the removal of the Indians; with them, as with all other people, the vicious and unprincipled amongst them are only restrained in their evil propensities by the law, and the fear of a summary and prompt enforcement of its penalties; a restraint which must necessarily, in a measure, cease to operate during their march, detached as they were, for convenience, in small parties, sometimes without a chief to govern or control them. These considerations, it is true, do not present a justification of the Indians for any depredations they have committed; neither do they furnish to the inhabitants any remuneration for the losses they have sustained; but they would seem to offer a reason why unnecessary clamor upon the subject should not be raised, and unwarrantable aspersions thrown upon the Government and its officers. That the inhabitants of Alachua have, in some instances, suffered by the Indians in their, property, particularly their cattle, there is little reason to doubt; and, in one or two cases, it is said, that menace has been offered, but evidently to create alarm, without intention to injure; and it is a fact, to be lamented,, but cannot be denied, that, in the latter procedure, they have the authority of example from the whites. But one instance of outrage was ever reported to me by the injured party, (and that by R. Charles, Esq.) until my arrival at Alachua, about the first of the present month, which place I visited for the settlement of his difficulty with the Indians, which was easily effected. On this occasion, I heard that depredations had been committed upon the stock of several of the settlers, but heard no complaint from the inhabitants themselves, who were said to be the losers; and I venture to predict that, upon investigation, the loudest complaints will be found to have come from those who have either not suffered at all, or but slightly. Of the motive of the authors, I have nothing to say. Of the murder of Mr. Swearingen I was not informed by any white person, until long after it had been communicated to me by Hicks, and the murderer pursued. For a report of the steps adopted in relation to that affair, I refer you to my letter of the 6th of April, herewith sent, prepared at the time of its date, but withheld, in consequence of my determination to see you in person, which, on many accounts, appeared absolutely necessary. With regard to the failure of the supplies for the Indians, I take the liberty to refer you to a communication from Mr. Garey, the issuing officer on St. John’s, as containing the information on that subject most entitled to be relied upon. From his letter, it appears that a deficiency of rations existed during a part of the months of March and April; but this deficiency was occasioned, in part, as he stated to me verbally, by his having been compelled to issue at his post more than double the number of rations provided for and contemplated in his first instructions: this became indispensable. The Indians wholly declined going to Tampa Bay, at which place, it is proper to state, there was an adequate supply of flour, which they were repeatedly told would be issued to them, on application to Mr. Marsh, the sub-agent. Their objections to that point of delivery were strong and reasonable; the distance is so great for those residing upon the Big Swamp, and the road so excessively bad, that the small loads which they would only be able to start with, would be nearly, if not entirely consumed, before they could reach home; and thus their whole time would be taken up in transporting rations for present use, and no provision made for future subsistence. Under the present arrangement, by which they get their corn in two or three days’ journey, they have leisure for other purposes, and have made considerable progress in opening fields at their positions, where they will this year make crops; though so small, that there is reason to fear the yield will fall short of furnishing a sufficiency for their support. The importance, however, of their diligent exertions in planting, and providing for future wants, has been repeatedly and fully urged upon their consideration. That a portion of the emigrants have not, at one time since their removal, been fully supplied with provisions, Mr. Garey’s letter evidences; but had they been in that extreme distress, that state of want which is represented, it is fair to presume they would not have neglected the certain and entire relief which they knew awaited them at Tampa. The truth is, that, as it relates to provisions, the condition of the emigrants is infinitely preferable to that of the old settlers; amongst the latter, there is not, at this time, in one family in ten, a kernel of corn to be found; and it is a fact well known to those who have been much with them, that, from about the first of April of each year, until the coming in of green corn, almost their sole dependance for the vegetable or bread portion of subsistence is upon eontee and briar root, with which their swamps and thick woods greatly abound. Had Mr. May (a copy of whose report you forwarded me) penetrated into the nation, he would have found that the Miekasuky people, distressed as he viewed them, were much better off than their neighbors, the old inhabitants. The troth is, that his imagination, aided by his sympathies, has largely magnified their distresses; and, taking it for granted, because he did not see profusion, that famine raged, where, in in truth, disease preyed, he reports that a large number had actually died of starvation. Had he taken much pains to arrive at the facts, he would have found that not a single death had occurred, which could, in any degree, be attributed to the cause he alleges; and that, on the contrary, the true cause of the mortality which prevailed was a venereal, said by the Indians to have been contracted at St. Mark’s, previous to their emigration. Upon the subject of the interruption which Mr. May reports he met with from the Indians, I can only say that his statement is, in its material points, positively contradicted by those of Hicks and other Indians who were examined after the receipt of your letter. Hicks asserts that he did not, at any time, refuse to give the letters which Mr. May had conveyance to me, but that he repeatedly offered to send a guide to conduct Mr. May to the agency, provided he would leave his party behind; and even Mr. May’s own letter admits that such an offer was made to him, but, as he says, when he was about to leave the country; and on this account (as it is presumed) he .declined it. It may with propriety be suggested that, had Mr. May felt any strong desire to prosecute his undertaking, he would have availed himself of Hicks’s tender (late as he states it was made) to have visited me, (which he could have done in a twenty miles’ ride,) sooner than abandon his job, however arduous and profitless he may have found it, upon slight or doubtful grounds. Had he delivered his letters, his difficulties would have been either wholly removed, or more fully confirmed: in the first case, he would have been enabled to proceed with his labors; and in the latter event, would have been furnished with a well-established reason for the abandonment of his enterprise. I take occasion hereto state, that, if Mr. May wishes to resume his surveys, he can do it with perfect safety, as it regards danger from the Indians; and if he deems it necessary for his more perfect security, he can be furnished with an Indian escort. Aside from the obstacles Mr. May says he has met with, I am apprized of no interruptions experienced by the surveyors from the Indians. Captain Stone, who is spoken of by Mr. May, I saw at Suwanee, on my way here; he mentioned having seen, recently, several small parties of Indians in his route, but said nothing of their having disturbed him; from which I am led to conclude Mr. May has not rightly understood him. I am of opinion that a speedy and entire removal within the lines of Chefixico, and the few straggling parties who yet neglect to remove, cannot be effected without the employment of force, as they have hitherto disregarded the repeated orders sent them upon the subject. It would have been very easy for the militia of the Alachua, (without bloodshed,) long ere this, to have driven in those east of Suwanee, had their colonel been disposed to undertake it. If I am correctly informed, the services of some of the inhabitants have been proffered to him for this duty. I sent out two chiefs the day before I left the agency: the one to Chefixico, who is reported to have halted at Suwanee Old Fields, and the other to scour the country about the Alachua settlements, with orders to say to all parties or individuals found without the boundaries, that, unless they forthwith proceeded within the lines, a military force would be sent to drive them in at the point of the bayonet, or destroy them. What effect this message will have, I cannot say; but, unless it produces the desired one, I conceive the employment cf force will be unavoidable. You have now before you, sir, as far as I am able to furnish it, a compliance with your instructions of the 14th ultimo. The report adverted to in your letter of the 17th of the same month came to hand; but the duplicate of your former communication, spoken of as accompanying it, did not reach me; and I am still without possessing a letter which I find I am injuriously supposed to have treated with neglect. Before closing, I take the liberty to suggest that a copy of Mr. Chaires’s contract, which I have not yet been furnished with, and instructions as to the course I am to pursue in the event of his non-performance and the failure of his supplies, might be useful guides to me in my future proceedings. It may not be out of place to state here, that the beef which has thus far been furnished has been averaged and received on foot, and issued in the same way: this course was adopted in relation to the first gang of cattle delivered by the contractor, inasmuch as no emigrants had arrived; so that, had I resorted to the method of killing and weighing, to ascertain the average, the Government must have sustained the loss of such as were killed, as they must have been thrown away. I therefore thought it better to pursue the other course, and accordingly appointed Mr. Garey, on the part of the United States, to make the average; the same course was subsequently pursued in relation to another drove, because it was found that the Indians decidedly preferred receiving the beef on the foot to having it killed. I should be glad to know if the arrangement meets your approbation, and whether it should be continued in future. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, G. HUMPHREYS, Agent Florida Indians. GEO. WALTON, Esq., Acting Governor, Sfc. of Florida. (No. 8.) [Accompaniment to No. 28.] OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, May 19, 1825. Your letters of the 13th and 14th instant are received. No rations can be issued^on the St. John’s river at a price exceeding the minimum rate fixed by the contract with Major Chaires, excepting the four hundred daily rations; but if he is willing to furnish them at that price, no objection can arise to receive them there, provided it is equally convenient with Tampa Bay for the Indians to receive them. No back rations will, in future, be allowed to emigrant Indians now out of the boundaries; and no more than one thousand rations per day are to be issued hereafter, on any account whatever, until further advised. In your future issues, however, you can distribute the back rations on hand for the first two months returned for, apportioning them properly among the Indians. You will return to the agency forthwith, as the present situation of the Indians and of the settlements in the vicinity requires immediate attention. Your accounts are returned approved. I am, respectfully, your obedient servant, GEO. WALTON. Col. G. HUMPHREYS, Acting Indian Agent for Florida. (No. 9.) [Accompaniment to No. 28.] SIR:	OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, May 20, 1825. The enclosed acts of Congress will govern you in suppressing the sale of spirituous liquors to Indians, and you are more particularly referred to the second article thereof. It is expected that your presence in the country will enable you to dispense with the services of Mr. Garey; he will, therefore, be discharged immediately after the issuing of provisions terminates, or sooner, if you find it to be practicable.	< I am, very respectfully, &c. GEO. WALTON. Colonel G. HUMPHREYS, Agent for Florida Indians, Tallahassee. (No. 10.)	. [Accompaniment to No. 28.] OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, May 22, 1825. I enclose, herewith, for your information and government, an order from the War Department on the subject of runaway negro slaves residing among the Florida Indians, claimed by citizens of the United States; also, letters from individual claimants. You will take all measures within your power to enable these claimants, as well as all others who may apply, to identify their property; and in all cases where the validity of the claim is clearly established, and no other obstacle arises to prevent it, the restoration of such slave or slaves to their proper owner or owners must immediately follow. Let the chiefs distinctly understand that they are not to harbor runaway negroes, and that they will he required to give up such negroes as are now residing within their limits. I am, very respectfully, &c. GEO. WALTON. Colonel G. HUMPHREYS, Agent for Florida Indians, at Tallahassee. (No. 11.)	’ [Accompaniment to No. 28.] SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, May 25, 1825. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your several letters of the 19th, 20th, and 22d instant, and deem it an imperious duty to state, in reply to that of the 19th, which directs a limitation of the number of rations hereafter to be issued to one thousand daily, that the effect of such an abridgment of the stipulated supply of provisions will be, at the least, loud murmuring and discontent; and that suffering among the Indians from hunger, which has hitherto scarcely existed, except in imagination, will shortly become a distressing reality. That these people can have but scanty, and, indeed, no certain means of subsistence, independent of the sustenance promised by the United States, until the opening of the fields and growing of corn at their new locations, will be readily supposed; and the entire inadequacy of one thousand rations to the support of something more than one thousand six hundred people, is too obvious to require comment. And I feel constrained to add my belief, that the emigrant Indians, conceiving themselves entitled by the treaty of the 18th of September, 1823, to punctual allowance of provisions for the specified time, at the rate of one ration per day to each individual, will not quietly submit to a non-performance (on the part of Government) of this stipulation of the compact. I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, G. HUMPHREYS. GEO. WALTON, Esq., Acting Governor, Sfc. of Florida. No. 29. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, June 20, 1825. Your letter of the 26th ultimo, accompanied by your correspondence with the agent, marked from No. 1 to No. 11, to the Secretary of War, is received. The subjects presented by you, to wit: the murder of Mr. Swear ingen; the alleged depredations of the Indians upon the property of the citizens whose settlements lay in tlié route of their emigration; and the distress which you apprehend will be felt by the emigrant Indians, by the obligation you are ÿnder (to bring the disbursements within the appropriation) to lessen the number of rations, have been (in the absence of the Secretary of War, on a tour of inspection to the North) submitted to, and duly considered by, the President, who directs the following reply to be made. It appears from the statement of the agent, Colonel Humphreys, that the death of Mr. Swearingen was an act of a personal nature, and that it indicates no hostility on the part of the Indians against the whites; of which sufficient proof is furnished in their having pursued the murderer and executed upon him their own punishment, and made him atone, with his life, for his outrage. No steps, under such circumstances, are deemed to be necessary in regard to that act. The spoliations committed on the inhabitants by the emigrant Indians (if those who may have suffered conceive' such a step to be necessary) can be provided for only by an act of Congress for their relief. Every attention will, no doubt, be paid by that body to any representation of their losses which they may think proper to make. The President very much regrets that they should have suffered the slightest inconvenience. The appropriation by the act of Congress to carry into effect the treaty with the Florida Indians, it was hoped, would be sufficient to sustain the expenses of the emigrants. It is a subject of regret that appearances indicate its inadequacy, and especially as the means for that object (expense of rations) are limited to $65,700, and beyond which the Executive has no power to afford relief, except by a resort to the Indian Department fund; which is, itself, so adapted annually to the necessary demands upon it, as to admit of but a slight diversion of its means to other objects than such as are estimated for. It is still hoped the distress will not be so great as you apprehend it will; and especially as the agent, who is personally present, and has the means, it may be presumed, of judging with greater accuracy, thinks it will not. The President, however, with the view of guarding against the contingency apprehended by you, directs that the sum of $2,000 be placed at your disposal to meet it; but, as it is believed it can be ill spared from the Indian Department, he directs that no part of it be called for until it is clearly ascertained that the sum appropriated will have fallen short of the object; and not then, except to save these people from the suffering to which you apprehend they will be subject without it. The back rations may come in timely aid of the emergency; and it will be but just to pay the contractor an equitable additional allowance for transporting the provisions to any other point than the one which he contracted for. and in proportion to the additional expense which he may incur by the change. There is no objection, in the event of your having to resort to the extra allowance of $2,000, to your purchasing the provisions in the manner you suggest. You will take care, however, to provide, in all cases, the necessary vouchers for the expenditures, and exercise the utmost economy in the disbursement. To meet the contingency of any excitement which the agent may not be able to quiet, the commanding officer at Cantonment Brooke is directed to aid, on your requisition upon him for that purpose, in putting it down. I have the honor, &c. THOS. L. McKENNEY. To GEORCE WALTON, Esq., Secretary and Acting Governor of Florida. No. 30. SIR:	PENSACOLA, July 14, 1825. I left Tallahassee on the 2d ultimo to visit my family here, and on business, intending to return immediately, fearful that difficulties might arise on account of the Indians; but have been detained by a severe attack of bilious fever, occasioned by exposure in travelling, from which I am slowly recovering. I have thought proper to cause purchases to be made, at once, of Indian presents, for the whole amount estimated for the present year. These articles are always necessary, and looked for by the Indians; and, in their present dissatisfied state, are more than usually so. The contract for issues to the emigrant Indians at the Appalachicola river ceased on the 30th of June, and they are now thrown upon their own resources for subsistence, without the means of supplying their wants. For the condition of the emigrant Indians on their southern location, I refer you for information to the enclosed copy of a letter from the agent, and to the letter which I had the honor to address to you lately from Tallahassee. So soon as my health will permit, I shall cause my accounts to the 30th of June to be forwarded to the Department, and shall then return to Tallahassee. I have the honor, &c. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War.	GEORGE WALTON. [Accompaniment to No. 30.] SIR:	•	CAMP NEAR TAMPA, June 13, 1825. I reached this place on the 12th instant, after a passage of fourteen days. I learn with regret, since my arrival, that the drought in this section of country, and, indeed, through to the Big Swamp, has been so severe that the crops of the Indians are, in some instances, almost wholly destroyed. The emigrants particularly, it is to be feared, will make little or no corn, owing to their having had new fields to open, and the consequent lateness of their planting. I am greatly apprehensive that the failure of crops will produce extreme distress among these people, unless arrangements are adopted to continue to them the issues of rations beyond the period stipulated in the treaty. It may not, and, I trust, it will not, be necessary to make extensive, regular, and stated issues; but humanity seems to require that some provision should be made to meet cases of actual want. I avail myself of the opportunity afforded by the Logan to give you the earliest possible information upon this subject. Very respectfully, &c. GEORGE WALTON, Esq., Acting Governor of Florida.	G. HUMPHREYS. No. 31. Extract of a letter from. George Walton, Esq., Acting Governor of Florida, to Colonel Thomas L. McKenney > dated JULY 27,1825. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 20th ultimn. I regret extremely that. circumstances have occurred, since the date of the letter to which yours replied, which tend to strengthen the opinion advanced by me, that much suffering, and consequently serious disturbances, may be apprehended among the Indians upon the discontinuance of the issues of rations to them. Copies of letters have been shown to me from Colonil Humphreys to the commanding officer at Cantonment Brooke, and from him to the commanding officer here, by which it appears that a detachment of one hundred troops have marched, upon the requisition of the agent, into the Indian country; and that he deems their presence necessary to insure tranquillity. The agent,has always expressed to me the opinions that were communicated by my letter of the 26th May to the Department; that letter was founded, in some degree, upon his personal communications to me at Tallahassee, where he was present at the date of that letter, and was perfectly aware of its tenor; it is, therefore, inconceivable to me how a different impression could have been received from his communications. If it should be necessary to transport provisions for the Indians to any other place than the one contracted for, the superintendent would certainly be inclined to compensate the contractor for any loss he might sustain by the change. But no such necessity has yet happened, nor is any apprehended; the changes having been, hitherto, highly favorable to the contractor, and, of course, adopted by him willingly. I am extremely anxious to return to Tallahassee, but am not yet sufficiently recovered to endure the fatigue of the journey; but hope in a few days to be able to set out, when 1 shall ascertain the nature and cause of the recent disturbances, by a visit to the Indian country, if it shall be necessary. No. 32. From Thomas L. McKenney to Colonel Walton, Secretary, 6ft. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, August 10, 1825. Your two letters of the 14th ultimo, (one directed to the Secretary of War, and the other to me,) together with a copy of Colonel Humphreys’s letter to you of the 13th June, are received. No doubt, the policy of purchasing the presents for the whole year, to the amount estimated for that period, was correct, especially in the present dissatisfied state of feeling among the emigrant Indians, whose condition, it is hoped, will be rendered at least tolerable by the permission granted in my letter of the 20th June, to expend two thousand dollars for the relief of those who may actually need help, since the 30th June last, when their supplies, as stipulated for by the treaty, ceased. It might be well to husband these resources, and only apply them at such points as necessity requires: as the Indians, Should they learn that additional provision was made in a general way, might relax their exertions, and by that means render the aid which is contemplated to be extended to them of but little practical value. The steps you have taken to cut off the intercourse which the Indians are stated to hold with Cuba are judicious. If the reports in relation to that intercourse be correct, it ought to be stopped, as it can only be fruitful in evil consequences. I have the honor, &c. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY. To GEORGE WALTON, Esq., Secretary and Acting Governor of Florida. No. 33. Extract of a letter from Thomas L. McKenney to George Walton, Esq., Secretary and Acting Governor of Florida, dated DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, August 19, 1825. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 27th ultimo. The excitement among the emigrant Indians, as indicated by the employment of the military, it is hoped will subside, should it have been occasioned by their wants, when you contribute to their relief, by means of the allowance of $2,000 over and above the-amount of the appropriation to carry the treaty into effect, as authorized by the President; information of which I had the honor to convey to you on the 20th June last. As early as you can do so, you will inform the Department of the causes and extent of the dissatisfaction among the Indians, and any information connected therewith which you may esteem it important to communicate. No. 34. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, September 15, 1825. The Secretary of War directs that the extension of the northern line of the Indian territory in Florida be made, by running and marking the same with as little delay as possible; it being represented by the agent, Colonel Humphreys, that settlers are already appropriating lands near to, if not south of, where the line will run, which, if not checked by some visible demarcation, may involve difficulties in their removal. The extension of the north line will be made so as that a line, when drawn from its extreme western point, will strike somewhere about that point on Gadsden’s survey which is denominated “ flat lands filled with ponds;” the object being to take in the Big Hammock. You will communicate with Colonel Gadsden, to whom the Secretary directs me to refer the execution of this survey; and, in the event of his being unable, from any causes, to undertake it, you will employ Major Joshua A. Coffee, who is recommended by Colonel Humphreys. In the event of your employing Major Coffee, it is understood that his compensation will be at the same rates as those allowed to Colonel Gadsden, and in all respects. •	I have the honor, &c. His Excellency WILLIAM P. DUVAL.	THOMAS L. McKENNEY. No. 35. OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF INDIAN AFFAIRS FOR FLORIDA, SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, October 6, 1825. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 10th of August last, by the way of Pensacola. I have not as yet made any extra provision for the emigrant Indians of this Territory out of the $2,000 allotted for that purpose, intending to husband it with the utmost economy, as a dernier resort, to be used in cases of absolute necessity; the sum is in itself so small, as to be of no utility if expended in a general manner. Many of these Indians, resident in the reserve east of the Suwanee river, have recently abandoned their country; and I have received information, upon which reliance is to be placed, that most, if not all, of those who formerly resided between the rivers Suwanee and Appalachicoln are on their return hither. They state to me, as a reason for their return, that they have always been furnished with a scanty supply of provisions only, and which has some time since ceased altogether; that they have no means of subsistence within themselves; that there is no game in their country; that it is, moreover, exceedingly unhealthy, exposing them to sickness and inevitable death; and, in fine, that no part of the country allotted to them for a residence is of such a description as to afford them comfortable settlements, or of such a quality as will enable them to have stocks or to raise corn. I have, myself, never been in that part of Florida; but, from information that I can rely upon, I am inclined to believe that all that the Indians represent respecting its unhealthiness and want of fertility of soil is strictly correct, and requires, in justice to them, to be thoroughly investigated. Many complaints from the Indians, respecting their rations, had reached mq early in the spring; and when the agent was here, in May last, I informed him of the reports and complaints that had been made to me; all of which, he assured me, were utterly false and without foundation. I then pressed earnestly upon him the absolute necessity of bis paying an immediate and particular attention to tranquillizing the Indians; of endeavoring to dispose them to form permaneot settlements on the best lands within their reserve, and of seeing that they were supplied with provisions, according to the means at his disposal; and ended by directing him to return to the agency forthwith, to carry these objects into effect, trusting that his personal presence and efforts with the Indians would operate favorably in disposing them to acquiesce in the views of the Government, and relieve their distresses. I regret, however, that I am compelled to state thaKhese complaints and reports still continue in an increased degree, and are urged by the Indians in justification of their abandoning their new country, and returning to the vicinity of their late settlements. This district of country (formerly in the occupancy of the Indians) has been surveyed, in part sold, and is rapidly populating; and if the Indians cannot be restrained within their limits, occurrences of an unpleasant nature between them and the white inhabitants must infallibly ensue; complaints against them having already been made for depredations committed upon the stocks of cattle and fields of corn belonging to the whites. But as Governor Duval is daily expected to arrive in the Territory, to resume the government thereof, I do not think it either proper or decorous for me to enter at length upon the present situation of the Indians and their causes of dissatisfaction and complaint, which are both of a local and permanent character, and will, in my opinion, to be thoroughly removed, require a total change in the measures hitherto pursued towards them. So soon as the Governor arrives, I shall make him fully acquainted with their actual situation, and with my views in relation thereto, leaving it to his experience and better judgment to decide what measuresit will be most proper to pursue towards them; and you may therefore confidently calculate upon being early addressed by him on this subject. I shall, however, in the meanwhile, do all-in my power to restrain their mischievous propensities, and compel them to return to their lands. I am, sir, &c. GEORGE WALTON. To Colonel THOMAS L. MCKENNEY. ■ No. 36. OFFICE OF SUPERINTENDENT INDIAN AFFAIRS FOR FLORIDA, SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, October 18, 1825. Your letter of the 15th ultimo, directing the extension of the Indian boundary lines of their southern reserve in this Territory, was received yesterday. In regard to the extension of these lines, I have to state, that the agent is under a misapprehension as to the place granted to the Indians; in consequence of which, some of the Indians have, as I understand, been improperly located; and which has given rise to his report, alluded to in your letter, that settlements of whites were forming within the Indian limits. In the Alaehua (a district of country so denominated) there are two places which, from a partial similarity of names, have been frequently confounded with each other: the one is called the Big Swamp, and lies north of, but near to, the Indian northern boundary line; the other is called the Big Hammock, and lies near to and west of the Indian lands. The agent contends for the occupation of the former, under the President’s order; but an extension of the lines according to that order cannot be made so as to embrace it, and will, when made, include only the latter. This was fully explained to the agent while at this place in May last; and Colonel Gadsden, who was then also present, demonstrated, beyond the possibility of a doubt, that it was so intended by the President, who, it is evident, by comparing his order with the map of Colonel Gadsden’s survey, thoroughly understood the subject; and yet it seems, from your letter, that the agent (for he has never thought proper to address me on the subject, nor to inform me of intrusions by white settlers on the Indian lands) still persists in his erroneous construction of the order in question; the only ground that can be assumed for which is, that in the President’s order the term Big Hammock, or Swamp, is used; (in your letter of the 15th ult. it is more definite, being called the Big Hammock only;) but then the slightest reference to the manner in which the lines are ordered to be extended leaves not the shadow of doubt as to which of the two is meant. It is, however, proper at the same time to state, that the Indians themselves have always contended for the grant of the Big Swamp; and this fact, no doubt, has measurably contributed to continue the agent in his error as to the place actually designated for the occupancy of the Indians; and until I had conversed with Colonel Gadsden, and examined his map, I was myself under an impression that the Big Swamp was the place intended to have been granted. As the matter now stands, the inhabitants of Alachua (some of whom are settled near to the Indian northern boundary line) complain loudly that the Indians are suffered to locate on lands without the limits of the reserve; which is, and must continue to be the fact, unless the President shall be pleased to extend the Indian boundaries so as to include the Big Swamp. Colonel Gadsden is expected to arrive by the first proximo; and, from his having run out these lines, added to his perfect knowledge of the topography of the country, I deem it important that he should now be appointed to extend them, and shall accordingly endeavor to prevail upon him to accept the appointment under the order of the Secretary of War. I have the honor, &c. Colonel THOMAS L. MCKENNEY.	GEORGE WALTON. No. 37. OFFICE OF SUPERINTENDENT INDIAN AFFAIRS FOR FLORIDA, SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, October 21, 1825. I have the honor to enclose for your information a report made to me by Mr. Doyle, respecting the Indians in Florida. This gentleman has resided for many years previous to and since the cession of Florida to the United States amongst the Indians recently inhabiting this section of the Territory, and is, therefore, not only acquainted with the Indian character and disposition in genera], but is known personally to these Indians and their chiefs. It had become necessary for me to employ a confidential person to endeavor to collect the fugitive Indians at.some point where my message and orders could be communicated to them, and also to ascertain, as far as practicable, directly from themselves, their immediate causes of complaint, and their own views in regard to the future. From his personal good character, added to these reasons, I deemed Mr. Doyle to be the most suitable agent I could engage in this business; and he was accordingly employed by me, and will be continued in employment, if necessary, until I am relieved in the exercise of the government of the Territory by Governor Duval, or am instructed by the Department as to the measures proper to be pursued, which I shall anxiously expect. In the mean time, I have determined, as the only course left to save these Indians from starvation, and the settlements from exposure to depredations from them, caused only by their necessitous condition, to place Mr. Doyle at or near the Suwanee river, with the double object of preventing the Indians from entering the settlements of the whites, and to furnish them with some supplies of corn for their wives and children. I am convinced they cannot be concentrated within their limits without the aid of military force, unless some means of subsistence be there provided for them; in which case, I believe they would comply with whatever might be required of them. From representations made to me, on which I can rely, the situation of these unfortunate human beings is miserable in the extreme, and requires prompt and effectual relief from the humanity, if not the justice of the Government, and which, I trust, will be extended to them. If the President shall deem it expedient, I consider the present moment as one favorable for holding a treaty with the Florida Indians, having for its object their immediate removal to lands west of the Mississippi river, either in a body, as a nation by themselves, or to be incorporated with the Creek nation in their contemplated removal. So far as it regards obtaining the consent of the Indians, (not only those in the southern reserve, but of those on the Appalachicola river,) I believe either of the proposed plans to be feasible. Such a measure would be productive of the most important advantages to themselves, by fixing their location permanently in a healthy and productive district of country, and by ameliorating their present distressed and dissatisfied condition, and likewise be of incalculable advantage to the interests of the Territory itself. In suggesting and recommending this measure to the Government, I am confident in the expression of the opinion that I speak the views and sentiments of Governor Duval; and not only his, but those of the most enlightened and intelligent men in the Territory. Believing that this measure, if properly pursued, will arrive at the happiest results in effecting a more favorable location for these Indians than their present one, I deem it important that, in the event of a treaty being held, it should be conducted by persons having no private.interests or feelings to consult, and who are acquainted with the Indian character, and known personally to the chiefs. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE WALTON. To Colonel T. L. MCKENNEY, Washington, D. C. [Accompanying No. 37.] SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, October 20, 1825. In compliance with your excellency’s instructions, I have to inform you that, on Monday last, I had all the scattering Indians in this vicinity collected at the Ansilla creek, at a point thirty miles distant from this place, about thirty in number, men, women, and children. Some days previous to this meeting, I despatched runners to other parties of Indians, on or near the Suwanee, desiring them to hold themselves in readiness to march with this party to their own lands in Florida. .As these Indians had not presented themselves at the agency, I told them they would be furnished with rations here, to enable them to go there, and that, on their arrival, their maintenance would be allowed them for some time; under this assurance, all the Indians I saw were willing to go. On the day of receiving your instructions to collect those Indians, I had an opportunity, by a trusty fellow, to inform Chefixico Hadjo, Uae chief of Tallahassee, who has been encamped at the Suwanee river since his departure from this place, last fall, that it was your positive orders to move immediately into his own land. He made the movement accordingly, and proceeded with his party, consisting of one hundred persons, men, women, and children, within a day and a half’s journey of Tampa Bay. From this place he sent for a supply of provisions, in order to enable him to pursue his route to the agency. His messengers were furnished by Hicks, the principal chief of the Seminoles, with one beef and a small quantity of corn, (about two days’ rations,) with a message that that supply was all he could expect there; in consequence of which, one-half of his party instantly quit him, and recrossed the Suwanee to their old camping ground. A few days previous to this event, about sixty others returned from the neighborhood of Tampa, and also crossed this river. Those Indians are scattered in different directions, from sixty to seventy miles east of this place, and, no doubt, many of them will shortly make their appearance in this vicinity. I have, agreeably to your instructions, particularly examined several Indians, to ascertain the cause of the universal discontent that seems to prevail amongst them, and their Reasons for not occupying the lands allotted them by Government. From the uniform reports of those people, and from many white men, I think it my duty to state fully their objections, for your excellency’s government: 1st. That the land allotted to them by the treaty is too poor to make their bread on. 2d. That there is no running water in the country; and, from their knowledge of pond water, in hunting excur sions, disease and sickness must ensue. 3d. That a sufficient maintenance has not been issued at the agency for those Indians that did present themselves there, many of whom have returned from thence. 4th. That a fair distribution of the funds allowed them by Government has not been attended to by either their own chiefs or the white.men. 5th. That many, who have for several years resided within the vicinity of the reserve, have not as yet moved into it, and still object to do so. 6th. That the land allowed them by the treaty was partly forced on the chiefs, and that the Indians never agreed to give up the land. I now very much fear it will he difficult to induce them to go on this reserve; nothing will do it but a supply of provisions; and, in their present distressed state, it would have a good effect. The Indians now collected at the Ansilla wish to go on to the Chattahoochie; and they say all the others that have-lately crossed the Suwanee river intend to go there. I found all those Indians humble, and I believe would be willing to go to any place where they could find good land and water. It would be a most favorable moment to press on them the idea of crossing the Mississippi. I have the honor to be, &c. His Excellency GEORGE WALTON,	EDM. DOYLE. Acting Governor of the Floridas. No. 38. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE INDIAN AFFAIRS, October 31, 1825. I am directed by the Secretary of War to call your attention to the subject-matter of a letter addressed to me by acting Governor Walton, on the subject of the complaints made to him by the Florida Indians, in regard to their rations, and their return upon the borders of the territory ceded by them, and from which it was expected they had finally emigrated. The Secretary directs that you take measures, also, to ascertain the capacity of the territory allotted to them for their support, and report, as early as possible, the result of your investigations upon all those points to the Department. I have, &c. To His Excellency WILLIAM P. DUVAL.	THO. L. McKENNEY. No. 39. OFFICE OF SUPERINTENDENT OF INDIAN AFFAIRS FOR FLORIDA, SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, November 18, 1825. • I have lately received from the issuing officers at Tampa Bay and the St. John’s river the abstracts of issues of rations to the emigrant Florida Indians; by which it appears that the amount of issues during the last six months at the St. John’s, and four months at Tampa Bay, has amounted to $25,212 57; and Mr. Chaires, the contractor, has produced to me the receipt of the agent, specifying the delivery of a further quantity, which remains on hand, making the whole sum amount to $31,025 82. It will be perceived, by the instructions to the agent and the issuing officers, (copies of which have been transmitted to the Department, and a duplicate of the latter of which is herewith enclosed,) that the issue of rations has greatly exceeded the number which, in the extremes! case, was calculated upon by the Department or the superintendent; the average amounting to one thousand four hundred and eighty per diem, instead of one thousand. At the former settlement with the contractor, the excess above a thousand per diem was paid for; but, at the same time, the instructions of the 19th May were shown to him, as an assurance that at no future settlement would such an indulgence be granted. It further appears to me very extraordinary, under the circumstances, that there should have been permitted (as is the fact) a large amount of rations to accumulate and remain on hand at Tampa Bay, while, at the same time, there were daily issues at the St. John’s of nearly six hundred rations beyond the number stipulated in the contract. I have also lately received a letter from Mr. Charles Pindar, a gentleman now residing in Tallahassee, (a copy of which, together with its enclosure, is also herewith enclosed,) which seems to charge unfairness in the manner of procuring the contract, and to promise further disclosures, if demanded. This communication being addressed to me officially, I have considered it my duty at least to communicate it to the Department, suspending, in the mean time, the settlement with the contractor, in order that the Department, being possessed of all the circumstances, may instruct me particularly as to iny future conduct, as well as to put me in funds to complete such settlement as may be directed to be made. I enclose copies of letters from the agent to the superintendent and to the contractor, on the subject of the issues of rations. I have the honor to be, with perfect respect, your very obedient servant, GEO. WALTON. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War. [Accompanying No. 39.] SIR:	ST. AUGUSTINE, August 10, 1825. In answer to your letter inquiring what amount of provisions is necessary to complete the issues to the emigrant Indians, I have to state that there are still due as follows: (to wit:) Of bread stuffs and salt,	...	-	37,080 rations. And beef,	.....	105,066	“ This amount does not appear to be required to complete the one thousand rations per day specifically called for in your contract; but owing to the great excess of provisions necessarily issued, and sanctioned by the superintendent, over and above what was originally contemplated, there exists the deficiency above stated to carry the issues to the end of the year, which, although I am not instructed on the subject, I presume it is expected by the Government you will furnish. Your humble servant, G. HUMPHREYS, Agent Florida Indians. BENJAMIN CHAIRES, Esq., Indian Contractor. [Accompaniment to No. 39.] SIR:	*	FLORIDA AGENCY, October, 1825. I have the honor to enclose, herewith, the abstracts of issues of provisions to the emigrant Florida Indians up to the 10th of the present month; completing the period specified in the treaty, as well as that limited by the orders of the superintendent. You will perceive, by the abstracts of Mr. Marsh, that his issues for the last two months have exceeded the per diem number (six hundred) directed to be given out at his station at Tampa Bay. This was essentially necessary, owing, as he states, to the increased number of applicants who were entitled to draw; and as his previous issues have fallen far short of the number authorized by the Governor’s instructions, this small excess does not, as I conceive, amount to what appears a departure from the spirit of those instructions. There is still at that post a surplus of provisions on hand, which must await your directions. Chefixico Hadjo has not yet arrived; I have, however, received a message from him, saying that he will be here in the course of four or five days; he is on the way, but is obliged to travel slow, on account of his stock. He will expect'provi- sions when he arrives; but, according to your instructions of the 19th May last, they cannot be given to him, as the period for making the last issue will bave passed. This exclusion of his town from the benefit (which other emigrants have enjoyed) of rations, however just it may be, will nevertheless, I am constrained to believe, produce dissatisfaction, particularly as it is known to the Indians that provisions sent for their use, as they understand it, remain unissued at Tampa. I take the liberty to suggest, as a means of preserving that contentment which now pretty generally prevails in the nation, and as a measure of humanity, that the provisions on band at Tampa may be given out to Chefixico’s people, and to such others as appear to stand most in need. It can be no object to the Government to retain them, and they may be of considerable service to the Indians; besides which, if they are kept much longer in store, they will become damaged and of no value to any one. It was too late when I reached here from Tallahassee for me to be able to apprize Mr. Garey of your instructions limiting the number of rations in season for him to confine his issues for the two months, commencing June 10, within the limit; the excess, however, is not very great, and his aggregate for that period falls greatly below his former issues. His subsequent issues are conformable to instructions. Since writing the above, Chefixico Hadjo and his people have arrived, and in so destitute a condition, as it regards provisions, that I have deemed it a duty to direct an issue to them for the two months commencing the 10th instant, without waiting your answer to my foregoing suggestions on the subject, not doubting that the steps, under the circumstances, must be fully approbated. I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, G. HUMPHREYS, Agent. GEORGE WALTON, Esq., Acting Governor of Florida, Tallahassee. [Accompaniment to No. 39.]	, Charles Pindar to Colonel Walton. SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, November 12, 1825. I have the honor to enclose to you a document, in return for which I gave a receipt for five thousand dollars, and which I offer to you as an entering wedge into an investigation of peculiar importance to the interests of the United States in your Department, and which, after having taken a copy, I beg you will do me the favor to return to me by the bearer. I have the honor to be, sir, your very obedient, humble servant, CHARLES PINDAR. Colonel GEORGE WALTON, Superintendent of Indian Affairs. [Accompaniment to No. 39.] TALLAHASSEE, May 30, 1824. I promise to pay to Mr. Charles Pindar, or order, the sum of five hundred dollars, on my obtaining and completing the contract for furnishing the Indians with beef, &c., as per proposals requested by Colonel Gad Humphreys, Indian agent, published in the Pensacola Gazette under date of 22d May, 1824, in consideration of the said Charles Pindar withdrawing his proposal. BENJAMIN CHAIRES. . No. 40. ■ T. L. McKenney to Colonel Walton, Secretary, Syc. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE INDIAN AFFAIRS, November 28, 1825. I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 18th ultimo, on the subject of the limits which are assigned to the emigrant Florida Indians, and the doubts in relation to them. To remove all difficulty on this subject, I have the honor to enclose a copy from the map. The first extension of the northern line northwardly from the survey by Colonel Gadsden limits, I presume, your views and his of the case; but you will see that this extension of the. northern line north has been subsequently ordered to bo run in a westerly direction, to a point as indicated in the black lines, far enough west as that, when an angle made from a line to run from thence to the ‘•'flat lands filled with ponds," it will embrace the Big Hammock. Will not this extension furnish lands fit to be inhabited, and of sufficient productiveness and salubrity to support the Indians? It was Governor Duval’s opinion that it would. I have submitted your letter of the 21st ultimo to the Secretary of War, with the enclosed copy of one to you from Mr. Doyle. You will be replied to soon. I have the honor, &c. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY. To GEORGE WALTON, Esq., Acting Governor of Florida. No. 41. Extract of a letter from His Excellency William P. Duval, Governor of Florida, to Colonel Thomas L. McKenney, dated TALLAHASSEE, December 2, 1825. Your letter of October 31 was received by the last mail. The situation of the Indians on my return from Kentucky (where I have been for my family) has produced much surprise and painful regret. The Indians had removed and were satisfied when I left Florida; no complaint existed on their part against the Government, and none on the part of the white inhabitants against the Indians. The arrangements which I had made for supplying the emigrant Indians with rations were ample. Near three months back, rations were due to them before they reached the country assigned to them by treaty. With the back rations, and one thousand daily rations to be issued, (four hundred at Hamley’s old store, on the St. John’s river, and six hundred at Tampa Bay,) I was impressed, strongly and confidently, that no want of provisions would be felt by the Indians entitled under the treaty to draw rations. Long before their removal, under my own direction, rations had been furnished abundantly to the emigrant Indians. No complaint was heard from any quarter; and if you will examine, the amount of rations returned personally by me last winter at Washington, you may easily make the fair estimate of what amount of rations ought to issue, taking into your calculation the back rations due daily on the contract with Mr. Chaires. My instructions to the agent have not been attended to. I directed him, in my instructions, not to exceed four hundred rations daily at Hamley’s old store, on the St. John’s river, because the price of the ration was greater at that point than at Tampa Bay. Under no pretence was the agent to issue more rations than had been specifically contracted for, unless by the order of the superintendent. By referring to Colonel Walton’s letter of the 18th November to the Secretary of War, you will see huw greatly the agent has exceeded my instructions as to the issues at that point. You will recollect, last winter, when wc wore about to have the Indian boundary extended, which I considered necessary for their support, that the map of their land assigned to them by the late treaty, as surveyed by Colonel Gadsden and transmitted to the War Department, could not be found; hence arose some doubt as to the name of the place intended to be given to the Indians by extending their northern line. Enclosed is a sketch of the Indian boundary as surveyed by Colonel Gadsden. The black dotted lines, from the western extremity of Colonel Gadsden’s northern line to A, (see sketch,) and from thence south, will include the Big Hammock, as contemplated by my recommendation. , The red dotted line, from the western extremity of Colonel Gadsden’s northern line, running north, and from thence east to the Okelawaba river, will embrace the Big Swamp, should the Executive decide to leave the Indians in possession of it. The line to be surveyed, as lately ordered by the Department of War, will embrace the Big Hammock, the country intended and designed for the Indians, and lying west of their present boundaries. The Big Hammock has, however, by the agent been confounded with the Big Swamp, lying north of the Indian limits; and as an agent of Government, known to the Indians as such, he has placed them in possession of that country. Here the agency has been established; here the Indians have constructed their new habitations, and commenced their permanent improvements. The difficulty, therefore, of a removal must be apparent, and, it is apprehended, cannot be done without (he exercise of authority. Distrust will be excited on the part of the Indians, impressing strongly on their minds something like double dealing and deception on the part of the General Government. The location, however, is extremely objectionable, and never contemplated by me in any of my recommendations; on the contrary, I have uniformly endeavored to prevent it. The Big Swamp borders on the Alachua, a fine district of country rapidly populating; and its vicinity to a white population will engender, as it has already, difficulties between the citizens and Indians. To prevent this, their removabas far south as possible was always contemplated by the General Government; and it was deemed important by the commissioners at the treaty, as well as myself, that the northern line should not extend to the Big Swamp. The Indians have been placed, however, in the possession of it, and it is now left with the President to decide whether they shall be permitted to remain, and a new line run accordingly, so as to embrace it; or whether the line contemplated by your last letter, (conformable to my recommendation,) so as to embrace the Big Hammock only, shall be surveyed, and the Indians ordered within their limits; the Government being prepared, at the same time, to enforce obedience. As a preparatory measure in execution of this, or as a prudential one, under any determination of the General Government, I cannot too strongly recommend the establishment, immediately, of a military post on the south frontier of Alachua: such an arrangement would give confidence to the emigrant inhabitants of Alachua, and prevent any disturbances between the citizens and the Indians, if they should be permitted to remain in possession of the Big Swamp; but, should the Government order the Indians within the limits designated by the late treaty, and recommended by me, the troops will be on the spot to enforce obedience if resistance is made by the Indians. I trust my views on this subject will meet the approbation of the Secretary of War; for the peace and essential interests of this Territory strongly require the adoption of this measure, and that quickly. The investigation that I am directed to make on the complaints of the Indians, in regard to their rations, will be commenced and conducted in conformity to the instructions I shall receive from the Department, although I would prefer that some other person should make the examination. At present, the Legislative Council is in session, and it will be some weeks before I can leave Tallahassee. Whatever the Department may direct, my presence will have great influence with the Indians in effecting its execution. The two companies of artillery stationed at St. Augustine might be ordered to Alachua, for there can be no reason for continuing them at St. Augustine, and perhaps there is not a point in all the southern country where they would not be more useful. I am directed by your letter of the 31st of October last to ascertain the capacity of the territory allotted to the Indians for their support, and report as early as possible to the War Department. The measure directed by the Secretary was attended to particularly by me before I visited Washington last winter. From the reports of several agents whom I sent to examine the Indian territory, as originally surveyed, to ascertain whether there were sufficient good lands for cultivation within their limits, (for I had doubts on this subject,) I recommended the extension nf the northern line, as you will see by the sketch, to A; thence running south, so as to embrace the Big Hammock. 1 was then, as I am now, completely satisfied that this addition will afford good land sufficient for the support of the whole of the Seminole nation. If this is not satisfactory to the Department, and if it should be requested, I will go myself and make the examination, and report as directed. My feelings towards the Indians are kind and liberal, and my conduct towards them has always procured me their confidence and respect. I would not withhold from them that justice and humanity which their unfortunate situation demands, and which the policy and honor of my Government have so liberally extended to this suffering people. If ample powers are given to me, and such means provided as I have recommended in this letter, I feel persuaded that, in a short time, all difficulties with the Indians will be settled to the satisfaction of the War Department. Energy, promptly called into action, tempered by prudence, and a knowledge of the Indian character, will almost invariably prevent bloodshed, and produce order and obedience. No. 42. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, December 7, 1825. Your letters of the 18th and 21st of October last, enclosing one from Mr. Edmund Doyle to you, were duly received. The President, to whom the Secretary referred the subject presented by them, has, under the impulse of humanity, ordered that these unfortunate people (the Florida Indian emigrants) be supplied in their emergency with necessary food, but upon a scale of the strictest economy, and to be accounted for by ration abstracts in your returns. For expenditures thus made, not to exceed $5,000, you are authorized to draw bills, from time to time, on the Secretary of War; which, there being no appropriation for such an object, will have to be paid out of the contingencies of the Indian Department. It is hoped, however, that my letter of the 28th of November, written by direction of the Secretary of War, and conveying the information that the Big Hammock, as well as the Big Swamp, is included in the limits assigned to those Indians, will make any further expenditure unnecessary. But should you ascertain, beyond doubt, that it will not, and that these people will yet keep falling back upon the settlements, you will inform the Department without delay, that such measures as may appear to be necessary may be taken to meet such an exigency. I have the honor, &c. THOS. L. MCKENNEY. To GEO. WALTON, Esq., Secretary and Acting Governor of Florida. No. 43. SIR;	MIDDLE FLORIDA, TALLAHASSEE, December 12, 1825. To Colonel McKenney, who is charged with the Indian affairs in your Department, I have written a particular account of the Indian affairs in this Territory. The responsibility which the agent, Colonel Humphreys, has thrown upon me, by not conforming to my instructions, (copies of which have been transmitted to Colonel McKenney,) has not only surprised me, but has seriously deranged my whole plan for the government of the Indians in this quarter. I am not informed by the agent why my instructions were not pursued, or why the Indians were not brought within their limits, although they went to the borders. I am convinced a military force is necessary to bring these people to order and obedience, and I have recommended the establishment of a post on the south frontier of Alachua. My personal influence will very much contribute to effect any order which your Department may require to be executed. Permit me to suggest that, if Congress should make any arrangements with the Creek nation, so as to remove them entirely, the Seminole Indians would be willing to go with them, and that a treaty might be made with the Florida Indians highly advantageous to the United States. Should such a measure be authorized by the Government, I cannot too strongly urge the appointment of Colonel James Gadsden as one of the commissioners; he is not only personally acquainted with all the chiefs, but understands the Indian character perfectly. The Indians on the Appalachicola, whose lands were reserved to them by the late treaty, would, no doubt, be willing also to emigrate. I have the honor, &c. WILLIAM P. DUVAL. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War.	■ No. 44. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, December 15, 1825. I have the honor, by direction of the Secretary of War, to state to you, that information has been received at the Department, implicating the methods resorted to by you to procure the consent of the Florida Indians to the treaty of 18th of September, 1823; and that those methods were of a description calculated to terrify the Indians into a compliance; without which, owing to their settled objection to give up their lands and emigrate, the treaty would not, in all probability, have been concluded. The Secretary directs that you will, with as little delay as possible, report to him the facts in this case, and state, explicitly, whether any resort was had to means, and of any kind, tending to force upon those Indians a compliance with the terms of said treaty. I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant, THOMAS L. MCKENNEY. To His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL, Colonel JAMES GADSDEN, and BERNARDO SEGUI, Esq., Late Commissioners, <ÿc. No. 45. From Governor Duval to the Secretary of War. •	TALLAHASSEE, December 16, 1825. I regret to state that about three hundred Indians have returned from the country assigned to them, and have crossed the Suwanee river. Complaints are daily made to me by the citizens against the Indians. They continue to kill cattle and steal corn from the settlers, who are now ready to take up arms, and repel the intrusion and outrages of these unfortunate people. 1 have sent orders to Alachua, to the commanding officer of the militia, not to permit any attack to be made on the Indians for killing cattle; and 1 hope you will recummend to Congress to make some provision to indemnify the citizens for their losses. I have every reason to believe that many of the Indians are in a starving condition. I have not heard from the agent on the subject of the withdrawal of the Indians from his agency. I fear he has lost all influence over them, and now nothing short offeree can restrain them. If I had the command of two hundred regulars, and were permitted to employ two of the Appalachicola chiefs, who were once under General Jackson, with a few of their men, 1 feel confident I could, without the danger of bloodshed, make all the Indians return to their boundary. These people have great confidence in me, yet they fear me as they should; with this force, I pledge myself that the treaty should be carried into complete execution, in peace, and to your satisfaction. The Indians who have recrossed the Suwanee I have ordered to be furnished with twenty days’ rations, and directed them immediately to return back to their lands. If the Indians are removed from the Big Swamp, Congress must make some provision to feed them until some time in July next, or they will certainly starve. I must again urge the necessity of establishing a military post on the south frontier of Alachua. I wait for such ordersand directions as you may please to forward. I am, &c. WILLIAM P. DUVAL. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War.	• '	No. 46.	, From Thomas L. McKenney to Governor Duval. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, December 26, 1825. 1 have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your several communications of the 2d and 12th instant, accompanied by an explanatory map of the country ceded to the Florida Indians, and a letter to you from J. Bel- loure, complaining of depredations upon his property by a party of the emigrant Indians; also, certain copies of letters and instructions to the agent, Colonel Humphreys: all which have been submitted to the Secretary of War. l am directed by the Secretary, in reply, to state, that he had received from the late acting Governor Walton certain communications relating to the issuing of rations, Ac., and a copy of one from Charles Pindar to Colonel Walton; the complexion of which, taken altogether, was not satisfactory. No reply has been made to Colonel Walton. It was delayed in the expectation that something further might happen in regard to these communications; or at least that the aid extended to the Indians, on the representations which had been made of their starving condition, might produce quiet and a state of permanent harmony, when the instructions conveyed in that correspondence, implicating some of the parties, would have formed the subject of a special inquiry. The points of difficulty ajfaear to be two: 1st. The location of the Indians by the agent upon lands (called the Big Swamp) not included in the extension of the northern boundary. 2d. The overissue of rations by the agent, in violation of positive instructions. In regard to the first, the Secretary of War directs, however exceptionable he esteems the location, under all the circumstances of the case, to be, that the Indians be permitted tn occupy both the Big Swamp and the Big Hammock: the Big Hammock of right, and by virtue of a formal and legal extension of the northern and western line; the other by courtesy, and for the time being, subject to the future directions of the President. You will explain this to them fully; and give them the option to accept of this right of temporary occupancy, or go at once and locate permanently within the limits assigned to them; or, if they would prefer it, to lands which the Government is willing to assign them west of the Mississippi. The subject of your recommendation for the establishment of a military post en the south frontier of Alachua will be considered by the Secretary. The Secretary directs that you proceed with the examination of the complaints in regard to the rations. This subject having been intrusted to you, under instructions from the Department, no one, it is presumed, can so well determine upon the abuse which is implied in the several communications before me, or a violation of your instructions by the agents. The Secretary of War directs that you make a thorough examination into every branch of the subject connected with the procuring and issuing of the rations, and especially into that referred to by Colonel Walton, on Mr. Pindar’s letter to him; and report the same, with your own opinions, to the Department. You will order the sub-agent to such point on the Appalachicola as you may esteem to be best. The answers to your queries are these: 1st. If, in the examination now ordered, you shall find the delivery of rations by Mr. Chaires was indispensable to the Indians, and that they could not have been sustained without them, you will pay for them. 2d. The excess is to be allowed on the same principle. 3d. All the accounts of the agent are to be submitted to your examination; on which you will make such decisions, as well in regard to numbers as other things, as you may esteem it proper to make, to be submitted to the Department for its final determination. It will be proper to ascertain the loss complained of by Mr. Belloure, and report it to the Department, with your own opinion of its fairness. The Indians, under the act of 1802, will be held responsible for such acts; and so you will inform them.	(Your views in regard to the mode of paying the Indians their annuities are in strict accordance with my own. There can be no doubt of the evils which result to these unfortunate people from the application, by themselves, of their annuities; nor that the amount goes directly to the venders nf spirituous liquors, who beset the annuity grounds. Annuities are a curse, to the Indians rather than a blessing, unless their application be made for them. Humanity requires that you take measures to obtain their consent to allow the annuity to be paid to them in goods suited to their wants; but, if they insist on having the money, we have no right to refuse it. Very respectfully, &c. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY. To His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL, Governor of Florida. No. 47. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, December 27, 1825. Your letter to the Secretary of War of the 12th instant is received. You will receive, with this, his reply to your several communications; also, to those previously forwarded by Colonel Walton. The subject of a further emigration of the Florida Indians you were authorized to propose to them in the letter of yesterday. As a preliminary, you will ascertain their dispositions in regard tn this step, and report them, together with an estimate of the cost of emigration. It is not necessary to make their removal turn on the contingency of that of the Creeks. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, THOS. L. MCKENNEY. To His Excellency WM. P. DUVAL, Governor of Florida. No. 48. SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, January 2, 1826. I have the honor to transmit to you the petition of the Seminole chiefs, drawn up at their special request, and delivered in General Council. This contains strong evidence that the agent must have discharged his duty, as far as be had the power and means, as a faithful guardian of these unfortunate children of the wilderness. Understanding that some remonstrance or petition has been forwarded to your Department, calculated to injure the character of the agent, Colonel Humphreys, which certain individuals have secretly promoted by art and intrigue, and who are frequently advising the Indians contrary to talks of the agent; these clandestine attempts will, 1 feel assured, have no influence in your Department. I flatter myself that, when the causes of complaint shall be strictly examined, it will be found that the agent has incurred the enmity of many who abuse him for discharging only his duty. Much of dissatisfaction has arisen from the Indians leaving their location, and roaming over the country; but the Seminole nation is composed of many lawless Indians from the Creeks and other tribes, and they cannot be restrained within the limits assigned them by treaty, unless a post is established on the south frontier of Alachua. You may rest assured that the Indians must, in many instances, actually starve, or steal from the white people, unless the Government shall make some provision for their support until the next crop can be gathered. The Appalachicola Indians, who are industrious, and have excellent lands, are also in the most deplorable condition: this is owing to the river overflowing its banks late last summer, by which their entire crops were destroyed. Gentlemen of high respectability, who saw their fields before the inundation, have assured me the crops were jn fine order, and as promising as any in Florida. The Appalachicola Indians have good houses and fences, and bid fair to advance in civilization. They have had less assistance from the Government than any other Indians, for they did not need it. I earnestly recommend them to the Government for some relief in their present distress; and I will, during the present year, often attend at their towns, and see that they cultivate their fields well. I hope the humanity of Mr. Barbour will be exerted in behalf of these suffering people, and that he will apply to the President to recommend to Congress to make such provision as they may consider adequate to their actual existence. I am, &c. WILLIAM P. DUVAL. Colonel THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Office of Indian Affairs.	. [Accompanying No. 48.] We, the undersigned chiefs and headmen of the Florida or Seminole nation of Indians, in behalf of ourselves and people, all of whom are now present, wishing to evince our satisfaction with the manner in which the kindness of the Government of the United States has been manifested towards our nation since we placed ourselves under its protection, by the treaty concluded at Moultrie creek, September 18, 1823; and being desirous, at the same time, to acknowledge the fidelity and punctuality with which that treaty has been fulfilled on the part of the United States, embrace the opportunity of this first general meeting in council since the treaty aforesaid to declare freely, voluntarily, and in perfect sincerity, that we feel bound by every principle of right and justice to observe and perform, with exactness and integrity, the obligations assumed by us in the treaty. The first year’s annuity promised us by that treaty we have received; the rations promised have been regularly furnished, plentifully, and to our entire satisfaction; the stock cattle have also been received; the smith’s shop, and other conveniences guarantied, have been duly provided; and, in fact, every thing we had a right to expect from the Government of the United States we have enjoyed. Under these circumstances, did not a desire which we ardently entertain to continue on terms of perfect friendship with the white inhabitants of the Territory prompt us to such a course of conduct as will conduce to preserve the good understanding which we now have with those inhabitants, we are urged to it by a regard for good faith and a proper sense of the obligations we owe. Induced by the foregoing considerations, as well as by the conviction that it will tend to sustain and promote the prosperity of our nation, we hereby pledge ourselves to use our utmost and constant exertions to discountenance and check any thing on the part of our people calculated to cause a breach of the amicable relations at this time existing between ourselves and our white brethren, or to withdraw from us the protection and friendship, which we fully appreciate, of the Government of the United States. Much, however, as we have reason to be, and are, satisfied with the justness and kindness thus far practised towards us, we cannot, nevertheless, witness without extreme pain and apprehension the prospect before us, that our people must necessarily, owing to the almost entire failure of uur present year’s crops, greatly suffer from hunger, unless the hand of relief is extended by our great father the President of the United States, on whose benevolence and parental regard we place the most assured reliance. We hereby solicit our father the Governor of the Territory, whose kindness we have always experienced, to procure for us that relief which our case requires; without which we must inevitably feel from want. We are aware that we may not claim, as a right under the treaty, that issues of provisions should be continued to us beyond the period therein specified, and, therefore, as such, we do not ask it; we only hope, as by a severe drought which generally prevailed the past season throughout our own territory, and by other circumstances, we are deprived of the usual products of our labor, that provision to supply the deficiency thus created (until another summer) may be made by the munificence of the Government of the United States. Should it be thought too much to continue to us the whole ration as given by the treaty, we shall be entirely contented and eminently benefited by the corn part of the ration alone; the expense of which, we are certain, will be considered trifling, when compared with its importance to us. In making this petition to our great father,, we feel a perfect confidence that we are addressing one whose ears are never closed against the appeals of distress or the calls of humanity. [Signed by eighteen chiefs and headmen.] 19th CONGRESS.]	
