No. 134. [1st Session. THE WYANDOTS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEBRUARY 28, 1812. To the President of the United States of America, the Senate, and House of Jicprcsentatives, in Congress assembled, at lUashington. The petition of your children, the principal chiefs and sachems of the nation of Wyandots, in behalf of themselves, their warriors, their women and children. Fathers: Listen to your children the Wyandots, who are now desirous of letting you know their sentiments. Fathers, listen! We, your children, now address you, on a subject of the utmost concern to ourselves, our wo ■ men, and children; we hope the Master of Life will inspire you with sentiments of benevolence, to hear our complaint with patience, and that the appellation, of father, which our deceased friend General Wayne, at the treaty of Greenville, assumed, and desired us, for the future, to call our Great Fathers, the Long Knives, will be realised in this instance, and that your unfortunate children will in this matter experience the indulgent treatment which they have a right to expect from a great, a rich, and a powerful nation. Fathers, listen! For we want you to know our minds. Our friends have made our hearts glad, when they have read to us, annually, the messages of the respective Presidents of the United States to Congress, as respects ourselves, that every thing was done to ameliorate our circumstances; that ploughs, and several implements of agriculture, had been delivered to us, with many sweet talks, from the agents of the Indian department in this territoiy, to cultivate the earth, as the game was getting scarce. Fathers, listen! This has given your children great pleasure to hear; we trust, when our father'the President of the Seventeen Great Fires directed these messages and talks to be sent, that he had not a bit of sugar in his mouth at the time: for we found his voice very sweet. We hope that the words came from the bottom of his heart. Fathers, listen! We the Wyandots have taken hold of this good work, and peaceably have cultivated the land we have lived on, time immemorial, and out of which we sprung: for we love this land, as it covers the bones of our ancestors. Fathers, listen! The bad birds are going about seeking to do mischief; we are now told, that we and our children are not to be allowed to live on this land more than fifty years, and, if we leave if, as we always have done in the winter season, to hunt on the Scioto, and other parts of the State of Ohio, that the land will be taken from us. Fathers, listen! This is not according to the promises which were made to us at the treaty of Greenville, and afterwards, more particularly by our late friend General Wayne, after his arrival at Detroit; his death on the road, going to the seat of Goveriftnent, is much lamented by us; for, if it had pleased the Great Spirit to have spared his life a little longer, his words-would not have been buried with him at Presqu’ Isle. Fathers, listen! The late General Wayne was a warrior, and a brave man, and such men as he was, never tell lies. F vthers: Listen to your children the Wyandots. When your agent, our friend Governor Hull, told us, at the treaty of Detroit, that you wanted the land from the P>ig Rock towards Saguina. going to fort Defiance, we reluctantly signed the treaty, because our young warriors and women had made us solemnly promise never to dispose of that land; but our friend assured us that lie would write to our Great Father, the President of the Seventeen Fires, to give ns back the land we and our ancestors have so long lived on, situated between Riviere aitx Pearces, and Rocky river of lake Erie, and in that expectation we signed the paper. Fathers, listen! The treaty of Detroit had not long been executed, when our friend Governor Hull again called us together at Brownstown. He said that Congress wanted more of our lands, and particularly a road, upwards of two miles wide, on the b.est part of our hunting ground from the Miami river to Sandusky, anil from thence due south to the boundary line of the treaty of Greenville. Fathers, listen! We then told our friend Governor Hull, that all our nations bad agreed together, in a most solemn manner, to sell no more lands, and the council was broke oft'on that account; but we at length consented to make our Great Father a present of this land, in hopes that he would reciprocate with us, and let us keep the land out of which we sprung. Surely, since you cal! yourselves our Fathers, letyour.conduct answer to your professions. We have given you one hundred times as much, at the treaty of Brownstown, for nothing; we have always behaved like dutiful children; surely you will not, alter this, treat us like a step father, but you will at least be the hundreth part as generous as we have been to you. Fathers, listen! After all these explanations, made with frankness, we expect you will not turn us oft'of our lands at Brownstown and Meiiquagon aforesaid, but that you will grant us, your children the Wyandots, the land contained in the following boundary, viz: to commence at a small run, about half a mile from Maera, or Walk-in-the-Water’s dwelling house, on the northeast side, to run from thence, along the Detroit river, until it crosses the river Huron, on the north side of lake Erie, for one mile, (that is, the river Huron, beyond Brownstown, to the southwest) thence', to extend back to the boundary line established by the treaty of Detroit, (beyond which to Rocky river, near river Raisin, we will forever, hereafter, abandon any further claim to) excepting, nevertheless, those lands .which the commissioners of the land office at Detroit have confirmed to actual settlers. Fathers, listen! Should you grant our wishes as above, we will undertake to keep open, and maintain in good order, all the roads and bridges which may be required on this .land, by existing laws, going from Detroit to river Raisin. . ■ Fathers, listen! Should you not like the above proposal, which we delivered to our friend Governor Hull, on the 30th September, 1809, and of which speech we now send you a copy, to be referred to, we hope you will at least grant us the land, which none shall have it in their power to sell, or dispose of, unless with the consent of the chiefs and sachems of the Wyandot nation. Father, listen! Several black robes (i. e. ministers) have come to our villages, to preach the religion of white people; they told us the religion of the whites consisted in a few words; that was, to do unto others as we wish that others should do unto us. Fathers, listen! Since we have made you so large a present of land, at the treaty of Brownstown, we wish you to put the above. Christian rule in practice; for we are a poor, helpless race of mortals: we are objects of compassion. ' . Fathers, listen! If you really want to ameliorate our condition, let us have the land given to us; we have built valuable houses, and improvements on the same; we have learned the use of the plough; but now we are told we are to be turned oft'the land in fifty years. Fathers, listen! This has given ns great uneasiness; this pretence of bettering our situation, it appears, is only for a temporary purpose: for.sbould we live on the land for fifty years, as farmers, and then be turned oil', we will be very miserable indeed. By that time, wc siiall have forgot how to hunt, in which practice we are now very expert, and then you’ll turn us out of doors, a poor, pitiful, helpless set of wretches. Fathers, listen! We are desirous that the paper which our friends Governor Hull and Judge Woodward brought forward while they were at Washington together, about six years ago, should be passed into a law, and that we will, each, at least get sixty acres of this land per head, and that six hundred and forty acres of said land will be granted to each of our chiefs and sachems, to enable them to sustain the dignity of their offices, and to keep up their importance, as regards.the necessary regulations of police. .. . Fathers, listen! The atmosphere is all cloudy, and every thing looks as if the Great Spirit was displeased. We arc told that there is to be war between our Great Fathers and the British. We arc also told, that there has been a battle between Governor Harrison’s army, and those Indians who are under the influence of the Shawanec prophet. ■ Fathers, listen! We know that some of your wise men, who do not know our customs, will look into your book of treaties, and they will find, that, at Muskingum, fort Harmar, Greenville, and at the treaty of Detroit, this piece of land has been conveyed to the United States, by all the nations. Fathers, listen! We can assure you in' sincerity and truth, how the thing is conducted at all treaties. When the United. States want a particular piece of land, all our nations are assembled,* a large sum of money is offered; the land is occupied probably by one nation only; nine-tenths have no actual interest in the land wanted; if the particular nation interested refuses to sell, they are generally threatened by the others, who want the money or goods ottered, to buy whiskey. Fathers, this is the way in which this small spot,which we so much value, has been so often torn from us.. We, the Wyandotts,are now a small nation.® Unless you have charity for us, we will soon be forgot, like the Nottaways of Virginia.. Fathers, listen! We are very desirous of living in friendship and peace with our brethren of the Seventeen Great Fires; but our young men are not satisfied to be turned off this land in their old days. s: Listen to your children—open your ears! What we have said to you, comes from the bottom .of our Fathers hearts: it is but a trifle we ask of you, as a great nation Detroit, February 5th, 1812. Be charitably inclined to us, and grant us our petition. Maera, or Walk-in-the-Water, his X mark, Chidawenoe, his X mark, Rowesah, his x mark, Rewayerough, his x mark, Ququengh, his X mark, Yeaugli Lowanea, his x mark, Roniyarech, his x mark, Mentotonak, his X mark. The speech of the principal chiefs and warriors of the Wyandots, delivered on the 30th day of September, 1809. To his Excellency Governor Hull: Father: Listen to your children, the Wyandots, delivered by their chiefs and warriors, in which they let you know their sentiments. . 1 Father, listen! for we speak to you now to let you know the sentiments of our minds. We thought *the land we resided upon was our own; formerly, our old chiefs, who are now dead and gone, made a great promise to the Great Spirit above, that they never would move from the land we, their children, now live upon and occupy. Father, listen! You informed us that the land we occupy belonged to you; at the treaty of Greenville, made with our father General Wayne, lie. promised to us the land on which we live; and for that reason, we never will consent to give up talking upon this subject. Father, listen! You will remember that some of our principal chiefs went, last fall, to visit our great father, the President of the United States; our chiefs were very sorry that they could not get an opportunity to talk with our Great Father, the President of the United States, personally. Father, listen! When you arrived at this place amongst your children, you always gave yourchildreri good advice to cultivate the land. Your children of the .Wyandot tribe of Indians have followed your advice, to their great benefit and satisfaction. Father, we were astonished when you told us there was a small tract of land at Browns-town and Maguawgo, for our use for fifty years, and a vacancy in the middle between the two villages. Father, listen to what your children the AYyandots say; this small tract of land is entirely too small for us. What will become of our children that are growing up? ■ . .   _ - Father, listen! You have cut ott-from us the best part of our land. Your children, the principal chiefs, the old warriors, head-warriors, with some of our sensible young men, of the Wyandot nation, request you to grant them the following favor: That the boundary of our lands should commence at a small run, about half a mile from Walk-in-the-water’s dwelling house, on the northeast side; to run from thence, along the Detroit river, until it crosses the river Huron for one mile, that' is, the river Huron beyond Brownstown, to the southwest; thence to extend back to the extent of the'United States’ purchase, on a line established by the treaty of Detroit. Beyond which, to Rocky river, we will forever abandon further claim. F'ather, you know*there is abed of land between the two villages. The chiefs of the Wyandots, and sensible young men of our nation, wish you to let them have that bed of land which lies between the two villages. Father, the reason why your children like this bed of land so well, they have made valuable improvements thereon, which have cost them both labor and expenses; and what is still more sensible to 'our feelings, we love the land that covers the bones of our fathers. Father, listen! Those lands are our sole dependence for cultivation and hunting.- Father, listen again! You inform us concerning our lands,that we are only to enjoy them for fifty years; your children are very uneasy at this information; they say let us enjoy and have our land forever. Father,‘listen! Your children say, let your children, the Wyandots, have their land for one hundred years. The reason why we say one hundred years is tins: if your children, the principal old chiefs of the Wyaiidot tribe of Indians, live so long in peace and quietness, when that day comes, at the end of one hundred years, father, we will again talk on the same subject. _ Father, listen! It surprises us, your children, that our Great Father, the President of the United States, should take as much upon himsell as the Great Spirit above, as he wants all the land on this island. Father, we think lie takes the wold out of the mouth of the Great Spirit; he does not consider that He is Master. Father, he does not think of the Great Spirit above, that He is omnipotent, and master of us all, and every thing in this world. Father, listen to the request of all your Wyandot children; grant us,we supplicate you, our land, in the quantity we have requested in this speech; then, father, we will thank the voice of the Great Spirit above, and thank our father, the President of the United States, in.granting this. 1 * Father, listen! You requested your children, last spring, to take into consideration this subject, concerning our land; we have complied with your request, and now give this answer. Father, listen! We hope you will not think that it is for want of respect to. you, that we make known our sen*-timents on paper, by our friend Jacob Visger., Father, as you have repeatedly promised your children that you would assist them, we will never forget your paternal care of us, if you will assist us at this present time, in forwarding these, our wishes and sentiments, to our Father, the President of the United States. Schow-Han-Wret, or Black Chief, his + mark, Maera, or Walk-in-the-water, his + mark, Sin-dae-we-no, his + mark, Te-yuch-quant, his 4- mark, Han-nac-saw, or Split-log, his + mark, Ha-yane-me-dac, or Isedore, his + mark, Yuch-sha-waw-no, his + mark, Rone-yae-ta, or Sky light, his 4- mark,-Ta-han-none-ka, his 4- mark. 12th Congress.] 
