No. 137. [2d Session. DEPRED A T I 0 N.S. COMMUNICATED TO T1IE SENATE, JANUARY 11, J813. To the Senate of the United States: I transmit to the Senate a Report of the Secretary of War, complying with their resolution of the 25th December last. JAMES MADISON. January 11, 1813. War Department, January 8, ISIS. Sir: I have the honor to lay before you copies of the several letters which have passed between the Secretary of M ar and his Excellency the Governor of Tennessee and Colonel Eenjamin Hawkins, agent near the Creek nation, relative to murders committed by the Indians in the State of Tennessee and its vicinity. Mr ith perfect respect. I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, .IAS. .MONROE. The President of the United States. Extract of a Idler from Benjamin Hawkins, Esq. Creek agent, to the Secretary of JUar, dated Creek Agexcv, 6lh April, 1812. On the 20th ultimo, Thomas Meredith, senior, a respectable old man. travelling, with his family, to the Mississippi territory, was murdered on the post road at Kittome, a creek 15() miles west of this. Sain Macnac, a half-breed. of large property, who keeps entertainment on the road, at whose house Meredith is buried, calls it an * accident.' Thomas Meredith, son of the deceased, who was an eye witness, says there was murder committed on the. body of Thomas Meredith, senior, at Kittome creek, by Maninourb and others, who appeared to be in liquor: that is, Maumotith himself, hut none of the others. The company were all on the other side of the creek, except my father and another old man. 'They fell on him without interruption, and killed him dead, as he was trying to make his escape in a canoe, and sorely wounded the other with knives and sticks, so much that I fear we shall have to bury him on the way. The Speaker of the nation and some of his Executive Council were with me, returning home, at the time I received the communication: which I read to them, and directed, on their return, to convene their chiefs, and cause justice to be done without delay. Maumouth is an old chief, known to all of ns. Several travellers have passed and repassed since, and I hear of no further interruption. Creek Agency, 2oth May, 1812. Amidst the most solemn assurances to me on the part of the chiefs, of this nation, that they were friendly to the citizens of the United States, and would exert themselves to keep their young people from doing acts of violence to their persons or property, as well as to the persons or property of the Floridians, (during the unhinged state, of Spanish affairs I felt it my duty to watch over the safety of my neighbors in that quarter) 1 am this day informed by Mr. Cowles, our inteipreter for the Upper Creeks, that, on the 23d instant, a white man, William Lott, was murdered, eight miles this way from his house, by four Indians, without the least provocation. 'The post rider gave him the. information,; he went immediately, met the travellers with the dead man: one of them accompanied him to the place where the Indians fired; from whence, he tracked them up, until he found one he knew, and three strangers, and ascertained the town and family of the murderers. 'The chiefs will meet in one week, and we shall see what can be done. We have report also that two families have been killed on the Tennessee, To aid the chiefs to bring the murderers to justice, it is likely a show of force will be necessary within the agency. If it should, I shall apply to the General in this quarter. lion. Mmlliam Eustis, Secretary of U'ar. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Creek Agency, 9th June, 1812. Our chiefs have not yet returned from Tuckaubatchee, where they were convened on the demand of satisfaction for the murder of Mr. Lott, on the 23d ultimo. I.have sent the assistant agent, accompanied by Ensign Turner, of the army of the United States, with a reiterated demand; the result of which shall be communicated as soon as received. The Indians seem much alarmed; those of the Lower Creeks, particularly, have expressed their fears, as well as determinations, to aid the Upper Creeks in bringing the offenders to justice. The former have recently, on my demand, cropped and whipped two Indians for breaking open and plundering the factory of the United States of furs, to the value of two hundred and sixteen dollars, and requested me to replace the amount out of their stipend for this year. We experience some inconvenience from loose worthless characters travelling through this agency, and some, pretending to be scientific, misrepresenting every thing they see, either from design, or from associating with persons who have fled from the restraints of civil society. You have a specimen of one of these travellers in the Georgia Journal of the 13th May, who signs himself Francis McHenry, answered in that of the 27th, by Timothy Barnard, public interpreter. This man passes himself sometimes as an Englishman, then a Virginian, and again a Scotchman. I have never seen him; I have a short letter, requesting me to aid in correcting some part of his work, relative to the Indians, which he will send me, and which I would certainly do for auy man, in pursuit of truth. I have lately, on complaint being made to me by the chiefs, given orders to the marshal of the agency to apprehend all such characters found in the agency, oft'the post road, and deliver them to the civil authority, or to whip them out of the agency. When I had Bowles arrested, and sent to answer for his crimes, I was vested, unanimously, by the four nations, with absolute authority overall the white and black people within the agency. Until Congress legislate completely within this agency, I shall execute the authority vested in me by the chiefs. As the rumor of war approaches, and probably will be realized in a month, unless something should arrive from Europe, upon which the Government can count as leading with certainty to peace, I shall soon issue a proclamation against all offenders in the premises, and suited to the approaching crisis. I am, very respectfully, &c. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. Wm. Eustis, Esq. Secretary of JVar. Sir: War Department, 22cl June, 1812. Enclosed you will receive a letter from Governor Blount, with the papers which lie transmitted to this Department, relative to" certain outrages committed by a party of Creek Indians, upon the inhabitants of Tennessee. You will take the necessary measures to have the prisoner, Mrs. Crawley, restorecl to her friends, and the murderers given up to the laws of the United States. Very respectfully, &c. WM. EUSTIS. Ben. Hawkins, Esq. Creek Agency. Extract of a letter from Benjamin Hawkins, Esq. to the Secretary of War, (luted Creek Jlgency, 13 tli July, 1812. A distinguished chief was sent yesterday to inform me that they had put to death the leader of the banditti who murdered Lott. He fled to the white town of Aobohealth Le Mico, Great Medal chief; sat down on his seat as a sanctuary; the leader of the armed party pursued and shot him on the seat, through the head and body. To-day I have two letters from Tuckaubatchee, of the lltli, from people in public service; they inform me three more are put to death. I have heard also from fort St. Stephen’s, that Mrs. Crawley, the prisoner^ from Tennessee, is safe there. Extract of a letter from Benjamin Hawkins, Esquire, to the Secretary of War, dated Creek Agency, 20th July, 1812. They continue unanimous, in all the old towns, to give satisfaction, in all cases required of them. They request me to inform the Government, they mean to punish the guilty, and look for nothing but friendship. The murderers have been eight, and ten, and some twenty years absent, and arc not yet returned. Creek Agency, 2Sth July, 1812. Being on the raid, I have just time to inform you. that the Indian who murdered Meredith, at Kittome, was put to death on the 19th; making, in all, five executed on the demand for satisfaction. The runner says, the disposition among the chiefs to give satisfaction, in all cases, is general. I am, respectfully, &c. BEN. HAWKINS. William Eustis, Esq. Secretary of War. Extract of a letter from Benjamin Hawkins, Esquire, to the Secretary of War, dated Creek Agency, 24th August, 1812. The chiefs have had six murderers put to death, for their crimes on the post road, and to the northwest, and seven cropped and whipped, for thefts. Those charged with the murder on Duck river, are not yet come at. The party after them returned on the twentieth, having heard of them. Five-and-twenty men were immediately started alter them. AVe have not had any complaints recently from the travellers, or post-riders, and the Indians appear very friendly. Extract of a letter from Benjamin Hawkins, Esquire, to the Secretary of War, dated Creek Agency, 3d August, 1812. By reports, up to this day, the chiefs have executed six of the murderers, and cropped and whipped five for theft. Extracts of a letter from Benjamin Hawkins, Esquire, to the Secretary of JVar, dated Creek Agency, 7th September, 1812. I have received a third report from the Executive Council of the Creeks, of the 29th ultimo. Thev have executed eight for murder, and seven arc cropped and whipped for theft. One of those, Hillaubee Haujo, who was the leader of the banditti who committed the murders on Duck river, was, after long search after him, decoyed to the old council house, at the Hickory ground, put to death on the 21st ultimo, and thrown into Coosa river. There has been a murder committed, and a boy wounded by Indians on St. Mary's, four miles above Trader's hill, on the 11th ultimo. The Governor of Georgia has demanded the perpetrators to be delivered up for trial where the offence was committed. Our chiefs have not returned from the meeting among the Seminoles; as soon as they do, and I can convene them, I shall take measures to find out and punish the guilty. Extracts of a letter from Benjamin Hawkins, Esquire, to the Secretary of IVnr. dated Creek Agency, 12th October, 1812. The chiefs of some of our largest towns of the Lower Creeks have been recently with me, on affairs of their own.—They say they are unanimously determined to preserve the friendship of the United States. Travelling appears'to be quite safe. We have had no complaints on the road, of improper conduct from Indians, since the execution of the murderers. Creek Agency, 2d November. 1812. I am so reduced by fevers I can with difficulty sit up to write you a small note. On the 30th ultimo, the Creek chiefs in the National Council unanimously declared to remain in peace with the United States, and that they, would not join, or give countenance to, the Aulochawan Indians, (Seminoles, at war in East Florida.) They are very friendly, and have no disputing among themselves. BEN. IIAWKINS. Secretary of War. Extract of a letter from Benjamin Hawkins to the Secretary of War, dated Creek Agency, Oth November, 1812. General Hampton passed through here last month, and I requested the favor of him to examine into the conduct of the Creeks, as well as their fulfilment of their promises, in relation to their murderers. He promised to do so. I send a copy of his letter on the subject. Extract of a letter from General Humpton to Benjamin Hawkins, Esquire, Creek Agent, dated Fort Stoddart, 15th October, 1812. I got through safely and comfortably, and witnessed on my way the most friendly dispositions on the part of the Indians, as well as the most satisfactory convictions of the faithfulness with which their late executions were inflicted on their murderers, which I can regard as the best proof of their future intentions. Mii.i.edgkville, 2U/i November. 1812. I have this day received reiterated assurances from the Creeks and Chcrokees, of their unanimous determination tube in peace and friendship with the United Suites, and of (heir unbounded confidence in the justice of their President. Travelling through the C.reek Agency is perfectly safe, and the Creeks more friendly than they have been to travellers. Very respectfully, &c. BEN. HAWKINS. The Secretary of War. W ah Department, June 22;/, 1812. Sir: Your Excellency's letter, of the 8th instant, has been received, and transmitted to Benjamin Hawkins, Esq. Creek agent, with directions to procure the release of Mrs. Crawley, and to demand the surrender, to the authority of the United Stales, of the Indians who may have committed the murders. 1 have the honor to be, &c. W. EUSTIS. His Excellency Wilkie Blount, Governor of Tennessee. Knoxville, June 25, 1812. Sir: I feel it to be my duty to say, that I believe that the spirit of the people in this State is so roused, by (he conduct of those Creek Indians who recently massacred some of our citizens, near the mouth of Duck river, and who took Mrs. Crawley prisoner, whom I have, in a former letter, requested that the President would, without delay, demand to be given up, that they, probably, cannot be restrained if satisfaction is not given in reasonable time, from taking it. It is said that those Creeks take that poor woman from town to town, in their nation, naked, and exultingly dance around her as their captive. I have said, in a former letter to you, that if Government would order a campaign to be carried into the Creek nation, there to punish them for their crimes, that quiet would follow: I now repeat it, and recommend it as the best way of keeping peace, already violated; I repeat it, under the fullest conviction that it would be the most effectual way. permanently, to preserve peace with thein, and I believe that nothing short of it w ill. Your obedient servant, WILLIE BLOUNT. Hon. W. Eustis, Secretary of War. Extracts of a letter from his Excellency the Governor of Tennessee to the Secretary of War, dated Knoxville, July 2G, 1812. I have the honor to forward an extract of a letter from Mr. Henry to his friend, informing of the escape of Mrs. Crawley from the Creek Indians. She certainly is under no obligation to the Creeks for her liberty, hut the reverse is the fact. Since the receipt of yours, of the 22d of June, respecting the demand, made of the Creek nation, for a surrender of the party of Creeks who committed the massacre at the mouth of Duck river; I have not heart! from Colonel Hawkins; neither has he acknowledged the receipt of mine, of the 8th of June, on the same subject. Ilis delay creates much surprise, and, indeed, it savors strongly of neglect. If the murderers are not given up shortly, (and, indeed, they ought to have been surrendered before this) it will be fair to presume that that nation does not intend to comply with the demand made by Government; in which case, I do not permit myself to doubt, but that Government will enforce the demand with a strong hand. 103 * Extract of a letter from Mr. William Henry to John J. Henry, Esq. of William county, Tennessee, dated St. Stephen’s, Mobile, 26th June, 1812. I have this day seen Mrs. Crawley, who was carried off by the Creeks from the mouth of Duck river, Tennessee; she is at Mr. Gainiss’s of this place. It would chill the blood of any human being to hear her tell her lamentable story. She says she was in her own house, and her husband .absent, when eleven of those monsters attacked her early in the'morning; she saw them coming, heard their hellish screams, and immediately shut the door, and placed herself against it, and resisted their attempts to force it open as long as she was able. Another woman, Mrs. Manley, who had come to her house, Mrs. Crawley’s, to lie in, and whose babe was only seven days old, told her it was useless to hold the door, for they would get in at last; at length, quite overcome, the door was burst open upon her, and flung round so as to hide her behind it. The Indians immediately rushed in, and the poor woman and ner babe were the first victims. Still standing behind the door, Mrs. Crawley saw them kill one of her own children in the house, shoot another in the yard, and two others of Mrs. Manley’s. A young man, of the name of Hays, she also saw kdled. Another little child, her own, she saw hide itself in the cellar. When she was discovered, .she sprang forward and caught hold of one of the Indians, and begged her life of him; they then plundered the house and brought her oft'to a village on the Black Warrior river, where they prepared to kill her, and dug a grave for her; but the squaw, who had charge of her, gave her information, and she made her escape the night before she was to be put to death. The chief man of the village was disposed to be peaceable, and bought her, after her escape, and sent out several of his young men to hunt for me, by whom she was found, after two or three days, half starved and half naked, and brought by them to this place. The citizens are vying with each other to make her situation comfortable, and to have her conveyed to her friends. She seems to be a modest well disposed woman. The foregoing is copied from a Nashville paper, and transmitted for your information. WILLIE BLOUNT. Sir: War Department, Jlugust 7, 1812. Your Excellency’s letter, of the 26th of July, is received, in answer to which, I take the liberty of enclosing a copy of a letter from Colonel Hawkins. It is hoped the prompt manner in which the Indians have administered justice on the offenders, will supersede the necessity of making a campaign against them. I have the honor to be, &c. W. EUSTIS. His Excellency Willie Blount, Governor of Tennessee. Nashville, October 14, 1812. Sir: I have received your several letters, covering copies and extracts of letters from Colonel Hawkins, informing you that the Creek council had informed him that the Creeks would kill all murderers and thieves in their land, meaning to include those who had killed a number of our citizens, near the mouth of Duck river; and one, expressive of your opinion, that that round about way of giving satisfaction, or reporting about its being done, and about to be done, in that way, would he considered such a prompt execution of justice, on the part of the Creeks, in compliance with the demand made by the Government, that tire Creek nation should give those offenders up to the laws of the United States, that the necessity of a campaign, to be carried against them, would be, or was.thereby, superseded. I beg leave, respectfully, to remark, that our opinions, as to',what amounts to a ready compliance with the demand made in that case, widely differ, and have the honor to be. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, WILLIE BLOUNT. The Honorable William Eustis, Secretary of War. * I 13th Congress.] 
