No. 33. [2d Session-. NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, DECEMBER G, 1792. Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House of Representatives: The several measures which have been pursued to induce the hostile Indian tribes, North of the Ohio, to enter into a conference or treaty with the United States, at which all causes of difference might be fully understood, and justly and amicably arranged, have already been submitted to both Houses of Congress. The papers herewith sent will inform you of the result. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, December the 6th, 1792. War Department, December 6th, 1792. Sir: < In explanation of the speeches from the chiefs of the Six Nations, herewith submitted, it may be proper to observe, that Jasper Parish, who is a temporary interpreter to those tribes, informs verbally, that the said chiefs returned from the hostile tribes to Buffalo Creek about the last of October. That they immediately sent a runner to General Chapin, the temporary agent to the Six Nations, and who resides at Canandaigua, about ninety or one hundred miles distant. That he being absent, his son and the interpreter repaired to Buffalo Creek, where they received the said speeches. * _ \ Besides the papers transmitted by Mr. Chapin, the interpreter says, that a list of the tribes which composed the council at the Au Glaize, on the Miami river of Lake Erie, was taken by Mr. Chapin,.but he omitted to transmit it He was informed by the chiefs of the Six Nations, that, at the council of the hostile Indians, which was numerous, but the numbers not specified, no other white person was admitted but Simon Girty, whom they considered as one of themselves. That the chiefs of the Shawanese were the only speakers, on the part of the hostile Indians, and Red Jacket, the Seneca Chief, the only speaker on the part of the friendly Indians. That Captain Brandt did not arrive at the An Glaize until after the council had broken up, which, probably, by a comparison of circumstances, happened about the 10th or 12th of October. That Captain Hendricks, the chief of the Stockbridge Indians, had proved unfaithful, having delivered the message, belt, and map, with which he was entrusted for the hostile Indians, to Mr. McKee, the British Indian agent, and that the said Hendricks did not repair to the council at all. i The said Jasper Parish also adds, that Red Jacket was exceedingly desirous of repairing to Philadelphia in person, but Mr. Chapin apprehending the expenses, persuaded him to the contrary. This circumstance is exceedingly to be regretted, as further information and explanations would be highly desirable at this moment, in order to judge with greater precision of the meaning of the speeches, which may have suffered in the translation, as well as in other respects. I have the honor to be, sir, with the highest respect, your obedient and humble servant, H. KNOX, Secretary of War. The President of the United States. Canandaigua, November 22, 1792. Sin: Enclosed are the speeches of the Western Indians to the Six Nations, as also their speeches delivered to me in council, at Buffalo creek, which will be handed you by Mr. Parish, who is employed by the United States as an interpreter to my father, You will observe by them, the mode the Indians wish to have pursued, to hold a council next spring; perhaps Mr. Parish can give you some information, which is not noted in the speeches, though I think every observation is minuted. Thdre were a number of gentlemen from Niagara, who attended the council at Buffalo creek, amongst which, was Colonel Butler, the Indian agent under the British Government, who, in some of his leisure hours, expressed himself, that unless proper means were taken, a lasting peace could not take place; but if the United States’ proposals are honorable, he would give every assistance in his power, but if otherwise, he should prevent a peace taking place. Major Littletrates, who represented Governor Simcoe, assured me it was the disposition of the Governor to give every assistance in his power to procure peace on equitable terms. 1 am, sir, with every sentiment of respect and esteem, Your humble servant, 1SRL. CHAPIN, Jr. lion. Henry Knox, Esq. Buffalo Creek, November 1G, 1792. Brothers, People of the United States, and King’s People, take notice Last winter the President took us by the hand, and led us to the council lire, at Philadelphia; there they made known to us their friendship, and requested of us to proceed to the Westward, and to use our influence to make peace with the hostile Indians: we went accordingly, and made known to them our agreement. When we returned from Philadelphia to Buffalo creek, the chiefs that remained at home on their seats, was well pleased with what we had done at Philadelphia; and after we had determined to proceed op   our journey, some of our chiefs was detained on account of sickness. Brothers, People of the United States, and King’s People: After we arrived at the 'Westward, we met with an agreeable reception; they informed us we was their oldest brothers, and appeared as the sun risen oil them, as they always looked to them for advice. It is now four years since we have heard your voices, and should he happy now to hear what you have to relate to us. The Six Nations then requested of the Western Indians what they had to relate to them, as they kindled the council fire. The Western Indians replied: About four years since your voices came to us, desiring us to combine ourselves together, as we was the eldest people of this island, and all of one color, that our minds may be one. This they informed us they had attended to, and exhibited a large bunch of wampum to prove the same, from each nation. To confirm it still further, they informed us we sent them a pipe, which passed through all the nations at the west and southward; all smoked out of it, both women and children; and as tins pipe has been through the nations, and all smoked out of it, they then returned it to us, and bid us to smoke out ol it ourselves. Brothers: Listen once to your eldest brothers: Our forefathers have handed down to us. that we arc one people, of one color, on this island, and ought to be of one mind, and had made our minds strong, and had become as one people in peace and friendship. This being done, our chiefs agreed to hand it down to future posterity, and the same combination to continue down to them. The nation called the Unions, took a brand from our fire and kindled it, and became a people with us; then we considered ourselves as one people, combined together. And now there is a white people on this island who are watching our conduct; but let us attend to our own concerns, and brighten the chain of friendship with our nations: and as our minds are one, let us consider future posterity, and not consider those young warriors who are in the prime of life, and so much engaged in the pursuit of land, &c. which is the cause of so much difficulty at present. Brothers:.-Consider your country, which is good, and conduct yourselves in such a manner as to keep it (o yourselves and posterity. Now, Brothers: You present us the pipe you say your oldest brothers sent you; you say your head chiefs all smoked out of it, and returning it to us again, all took i(, and smoked out of it ourselves, in friendship. Now, as we are thus combined together, we are abte to lift a heavy burden. Shawanee Nation.—Our eldest Brothers: We have heard \i hat you have related—we have heard it with attention; we consider it as if you delivered it from the outside of your lips; although you consider us your younger brothers, your seats are not at such a distance, but what we can see your conduct plainly; these are the reasons why we consider you to speak from the outside of your lips; for whenever you hear the voice of the United States, you immediately take your packs and attend their councils. We see plainly folded under your arm the voice of the LTnited States—wish you to unfold it to us, that we may see it freely and consult on it. [Speaking on a string of wampum of three strings, throwing it across the fire to us, instead of handing it in a friendly manner.] ■ Then we proceeded to relate the instructions of Congress, which is too tedious to relate, and which they already know; but when we first related it, we failed for interpreters, so that they had not a proper idea of it; they appeared to be very much ruffled in their minds, and adjourned the council to the next day; then it was interpreted properly to them, and they appeared easy in their minds. Eldest Brothers: You desire us to consider our country and property; we will accept of your advice, and proceed accordingly. Six Nations.—Let us look hack to the time of white people coining into this country; very soon began to traffic for land. Soon after, Sir Win. Johnston was sent as an agent from the King, and lie began to purchase at the treaty at foil Stan wix, and purchased all east of the river Ohio. A lew years alter Ibis purchase, the people of the States and the King’s people broke apart, and we being persuaded to take the King’s part, became very bad for us. Afterafew years, the King was beat; then the States took possession of all the land the English formerly took from the French. You tell us, we come with the voice of the United States; we do, together with the advice of the King. He fells ns, not to throw our minds on either side, but to listen to reason, &c. and remain a peuple confederated. Shawanee Nation.—Now, Eldes t Brothers: You come to us with your opinion, and the voice of the United States. It is your mind to put an end to all hostilities. Brothers: now we will relate what took place last fall, in our country. General Washington sent an army into our country, which fell into our hands; their orders was thus, to proceed into our country as far as the Miami towns, to the Glaize; thence to Detroit, but not to molfst. the King’s people, and il the army should meet any people that appeared friendly, to leave them behind their backs without harm. The President of the United States innst well know, why the blood is so deep in our paths. We have been informed, lie has sent messengers of peace on these bloody roads, who fell on the way. And now, as he knows that road to be bloody, no communication to take place through that bloody way, as there is a path through the Six Nations’ country, which is smooth and easy. If he wants to send the voice of peace, it must pass through this road. Eldest Brothers: We have been informed, the President of the United States thinks himselfthe greatest man on this Island. We had this country long in peace, before we saw any person of a white skin: we. consider the people of a white skin the younger. Brothers: You inform us it is the wish of the white people, to hold council with us. General Washington being the head-man; we will consent to treat with them; we desire you, our older brothers, to inform General Washington we will treat with him, at the Rapids of Miami, next spring, or at the time when the leaves are fully out. We consider'ourselves still the proper owners of some land on the east side of the Ohio. But we will deliver tip that, for money that has been paid to some individuals, for land on the west side of the river Ohio. Brothers: You have given us a dish and one spoon, desiring the. whole combination to eat with them; we accept of them, and shall do accordingly. We are now about to complete the business yon came on. When you return, you will make known to' the President, what we have done; it may be, he will not consent to what we have proposed; and if he will not, we must call on you to assist in the heavy burden which will lie on us. We have opened a path for them and pointed out a way, and, if he will not walk in it, we must have your assistance. Now, our Eldest Brothers: When the Presidentcayne to you, lie took you aside to hear what he had to say. He desired you to come to us, and deliver the messages; you have delivered them, and we desire you to deliver the messages we have given you to deliver to him, and desire him to send a message back, what he will do respecting what we have done and concluded on; to forward it to you, and you to ns. We will lay the bloody tomahawk aside, until we hear 1’roni the President of the United States, and when this message comes to 11s. we will send it to all the different nations. [Speaking on three strings of wampum.] Speech from the Six Nations to the President. You sent us on the Westward, with’a message of peace to the hostile Indians. We proceeded accordingly to your directions, and was protected, going and coming, by the Great Spirit. We give thanks to the Great Spirit, that we hav e all returned sale to our seats. While we was at the Westward, we exerted odrsclves to bring about peace. The fatigues we underwent, are not small. Now, it is our desire for your people, on'the Ohio, to lay down their arms, or otherwise it is all in vain, what we have done. Now, if you wish for peace, you must make every exertion, and proceed through this path, we have directed for you. If peace does not take place, the fault must arise from your people. We now desire you, brothers, to send forward agents, who are men of honesty, not proud land jobbers, but men who love and desire peace. Also, desire they may be accompanied by some Friend or Quaker, to attend the council. . . Wish you to exert yourselves, to forward the message to the Western Indians as soon as possible; and we are taken by the hand, and have agreed, next, spring, to attend the council at the Ilapids of Miami, when we shall heat-all that takes place there. Hostile Indians to Governor Simcoe. Brothers: We have been informed, the late Governor is a good man; we desire that von will take the Governor by the hand, and lead him to the council next spring. Exert yourselves to get him up, that he may not be backward; that he may sit side and side with the Americans at the time of the council. And when you take him by the hand, desire him to furnish us with provisions necessary for the treat}*. Six Nations to the Governor. Brothers: Now, we have laid all our proceedings before you, which took-place at the Westward. You have heard the request of your Western brothers, therefore, wish you to exert' yourselt to grant their requests. You informed us, to listen to the voice, of peace, wherever we might hear it. Now wc hear the voice of peace; we call on you for assistance, that we may obtain peace through this Island. Brothers: We now sit here together; you are the man who represents the United States'; we have discerned, that too great a degree of pride has subsisted between the two Governments; we desire that it may be laid aside. When the agents from the United States come forward to the council, we desire they may bring forward all records, plans, maps, and documents, that any way respect the lands purchased from the Indians. Fish Carrier's Speech. ■ ■ Desiring this degree of pride, which has heretofore subsisted, may be done away, and that each government will mutually consent and agree omterms of peace. Cornp/antePs Speech. He informs, that he has always attended treaties, that has been held, and has always wished for peace, and has done all in his power for peace: that he has not advised any hostilities to commence on either side, and, now wishes each government to lay aside all pride and prejudice, and to use their endeavors for peace. - After the council was over, Major Littletrates, who represented Governor Simcoe on that occasion, answered the Indians as follows: Brothers: I shall lay before the governor, your requests; and respecting his furnishing you with provisions, &c. I doubt not but he will do it agreeable to your wishes. And also, to procure all records, plans, and documents, which shall be thought necessary, and to do every thing in his power to bring about a peace, so interesting to the United States, as well as to the British Government 1792.] SOUTHWESTERN TRIBES. 325 2nd Congress.] 
