No. 110. [1st Session. WYANDOTS AND OTHERS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 16, 1806. War Department, January 16th, 1806. Sir: I have the honor of informing the committee who have under consideration the trealy wilh the Wyandots, and other Indian nations, made on the 4th of July last, that the Connecticut land companies, interested in said treaty, have deposited with this Department, specie and public stock, sufficient, as collateral security, for the fulfilment of the several stipulations in said treaty, on the part of said companies. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, H. DEARBORN. The Honorable Mr. Bai.dwin, Chairman of said Committee. To the President of the United States. Ridgefield, (Con.) 1st October, 1804. Sir: The directors of the company, incorporated by the State of Ohio, by the name of “ The proprietors of the half million acres of land, lying south of lake Erie, called Sufferers’ land,” by their vote, have requested me to make application of the President, requesting that a commissioner be appointed, to hold a treaty with the Indians, for the purpose of enabling the directors to extinguish the Indian title to said lands. From the information which the directors have been able to obtain, relative to the Indian title, they have reason to believe, that it may now be obtained. Such is the situation of the proprietors, that it has becoinS extremely interesting to them thal the same should now be effected. It will be unnecessary for me to detail the considerations which now influence them to this measure, relying, with confidence, that the goodness of the President, and his knowledge of the unfortunate circumstances which led to the original grant of these lands, will be a sufficient inducement, with him, to take all proper measures to make the property valuable to the sufferers. Therefore, permit me, in their behalf, to request the President that a commissioner may be appointed for this purpose. If this measure should meet the approbation of the President, we hope to be able to effect the treaty early in the coining spring. I am, sir, your most obedient and humble servant, PHILIP P. BRADLEY, Chairman of said Directors. To Ilwmas Jefferson, Esq. President of the United States. Hartfohd, February 2Slh, 1805. The undersigned, directors of the Connecticut land company, in behalf of themselves, and proprietors of said company, respectfully request of the President liberty to hold a treaty with the Indian tribes, claiming a native title to that part of the Connecticut reservation, lying between the Cayahoga, and the Sufferers’ land, (so called) containing about one million of acres, and that power and authority may be granted them to extinguish the native claim and title to said tract of land, and that a commission may be, by the President of the United States, appointed to hold a treaty with said Indian tribes, claiming the native right to those lands, and vested with power to accomplish the object prayed for. Various are the reasons that may be urg’ed, in favor of this application, which the President will perceive without mention; amongst which, not the smallest is, that when the sufferers quiet the Indian claims to their lands on the Sandusky lake, the chain of settlement, from the Pennsylvania line, to the Sufferers' lands, and those of the United States, will be interrupted, and the tract of country which the Indians have,' heretofore, occupied, solely as hunting ground, will be rendered useless to them for that purpose, and will be a secure and safe asylum for rogues and fugitives from justice, and secure from the arm of justice, and will become the pests of society, and the constant disturbers of the peace of the frontier settlers. The President will be pleased to receive this application and request, transmitted through the proper organ, accompanied with other necessary documents and information. All which arc respectfully submitted to the wise consideration of the President, by his most obedient and very humble servants, HENRY CHAMPION, MOSES CLEAVELAND, ROGER NEWBERRY, SAMUEL MATHER, Jr. Directors. War Department, April 2, 1805. Sir: . The President of the United States has appointed you a commissioner to hold a treaty with the Wyandot, Ottawa, and Chippewa Indians, or such of them, and such other Indians, as may claim a right to the lands, bordering on the southerly part of lake Erie, between the Cayahoga river and the Miami of the lakes, and extending southerly to the present Indian boundary line, as established by tne treaty of Greenville. The object of the proposed treaty being principally that of affording the Connecticut land companies, (who hold the pre-emptive right, under the State of Connecticut, to a certain part of the land above described) an opportunity to purchase the Indian title to the lands claimed by the said companies, your duties will chiefly consist, in notifying the chiefs ol the several nations, who are interested, of the time and place of holding said treaty; and in presiding thereat, for the purpose of seeing that any bargain, which the agents of the said companies may enter into with the proper representatives of the Indian nations, shall be fair and just, and well understood by the parties. You will use your influence to induce the Indians to make a cession of the lands claimed by the Connecticut companies, on reasonable terms, such as they, and their respective nations, will, or ought to be satisfied with. The agents of those companies will produce their authorities for entering into, and complying with, any stipulations that shall be agreed upon, with your consent, as commissioner on the part of the United States. The said agents will provide the necessary accommodations and provisions, for those who attend the treaty, as well on their owm part as that of the Indians, or the United States. 'Fhe price usually given for Indian cessions, in different parts of the United States, has not exceeded one cent per acre. And the Government of the United States is, in no case, except for some particular favorite tracts, inclined to give, at most, more than at the rate of two cents per acre. Rut, if the agents on the part of the aforesaid companies sliould be disposed to agree to a higher price, there should be no such objection, on your part, as to prevent the bargain; although it would be the most advisable, that the price should not exceed what the United States usually pay or would agree to pay for lands similarly situated, ana of equal quality. From one to two cents per acre would, probably, be a reasonable price for the lands in question. A deputation from the Six Nations will, probably, attend the treaty, and claim a right to a considerable part of the land to be treated for. If so, they ought to be heard on the subject ; and, should their claim appear to be just, or such as the other nations will consent to recognise, stipulations ought, in the first instance, to be entered into between them, designating what proportion of the purchase money each nation shall receive. If the Indian chiefs shall appear disposed to cede, not only the lands claimed by the Connecticut companies, but any part, or the whole of their lands, lying between the lands, claimed by the said companies, and the present boundary, as established at the treaty of Greenville, and since run and marked by the United States, you are authorized to negotiate with them for so much of the same as they will consent to cede, on terms not exceeding two cents per acre. You may agree to pay, in money or goods, a reasonable proportion, say one-half of the whole purchase money which shall be stipulated to be paid, on account of lands purchased for the United Stales, as soon as the treaty shall be duly ratified; and, for the remainder of the purchase money, yon may agree to pay yearly, an annuity, which shall be equal to the annual interest of said remainder. ' The tract of land, claimed by the Connecticut companies, is situated between the forty-first and forty-second degrees of north latitude, and bounded easterly bv the Cayahoga, and w esterly by a meridional line, to be drawn one hundred and twenty miles due west from the west line of Pennsylvania, and contains about one million five hundred thousand acres. Although the western boundary has not been fully ascertained, it will, probably, be near the mouth of Sandusky bay. And the tract which you will more especially endeavor to obtain the cession of, from the Indians, on account of the United States, is situated between the southern boundary of the above described tract, and the present boundary between the United States and the Indians, established bv the treaty of Greenville, and extending westerly to the head-waters of the Scioto and the Sandusky rivers, and contains, probably, one million or one million and one quarter of acres. If the Indian chiefs shall be disposed to cede a tract, between Sandusky and the Miami of the lakes, on terms such as are. above mentioned, you will stipulate with them accordingly. Your commission accompanies these instructions. 1 am, sir, &c. H. DEARBORN. Charles Jouktt, Esquire. Fort Industry, 4th July, 1805. Sir: I have the honor to lay before you a treaty, this day concluded with the Wyandot, Ottawa, Chippewa, M unsee, Delaware, Shawanee, and part of the Pattaw'atamy nation of Indians; wherein, they convey to the United States all that tract of country lying south of the Connecticut reserve, and north of the boundary line established by the treaty of Greenville, and west of the Pensylvania line, one hundred and twenty miles; the cession containing, by estimation, twelve hundred thousand acres. The treaty requires not a dollar of the United States in advance, but simply an annuity of eight hundred and twenty-five dollars, the legal interest on thirteen thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars; bringing the purchase to rather more than one cent per acre. The Connecticut companies have also obtained a cession of their lands, for eighteen thousand nine hundred and sixteen dollars and sixty-seven cents; four thousand dollars they paid the Indians in cash, twelve to be paid in six equal annual instalments, and two thousand nine hundred and sixteen dollars and sixty-seven cents into the hands of tin1 President, in six per cent stock, and such other security as he may require, for producing an annuity of one hundred and seventy-five dollars, creating an annual sum to be paid to the Indians, at one thousand dollars per year: the several sums are to be secured to the President of the. United States, in such manner as he may think proper to direct. You will see by those treaties, that an annuity is to be paid, of one thousand dollars, to the Wyandot, Delaware, and such of the Seneca and Shawanese nations that reside with the Wyandots; and an instalment of two thousand dollars per year, for six years, to the Ottawa, Chippewa, and such of the Pattawatainies, as reside on the river Huron of lake Erie; which several sums constitute the full amount-of all the moneys given for the several tracts of land purchased. I am, your obedient servant, C. JOUETT. I 9th Congress.] 
