NO. 176 TREATY WITH THE OTTAWAS, CHIPPEWAS, AND P A T T A W A T A MIE S. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 24, 1821. [To the Senate of the United States:	DECEMBER 24, 1821. I transmit to the Senate a treaty recently concluded with the Indian tribes at Chicago, with the papers relating thereto, which is submitted for consideration as to its ratification. JAMES MONROE. 33 E TREATY WITH THE OTTAWAS, CHIPPEWAS, AND PATTAWATAMIES. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at Chicago, in the State of Illinois, between Lewis Cass and Solomon Sibley, commissioners of the United States, and the Ottawa, Chippewa, and Pattawatamie nations of Indians. ARTICLE 1. The Ottawa, Chippewa, and Pattawatamie nations of Indians cede to the United States all the land comprehended within the following boundaries: Beginning at a point on the south bank of the river St. Joseph of Lake Michigan, near the Parc aux Vaches, due north from Reaum’s village; and running thence, south, to a line drawn due east from the southern extreme of Lake Michigan; thence, with the said line, east, to the tract ceded by the Pattawatamies to the United States by the treaty of Fort Meigs in one thousand eight hundred and seventeen, if the said line should strike the said tract; but, if the said line should pass north of the said tract, then such line shall be continued until it strikes the western boundary of the tract ceded to the United States by the treaty of Detroit in one thousand eight hundred and seven; and from the termination of the said line, following the boundaries of former cessions, to the main branch of the Grand river of Lake Michigan, should any of the said lines cross the said river; but if none of the said lines should cross the said river, then to a point due east of the source of the said main branch of the said river, and from such point, due west, to the source of the said principal branch, and from the crossing of the said river, or from the source thereof, as the case may be, down the said river, on the north bank thereof, to the mouth; thence, following the shore of Lake Michigan, to the south bank of the said river St. Joseph, at the mouth thereof; and thence, with the said south bank, to the place of beginning. ART. 2. From the cession aforesaid there shall be reserved, for the use of the Indians, the following tracts: One tract atMaogachqua village, on the river Peble, of six miles square. One tract at Mickkesawbe, of six miles square. One tract at the village of Natowasepe, of four miles square. One tract at the village of Prairie Ronde, of three miles square. One tract at the village of Matchebcnashshewish, at the head of the Kekalamazoo river. ART. 3. There shall be granted by the United States to each of the following persons, being all Indians by descent, and to their heirs, the following tracts of land: To John Burnett, two sections of land. To James Burnett, Abraham Burnett, Rebecca Burnett, and Nancy Burnett, each, one section of land; which said John, James, Abraham, Rebecca, and Nancy, are children of Kawkeeme, sister of Topinibe, principal chief of the Pattawatamie nation. The land granted to the persons immediately preceding shall begin on the north bank of the river St. Joseph, about two miles from the mouth, and shall extend up and back from the said river for quantity. To John B. La Lime, son of Nokenoqua, one-half a section of land, adjoining the tract before granted, and on the upper side thereof. To Jean B. Chandonai, son of Chippewaqua, two sections of land, on the river St. Joseph, above and adjoining the tract granted to J. B. La Lime. To Joseph Daze, son of Chippewaqua, one section of land, above and adjoining the tract granted to Jean B. Chandonai. To Monguago, one-half a section of land, at Mishshewakokink. To Pierre Moran, or Peeresh, a Pattawatamie chief, one section of land, and to his children two sections of land, at the mouth of the Elkhart river. To Pierre Le Clerc, son of Moiqua, one section of land, on the Elkhart river, above and adjoining the tract granted to Moran and his children. The section of land granted by the treaty of St. Mary’s, in one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, to Peeresh, or Perig, shall be granted to Jean B. Cicot, son of Pesayquot, sister of the said Peeresh, it having been so intended at the execution of the said treaty. To Osheakkebe, or Benac, one-half of a section of land, on the north side of the Elkhart river, where the road from Chicago to Fort Wayne first crosses the said river. To Menawche, a Pattawatamie wuman, one-half of a section of land, on the eastern bank of the St. Joseph, where the road from Detroit to Chicago first crosses the said river. To Theresa Chandler, or Toeakqui, a Pattawatamie woman, and to her daughter Betsey Fisher, one section of land, on the south side of the Grand river, opposite to the Spruce swamp. To Charles Beaubien and Medart Beaubien, sons of Mannabenaqua, each, one-half of a section of land, near the village of Kewigoshkeem, on the Washtenaw river. To Antoine Roland, son of Igatpatawatamiequa, one-half of a section of land, adjoining and below the tract granted to Pierre Moran. To William Knaggs, or Waseskukson, son of Chesqua, one-half of a section of land, adjoining and below the tract granted to Antoine Roland. To Madeline Bertrand, wife of Joseph Bertrand, a Pattawatamie woman, one section of land, at the Parc aux Vaches, on the north side of the river St. Joseph. To Joseph Bertrand, jun., Benjamin Bertrand, Laurent Bertrand, Theresa Bertrand, and Amablc Bertrand, children of the said Madeline Bertrand, each, one-half of a section of land, at the portage of the Kankakee river. To John Riley, son of Menawcumegoqua, one section of land at the mouth of the river Au Foin, on the Grand river, and extending up the said river. To Peter Riley, the son of Menawcumegoqua, one section of land, at the mouth of the river Au Foin, on the Grand river, and extending down the said river. To Jeqn B. Le Clerc, son of Moiqua, one-half of a section of land, above and adjoining the tract granted to Pierre Le Clerc. To Joseph La Framboise, son of Shawwenoqua, one section of land,upon the south side of the river St. Joseph, and adjoining, on the, upper side, the land ceded to the United States; which said section was also ceded to the United States. The tracts of land herein stipulated to be granted shall never be leased or conveyed by the grantees, or their heirs, to any persons whatever, without the permission of the President of the United States. And such tracts shall be located after the said cession is surveyed, and in conformity with such surveys, as near as may be, and in such manner as the President may direct. ART. 4. In consideration of the cession aforesaid, the United States engage to pay to the Ottawa nation one thousand dollars in specie, annually, forever; and also to appropriate, annually, for the term of ten years, the sum of fifteen hundred dollars, to be expended as the President may direct, in the support of a blacksmith, of a teacher, and of a person to instruct the Ottawas in agriculture, and in the purchase of cattle and farming utensils. And the United States also engage to pay to the Pattawatamie nation five thousand dollars, in specie, annually, for the term of twenty years; and also to appropriate, annually, for the term of fifteen years, the sum of one thousand dollars, to be expended as the President may direct, in the support of a blacksmith and a teacher. And one mile square shall be selected, under the direction of the President, on the north side of the Grand river, and one mile square on the south side of the St. Joseph, and within the Indian lands not ceded, upon which the blacksmiths and teachers employed for the said tribes, respectively, shall reside. ART. 5. The stipulation contained in the treaty of Greenville, relative to the right of the Indians to hunt upon the land ceded, while it continues the property of the United States, shall apply to this treaty. ART. 6. The United States shall have the privilege of making and using a road through the Indian country from Detroit and Fort Wayne, respectively, to Chicago. ART. 7. This treaty shall take effect, and be obligatory on the contracting parties, so soon as the same shall be ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof. In testimony whereof, the said Lewis Cass and Solomon Sibley, commissioners as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors of the said Ottawa, Chippewa, and Pattawatamie nations, have hereunto set their hands, at Chicago aforesaid, this twenty-ninth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-one. LEWIS CASS, SOLOMON SIBLEY. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Ottawa, Chippewa, and Pattawatamie nations of Indians.] 17th CONGRESS.]	
