No., 75. [2d Session. INDIAN LANDS IN NORTH CAROLINA. communicated to the senate, march I. 1797. Mr. HlU .house, from the committee to whom was referred the letter and enclosures from the Governor of North Carolina, relative to the extinguishment of the Indian title to lands granted to T. Glasgow and Co. by the State of North Carolina; the address of .the Legislature of the State of Tennessee, on the same subject; and also the petition of J. Glasgow and others, relative to lands'entered in the office of John Armstrong, Esq. and since ceded to the United States, reported: That the State of North Carolina did, by a law passed on the 2d day of May, 1778, declare the Western boundary, or line or said State, comprehending all the lands then claimedi to have been ceded by the Indians, or con- quered from them; which line did not extend so far westwardly, or into the Indian country, as the present boundary line between the United States and the Indian tribes; declaring all past entries or surveys to be void, and prohibiting all future entries or surveys over and beyond said line, which was, also, recognised by a law passed the 13th of September, 1780. On the 17th of May, 1783, said State passed a law declaring it expedient to extend the Western boundary of said State, and that the same was, in and by said law, extended to the Mississippi, including the lands in question, and opening a land office for entering and surveying the same, for the discharge of certain debts of said State, contracted during the late war; excepting from such entry wid survey, certain tracts described in said act, and declared to be reserved for the Indians and other special purposes. The.entries and surveys, which have been made by the claimants on the lands in question, were under said act and an act of the 2d of June, 1784, but it does not appear that the Indian title to said lands has ever been extinguished. The treaty of Hopewell, between the United States and the Cherokee tribe of Indians, made on the 28th of November, 1785, established a line between the United States and said tribe, excluded a large portion of the lands, which are claimed to have been entered and surveyed under said acts; at which treaty the agent of North Carolina attended, and entered his protest against it, as’intreuch-ing upon the rights of that State: this treaty was, however, agreed to. and ratified by the United States and said tribe, on the 21st of November, 1789. North Carolina hmeedeu to the present constitution of the United States, and, on the 22d of December following, passed an act ceding to the United States all her claim to territory lying west of a certain line, and including all the said lands; in which cession it is, among other tilings, blade a condition, “ That all entries made by, or grants made to, all and every person or persons whatsoever, agreeable to law, and within the limits thereby intended to be ceded to the United States, should have the same force and effect as if such cession had not been made: and that all and every right of occupancy and pre-emption,’and every other right reserved by any act or acts, to persons settled on, and occupying, lands, within the limits of the lands hereby intended to be ceded as aforesaid, shall continue to b.e in full force, in the same manner as if the cession had not been made, and as conditions upon which the said lands are ceded to the United States; which cession was, by an act ol Congress, ot the 2d of April, 1790, accepted. On the 2d of July, 1791, the treaty of Holston was made with the said Cherokee tribe of Indians; in which the present boundary line between the United States and the sail) Indian tribe, was established, and all the lands lying beyond the said line secured thereby to the said tribe. Itappears to the committee that, whatever right the claimants have, can be no other than a pre-emptive right to said land, and only such of them as, by conforming to the laws of the State of North Carolina, So as to have secured to themselves a title under such laws; and cannot claim of the United States any thing more than a confirmation of that title; and, therefore, recommend _ the following resolution: ... . Resolved, That, as soon as the Indian title to the said lands shall be extinguished, under the authority of the. United States, by purchase or otherwise, provision ought, by law, to be made, to secure to such of the said claimants, as, by conforming to the laws of North Carolina, have secured to themselves a title to the right of pre-emption', under such laws, the occupancy and possession of such lands. Gentlemen:   Raleigii, December 31, 179C. This moment the clerk of the Commons House of Assembly delivered me the enclosed petition and resolve, to be transmitt ed to you to act upon. I forward it in the same instant. . . I am, gentlemen, respectfully, your obedient servant, SAMUEL ASIIE. To the Honorable the Senators of the State of North Carolina. To the Honorable the General Assembly_ of the State of North Carolina. The petition of owners of lands, entered in the office of John Armstrong, Esq. and since ceded to the Indians by the United States, humbly showetn.: That, in the year 1783, the Legislature of this State opened an office for the sale of vacant lands, within the chartered limits of the State, in order to sink part of the certificate debt: That your petitioners, with many other citizens of the State, holding certificates for services performed, or supplies furnished, during the late war, when they saw no prospect of being paid any other way, as the whole revenue of the State would not. at that time, pay the interest of her certificate debt, made entries of land' on the Western waters, clear of the lands reserved by said act, for the hunting ground of the Cherokee Indians; and, in some instances, proceeded to survey and get grants for the same, and, in others, held the.warrants, with an expectation that the time would soon arrive, when they might more peaceably survey them. However, in the year 1786, comirimissioners, appointed by Congress, undertook to relinquish, and cede to the Indians, a very large proportion of the lands, sold by the State, to your petitioners, against which the General Assembly did protest; ami, at their session of 1788, promised, and resolved, that they would give to the present owners of land, under the act of 1783, aforesaid, quiet possession of the same; but, on the following year, they ceded to the United States, all their right and title to the soil and jurisdiction of that country, stipulating that Congress should make good to the several persons, legally claiming lands in that country, all the engagements of the State. Your petitioners have several times since applied to the Legislature of the State, and been as often referred to Congress, hut no redress has been obtained. If this State has sold, as lands to which she has no title, we contend that our certificates should be refunded us with interest; but, as we bold the lands; being the choice of an extensive and fertile country of more'value than the price they cost us, we humbly hope that your honorable body, in your wisdom, will point out some mode whereby we may have peaceable possession of them, by-procuring the extinguishment of the Indian claim; and we, in duty bound, will ever pray. J. GLASGOW, J. G. BLOUNT, M. MATTHEWS, Fur, and by direction of, a large number of the’owners of lands, entered in the office of John Armstrong, Esqt North Carolina: The committee to whom was referred the petition of sundry persons, owners of lands, entered in John Armstrong’s office, and since ceded to the Indians by the United States, report: That, having taken said petition under consideration, and finding the facts therein set forth to be generally true, a.nd it being entirely out of the power of this Legislature to give the petitioners that relief in the premises which they ask, and, of justice, ought to have, recommend the following resolutions: Resolved, That the Congress of the United States are bound, by every principle of justice and equity, to grant complete and ample redress to the petitioners: And, as thevhonor and interest ol this State are deeply concerned in procuring redress to the petitioners, Resolved, That the Senators of this State, in the Congress of the United States, be, and they are hereby, requested to use their utmost endeavors to obtain complete and ample justice for the said petitioners; which is respectfully submitted. W. R. DAVIE, Clerk. Resolved, That the House do concur with this report. By order: j. Hunt, Clerk H. of C. In the House of Commons, 15th December, 179C. J. LEIGH, Speaker House of Commmons. t Read and concurred with. By order: S. Haywood, Clerk. In Senate, 22d December. 179G. BEN.T. SMITH, Speaker of the Senate. ■ To the Honorable the Congress of the United States: The memorial and petition of the owners of land in the State of Tennessee, that was purchased from the State of North Carolina, ami has since been yielded to the Indians for hunting ground, sheweth: That your memorialists obtained certificates to a considerable amount, from the State of North Carolina, for services and supplies they had rendered during the war; that the debt of the State being greater, as they conceive, at the end of the war, than the debt of any other State in the Union, considering the number of its inhabitants; and die citizens nearly ruined towards the end of the war, by the general depredations of foreign and domestic enemies; the Legislature, unable to discharge the interest of the debt, opened an office for the sale of land, and offered a large tract to the public creditors, reserving other lands as hunting grounds for the Indians. At a time when the whole taxes in the State, the civil list being' deducted, went not equal to one quarter of the interct of its debt, your memorialists may say, with confidence, that no alternative presented itself but to take the lands offered them, or lose the debt. To many citizens it appeared necessary to take lands, for they had nothing left them except certificates; and they hail not the fortitude to abide what seemed to them inevitable destruction. After our locations had been made, and our lands surveyed, a treaty was made with the Indians, by the commissioners of the United States, by which our lands were surrendered to the Indians for hunting grounds. It might have been expected, that the Legislature, at their next meeting, would have restored our certificates in case they had improperly sold those lands: but. they conceived, as we suppose, that their right,as explained by their constitution, was indubitable, and they solemnly resolved to guaranty our titles, and to give us possession of the lands. We are confident that no deception was intended; but laws and resolves of the State have brought us no relief. The General Assembly, at their session, in 1789, yielded the sole jurisdiction of the western country to the United States, with an express reservation in favor of your memorialists, of all their rights and claims under the State. From year to year, we hare patiently expected relief. In the year 1793, we addressed the General Assembly, entreating that such justice might be done us as had been done to other citizens. The assembly referred us to the Congress, and session after session has passed away, but Congress has done nothing in our favor. We have again claimed justice from the State, and we are again referred to the Congress. We hope and confide that, the honest claims of citizens will not be eluded by two legislative bodies, upon whom no law can operate, but the clear law of justice. During the late war, rye did not shrink from any danger or calamity to which we might be exposed for the public safety, but we cannot discover any reason why we should be marked for destruction in the times of peace, nor why one million of dollars should be taken from certain individuals in North Carolina, in order to make a saving to the nation. Provision has been made for every other citizen; their claims have been funded at fffi.v. in the pound. We are the only persons to whom justice is refused; we receive nothing but unavailing promises. While we are seeking for justice, we do not take the liberty to prescribe the manner in which it is to be done.-Wo have no direct claim to any thing, except the lands that are surveyed and granted to our use; nor are we desirous to exchange those lands for other lands, nor for the price at which they were sold us. It was originally considered that we might ffike up choice tracts in a large country, which contained some of the best lands in America We made our selection at a considerable expense; and although those lands should be delivered to us free from other charges, we are willing to contribute our proportion of one million of dollars, counting the remaining v acant lands, in order to extinguish the Indian claim, provided immediate possession can be obtained. But, in case our interest should seem to be opposed to the general weal, and the extinction of the Indian claim should be delayed, we pray and confide, that justice, in some form, may be rendered us. J. GLASGOW, M. MATHEWS. J. G. BLOUNT. Fop, and by tuque*! of a lar^e number of the holileis of entered in the office of John Armstrong, Esquire, late entry taker of Western lands, and since ceded to the United States, by the State of North Carolina. Rat.eioh, 2'.hi December, 1790. To the Honorable the Congress of the United States of America. The address and remonstrance of the General Assembly of the State of Tennessee, on behalf of the citizens thereof, setteth forth : 1 1. It appears, by an act of Congress, ratified in June, 1790, that the State of Tennessee is admitted into the Federal Union on an equal looting with any of the original States, in all respects whatever. 2. At the beginning of the late American Revolution, the United States guarantied to each State its sovereignty, according to the chartered limits thereof; and, by the treaty of Paris, done in the year 1783, the King of Great Britain acknowledged the United States to he free, sovereign, and independent: and, for himself, his heirs, and successors, relinquished all claims to the government, propriety, and territorial rights of the same, and every part thereof. It is believed, that this relinquishment operated to each State respectively, according to the chartered limits thereof, as to right of soil and sovereignty: and, in the said treaty, no provision for, or reservation of, any Indian claims, is made. 3. In one thousand seven hundred and seventy-six. North Carolina made a bill of rights, in the last section of which is contained a declaration of the sovereignty, right, and property, of territory, as limited and described in the charter of King Charles, with a provision for any nation or nations of Indians, at the discretion of the Legislature. 1. Acting on the principles contained in the first and third sections of tins address, confirmed by those in the second Section thereof. North Carolina, in the year 1777, opened a land office for the sale of lands, within the limits thereof, as appears from the preamble of the said act. to operate as extensively as the said limits, as is also set forth in the third section thereof; entries of land being to be made with the entry taker of any county within the Slate, for claims for any lands lying in said county, except, as therein excepted. In the ypar 1777, by an act of the Legislature, the county of Washington w as erected, and the limits thereof described, containing all the lands within the chartered limits of the State, lying between the Apalaehian mountain and the river Mississippi (which is now the State, of Tennessee.) Under this, act, the laud office for sale of land first began its operations, in the said described county. 5. In the year 1778, an act was passed by the Legislature of the State of North Carolina, in the fifth section whereof, a line is mentioned and described. It is believed, that, by this act and line, as described in the said section, no relinquishment of right of territory is made ; but that the said line was declared for certain political reasons of the said State. _ 0. In the year 1783, passed another act for the sale of lands. This act revives and continues the first act, except what is thereby repealed; and. in its object, embraces the limits described in the act, erecting the county of Washington, before alluded to. 7. In consequence of this and other laws respecting sales of land, by entries made in land offices, and warrants issued thereon, grants have been issued in part, and warrants yet to lie, for lands lying within the original limits of the county of Washington. 8. In the year 1789, North Carolina made a cession of Westernlands to Congress, for the use of the United States, under certain express conditions, and subject thereto, ascertained in the act of cession for that purpose: and the contract was solemnly executed by deed, on the part uf North Carolina, and accepted on the part of Congress, in behalf of the United States. Part of the conditions of said contract are. reported by a committee at the last session of Congress, and the said act provides, that the Governor, for the time being, shall be and is required to perfect such titles, in such manner as if the act had never been 'passed. 9th. The constitution of the United States confirms all engagements and contracts, entered into by the United States, before the adoption thereof, under existing laws: the entcrers and grantees of land, lying within the said original limits of Washington County, expected they were secure, as to the right in fee, and right of possessing the lands by them purchased, and honestly paid for. '10. In the year 1785, the treaty of Hopewell was made with the Cherokee Indians, by the United States; but the agent of North Carolina protested againstthe same: in the year of 1791,the treaty of Holston was made between the United States and the Cherokee Indians, describing a line as therein mentioned; and, by an act of Congress, passed at the last session, fines, forfeitures, and imprisonment, are enacted against claimants and grantees of land, lying beyond said line, for doing things in said act mentioned. 11. This General Assembly believe, that the enterers and grantees of lands, lying over the said line, are much injured by the operation of the said last mentioned treaty; and are. in possibility, liable to be much more oppressed by the operation of the said last mentioned act of Congress; being thereby altogether prohibited from doing any act of ownership on bands, by them, long time past, bona fide contracted for and paid, for which, in part, grants have issued under the faith of North Carolina and the United States. 12. It is believed that the Indians have no fee simple in the lands alluded to; otherwise the very deeds, made by North Carolina to the United States, would be void. If the Indians have any kind of claim to the land jn question, it is believed to be of the lowest kind of tenancy, namely, that of tenants at will. 13. This 1 .legislature, ever willing to support the constitution,.and laws of the United States made pursuant thereto, being impressed with a sense of the injury andgrievances sustained by the citizens, in consequence of the line of the said treaty of Holston, and the act before mentioned, do earnestly request that the prohibitions, preventing them to possess the lands before alluded to, may be removed; that provision, by laiv, be made for extinguishing the Indian claim to said lands; that the owners and grantees of said lands may enter upon, occupy, and possess, the same, in a full and ample manner, and have every right, privilege, and advantage, which they are entitled to by constitutional laws; which justice being done to the citizens of this State, the officers of Government will be enabled to execute the constitutional laws of the United States with case and convenience. JAMES WINCHESTER, Speaker of the Senate. JAMES STUART, Speaker of the House of Reps. Attest: G. Roulstone, Clerk of the Senate. 4th Congress.] 
