No. 99. [2d Session. THE CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 28, 1802. Gentlemen of the Senate: / I lay before you a treaty which lias been agreed to by commissioners, duly authorized on the part of the United States, and the Creek nation of Indians, for the. extinguishment of the native title to lands in the Tallassee county, and others, between the forks of Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers, in Georgia, in pursuance of the convention with that State, together with the documents explanatory thereof; and it is submitted to your determination whether you will advise and consent to the ratification thereof. December 27, 1802. TH: JEFFERSON. G69 Thomas Jefferson, President of the United States of America, by James )> ilkinson, of the State of Maryland, brigadier-general in the_ army of the United Slates, Benjamin Hawkins, of North Carolina, and Andrew Pickens, of South Carolina, commissioners plenipotentiary of the United Stales, on the one part, and the kings, chiefs, head-men. and warriors, of the Creek nation, in council assembled, on the other part, hare entered into the following articles and conditions, viz: Article 1. The kings, chiefs, head-men. and warriors, of the Creek nation, in behalf of the said nation, do, by these presents, cede to the United States of America, all that tract and tracts of land, situate, lying, and being within and between the following bounds and the lines and limits of the extinguished claims of the said nation, heretofore ascertained and established by treaty, that is to say: beginning at the upper extremity of the high shoals of the Apalaehy river, the same being a branch of the Oconee river, and on the southern bank of the same; running thence a direct course to a noted ford of the south branch of Little river, called by the Indians Chat-to-chuc-coliat-chee; thence a direct line to the main branch of Commissioner's creek, where the same is intersected by the path leading from the Rock Landing to the Oakmulgee old towns: thence, a direct line to Palmetto creek, where the same is intersected by the Uchee path, leading from the Oconee to the Oakmulgee river; thence, clown the middle waters of the said creek to Oconee river, and with the western bank of the same to its junction with the Oakmulgee river: thence, across the Oakmulgee river, to the south bank of the Altatnahn river, and down the same at low-water mark, to the lower bank of Goose creek; and from thence by a direct line to the Mounts, on the margin of the G-ke-fin-oc-au swamp, raised and established by the commissioners of the United States and Spain, at the head of the St. Mary's river; thence, down the middle waters of the said river, to the point where the old line of demarcation strikes the same; thence, with the said old line, to the Altamaha river, and up the same to Goose creek: And the said kings, chiefs, head-men, and warriors, do relinquish and quit claim to the United States, all their right, title, interests, and pretensions, in and to the tract and tracts of land within and between the bounds and limits aforesaid forever. Article 2. The commissioners of the United States, for and in consideration of the foregoing concession on the part of the Creek nation, and in full satisfaction for the same, do hereby covenant and agree with the said nation, in behalf of the United States, that the said States shall pay to the said nation, annually, and every year, the sum of three thousand dollars, and one thousand dollars for the term of ten years, to the chiefs who administer the Government, agreeably to a certificate under the hands and seals of the commissioners of the United States, of this date, and also twenty-five thousand dollars in the manner and form following, viz: ten thousand dollars in goods and merchandise, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged; ten thousand dollars to satisfy certain debts due from Indians and white persons of the Creek country to the factory of the United States; the said debts, after the payment aforesaid, to become the right and property of the Creek nation, and to be recovered tor their use in such way and manner as the President of the United States may think proper to direct. Five thousand dollars to satisfy claims for property taken by individuals of the said nation from the citizens of the United States, subsequent to the treaty of Coleraine, which has been, or may be, claimed and established agreeably to the provisionsnf the act for regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, and (o preserve peace on the frontiers: And it is further agreed, that the United States shall furnish to the said nation two sets of blacksmiths' tools, and men to work them, for the term of three years. Article .'!. It is agreed by the contracting parties, that the garrison or garrisons which may be found necessary for flic protection of the frontiers, shall be established upon the land of the Indians, at such place or places as the President of the United States may think proper to direct, in the manner and on (lie terms established by the treaty of Coleraine. Article 4. The contracting parties to these presents do agree that this treaty shall become obligatory, and of full effect, so soon as the same shall be ratified by the President of the United States of America, by, and with the advice and consent, of the Senate thereof. In testimony whereof, the commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States, anil the kings, chiefs, head-men, and warriors, of the Creek nation, have hereunto subscribed their names, and affixed their seals, at the camp of the commissioners of the United States, near fort Wilkinson, on the Oconee river, this sixteenth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and two. and of the independence of the United States the twenty-sixth. JAMES WILKINSON. BENJAM IN IIA W KI NS. ANDREW PICKENS, &c. It having been stipulated, among other things, by and between the commissioners of the United States and the kings, chiefs, head-men. and warriors, of the Creek nation, in council assembled, in the treaty this day concluded, that the United States shall pay, annually, for the term of ten years, one thousand dollars to the chiefs who administer the Government of the Creek nation, agreeably to a certificate under the hands and seals of the commissioners of the United States, We have agreed that the said sum shall be paid to ten chiefs of the Upper, and ten of die Lower Towns, the speaker in die national council, which has been established as a part of the plan of civilization, agreeably to the orders of Government, to receive one hundred and fifty dollars; the three first chiefs seventy dollars, and the remainder to be equally divided among the remaining sixteen chiefs, to be paid at the same time, and in the same way and manner, as shall* be provided for the payment of the annuity of three thousand dollars to the Creek nation. In testimony whereof, we have hereunto subscribed our names, and affixed our seals, at our camp, near fort Wilkinson, on the Oconee river, this sixteenth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and two. JAMES WILKINSON. BENJ A MIN 11 AW KI NS. ANDREW PICKENS, &c. Alexander Macomb, Jun. Secretary to the Commission. Commissioners* Camp, near Fort Wilkinson, July \5lh, 1802. Sir: We have die honor to enclose you a duplicate of our letter, of the 17th ultimo, the day after which. General Pickens returned to his family, submitting to tis the fulfilment of that stipulation of the treaty, which required prompt execution on our part. A fair, equitable, and satisfactory distribution of the goods, was as necessary as it was difficult, amidst the distinct claims and pretensions of twenty-seven towns and eight villages; and this toilsome task devolved on the Superintendent for Indian Aftiiirs. We were detained until the 1st of the month, for the goods purchased in Augusta, amounting to about four thousand dollars, which, added to those sent to Mr. Clay last autumn, with sundry articles drawn from the factory, and about one thousand dollars' worth of axes, hoes, and salt, enabled us to complete the payment of the ten thousand dollars, conditioned for in the treaty; and the rear of die Indians took leave of us the 5th instant, with much apparent satisfaction. Anterior to, and pending this interval, several circumstances occurred, which appear worthy of special remark, but have heretofore escaped notice; we, therefore, think it proper to present them to the consideration of Government, at this time. 85 1 After our preliminary address to the Indians, on the 29th of May, such difficulties and divisions ensued in their councils, as prevented their coining to any conclusion; during this period, several private conferences were held by the old chiefs, with the superintendent and the commissioners, in which they explained those difficulties, asked advice, and assured us that the land below the Rock Landing and south ot the Altamaha, belonged to certain disaffected tribes, who reside low down on Flint river and the Chattahoochee, and had declined attending the conference. They expressed their apprehensions, that, should they sell this land, or any part of it. the chiefs and warriors of those tribes might be incensed, and, out of revenge, would attack our frontier, and spill blood, in order to involve the nation in misfortunes, and. therefore, they in treated of us not to press them on this point, and we felt little difficulty in acquiescing, from respect to the force of their reasons, and because we had discovered that the citizens of the State held those tracts in light estimation, when compared to the lands above the Rock Landing. We think another particular well worthy regard, which was frequently noticed by the Indians, in their private conferences and their public talks; it is their reliance on the military for protection, and their desire to have them posted on their lands, in front of our settlements. We consider this proposition liberal and judicious, in its relation to the Government as well as the Indians: for, by abstracting the troops from the frontier settlers, the principles of subordination and discipline may be more effectually enforced, and those animosities, broils, and debaucheries, which are inseparable from a connexion between them, may be prevented; besides, it will have a natural tendency to familiarize the Indians to the idea of a concession of the lands, in rear of the establishment, and will restrain the dangerous and destructive intercourses of the Indians, with our disorderly citizens, from whom they derive naught but their vices and bad habits. The removal of the garrison from fort Wilkinson, may be done at little expense, and appears indispensable to the restoration of temperance, regularity, and order, and to dissolve the sinistsr intrigues and connexions of a licentious soldiery, and a neighborhood, formed principally by army followers. A suitable spot for a position has been examined on Commissioner’s creek, about sixteen miles in advance of the present occupancy, and in front ot the boundary proposed by the late treaty; but Colonel Hawkins indulges expectations, he may be able, at the ensuing national council, which you will observe we have been invited to attend, to prevail with the Indians to suffer the establishment to be made south of the Oakmulgee river, on beatable water, where it his desire to condense the trade of the Indians on this frontier, as well as with private adventurers as with the factory. In the course of our negotiations, a deputation from the Cherokees presented themselves to Colonel Hawkins and General Pickins, on the subject of the encroachment of the whites, between the Tugelo, and the Apalachy rivers; but they professed that their main business was to adjust their southern boundary with the Creeks, which was accordingly done, in presence of the commissioners, and in the manner and form exhibited in the agreement under cover, which we consider a desirable event, as it clearly defines their respective claims, the uncertainty of which has heretofore perplexed the measures of Government. We desire to call the attention of the Executive to another subject of our conference, which is of importance, as it relates to the concord and tranquillity of the Creeks and our settlements, on the Tombeckby and the Mobile rivers; you will perceive that the trespasses of the whites in that quarter, are complained of by Efau Haujo, (the Mad Dog) in his talk the 9th ultimo, and that Hopoi Micco, on the same day, delivered the following.declaration on the same subject, viz : “ It is not stock, only, we complain of; we find that houses are built on our lands, and fields are cleared and cultivated; we shall wait a reasonable time, to give an opportunity to the officers of Government, whose business it is to attend to such things, to move these people off, under the expectation that they will do it ; and if they do not move off, we shall consider these things as our property, and act accordingly.” Since the treaty, Efan Haujo, w ho was the speaker and first chief of the nation, has abdicated his station to this Hopoie Micco, and transfered the seat of the national councils from Tuckaubatchee to Acheaubofau, the town in which his successor resides. The conduct of this chief at the late conference, and the superintendent’s intimate knowledge of his character, warrant us in pronouncing him the most sagacious and the most influential chief of his nation: intent on the plan of civilization, desirous to introduce a regular and efficient government among his people, decisive in all his purposes, and a stranger to the ordinary habits and propensities of his kind. The superintendent has cause tobelieve that these complaints are well founded, and, to prevent the consequences menaced by the speaker for the nation, we earnestly recommend that inquiry may be made, and redress granted, as soon as may comport with the convenience of the Executive. While on this subject, we will beg leave to suggest the policy and expediency of ascertaining, without delay, the limits of the concessions heretofore made to the British, in that quarter, by the natives. The old settlers contend, and the Indians do not deny, that concessions were made, but the precise bounds have not yet been discovered, though we are persuaded they may be, by due inquiry. We believe that the result of our negotiations gives general satisfaction and we have to regret two circumstances only, which occured while they were depending: tiie theft of several Indian horses by the whites, and the stabbing of a white man by a young warrior. In the first case, we discovered a correspondence between the citizens and two soldiers; the facts have been ascertained, and the two last are in confinement; we have taken measures to secure the two first, and we hope the property may be recovered. In the last case, an Indian ignorantly or wantonly fell or.! with a negro, a scuffle ensued, the master came to the assistance of the negro, and the Indian, being hard pressed, drew his knife and stabbed his antagonist through the tendinous expansion of the muscles above the knee; after which, he fled, and has not since been heard of. The wounded man was quartered in the garrison, where every attention was paid to him, and he is now in a fair way of recovering the use of his limb. From whatever we have seen or heard, we believe a solid foundation has been laid for a salutary reform in the habits and manners of this people; and we have no doubt, that, by due perseverance in the systems which have prevailed, the great work of their civilization may be accomplished. The philanthropist and the friend of humanity wil I rejoice to hear, that the Creek nation, which, six years since, (excepting a morsel ot corn and a few vegetables, raised by their women) lived entirely by the chase, and dissipated their hard earned skins for rum and gewgaws, have recently appropriated one thousand dollars for axes, hoes, and salt; the last article, principally, to cure their domestic meats in their proper season, and to nourish their stock. The factor, who has supplied provisions and other articles for the tieaty, is making up his accounts for examination, and we expect they will be ready in a few days; after which, we shall despatch Lieutenant McComb to the seat of Government, for the settlement of his accounts, and shall leave this place, in pursuit of our respective duties. We are, with perfect respect, &c. JAMES WILKINSON, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. The Honorable Henuy Dearrorm, Secretary of Jf'ar. Journal of the commissioners of the United States, for holding conferences with the Indian nations, south of the Ohio. May 8th, 1802.—The commissioners having assembled, and after examining their instructions, wrote the following letter of acknowledgment to the Secretary of War: Fort Wilkixsox, May 10, 1802. Sir: We have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your despatch of the 12th ultimo, covering instructions for our Government, pending our conference with the Creek nation, to which we shall pay strict regard, and you may rest assured no exertion, on our part, shall be omitted, to accommodate the views of the Executive, and to make the desired impressions oil the public mind of the State of Georgia. The importance of the objects for which we are to treat, suggests difficulties to us, but we will struggle to surmount them, and, in the mean time, we take the liberty to recall your attention to the third article of our instructions. which directs 11s to obtain the consent of the Creeks, if practicable, to the extension of the present boundary, between Tugelo and Apalachy rivers; should we succeed in the pending negotiation, to obtain this concession from the Creeks, it will be considered by the Cherokees as a tresspass on their territory, and will actually include a considerable tract, claimed by them, and heretofore disclaimed by the Creeks, particularly to Colonel Hawkins, the commissioner of the United States, and the commissioners of Georgia for running the line before mentioned. These commissioners, beginning at the Apalachy, and proceeding northward towards the Tugelo. found the attending chiefs of the Creeks averse to accompanying them further than the Middle fork of the Oconee river; but, at the pressing instance of Colonel Hawkins, they proceeded as far as the Currahee mountain, beyond which, they positively refused to march a step, into a country, which, to use their own language, they “neither knew nor claimed." For confirmation of these facts, we refer to the treaty ol’Hopewell, and to the personal knowledge of Colonel Hawkins and General Pickens, and we beg leave to add, that the settlement of Colonel Wofford, which consists at present of about sixty families, is included by the claims of the Cherokees, and not by the claims of the Creeks. W e are induced to believe, cadi will be most acceptable to the Indians, for any concession they may make, and we are persuaded it may be rendered most useful to them. The suspension of the negotiation fora short period, will not be difficult, or unfavorable to the views of Government. With high consideration and respect, we have the honor to be, sir. your most obedient servants, JAMES WILKINSON, BENJAMIN HAWKINS, ANDREW PICKENS. To the Honorable Henry Dearborn. Secretary of Jl'ar. Fort Wilkinson, May 10, 1802. StR: In obedience to the instructions of the President of the United States, and with the most cordial disposition, we have the honor to assure your Excellency, that we shall procrastinate the pending treaty with the Creek nation, at this place, to accommodate the views of the Government over which you preside; and that we shall take great pleasure in co-operating with your Excellency, to the extent of our authority, for the promotion of the interests of the good people of the State. With high consideration, and perfect respect, we have the honor to be, your Excellency’s ob't serv'ts, JAMES WILKINSON. BENJAMIN HAWKINS, ANDREW PICKENS. To His Excellency Josiaii Tattnall. Governor of Georgia, Louisville. Fort Wilkinson, 17//t May, 1802. Sir; The commissioners of the United States addressed a letter to your Excellency, the 10th of this month; since then the Creek representation has arrived, more full and respectable than we have ever known one to be. As we are sensible of the real and sincere disposition of the General Government to make every exertion in its power for the accommodation of the Government and citizens of Georgia, in whatever may depend on the conference proposed to be held at this place, with the Creek Indians, we have judged it advisable for General Wilkinson to wait on your Excellency, to have a personal conference with you, to obtain such advice, aid. or agency, as may be considered useful and proper by your Government. We wish we could ourselves accompany him; but it is necessary we should remain with the Indians at this crisis, to use our best exertions to promote the views of Government, anti we wish it may be convenient for you, and that you would do us the favor, to visit and aid us yourself, during the negotiation; let it eventuate as it may, we trust such a measure would be beneficial to the State of Georgia. We have the honor to be, &c. Nc. BENJAMIN HAWKINS, ANDREW PICKENS. To the Governor of Georgia. To which the Governor made, the following reply, dated Executive Department. Louisville, 21 st May, 1602. Gentlemen: Your esteemed favors of the 10th and 17th inst. I had the honor of receiving by Brigadier General Wilkinson, to whose goodness I cannot feel myself too much indebted for his visit to this place. A personal interview with the General, and exchange of ideas, in relation to the pending treaty, has enabled us to form an infinitely more correct view of the principles which are necessary to direct our operations and united exertions towards accomplishing the desirable objects contemplated. I beg leave gentlemen, to tender you my most cordial acknowledgments, tor the sincere disposition you have evinced of co-operation with the government of this State, in the promotion of the interests of the citizens thereof, which doubtless will be greatly advanced by the completion of the views for which the treaty is tube held; and I much regret that the necessity for your remaining with the Indians has prevented iny having the pleasure of your company at Louisville. I must beg leave, gentlemen, to refer you to General Wilkinson for particulars, respecting the call of the Legislature of this State, and the communications from the Representatives in the Congress of the United States, relative to the articles of agreement and cession, lately entered into between the commissioners on the part of the United States and those of Georgia. In three or four days, an agent, in behalf of this State, will be directed to repair to the treaty, to collect such information as may be necessary to lay before the Legislature, immediately on their being convened, that delay may be as much as possible avoided. I have the honor to be, gentlemen, with great respect and esteem, your obedient humble servant, JOSIAII TATTNALL, Jun. General Andrew Pickens, and Colonel Benjamin Hawkins. May 20//;.—General Wilkinson returned from Louisville, and informed the commissioners that, on his arrival at I hat place, he found Governor Tattnall had issued his proclamation for the convening of the Legislature of the State; which precluded the necessity of his holding any conference with the Governor on the subject, and he afterwards addressed the following letter to the Secretary of War: LoursviLLE, May 19,1802. Sir: I had the honor to write you from the Oconee, the lGth inst. and arrived here yesterday, to explain to the Governor the views and disposition of the General Government, and of their commissioners, for holding the pending conference with the Creeks; and, at the same time, to learn from him, how soon the State would be prepared to co-operate with those commissioners in the proposed negotiation. 1 find the Governor has issued his proclamation, to convene the Legislature, on the 10th of the next month, which may, I fear, involve delays hazardous to our views, as the Indians have not planted their fall crops. I shall return to-morrow, and you may rest assured that the utmost address of the commissioners will be zealously exerted to fulfil their instructions, and to accomplish the objects for which they are to negotiate. It is apparent that Governor Tattnall did not lose a moment, after being advised, to convene the Legislature, and therefore the delay, though unexpected and embarrassing, seems to have been unavoidable. With perfect respect, T am, sir, your obedient servant, JAMES WILKINSON. To the Hon. Henry Dearborn, Secretary of U'ar. May 23.—The chiefs sent to inform the commissioners that, on thenextday, they wished to receive them, according to the ancient customs of their country, at the public square; and they requested the commissioners to be ready to move from their encampment early in the morning, and as soon as the runners arrived, to inform them that every thing was ready for their reception. May 21,—The commissioners went to the square, and were seated, with all their attendants. The chiefs of the aer and Lower towns having met at some distance from them, moved on in a body ; two men in front, dancing the ; tail dance, to music, accompanied by the voices of all the men and women. As soon as they arrived at the square, the commissioners moved to a place prepared for them, when they were touched by the wings in the hands of the dancers; behind General Wilkinson was a small pit, and a white staff standing by it; they brought a bow and arrows, painted red, showed them to the commissioners, then broke them, put them into the pit, covered them with earth, and with a white deer skin; three great chiefs, representing the Upper and Lower towns, wiped the faces of the commissioners with white deer skin, spread the skins on a log, and they sat them down. General Wilkinson was directed to put his foot on the skin covering the pit. With three other skins they covered the commissioners, and after the embrace of friendship, addressed them as follows: Efau Haujo for the Upper Creeks.—We. this day, a fine one for the occasion, a clear sun and sky, meet our friends, brothers, and fathers to take them by the hand, according to the customs of our forefathers, as old as time itself. We have, at the foot of the General, buried the sharp weapons of war, which were in use in old times, and such as we have; our white deer skins we place on the seat of our friends, and cover them with the same: we add one other emblem, a pipe. Coweta Micco, for the Lower Creeks.—I am going to talk to our friends, brothers, and fathers. Tlieday isclear and bright, emblematical of our intentions. Our friends will look upon us, as we are a poor people, and we receive them with such things, and in such ways, as come to us from our forefathers. We are old, but what we do will serve as a lesson to our children, who may, both red and white, follow our example, and grow up in peace and friendship. We shall take our friends by the hand, sit down with them, and close our ceremonies with the last in use among us, (meaning the usee, a decoction of the cassine yupon.) The speaker for the nation, (Eufau Haujo) then addressed the commissioners in behalf of the whole nation: I am going to speak to my white friends, brothers, and fathers. This day we have met: the sharp weapons ol war, in use among us old people, we have broken and buried in the ground. The advice of our father, Washington, we have taken;*we,remember it, and this day we renew it. 1 am happy we meet in our own land, under the shades of our own trees, fanned with our own air, with straight hearts. Some time since, our father Washington left us, and is buried. The advice he gave was good for us; we seeit, and know it: his successor followed his example, and the now great man comes with like assurances; they are brought us by their great General and beloved men. Oconee's waters are divided; one half was given to the whites; thence, from its source, over the Currahee mountain, to the other nation’s lines. When the old President Washington sent commissioners to the chiefs of the Creeks, he said, when that line was run it should be fixed and permanent. 1 lis successor following him, gave us the same assurances, and we shall take the advice. I am speaking for my young kings, warriors, and iny nation, to the commissioners, that all may know we wish them well. I have a white stall" now in my hand, for the new great General, which I will plant; it will grow and have a shade, fanned with coo! breezes. When this tree is put there to grow, it will have a shade for our friends quite round to the Mississippi. 1 have but a short talk to-day, and I.deliver with it the tree to the commissioners. You commissioners called tne nation of Creeks to meet you here. We have, treated you with our ceremonies and a short talk, and hope you will begin to-morrow, and let us progress until we have finished. General Wilkinson replied, in behalf of the commissioners, as follows: Chiefs, head-men, and brothers, of the Creek nation: I have received from your chief speaker this white staff; it is an emblem of peace; I shall lean upon it, and I trust no event will wrest it from my hand. The commissioners of the United States, appointed by your father, the President, have this day witnessed the ceremonies of your forefathers; they have received this ceremony of respect, and they acknowledge themselves obliged. We have been appointed to brighten the chain of friendship between the red and white people of this country. We shall endeavor to take care of the interests of the white people, while we shall not forget tnose of the red. We have been pleased to see the bloody arrow and tomahawk buried in the earth, and we hope no occasion will ever offer to lilt them again. We view with yon the bluenesss of the sky, the brightness of the sun, and serenity of the day, as emblems favorable to a happy issue of our negotiations; whatever may be the result, we will endeavor to acquit ourselves to red man and white man. After being received in form, and hearing what has passed, we shall be prepared to commence the great business of our mission, with the shortest delay. Your father, the President, has the same good will towards you as Washington had, and he will never ask any thing from you, nor recommend anything to you, but for your good. The council adjourned. May 25.—The commissioners met the chiefs and head-men in their square, and, by General Wilkinson, addressed them as follows: Chiefs and head-men of the Creek nation: We yesterday took you by the hand; we heard your voices, and we were happy. We tins day meet you, not to commence the great business of our appointment, but to open our hearts to you, and account for the delay. When honest men meet on business, no concealments are necessary, nor are they practised; for our parts, our hearts are pure, and our intentions good; we are here to remove the grievances of the red people, and their white brethren. We feel the trust a solemn one; and, standing, as we do. in the face of Heaven, before white man and red man, we shall endeavor to promote the interests of both, without fear, favor, or affection. With such principles and such motives for our guidance, we can have no hesitation to say to you, that, haying waited for the ceremonials of your ancestors, which you yesterday exhibited to us,and haying been received in form by the nation, we are ready to proceed to the important business confided to us by your father, the President of the United States;.but,as your white brethren, beyond the Oconee, may feel themselves interested in what we have to say, we are desirous the Governor of the State, or some agent from it, may be present to hear us. Under this impression, we will submit to you to determine, whether we shall commence the business of our commission to-morrow, or whether we shall wait for the arrival of the Governor or an agent, who is expected here to-morrow evening or the next day morning. W e are your friends as well as the friends of your white brethren, and you must not listen to bad talks, or suffer evil thoughts to affect your minds. The chiefs received this address in good part, and agreed to suspend further communications, from the commissioners. until the 29th instant, at noon, and the council adjourned. May 29th.—The commissioners met the Creek nation in their square, and General Wilkinson, in the name of the commissioners,addressed them as follows: Chiefs, Head-men, and Brothers, of the Creek nation: We have been appointed, by your father the President of the United States, to confer with you on ail subjects interesting to your present condition and your future welfare; we therefore, invite you to open your minds freely to us, and to put trust in us as your friends, who will find pleasure in advancing your solid interests, and your substantial happiness, by every fair and proper means in our power: and we desire to call your most serious attention. and the united wisdom of your nation, to the consideration of the following important subjects, in the order-in which we shall present them to you. 1st. What are the difficulties which prevent the fulfilment of the treaty stipulations, into which your chiefs and your nation entered with the United States, attire treaties of New York and Coleraine? 2d. Have you not power to punish the bad men of your nation, who will spill innocent blood, and murder the citizens of the United State?? 3d. Cannot you compel your own people to respect the rights anti interests of their neighbors? 4th. Is it not in your power to prevent the disorderly young men, and the foolish chiefs of your land, from combining with the Seminoles. in their pr edatory warfare against the subjects of Spain? Speak out, and let us know what you require, from your father the President of the United States, to remedy these evils, to help you, and to save you front the difficulties, the perplexities, and the dangers, which they must produce, if not seasonably corrected. Brothers and Friends: We see that, hunting, to which you and your ancestors have heretofore resorted for support, is failing you year after year. We know that this precarious resource will soon be entirely destroyed, and that you can no longer rely on it for the maintenance of your old men, your wives, and your children: and we believe that, tints circumstanced, you should look around you and endeavor to provide, from the means you possess, some more permanent and more certain dependence, to protect you against the poverty and wretchedness which may otherwise be your portion. We address you in plain language, but"with sincere hearts, when we say, that, of the much you possess, we think a little may suffice, to attain for you tIris great and desirable end. We ask you. whether you do not think it might be advisable for you to sell some of your lands, the most distant from your towns and villages, to provide for the old, the poor, and the helpless, among vour people, and to establish a broad foundation of peace and comfort, for those who may rise up after you are laid in your graves. This has ever been the policy of your white brethren, in every age and every country, and will it not be for your interests to follow their example? We know a market can be found for some of your lands, at a price which may relieve the present wants of your whole nation, and with care and attention on your part, provide lor the wants of your posterity. You can receive a payment in hand, and payments year after year, in money or good?, at your option: not such as you have heretofore received for the lands yon have sold, but such as honest men may offer, and freemen may accept. We consider this a pr oposition of great importance to the Creek nation, and we recommend it to your closest consideration, as the opportunity which now offers is favorable to you, and we hope you may profit by it. because we are desirous to enable you to feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, to silence the complaints of the aged, and to shame the mischief makers, who lead your young men astray, with the hope? of making a living by lying and stealing. Wo beg of you to examine these important points seriously, as coming from your friends: take them into }*our council, and let them sink deep into your hearts: and should you require it. we ar e ready to go into any explanations for your information and your satisfaction. The council adjourned. Fort Wilkinson, 30th May, 1S02. Sir: We have the honor to infor m you, that, after exhausting every plausible pretext for delay, we found ourselves compelled to commence our negotiations with the Creeks yesterday, having had no communication with the State of Georgia, except what will be found in the enclosed copy of our correspondence with Governor Tattnall. The address undercover, will exhibit to you. the great caution with which we have been obliged to open our business, to prevent irritation and alarm, and the effects of a sudden impulse. _ The points prefaced to our main sub-j<*ct, though in some degree irrelative to the objects of the commission, were introduced to excite a strong sense of humiliation and dependence: for these points have proved a fruitful source of discussion to the superintendent, and are well understood by the Indians, who attach due importance to them. We have not yet been able to penetrate the di?positions of the Indians relative to the immediate views of Government; hut it is not improbable, should they be prevailed on to sell at all, that they may incline to favor a general contract of larger compass than is proposed, say to the Oakmnlgee lit er, in its whole extent, and to include five millions of acres in the Fork, because they prefer strong natural boundaries, and in the progress of the plan of civilization. have acquired correct ideas of the value of property, and the importance of some permanent annual revenue, to aid their domestic manufactures and agricultural pursuits, and to supply the defects of former resources. Should they come forward with propositions of this cast, an extension of our power s will be necessary, to authorize us to meet them. and. as time and circumstances may render this impracticable, during the pending conference, we shall not venture on a scale of such magnitude, to enter into any but eventual engagements, subject to the future discussion of the Government. But, in prosecuting the immediate objects of our instr uctions, it seems necessary you should authorize the Branch Bank of Charleston, and the officers of the revenue, in that city and Savannah, to negotiate our bills, as it is difficult to raise money on them in the market. We shall, however, to enable the factor here, who has not a dollar to discharge his past engagements, and to meet future ones, and for contingent purposes, draw on you, the first of the ensuing month, for six thousand dollars, and shall send the hills to Charleston and Savannah, to be negotiated if practicable. We are, with great respect, sir, your obedient servants, JA. WILKINSON, BENJAMIN HAWKINS, AND’W PICKENS. The Honorable Henry Dearborn, Secretary of (Car. June Hth.—The commissioners met the chiefs and principal men of the Creeks in their council square, aac. addressed them as follows: Chiefs and Head-men of the Creek nation: It is now ten days since we opened our minds to you on several subjects of importance to your own immediate welfare, and the happiness of your posterity. We have waited patiently for your answer, and we did expect you would have spoken freely to us before this day, but we have been disappointed, and we are sorry for it; because we understand well the dangers and difficulties which surround you, and are desirous you should embrace the opportunity which now offers, to make provision for the many debts you owe the white people, and for your own wants, and those to which your children will be exposed. Chiefs and Head-men, open your ears, and listen well to our voice: When we last spoke to you, we recommended to you the sale of some of your lands, which are of little use to your nation, and are much wanted by your white brethren, and we then informed you we knew of a market, in which you might receive a liberal price for that which is worth nothing to your nation. We begged you to take this proposition into your serious consideration, and to give us your opinion of it, so soon as you had made up your minds, but you are silent. We, therefore, find it our duty to come forward and inform you, that we have been ordered by your father, the President of the United States, to say to you, that he is desirous to purchase from your nation, the land west of the Altamaha, and below the Oakmulgee rivers, as far as the St. Mary's river, and also the land between the Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers, for which lie is willing to pay you a large sum in hand, and to make you such annual payments, in money or goods, as may feed the hungry, clothe the naked, and provide for the a^ed and helpless of your whole nation, and to enable you to fulfil your treaty stipulations with your neighbors, which may, and will save the remainder of your land from ruin. In making this proposition to you. your father, the President, is actuated by a sincere desire to silence the complaints, and provide for the wants of his white children; and. at the same time, to secure to his red children a permanent income, more valuable to them than hunting and trapping, which will last as long as the grass grows, and assist them to increase their stock; to promote their domestic nianulaetures, and extend their agricultural pursuits, as well as to ensure the remainder of their wide extended nation for ever. In short, to make them useful to themselves and to mankind; happy in their condition, and independent of the world. We arc your friends; we have told you so before, and you must believe us. We have given our attention to these propositions; we have considered them well, and we recommend to you to indulge the desires of your father, the President, who has your good, and the good of your whole nation, at heart. We have nothing further to say at present. We desire you to take this talk into your serious deliberation, and to consider it well before you give us an answer. In the mean time, we shall be ready to counsel and to advise you, should you request it. The council adjourned. June 9.—The commissioners met the chiefs, and Efau Haujo, the speaker for the nation, addressed them thus: Friends. Fathers, and .Brothers: I am going to speak to you. You three gentlemen saw me when I was in my own land. You saw me here: you told me that the great man to the Northward gave you great talks, and you have given them to us. I mentioned when I saw you, that I was old, but nevertheless, we would talk over old things together. I was told by your beloved men, that the talk you have given us was straight, and that, before we parted, every thing would be straight on both sides. According to what has passed between us about the business, we have come forward, and to day I am going to talk about the same. I was told, that when all things were made straight, it would be to the happiness and tend to prolong the safety of the red people. I wish to give a talk, that will be the means of putting it in my power of being friends with all my red people, and the white people. The intention of the talk I wall give you is this, that I hope what I now say, will be beneficial to all, old and young, when I am dead and gone; this is my intention, and tliis will be the drift of my speech. I address myself to the gentlemen appointed to speak to us. to let them know our poverty and distress; and I hope they will think what I do will be right and acceptable. I have been talked to a great deal before I could lift up my head, but now I can lift up my head and look up. The thing that was asked us to part with, was like asking us to cut ourselves in two, anti take one half one way, and the other half the other way. I was told by the great men, who were appointed to bring us the talk of the great man, that they hoped we would not throw his talk away; and I hope they will consider that we have not thrown his talk away. You see my situation; I am poor, and I consider that I have made myself very poor in complying; yet I have considered it, and I have done it. 1 saw the great complaints which hang over our land; they have been laid before us; we have considered them as they are. Upon the talk you gave us, we have considered much; it was some time before I could make up my mind upon it, but I have weighed it well, and am now going to give my mind upon it. When a man has a child, he considers him, and is not willing to distress him and make him poor. I mentioned this before, and I mention it again. I hone what we do, though it is not as much as was required and expected, yet it will be thought sufficient. I hope it will be considered as it is; and that, although it is not what was asked, yet it will suffice for the present demands. We now give on paper (delivering the map) what we mean and intend; it is a map of the country we cede. I have now some few tilings more to say. I have considered things in this light. The Oconee is a large river, half was ours; it was a stopping place; but we see cattle is over, and will be over; and if they were on Oakmulgee. the cattle would be over, and being near to the Indians, there would be no chance of preserving peace between them and their friends. I hope it will be considered it is not right to make us too poor, and that it will not be thought hard that we parted with no more; we can lie down and enjoy what we have; although it is but little, we may rest on it. I have been told our people are very mad; it is so, they are so; but we are not the only mad people; the white people, they come over, hunt on our lands, some with fire and with fire arms; and the cattle they are over, and have eaten all the food of our black game (the bear.) We were told that people were set to prevent it, and to protect our rights, but they cannot prevent these things; they are over, and we see they cannot be prevented. The President of the United States, who sent these talks, we hope and expect, gave you full powers, and that you will, as formerly, endeavor to put things in force, to prevent these things, before there is an end of our business. What I speak in time for, is, I see when there was a river, people could not be restrained; and now, when there is no water boundary, they will perhaps act as they have tloue; they have stopped our creeks with fish traps, and also our part of the river; they cut cedar on the Oakmulgee, and at other places. The fish at Oakmulgee, and terrapins, are ours, and we wish they may remain to our use. Why I say so much on this subject is, that I know the past, and I wish to begin in time, to prevent the consequences which I apprehend. I speak, that the whites and Indians may equally take pains, in a gentle manner, and by gentle means, in time, to preserve good neighborhood, and that they will exert themselves to that end. 1 consider it in this light, that the heads of the white people, who can govern their people, should take the necessary precautions on their part, to keep their young people in bounds, and we will do the same on our part, as well as we can. When Oconee was made the line, the river was the bounds for -tock; we were told, in Mr. Seagrove's time, if hunters came over, we might take their guns; if trapper’s came, we might take their traps; and if cattle came over, we might drive them off! We have not done these things; we wished to be in peace and friendship with our neighbors, and therefore we have not done these things; and we have submitted to the loss of our grass and game, to be in peace with our friends. This is not all. It is not here only, but on Cumberland; they have large dogs and horses, and they come out there, and hunt for, or drive off'the bear, before our hunters get there. Our faults were mentioned; we must mention our complaints against out-neighbors. 1 have talked of these things to Colonel Hawkins, and I am sure he has sent them on, and I now address them to General Wilkinson, who is a great man, and commands many; I hope he will assist us, and help us to get redress. 1 give this warning before hand, because I know' cattle and horses know not lines, and will go after grass. When a man goes after his horse or coxy, let him take a bridle and go after him, if it is on our land, but he must go without a gun; I hear that here, where the lines are known, the people come over aday’s walk from the line to good food, and there give salt to their stock; they also take out their hogs with corn, and leave them in every part on our borders. By carrying their stock out so far, they accustom them to going still farther, and they get lost, and when they are lost, the Indians are blamed for it; some times they have seen horses out for ten months as strays, and the Indians are accused, and charged with stealing them. I wish that the white people would keep their stock as much as possible on their own side, and endeavor to induce them to stay on their own side. If cattle go over the line, vve wish that they may be returned in peace; horses, hogs, ami every thing, maybe returned in like manner. There must be many white people unknown to us, who have stock among us; when they come after it we wish to assist them in getting it back, and will direct them by signs and other ways to get their property, if they cannot talk our language. After a conference with the chiefs, Efau Haujo speaks again: This day is appointed to consider our distressed situation, and to remove all difficulties; this day the land under us we have given up, the trees around us, the water, fine for mills, and good land, and a great deal of it. The good that will arise from the land will have no end; in the summer there, will be the grass for stock, and other things in the winter; 1 consider these things, and I have given them up. The way of the red is this; they are a poor people; if there be any oak trees, they get acorns from them, and from hickory trees they get hickory nuts, and the blackberries in their season. 1 address myself to Colonel Hawkins, and I find the white people do the same; they suppose you favor the red people, but we believe you hide nothing from either side, amt you are the friend of both. \\ lien people buy or sell, or bargain for any thing, they take care to understand each other rightly, before they put a price on it; I think that a hundred measures of land (acres) should be two hundred dollars; there are a great many charges against us bv the white people; they do not spare in their charges for things that are not lasting, and therefore we ask a price for that which is lasting. You will consider the debts we owe, and fix them, and first pay them; then what remains, to be paid us, as our annuity. It may lie thought that I ask a great price for land, but I know that hogs, cattle, and horses, know not bounds, and they will eat our grass to Oaknmlgee, and we must set this value on our lands: 1 mention this business now, that you may hear it. It was the talk of the old President, that the military should be put down to protect them; they are now left behind, and we wish they may be brought forward, and posted at the corner where the line turns from the Indian country road out side. There is a greater opportunity now than formerly, for wild people to transgress, and of course a greater necessity for the aid of the military. \Ye have agreed that where the Apalachy path crosses the line, old Mr. Philips, Ins sons and families, shall have lands; it is to be out side of the line now ceded, and Coweta and Cussetah will fix the place for them, and will point it out, and these people are to keep a store there for the red people. Perhaps you may want to run your line, now offered, immediately; if so, we will appoint four men from each town to run it with you; we mention this as perhaps you may think that man (meaning Bowles) may do something to prevent it. Here you may see the inconvenience from drinking, and we wish our young people may have no temptation to go among the white people for drink, but be confined to these trading places. We wish our stipend may be paid us in hard dollars; when we take it, we can divitle it, and lay it out as we please. I turn to another subject; I am now going to speak about the lines of Tombigby; 1 want to know who the people, are who live there, that I may know who to address myself to for redress of the complaints there. The reason I ask is, 1 want to know who owns the land where the old British line is, that when I turn them over the line, 1 may know whether I can apply to the fort there for assistance; the people of Tombigby have put over their cattle in the fork on the Alabama hunting grounds, and they have gone a great way on our lands; I want them to be put back; the Indians begin to complain, and will soon begin to do mischief. We all know the owners of these cattle are Americans, on this side of the line of limits, and here it is that we mention it to the commissioners. Hopoik Micco. It is not stock only we complain of; we find that houses are built on our lands, and fields are cleared and cultivated. We shall wait a reasonable time to give an opportunity to the officers of Government, whose business it is to attend to such things, to move those people oil; under the expectation that they will do it? and if they do not move oil', we shall consider these things as our property, and act accordingly. Efau Haujo. At the time of oltl Washington, in Seagrove’s time, we had a talk from Washington, and a messenger was sent otf to Coleraine, with the talks of the nation in answer; he was not a horse thief, but a man with a white flag, and his blood was spilt near Coleraine. Two of the commissioners present had it before them at Coleraine, and we have not had an answer since. I lay this before you for your serious consideration; I have the burthen of these things; they are laid before me,and I feel for them in the same manner that you will, when they are laid before you. After you have considered on it. we wish a reply from you for our Big Warrior. Tus-kf.-nf.-uau Chapco. of Cussetah. Our town is charged with a negro killed; the fact, is, that vve lost a mar. by the Americans, in our hunting ground, and this negro was taken for it, and vve would wish to know if this debt is paid. 'Flie debt, if not paid, and it is to be paid, I shall think, when I pay, that Georgia owes us a man. Cussetah Micco. 1 lost two men, and at Coleraine asked for, and think I was promised, satisfaction; I have not got it; and as old things are mentioned, I name it. 1 have another against the State of Georgia, or a negro ol the State of Georgia, for an Indian murdered by a negro. Efau Haujo. I have something further to say. hut I will postpone it to another day; it is now late, and you, as well as vve, want refreshment. The council adjourned. June Will.—The commissioners and chiefs assembled. Efau Haujo addressed the commissioners as follows: Mv Fathef.s and Brothers: You are all before me; this is the last talk I will give you. I speak to you m friendship, and in earnest, and my talk is a serious one; my talk is in this line: I am a sufferer, and I expect it will be considered that I am one. I hope you will consider me so, and that you will not turn my talks aside, or consider them as trilling. My people are a poor people; and the reason I speak so much upon the subject, is, because I wish you to consider us so. You have seen me, my country, and my people; and I hope the President may see my talks as they are delivered, that, in future, we may not be pressed upon. It must be considered in this way, that vve have spared that which is necessary to us, and vve have not enough for our own use. As vve are the aboriginals in this land, vve hope it will be considered that the land is ours; and this is the talk of all the chiefs present. The President, as you nave told us, sent his talk, and it must be so; vve receive it as such; we have gone as far as vve well can; it is like splitting us in two, and giving away half of us; vve do this, and we are in hopes, in future, we shall be safe. Now I lay down this line plain, that you may see, you who are a great people; if any should come over and encroach upon our lands, they will trespass upon our rights, and violate our peace, and we are poor anil unable to help ourselves; and vve hope great people in authority will prevent these things, and save our lands. Here are the masters of the land; vve are all together; we have done this; and from this day forward, if any men should come among us after land, vve shall look upon him as not coming from the President. I have now talked to the men from the President; and ii, in future, a man should come among us after land, vve now declare we shall look upon him as not coming from the President; and I shall direct all my men to take notice of this accordingly. My request is to the commissioners now, that, as the garrison has been useful heretofore, in stopping mischief makers, as was promised us, we wish they may be continued, and put down on our frontiers; and that there may be horsemen as well as foot, to repress the evil doings, as well of my own people, as the white people; to preserve peace when I am at home, and that in force, sufficient to keep the mischief makers within bounds. We have considered it so, that Phillips and bis friends must be put down, not on the land we have sold, but outside; it is a plan that we have got, that he and his friends may guard that quarter; he has been a great friend to our nation, and in consideration thereof, we have done this. Another thing I mention to you in this light, is, that there are people trav elling with families, with negroes, and property of value; and I caution you, that my young men, when they see this, are tempted to injure them, and I am not able to prevent it; ii so many go through as they do, scattering through all parts of the country, I am apprised that bad consequences will follow from it; let a path be found for them clown the Tennessee. It is known that there is a path for people towards Natchez; all who go with families, should be directed to that path, to prevent a breach of the peace, and to preserve it; I this day have the commissioners before me; I address myself to them on this subject. There is one way for travellers I have mentioned; there is another, round our country, by water, which is safe. I speak in this light; I do not love mv land from people who are coming after cattle, horses, or hogs, or to trade with us, or single persons coining with papers on business; I confine myself to families, and the crowds with their property; these I object to. I now take upon myself to speak to the Quakers; I have found that the tools they have sent us, as a token of their friendship, have been useful to us, and we are better able to judge now, than when we first received them, as wc have tried them, and found them useful to us; and we hope they will send some more of them to us; they know what is uselul, and we will be grateful for them. Micco Thlucco, of Cussetah, says he has tried them, and found them useful; his {dough is worn out. and he is much in need of another; he understood that, after experiment, if they were really found to be good, they might expect more: he has tried them, found them to be good, reports it as such, and asks for more. We considered to have Mr. Hill near us, for our accommodation, to attend our talks; and we know lie must have cattle for his own use, and that of Colonel Hawkins, when he comes our way, or while be directs our talks. It has been judged proper to have him near the Tussekiah Micco, who can co-operate with him, in suppressing disorders. I hope you will consider that the blacksmith is not to leave Mr. Hill, but to be put near him. One blacksmith is not sufficient; we want another for the Lower towns, and Tuskcnehau Chapco, of Coweta, is pointed out to place and to protect him. Hopoie Micco wants another smith fixed in the fork of Alabama. I consider I have one, and therefore I do not speak for myself; I hope he will remain where he is. Coweta Tuskenehau Chapco requests that a woman weaver may be placed with the smith, to teach their young women to weave, as they have already spun a good deal of cotton. Tussekiah Micco requests that a woman maybe placed with Mr. Hill and tjje smith, to weave for his village; they are desirous of instruction, and there arc many women in his village. Efaii Haujo to Colonel Hawkins.—As for cropping, it was advised to pay attention to, and make it the fashion, to plant; as yet, we have a little hunting; it was what we have been brought up to; it is ail old custom, we cannot lay it aside, and we must attend to that too. Whenever our young people find a skin, if it be but one, we wish a place where we may carry it, and get something for it. The hunters they have liberty to work or hunt. This clay, we tell you, we do not throw away cropping, stock, or weaving; we will attend to them all, and will attend, also, to hunting; if we get a little by the latter, it will be something to add to our chance in the former; if it be but a little, it is something. The first day the Indians found a white man, they found a friend; and, although they had no interpreters, they found a way to trade, and to be useful to each other, and we wish to preserve trade. There is another thing, the Cherokces have found a good price for racoons, foxes, and wild cats: lor large ones, they have a chalk, (quarter of a dollar) and when they are small, they put two on each other. We find it not so among us, and we wish one price for these things could be found at the factories. Another thing they mention, is, what I have seen myself, since I came here: the goods have risen in price; can it be that they are small things growing out of the ground, and ns such, we purchased them when we came, ami they have now grown larger, and a price accordingly appear on the same things? I am now going to speak on another subject: the last treaty at Coleraine, some articles of which are not fulfilled. I am now going to make an effort to progress; I have not the power to lift up an arm against our neighboring towns; we consider that, after this treaty, when we go home, we shall try to put in force our warriors: there are a good many (owns here present, who speak upon it; there is no other way to fulfil the promise of the old treaty. There are but two keys: the United States have one, and a store, and Spain has the other now in Pensacola; these two keys must lock the doors, and be put in the pocket. I do not say in how many months, or how many years, it can be done, and then for the door to be opened. It is to be left to me to order the door to be opened, as soon as we have done our business, by carrying the treaty into effect. If a white man, as factor or trader, should take any goods from the United States or Spain, to the nation, there must be a rule by which they are to be punished; and the regulation must be in force, till the nation give satisfaction, in the cases complained of. We blame not the white people, we blame ourselves; and this is to remain a law, until the nation complies with her treaty stipulations. When we have done this, the doors must be opened, and let trade take its course. This is a law we have now made, and it must be sent to the Cherokees, Chickasaws, and Choctaws, that they may know it. And it is our law that these nations shall not supply any goods to a Creek. Now, Cherokees, our brothers, some of our people are running to you for trade; you must put a stop to it, as well as the United States and Spain: the same we address to the Chickasaws and Choctaws. Tustitnnugge Thi.ucco.—This law is for the people on this side of the line of limits; as for those of Spain, they are for themselves; if they can make a war, let them see to it. Efaii Haujo.—There is this proviso in our law: people in debt may go pay their debts, and if (hey have a balance due them, let them take money or due bills, ami keep them till a regular trade is restored. This law is passed by our own chiefs; if injury is clone any one, we are to feel the misery of it ourselves, from a want of trade. I think my talks have been extended as far as in my power, to preserve peace. I hope that you, Colonel Hawkins, wilI first put it in force, by sending it to the agents ot the other three nations, and assist us in carrying it into effect, and see to the execution of it. till our object is effected. As this is the finishing of the talk, I have to regret that our women, with the hoes, are behind us; that they and their children are likely to have poverty and hunger for their lot. I consider all this, and it is my care; it presses heavily on my mind. I think I have done all in my power to save my land. I want, in three days, at farthest, to try to set out, that we may not entirely lose our crops, and all suffer with hunger. This is the end of my talk, and I hope it will he for the benefit of all, when we are dead and gone. The commissioners informed the chiefs that they would meet them to-morrow, after breakfast, and proceed on with their negotiations, with all possible despatch. The council adjourned. June 12.—The council being assembled in the square, Colonel Hawkins, as Agent for Indian Affairs, addressed the Indians, as follows: It being the desire of the commissioners to settle all tilings between the red and white people, and to make arrangements to prevent any misunderstandings in future, it is agreed that I shall give a detail of past transactions, on both sides. To understand these things clearly, T must go back to the treaty of Coleraine. Before that time, the misunderstandings between the Indians and white people had proceeded to such heights, that the President of the United States thought proper to appoint commissioners to meet at Coleraine, to settle their differences. The people of Georgia attended, by their commissioners, and the Creeks, by a numerous deputation, Ind they told their differences face to face, before die commissioners of the United States. At that treaty, no land was asked, and you were told to explain yourselves freely, on all points, that the commissioners, after a full knowledge of your true situation, might form a treaty, which was to be the basis of the future happiness of the Creek nation, as well as to secure the interests of their neighbors. Every talk made by the red people, and every talk made by the white people, and the treaty, were sent to the President. Every thing was balanced, then, according to the terms of the treaty, except the blood which I shall mention. One was the case of the man bearing the flag, who was murdered near Coleraine, and the case of Harrison, which was left to the laws of Georgia. The President, after he examined the treaty, to ensure its faithful execution, sent me into the Creek nation, to fulfil every thing done at the treaty. Upon my arrival in the nation, the first violation which happened was the murder of Fielder’s black woman, by the Cowetas, said to be in retaliation fora man killed before the treaty. The second was a man killed in Cumberland, of the name of Genty, by a man of the Upper towns, without any provocation. .. The third was a chief wounded in Little, river, by some persons of Georgia. The fourth was Brown, killed by an Uchee. The fifth was, some people of Hancock county tired on the commissioners, killed one, and wounded two. The Coweta people turned out and took satisfaction, by killing Nicholas Vines. The sixth was Allen, killed by an Uchee. The seventh was a Mrs. Smith, scalped and shot through near Tombigby—not killed. The man who did that abominable act has been killed, by an order of the chiefs, upon my demand, and the transaction reported by me. The eighth case is Mooreland, killed by a Cussetah, without any provocation. It appears, by this statement, that there are five debts due to the white people, since the treaty of Coleraine. The complaints of the violation of the treaty of New York, are, that you have not delivered up all the negroes or prisoners agreeably to the stipulations of the treaty. On your part, you charge Georgia with not fulfilling the treaty, in omitting to send persons to claim, amFyou have pledged fulfilment on your part, which I have stated to their Governor. I believe that all the prisoners have been returned except Miss Williams and Mrs. Perrimond. Mayfield was a prisoner three years in youp land, and Stevenson’s family four years in your land; after my arrival among you, Mayfield was purchased by his friends, although I was informed he was free. The murdering of people, the keeping of negroes and prisoners, after the peace, was and is a great source of uneasiness, to the white people, and to the President of the United States, and gives just cause for complaint against you. The case relative thCornell, the chief with the flag, who was murdered, was sent, by me, to the President, from Coleraine, and I stated the case to the President myself. After the treaty of Coleraine, there came a complaint of a man killed; supposed by Cornells, in the Chickasaws, and of a boat load of people killed near Kaskaskias, by the Creeks, found to be of his town. The friends oT the people murdered in the boat nave complained to the President, and the war officer, repeatedly, about it: but as the affair, although not known at the time, was before the treaty of Coleraine, we were bound to finish the business of blood by that treaty, and I was directed to say, to the Creeks, “you say nothing about the blood you have lost before the treaty of Coleraine, and I shall say nothing about the blood of people murdered before the same treaty.’’ The people who have lost their blood since, and who could not get their negroes or prisoners, have complained to the President, and he has sent to me to get satisfaction. I, from year to year, have laid it before the chiefs, demanding satisfaction, and, to this day, it is not given. The next complaint against you is horse stealing and the taking of property. It began on Cumberland, and property, to a large amount, was taken by the Cousadees; and satisfaction has been .given, except for seven bund red dollars. The people, on the frontiers of Cumberland, complain, every year, of horses being taken from them; they say they have got some back, but much damaged; some are dead, and some not returned. They complain, particularly, of horses taken by James Fife, and sold to David Tate, to the value of three hundred dollars; this debt has been proved, and the value ascertained. 1 have stated to the President that, this season, I have taken four, and sent them back, and that I have heard of no other complaints from thence. The Indians complain that they come over from Cumberland, and hunt on their lands. The next point of complaint is from the people of Georgia; they complain that their horses are stolen every year, some sent back much damaged, some dead, some retained. The complaints, on this quarter, on the part of the Creeks, are, that the Georgians have stock on their lands, and that they come over and hunt on their lands, with fire in the night, and with tire guns: that they stop their rivers and creeks with fish traps. I have not heard of any property stolen from the Indians, by the people of Georgia, but what I have paid for when reported regularly. There arc some very good horses stolen from Captain Spann; they have been much damaged, anil two of them died in bringing them home. The Gov ernor of Georgia lays a complaint against you for some negroes that have been stolen; five taken, and two not returned, the property of Mrs. McIntosh. The next complaint is a small one; it is two public horses stolen by the Cussetah people, which went there with the blacksmith’s tools; these horses went to their town, and the complaint is made by me, as the fact is within my own knowledge. The next point of complaint is on the part of Spain; the first is, that the Indians have killed some of their people at the lime kilns The second, that the chiefs have taken a white man, of the name of Bowles, an American, made him a chief, and are, in his name, carrying on a war against Spain. The third, that, on our side of the line, people from Coweta, Tallahassee, Apalachicola, Hitcheta, Uchee, Oseoo-che, Oconee, Eufaulau. anil Oketeyocenne. have all joined this man in war against Spain. In this state of things, the Creek nation may be compared to a piece of spunk; that fire is struck in it, on the side of the Seminoles, and it is likely to burn up the whole nation, if not timely extinguished. I have stated to the President, to the Governor General at New Orleans, for the King of Spain, that the Chiefs, about me, have done much, and are trying to do all they can. to be good neighbors; they have killed one. and whipped twenty-five, since the experiment to establish a national government and law. I have reported to the President, and to the Governor General of his Catholic Majesty, all your acts worthy of praise; and I have concealed from the red or white people none of their crimes. I have given promises to the white people, every year, by your order, from your national council, that they should have justice done; but, because it is not done, the white people believe I am more your friend than theirs. The President. Mr. Adams, who was the predecessor of the present President, he, although a great and good man, began to believe that the experiment for your civilization could not be carried into effect; that the plan itself was ideal. 11c began to give it up, by withdrawing his confidence from those entrusted with its execution. Your enemies, by misrepresentation, induced him to turn out Mr. Dinsmoor, one of the best men in the Indian department; sober, prudent, and very attentive to the duties of his appointment; and to replace him by quite another sort of a man—one, as the Cheroke.es informed you and me. more attentive to his bottle and woman, than to their interest. And serious attempts were made to lessen my standing with him, to destroy my character as a public man, and to render me odious to my fellow citizens, because I was an enemy to those speculative views of your enemies. In this state of things, Mr. Jefferson came into office, ami found me in the department. He has kept me in; he has re-animated the plan lor bettering your condition; lie placed Colonel Meigs, an honest and estimable man, among the Cherokees; lie has sought lor and sent Mr. Dinsmoor to the Choctaws; and wishing to have a correct view of Indian affairs, and to make such amicable arrangements as might lead to their prosperity, has sent General "\Yilkinson, General Pickens, and myself, to sec all the red people, to examine into their wants, and report to'him their true state, that he might extend to them the benevolent care of the Government. You have heard the speech of the President, as we delivered it to you; but, I will give it to you in two or three sentences. In the first place, we are to examine into all the complaints of both the white and the red people, and to see what can be done to promote peace between them, and to take measures accordingly; and secondly, your father, the President, saw that, in the settlement of your debts, it was not improbable but that you might be involved in serious difficulties; this, together with an anxious concern for your future well-doing, induced him to advise that the red people should sell some of these lands to pay their debts, and provide for their future wants, that there may be no fears in future, when you have funds at command, to apprehend any thing from horse stealing. Having said what I have, is in my station as agent for Indian affairs; and I have done it, that you and my colleagues may understand clearly the differences between the red and white people. In future, you will be addressed by the commissioners. The commissioners then observed to the chiefs, that, having listened patiently two days, and heard their talks, they would take the same into consideration, and give an answer without unnecessary delay. 86 The Big Warrior of Tuckaubatehee, urged for an immediate answer, and manifested some impatience. Colonel Hawkins then informed the chiefs, that the commissioners would speak to them the next day. But this did not satisfy the Big Warrior, who became petulant. General Wilkinson then observed, that this was a new thing to him; that he had conferred with many Indian nations, but never before heard the child attempt to dictate to the father: that it seemed extraordinary, after the council had taken ten or twelve days for deliberation, and had now spoken for two days successively, they should desire to hurry the commissioners into an immediate reply; that lie was as much the friend of the red people as any man; and that he felt even more for them, than for the white people, because the latter was able to protect themselves; that if the council did not wish to hear the voice of the President, they should say so at once, and he would not speak one word more to them. But that the commissioners of the United States must be treated with respect, and when they do speak, shall be heard and attended to. The General rose, and walked out ot the square, but was soon invited back by the council, and Efau Haujo made an apology for the conduct of the Big Warrior, and the council adjourned in friendship and good humor, to meet the next morning. June 13//i.—-The council assembled in the square. General Wilkinson, on behalf of the commissioners, addressed the Indians: - 'Chiefs, Head-men, and Brothers: Yesterday your friend Colonel Hawkins spoke to you; his talk was a plain one, and you understand it. This day I am to speak to you; my talk will also be a plain one; and if it should be strong, you must not be displeased, because it is intended for your good. You are tree men, and are to judge of it, and will give it such weight as you may think it merits. We opened our ears, and listened to your voice when you last spoke to us. We have taken your words into our hearts. We have considered them in every part, and we now meet you, to give you the answer of your Father, the President of the United States; for we speak to you in his name, and with his voice. When your Father, Washington, sent his beloved man, Hawkins, to you, it was to assist you, to serve you, and to do you good. Yet you received him with distrust, and you doubted his intentions. The lies which you had heard from your former agents, were fresh upon your minds; your eyes were still turned towards a people beyond the great water, and you had no faith in tlic Government of the United States. Not that they had injured or deceived you, you had injured them; they saw you were misled in doing so, and had the magnanimity to forgive you. But a little time convinced you that Washington was your true Father, and that his beloved man was your true friend; anti the falsehoods which were circulated within your nation, and the hopes which you had cherished of support from adistaut country, slipped away from you like a cloud from the side of a mountain. Jefferson, your present Father, has succeeded your father Washington, in due course, and,happy for your whole, nation, he fosters the same regard for you, and possesses the same power to promote your interests. This we have told you before; and although I am a stranger to you, and you may doubt my sincerity, you are well acquainted with my associates, Colonel Hawkins and General Pickens, and cannot doubt their friendship for you. When your Father, Jefferson, sent us to meet you, it was his wish, his hope, and his expectation, that you would listen to his voice, and put it in his power to provide for your welfare, and that of his white children. For this purpose he ordered us to ask front you some land, which your white brethren had requested hint to procure for them, which is of little value to yourselves, and for which he is willing to pay you more than you can. make front it. . We have advised you to grant his request, but you shut your ears against us, and offer him a small part of what he requires from you, which will neither accommodate his white children, nor enable him to serve you in the degree he desires. Should we accept this oner from you, before we have made a further explanation of your Father's intentions towards you, and of what is necessary to your interests, we should not act like faithful friends to you, or like faithful commissioners to him; and we should shut our cars, and our eyes, against the feelings and the interests of your white brethren. When we recommended to you to sell the land, which your Father asked from you, beyond the Altamaha, and ■ between the Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers, we Imped you would adopt our advice, and enable us to pay all your debts of property and of blood, to provide for your immediate wants, and to secure to your nation forever, yearly payments in cash, of more worth to you, than all the deer, bear, beaver, racoons, foxes, or other animals, which can be found 011 those lands. But you nave put our talks aside, and you oiler to your Father a small strip, which will hardly enable us to pay your debts of property, and will not put it in our power to provide for your immediate wants. You tell us you are poor and ignorant, and that you look up to your Father for help and for advice. Open your ears and your hearts then; put confidence in his regard for you; believe in his power and disposition to serve and protect you; and we pledge our lives to you, that he will never forsake or deceive you. But, when the child turns a deaf ear to the voice ot his father! and throws away his advice, what can sucli child expect, or what can ho promise himself? Make the application to your own hearts, you who are fathers, and must rule your nation, and there you will find an answer. You have told us you cannot sell the land below and beyond the Altamaha, because the people who claim it, are not here. Who are these people? If they be of your nation, they have heard the voice of your Father, inviting them to this meeting. They have turned a deaf ear to his voice. They have taken the talk of an impostor, a pirate, and a common liar; and hate violated the treaty of the United States with Spain. We call on you, chiefs, nead-men, and warriors, to say, whether your Father should look with kindness on such bad children. Whether he should protect their rights, or regard tneir property. And we call on you to declare to us, you who are the masters ■ of your land, whether it be wise or good, that you should suffer a few mischief-making towns, to prevent you from' doing a thing, which would oblige an indulgent Father, and provide for the wants of your whole nation? Should you be afraid to exercise your own judgment, because of the fools and mischief-makers, who run aften the lying vagabond Bowles, who lias himself run away from the State in which he was born, or, because boys and mad young men, may differ from you in opinion, we recommend to you to call for the arm of your Father to assist and support you. His arm is as strong as a whirlwind, and, if it is raised, will level to the earth all your enemies, and all those who may oppose your will. Kingschiefs, head-men, and warriors, of the Creek nation, now assembled before us: We, the commissioners of the United States, speaking with the voice of your Father Jefferson, do advise you to assert your rightful powers over the lands of your forefathers, and over all mischief-makers to be found in those lands. We know you cannot exist much longer without government. We know you are sensible of this important truth; we, therefore, advise you to stand uplike men, to speak like the rulers of your own land, and we will assist you to put down those who may oppose your authority. You are att ain the stock of your white brethren will over-run your land, eat out your range, and destroy your hunting grounds. Yet you agree to admit them to cross the Oconee, to a line of marked trees. And what will be the consequence? You all know it: for cattle, and hogs, and horses, do not understand talks, or know how to obey orders,' and they cannot distinguish marks; they will search for food where it can be found, and will lay bare your lands to the Oakmulgee, before you have received a farthing for them. But if you make that river the line, it shall be guarded by troops from one end to the other; the fords shall be fenced, and stock, sent into your land, shall be killed. You cannot suspect the sincerity of our dispositions to provide for your wants, present, and to come. .You cannot deny our superior knowledge of the manner and means by which this provision may be attained: for you all know it is not long since your whole nation spurned the idea of fencing fields, or employing the plough, the wheel,   and the loom. You all know that the tools, which the Quakers sent you, were suffered to lay useless by you for more, than twenty moons; and that it is not long since you destroyed a blacksmith’s shop, which had been erected, for your accommodation, by your father. But you have opened your eyes, and have listened to the words of your beloved man, Hawkins; and, in the course of three years, we behold a happy change in your condition. We see lields fenced, cori> ploughed, and cotton planted; you understand the value of hogs, cattle, and horses, weights, measures, and money. W e hear wheels and looms at work in several of your villages; and your wise men ask us for tools, for blacksmiths, and for women to teach their wives and their daughters how to spin and how to weave. Your Father, the President, will hear these things with pleasure; blithe will hang his head when we tell him you have refused his request for a small part of your land, necessary to his white children, of little value to yourselves, anil for which it his intention to pay you more than you can make from it. Remember that Washington rescued you from ruin, and you know that Jefferson is disposed to make you independent and happy. But can you expect he will continue to help you, and to instruct you, while you reject his admonition, and refuse to help yourselves? This would be unreasonable, and you must not expect it: for he is under no obligation to extend his cares to a people, who withhold from others what they cannot themselves enjoy, and refuse to employ the means they possess, to promote their own happiness. If you are poor, a small piece of your land, sold at this time, will make you rich. If you are ignorant, follow the advice of your friends, and you w ill become wise and happy. We have now opened our minds to you, and this is the last talk you will hear from us at this time; but, before we shut our mouths, we shall tell you what will enable us to pay all your debts, to provide for your present wants, and leave a little for the future. We asked you to sell the county of Tallassee, and the land in this fork, and you have told us the people, who owned the land below us, are not here, and you cannot sell it, without bringing trouble on your nation. We are sorry you cannot oblige your Father in this instance; but, as your reasons are strong against his wishes, he will say no more on that subject. You admit that the masters of the land, on which we stand, are here, and you offer to sell a part of it. But this part, is too small to pay all your debts, and leave any thing for your present or your future wants. We, therefore, recommend to your serious consideration, the tollowing propositions; we shall wait patiently for your answer, and, when we receive it, our business will be finished. Water lines being more plain, and more lasting, than marked trees, we advise you to make the Oakmulgee your boundary, between lines to be run from the Rock Landing, and the High shoals of Apalachy. for which we will agree to pay you six thousand dollars, in cash, every year, will give you ten thousand dollars in hand, and will pay all your lawful debts. We advise you to accept this" proposition, because it is a good one for you, and may not, hereafter, be offered to you. If you find you cannot comply with this request, we then propose to you, to buy the land within the following limits: beginning at the mouth of Commissioners creek, and running up to its source: from thence, following the dividing ridge, between the Oconee and Oakmulgee, as high up as the High shoals of Apalachy, and from thence, by a right line, to strike the head or upper end of the said shoals: for this tract, we will give you two thousand dollars a year; will furnish you two blacksmiths and tools: will pay a part of your debts, and give you ten thousand dollars. We submit these propositions to you. We hope you may think proper to embrace the first; because it will pay all your present debts} and will provide for those which may be made hereafter. We hope the Great Spirit may direct your determination for the best: for we are your friends. The council adjourned. The chiefs of the Coweta and Cussetah towns, called the same evening, and informed Colonel Hawkins that they liad changed their minds, and were now determined to sell more land than they at first proposed; their first proposition Mas to begin at Rock Landing, run with the road to the crossing of Commissioner's creek, to a large reedy branch, two or three miles short ot the creek; and from thence, a direct line to the High shoals of the Apalachy; now, they propose to begin at the High shoals of the Apalachy. run to a noted ford on the south branch of the Little river; from thence, to Commissioner's creek, where the road from the Rock Landing crosses it; from thence, to Palmetto creek, down the same to the Oconee; thence, to the confluence of that river and the Oakmulgee, to cross the last river, and proceed down the Altamaha, on the south bank, to Goose creek; thence, to the head of the St. Mary's river, down the same to the old line, with the said line to the Altamaha river, and up the same to Goose creek. Lt/A and I5t/i.—The council met at the commissioner's camp, and the precise limits of the concession, alter every necessary explanation, were agreed upon, and the treaty drawn. The council adjourned to meet the next morning. 1 Mk.—The Indians having convened at the commissioners' camp, to sign the treaty, Efau Haujo addressed them as follows: I am going to give a short talk, which will be the last I shall give. The talks which I formerly received from my father, Washington, I have been exerting ntyself to fulfil, and I am now going to finish them. 1 consider that you three, the men who have been appointed to do business here, are good men, and who mean to do good for the red and white people; that is our object, and we mean, to-day, to finish our business for the good of both. The people appointed to give talks to the red people of the four nations, the Chickasaws, Cherokees, Choctaws, and Creeks, nave given our talk a straight one, for their good: and, this day, we finish our part of it. Our olcl friend. General Washington, who gave ns the good talks for our land, is gone; and I hope that the man, who is now in his place, will follow his example, assist us to take care of our rights, and help us, as we are a poor, and distressed people. I send on all my talks, that the President may see them; and I hope he will give every attention to them that is necessary, and hold me and my red people fast by the hand, as I, and my nation, wish to hold him. I desire the President to leave to Colonel Hawkins to point out proper places to put down the military for the protection of our frontiers; and I request that Colonel Hawkins will look for such places as he thinks proper, and best calculated for the preservation of a lasting peace between the red and white people. The people, who are around us, will notice the time of day I am speaking, and will remember, from this time of day forward, if any man come to us after land, we shall say lie has not authority for what he says; and we. also, put an end to all claims for property against my nation. Every thing done by the red people against the white people, is noted, and mentioned to us; and, on our part, I have to mention an alliiir; I am an old man, and ought to have mentioned it before, as I promised to do, but I had forgot it. Taskenehau, of Tuckaubatchee, he was in company with Archee Coodee. coming from the Chickasaws to the white settlements, and a party of white people fired on them, killed one Chickasaw, and took three horses from him. The affair happened in the settlements of the white people, and Colonel McKee was near the place; this affair happened a good while past. After a conference and explanation, relative to Indian property left and lost by the Indians who went with Mc-Gillivray to New York, and Mooklausau Hopoie stating that he knew it was paid for by the United States, and that Jack Thompson, of the Cherokees, brought the money: Efau Haujo continued his talk: I look upon it now that every thing is fixed for the good of our nation. There is but one thing now I have to add; I leave it now to Colonel Hawkins; he is placed to see justice done us, and we rely on him to see-justice done os; and, that he will liquidate all claims against our nation, allow such as he may think just, and reject such as he thinks otherwise. [A conference and explanation about a prisoner, for information, and not to be recorded.] The treaty was then deliberately read by General Wilkinson, on the part of the commissioners, and interpreted, paragraph by paragraph, and the General asked them if they understood it, and were ready to sign; they, after some remarks to each other, answered, yes. Colonel Hawkins said to the commissioners and Indians, he had a short talk for information, as well to the Indians, as others concerned, and it must be clearly understood before the signature. By the last talk of Efau Haujo, it would appear, that he thinks the signing of this instrument puts an end to all claims for property against his nation. But, the fact is otherwise, and die parties must understand each other before they sign. The negroes taken must be restored, agreeably to the treaties of New York and Colerain, the prisoners to be restored as soon as they can, and the people who have shed innocent blood, shall be made to pay the debt when they can be found; but, that no innocent person should suffer. Full explanation being given by the superintendent for Indian affairs, on these three points, the chiefs agreed that the negroes should be restored, agreeably to treaty, and that these three points should be adjusted by him. They added, they were ready to sign; and the instrument was signed accordingly. Commissioner’s Camp, icest of the Oconee, June 17, 1802. Sir: We have the honor to inform you, that we have closed our conference with the Indians, which, in the last stage of the negotiation, took a turn altogether unexpected and extraordinary. Having employed, with zeal, but without effect, every fair means in our power to accomplish the specific objects of our instructions, we turned our attention from those objects, to one of more importance, in point of intrinsic value, and accommodation to the citizens of the United States, viz: The extinction of the Indian claims within the Oakmulgee fork, from the Rock Landing, up to the High shoals of the Apalachy river. With this view we submitted our final propositions to the council of the nation, on the 13th instant, and the chiefs of the Coweta and Cussetah towns, waited on us the same evening, from the nation, with the propositions on which we have grounded our contract, and yesterday, the treaty, of which you have a copy, under cover, was executed in due form. , We shall transmit the original instrument, with the detail of our proceedings, by the secretary to the commission, who will proceed to the seat of Government, for the settlement of his accounts, so soon as payment has been made to the Indians, agreeably to stipulation. It may appear, on a cursory view, that we have exceeded our instructions, in the sum allowed for this concession; but, we believe, a close examination of its comparative value, to that of the tracts specifically designated to us for purchase, and a correct understanding of the circumstances which have occurred, and the motives by which we have been governed, will suffice to justify our proceedings. The great difficulty to be surmounted was, the passage of the Oconee: and the extension of our front, in contact with the unextinguished claims of the Indians, above the confluence of the Oconee and Oakmulgee, appeared to be the next most desirable object. In prosecuting these views, we had to combat, not only the jealousies, distrusts, and fears, natural to the Indians, but, also, an apprehension, serious and alarming to the old chiefs, that, if they ceded any part of their country, their young warriors might resist it, and, joining the partizans of Bowles, divide the nation, wrest the government from those who at present administer it, and, by some hasty and imprudent act, involve their country in ruin. We beg leave to refer to our journal, and to future communications, for details, and will barely add, that, if our success has not equalled our wishes, or corresponded with our inclinations, we flatter ourselves substantial advantages have been obtained, and that the result will pave the way to a future concession, at no distant period. We have the honor to be, with great respect, sir, your obedient servants, JA. WILKINSON. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. AND’W PICKENS. To the Hon. Henry Dearborn, Secretary of War. June 29th.—The chiefs sent to request that the commissioners of the United States would attend them in the public square to-morrow, on some affairs relative to the Indians and their friends. Colonel Hawkins informed them that he anil General Wilkinson would attend them, as requested. Creek Square, June 30th. Efau Haujo, to the commissioners. We have promised to aid each other. We, on our parts, have been embarrassed with our affairs towards the Seminoles; we are now going to send them a talk, and, if you approve of it, we wish you to write it for us, and send off' to Burges, that nothing of it may be lost. If you approve of this mode of doing business, you will assist us. Colonel Hawkins: I will write, or do any thing I can for you. ' Efau Haujo to the Seminoles. i I wish to inform you, Seminoles, that we have not thrown you away; in our councils we have thought of you, and have not thrown you away. I wish to mention to you, that our views in relation to you, have been to your welfare; we have sought it for you, and we inform Caupicchau Micco, that we think we have discovered something hanging over the heads of the Seminoles, which induces us to write this to them. You must no longer persist in the conduct you have hitherto pursued; you must drop it; stop where you are, and adopt another course of conduct; you must listen to the voice of the chiefs of the nation. This talk is from the Aubocoes, the two Upper and the Lower rivers; there are thirty-two towns now with me, while I am speaking, from the whole Creek nation; and it is they who talk to you. You must consider that you have been accustomed to talks, which have misled you, and we now inform you, if you throw this aside, it will be to your injury. You must look upon this as a talk sent to you for your good; if you throw it away, you must yourselves look to the consequences which, in future, may result from such conduct. You must send us an answer; send us the pure sentiments of your hearts; let us know the truth, and what you mean to be at. I send you this to prepare you for another talk; as soon as we get your talk, we shall know what you mean, and we shall then, after a general meeting of the whole nation, send you their talk. It is not only the chiefs of the Creeks who have heard what is going.on with you, but some of the Cherokees and Chickasaws, they join in this caution we send you. Mr. Burges, our old friend and interpreter, I look on you as my friend; you are a liver in our land, and have been long with us; you have strayed a little of late, but you must get straight; interpret this for the old chiefs, interpret favorable for their wishes; alter your conduct, and in future take part with the old chiefs. Alter you have interpreted this, you must send the answer of the Seminoles to us in writing. You must send us plainly your own sentiments, your own heart, as well as that of the Seminoles; let us know the truth, and what you and they mean to be at. We send this by Nehethluck Emautlau, of Oketeyocenen. Mooklausau Hopoie to Colonel Hawkins: I have something to say on the message to be sent to the Seminoles; it is not necessary to put it on paper for them. Efau Haujo has appointed a young man to go with the talks of the nation, to the Seminoles. The trust is an important one, and should not depend so much on chance; he may be sick, he may die, or he may not recollect all we mean by our statement; the interpreter we address is at best a doubttul character; I will therefore add two men. accustomed to business, one of whom has travelled much, seen much, and been employed in business; those I send shall attend the Seminoles, deliver our talks, and when the Seminoles answer us, shall watch their eyes, their tongues, and lips, and every feature of the countenance, whilst they are speaking, and report to me in the square of the nation, what they have seen, what they have heard, and what they have done. After they have heard the Seminoles, my messengers are to go to St. Mark's, and report faithfully to the officer of Spain there, what we have done here, w hat they ha\ e seen and done with the Seminoles. according to the promise of Hopoie Yauholo. of Tus-keegee, to the Governor General at New Orleans. 1 appoint Hopoie Yauholo, of Tuskecgee, and Yaufkee Emautlau Haujo, of Auttossee. Efau Haujo, to Colonel Hawkins: You must pay ten dollars to George Cornells (Talesee Haujo) for a prisoner girl, paid by order of the chiefs. Tuskeenehau, of Tuckaubatchee, claims his horses taken at Chota, opposite Tellico; he lost them at the house of Chota Micco. We were all drinking ruin, men, women, and children, and' the white people came on us at day break, killed three men and one woman, and wounded several, and an old white man of the Cherokees was killed. Efau Haujo, to General Wilkinson and Colonel Hawkins: I speak to you both, our white friends. Brothers a\d Fathers: I now speak to you, and you will remember it. Our red brothers, sons, and friends, there are four nations of us, if w e should fall out, quarrel, and dispute about any thing, you must look upon them as two children quarrelling and fighting. 1 am a little dubious of the Chickasaw’s and Choctaws; young Biwn, himself, the Chickasaw messenger, he spoke what I did not like, in my presence. It may be some years before any disturbances and quarrelling may take place, or it may be more. If we should quarrel, you, our white friends and brothers, are to be neutral, and not to interfere on  either side. There is. among us four nations, old customs, one of which is war. The young have grow n up to manhood? if they want to practice the ways of the old people, let them try themselves at war. and when they are tired, let the Miccoes, as they all have such, interpose and stop it: we want you to let us alone. I am led to mention this to you, as Brown, when here, boasted of the power of the Chickasaws. Efau Haujo to Col. Hawkins.—Mr. Barnard is our old interpreter, and we want one of his sons and his brother to settle out on this side, on the Altamaha: he, on Goose creek, near the new line. We wish the Cussetah kings and the Mad Dog to sign, and your commissioners to sign, our permission to the son of Mr. Barnard and his brother, to reside where we have named: and Mr. Barnard is to put on paper, that lie will allow those who owned those lands, fifty bushels of salt, and six loads of ammunition, to be paid to the chiefs of the lower part of the nation. If you, Colonel Hawkins, wish to move out yourself, to a new place in the Upper towns, it is agreed you shall settle on your own choice. You see it yourself, that I am getting in age, and cannot do as I used to do. Now, 1 give it to you before all the chiefs, that my speech is, that Acheaubofau, the town where Foosahatche Micco liv e.-?, is the town for the meeting of the national council in future. I giv e this, that all the chiefs of the Upper and Lower towns may know where business is to be done, that they may attend to it. Now that I have spoken to you, and to the General, you are public and beloved people. ’When we get back. wre shall have a meeting of all our chiefs. We tell you our course of business, and we shall expect you both at the national council, w hen you w ill hear from us how we are to fulfil our stipulations with you. I will let you commissioners know when we are going home; some of us are sickly, and are out some distance, and they cannot come and take you by the hand. You must not mind that; I shall take you by the hand for them. Mooklf.saw Hopoie to Col. Hawkins.—This Hopoie Yauholo has been at New Orleans, and the Governor General there, told him to come with the chiefs to this treaty, and carry w ith him the talks of this meeting to Saint Mark's. _ I certify this to be a true copy from the original. ALEX. MACOMB, Jux. Secretary to the Commission. * I Vth Congress.] 
