NO. 243.	[2d SESSION. TREATIES WITH THE CHIPPEWAS, PATTAWATAM1ES, AND MIAMIES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 12, 1826. To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, December, 1826. I transmit, herewith, to the Senate, for their advice with regard to their ratification, tlie following treaties with Indian tribes: 1. A treaty made and concluded at the Fond du Lac of Lake Superior, between Lewis Cass and Thomas L. McKenney, commissioners on the*part of the United States, and the Chippewa tribe of Indians, on the 5th of August, 1826. 2. A treaty made and concluded near the mouth of the Mississinewa, upon the Wabash, in the State of Indiana, between Lewis Cass, Janies B. Ray, and John Tipton, commissioners on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and warriors of the Pattawatamie tribe of Indians, on the 16th of October, 1826. 3. A treaty made and concluded near the mouth of the Mississinewa, upon the Wabash, in the State of Indiana, between Lewis Cass, James B. Ray, and John Tipton, commissioners on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and warriors of the Miami tribe of Indians, on the 23d of October, 1826. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. TREATY WITH THE CHIPPEWAS. Articles of a treaty made and concluded at the Fond du Lac of Lake Superior, this fifth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, between Lewis Cass and Thomas L. McKenney, commissioners on the part of the United States, and the Chippewa tribe of Indians. Whereas a treaty was concluded at Prairie du Chien, in August last, by which the war which has been so long carried on to their mutual distress between the Chippewas and Sioux was happily terminated by the intervention of the United States: and whereas, owing to the remote and dispersed situation of the Chippewas, full deputations of their different bands did not attend at Prairie du Chien; which circumstance, from the loose nature of the Indian government, would render the. treaty of doubtful obligation with respect to the bands not represented: and whereas, at the request of the Chippewa chiefs, a stipulation was inserted in the treaty of Prairie du Chien, by which the United States agreed to assemble the Chippewa tribe upon Lake Superior during the present year, in order to give full effect to the said treaty, to explain its stipulations, and to call upon the whole Chippewa tribe assembled at their general council fire to give their formal assent thereto, that the peace which has been concluded may be rendered permanent; therefore, ARTICLE 1. The chiefs and warriors of the Chippewa tribe of Indians hereby fully assent to the treaty concluded in August last at Prairie du Chien, and engage to observe and fulfil the stipulations thereof. ART. 2. A deputation shall be sent by the Chippewas to the treaty to be held in eighteen hundred and twentyseven at Green Bay, with full power to arrange and fix the boundary line between the Chippewas and the Winne- bagoes and Menomonies, which was left incomplete by the treaty of Prairie du Chien, in consequence of the non- attendance of some of the principal Menomonie chiefs. ART. 3. The Chippewa tribe grant to the Government of the United States the right to search for and carry » away any metals or minerals from any part of their country; but this grant is not to affect the title of the land, or the existing jurisdiction over it. ART. 4. It being deemed important that the half-breeds scattered through this extensive country should be stimulated to exertion and improvement by the possession of permanent property and fixed residences, the Chippewa tribe, in consideration of the affection they bear to those persons, and of the interest which they feel in their welfare, grant to each of the persons described in the. schedule hereunto annexed, being half-breeds and Chippewas by descent, (and it being understood that the schedule includes all of this description who are attached to the Government of the United States,) six hundred and forty acres of land, to be located, under the direction of the President of the United States, upon the islands and shore of the St. Mary’s river, wherever good land enough for this purpose can be found; and, as soon as such locations are made, the jurisdiction and soil thereof are hereby ceded. It is the intention of the parties that, where circumstances will permit, the grants be surveyed in the ancient French manner, bounding not less than six arpents nor more than ten upon the river, and/running back for quantity; and that, where this cannot be done, such grants be surveyed in any manner the President may direct. The locations for Oshauguscodaywayqua and her descendants shall be adjoining the lower part of the military reservation, and upon the head uf Sugar island. The persons to whom grants are made shall not have the privilege of conveying the same without the permission of the President. ART. 5. In consideration of the poverty of the Chippewas, and of the sterile nature of the country they inhabit, unfit for cultivation, and almost destitute of game, and as a proof of regard on the part of the United States, it is agreed that an annuity of two thousand dollars, in money or goods, as the President may direct, shall be paid to the tribe at the Sault de St. Marie; but this annuity shall continue only during the pleasure of the Congress of the United States. ART. 6. With a view to the improvement of the Indian youths, it is also agreed that an annual sum of one thousand dollars shall be appropriated to the support of an establishment for their education, to be located upon some part of the St. Mary’s river, and the money to be expended under the direction of the President; and, for the accommodation of such school, a section of land is hereby granted. But the payment of the one thousand dollars stipulated for in this article is subject to the same limitation as described in the preceding article. ART. 7. The necessity for the stipulations in the fourth, fifth, and sixth articles of this treaty could be fully apparent only from personal observation of the condition, prospects, and wishes of the Chippewas, and the commissioners were, therefore, not specifically instructed upon the subjects therein referred to; but, seeing the extreme poverty of these wretched people, finding them almost naked and starving, and ascertaining that many perished during the last winter from hunger and cold, they were induced to insert these articles. But it is expressly under- stoud and agreed that the fourth, fifth, and sixth articles, or either of them, may be rejected by the President and Senate without affecting the validity of the other articles of the treaty. ART. 8. The Chippewa tribe of Indians fully acknowledge the authority and jurisdiction of the United States, and disclaim all connexion with any foreign Power; solemnly promising to reject any messages, speeches, or counsels incompatible with the interest of the United States; and to communicate information thereof to the proper agent, should any such be delivered or sent to them. ART. 9. This treaty, after the same shall be ratified by the President and Senate of the United States, shall be obligatory on the contracting parties.	-	.	. ' Done at the Fond du Lac of Lake Superior, in the Territory of Michigan, the day and year above written, and of the independence of the United States the fifty-first. LEWIS CASS, THUS. L. MCKENNEY. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Chippewa tribe.] Supplementary article. As the Chippewas who committed the murder upon four American citizens in June, eighteen hundred and twenty- four, upon the shores of Lake Pepin, are not present at this council, but are far jp the interior of the country, so that they cannot be apprehended and delivered to the proper authority before the commencement of the next summer; and as the commissioners have been specially instructed to demand the surrender of these persons, and to state to the Chippewa tribe the consequence of suffering such a flagitious outrage to go unpunished, it is agreed that the persons guilty of the beforementioned murder shall be brought in, either to the Sault de St. Marie, or Green Bay, as early next summer as practicable, and surrendered to the proper authority; and that, in the mean time, al) further measures on the part of the United States, in relation to this subject, shall be suspended. LEWIS CASS, THOMAS L. MCKENNEY. [Signed, also, by the chiefs representing the bands to whom the persons guilty of the murder belong, for themselves and the Chippewa tribe.] Schedule referred to in the preceding treaty. To Oshauguscodaywayqua, wife of John Johnston, Esq., to each of her children, and to each of her grandchildren, one’ section. To Saugemauqua, widow of the late John Baptiste Cadotte, and to her children Louison, Sophia, Archangel, Edward, and Polly, one section each. To Keneesequa, wife of Samuel Ashman, and to each of her children, one section. To Teegaushau, wife of Charles H. Oakes, and to each of her children, nne section. To Thomas Shaw, son of Obimetunnqua, and to his wife Mary, being also of Indian descent, each one section. To Fanny Levake, daughter of Meeshinauqua, and to each of her children, one section. To Obayshaunoquotoqua, wife of Francis Goolay, jun., one section. To Omuckackneence, wife of John Holiday, and to each of her children, one section. To Obimegeezhigoqua, wife of Joseph Du Chene, jun., and to each of her children, one section. To Monedoqua, wife of Charles Cloutier, one section. To Susan Yarns, daughter of Odaubitogeezhigoqua, one section. To Henry Sayer and John Sayer, sons of Obemanunoqua, each one section. To each of tl)e children of John Tanner, being of Chippewa descent, one section. To Wassidjeewunoqua, and to each of her children by George Johnston, one section. To Michael Cadotte, sen., son of Equawaice, one section. To Equaysayway, wife of Michael Cadotte, sen., and to each of her children living within the United Slates one section. To each of the children of Charlotte Warren, widow of the late Truman A. Warren, one section. To Mary Chapman, daughter of Equameeg, and wife of Bela Chapman, and to each of her children, one section. To Saganoshequa, wife of John H. Fairbanks, and to each of her children, one section. To Shaughunomonee, wife of William Morrison, and to each of her children, one section. To each of the children of the late Ingwaysuh, wife of Joseph Coté, one section. To each of the children of Angelique Coté, late wife of Pierre Coté, one section. To Pazhikwutoqua, wife of William Aitken, and to each of her children, one section. To Susan Davenport, granddaughter of Misquabunoqua, and wife of Ambrose Davenport, and to each of her children, one section. To Waubunequa, wife of Augustine Belanger, and to each of her children, one section. To Charlotte Louisa Morrison, wife of Allan Morrison, and daughter of Manitowidjewung, and to each of her children, one section. To each of the children of Eustace Broussain, by Shauwunaubunoqua, Wauwaussumoqua, and Payshaubunoqua, one section. To Isabella Dingley, wife of Daniel Dingley, and daughter of Pimegeezhigoqua, and to each of her children, one section. To George Birkhead, being a Chippewa by descent, one section. To Susan Conner, wife of Thomas Conner, and daughter of Pimegeezhigoqua, and to each of her children, one section. To the children of George Ermatinger, being of Shawanee extraction, two sections collectively. To Assinahjeewnunoqua, wife of Michael Cadotte, jun., and to each of her children, one section. To Minedemoeyah, wife of Pierre Duvernay, one section. To Ogeemaugeezhigoqua, wife of Basil Boileau, one section. To Wauneaussequa, wife of Paul Boileau, one section. To Kaukaubesheequa, wife of John Baptiste Corbeau, one section. To John Baptiste Du Chene, son of Pimegeezhigoqua, one section. To each of the children of Ugwndaushee, by the late Truman A. Warren, one section. To William Warren, son of Lyman M. Warren and Mary Cadotte, one. section. To Antoine, Joseph, Louis, Chalot, and Margaret, Charette, children of Equameeg, one section. To the children of François Boucher, by Waussequa, each one section. To Angelique Brabent, daughter of Waussegundum, and wife of Alexis Brabent, one section. To Odishqua, of Sault de St. Marie, a Chippewa of unmixed blood, one section. To Pamidjeewung, of Sault de St. Marie, a Chippewa of unmixed blood, one section. To Waybossinoqua and John J. Wayishkee, children of Wayishkee, each one section. LEWIS CASS, THOMAS. L. MCKENNEY. TREATY WITH THE PATTAWATAM1ES. Articles of a treaty made and concluded near the mouth of the Mississinewa, upon the Wabash, in the State of Indiana, this sixteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, between Lewis Cass, James B. Ray, and John Tipton, commissioners on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and warriors of the Pattawatamie tribe of Indians. ARTICLE 1. The Pattawatamie tribe of Indians cede to the United States their right to all the land within the following limits: Beginning on the Tippecanoe river, where the northern boundary of the tract ceded by the Patta- watamies to the United States by the treaty of St. Mary’s, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, intersects the same; thence, in a direct line, to a point on Eel river, half-way between the mouth of the said river and Pierish’s village; thence, up Eel river, to Seek’s village, near the head thereof; thence, in a direct line, to the mouth of a creek emptying into the St. Joseph’s of the Miami, near Metea’s village; thence, up the St. Joseph’s, to the boundary line between the States of Indiana and Ohio; thence, south, to the Miami; thence, up the same, to the reservation at Fort Wayne; thence, with the fines of the said reservation, to the boundary established by the treaty with the Miamies in one thousand eight hundred and eighteen; thence, with the said line, to the Wabash river; thence, with the same river, to the mouth of the Tippecanoe river; and thence, with the said Tippecanoe river, to the place of beginning. And the said tribe also cede to the United States all their right to land within the following limits: Beginning at a point upon Lake Michigan, ten miles due north of the southern extreme thereof; running thence, due east, to the land ceded by the Indians to the United States by the treaty of Chicago; thence, south, with the boundary thereof, ten miles; thence, west, to the southern extreme of Lake Michigan; thence, with the shore thereof, to the place of beginning. ART. 2. As an evidence of the attachment which the Pattawatamie tribe feel towards the American people, and particularly to the soil of Indiana, and with a view to demonstrate their liberality, and benefit themselves by creating facilities for travelling and increasing the value of their remaining country, the said tribe do hereby cede to the United States a strip of land, commencing at Lake Michigan, and running thence on the Wabash river, one hundred feet wide, for a road; and, also, one section of good land contiguous to the said road, for each mile of the same, and also for each mile of a road from the termination thereof, through Indianapolis, to the Ohio river, for the purpose of making the road aforesaid from Lake Michigan, by the way of Indianapolis, to some convenient point on the Ohio river. And the General Assembly of the State of Indiana shall have a right to locate the said road, and to apply the said sections, or the proceeds thereof, to the making of the same, or any part thereof; and the said grant shall be at their sole disposal. ART. 3. In consideration of the cessions in the first article, the United States agree to pay to the Pattawatamie tribe an annuity of two thousand dollars in silver, for the term of twenty-two years, and also to provide and support a blacksmith for them at some convenient point; to appropriate, for the purposes of education, the annual sum of two thousand dollars, as long as the Congress of the United States may think proper, to be expended as the President may direct; and, also, to build for them a mill, sufficient to grind corn, on the Tippecanoe river, and to provide and support a miller, and to pay them annually one hundred and sixty bushels of salt: all of which annuities, herein , specified, shall be paid by the Indian agent at Fort Wayne. ART. 4. The commissioners of the United States have caused to be delivered to the Pattawatamie tribe goods to the value of thirty thousand five hundred and forty-seven dollars and seventy-one cents, in goods, io consideration of the cessions in the first article of this treaty. Now, therefore, it is agreed, that, if this treafy should be ratified by the President and Senate of the United States, the United States shall pay to the persons named in the schedule this day transmitted to the War Department, and signed by the commissioners, the sums affixed to their names, respectively, for goods furnished by them, and amounting to the said sum of thirty thousand five hundred and forty-seven dollars and seventy-one cents; and, also, to the persons who may furnish the said further sum, the amount of nine hundred dollars thus furnished. And it is also agreed, that payment for all these goods shall be made by the Pattawatamie tribe out of their annuity, if this treaty should not be ratified by the United States. ART. 5. The Pattawatamie tribe being anxious to pay certain claims existing against them, it is agreed, as a part of the consideration fur the cessions in the first article, that these claims, which are stated in a schedule this day signed by the commissioners, and transmitted to the War Department, and amounting to the sum of nine thousand five hundred and seventy-three dollars [shall be paid by the United States.] ART. 6. The United States agree to grant to each of the persons named in the schedule hereunto annexed the quantity of land therein stipulated to be granted; but the land so granted shall never be conveyed by either of the said persons, or their heirs, without the consent of the President of the United States; and it is also understood that any of these grants may be expunged from the schedule by the President er Senate of the United States, without affecting any other part of the treaty. ART. 7. The Pattawatamie Indians shall enjoy the right of hunting upon any part of the land hereby ceded, as long as the same shall remain the property of the United States. ART. 8. The President and Senate of the United States may reject any article of this treaty, except those which relate to the consideration to be paid for the cessions of the land; and such rejection shall not affect any other part of the treaty. ART. 9. This treaty, after the same shall be ratified by the President and Senate, shall be binding upon the United States. In testimony whereof, the said Lewis Cass, James B. Ray, and John Tipton, commissioners as aforesaid, and . the chiefs and warriors of the said Pattawatamie tribe, have hereunto set their hands, at the Wabash, on the sixteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, and of the independence of the United States the fifty-first. LEWIS CASS, J. B. RAY, JOHN TIPTON. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Pattawatamie tribe.] Schedule of grants referred to in the foregoing treaty. To Abraham Burnett, three sections of land; one to be located at and to include Wynemac’s village, the centre of the line on the Wabash to be opposite that village, and running up and down the river one mile in a direct line, and back for quantity; the two other sections, commencing at the upper end of the prairie, opposite the mouth of the Passeanoing creek, and running down two miles m a direct line, and back, for quantity. To Nancy Burnett, Rebecca Burnett, James Burnett, and William Burnett, each, one section of land, to be located under the direction of the President of the United States; which said Abraham, Nancy, Rebecca, and James, are the children, and the said William is the grandchild of Kaukeama, the sister of Topenihe, the principal chief of the Pattawatamie tribe of Indians. To Eliza C. Kercheval, one section on the Miami river, commencing at the first place where the road from Fort Wayne to Defiance strikes the Miami, on the north side thereof, about five miles below Fort Wayne, and from that point running half a mile down the river, and half a mile up the river, and back, for quantity. To James Knaggs, son of the sister of Okeos, chief of the river Huron Pattawataraies, one half-section of land upon the Miami, where the boundary line between Indiana and Ohio crosses the same. To the children of Joseph Barrow, a relation of Richardville, principal chief of the Miamies, three sections of land, beginning at the mouth of Eel river, running three miles down the Wabash in a direct line, and thence back, for quantity. To Zachariah Cicott, who is married to an Indian woman, one section of land, below and adjoining Abraham Burnett’s land, and to be located in the same way. To Baptiste Cicott, Sophia Cicott, and Amelia Cicott, children of Zachariah Cicott and an Indian woman, one half-section each, adjoining and below the section granted to Zachariah Cicott. To St. Luke Bertrand and Julia Ann Bertrand, children of Madeline Bertrand, a Pattawatamie woman, one section of land, to be located under the direction of the President of the United States. To the children of Stephen Johnson, killed by the Pattawatamie Indians, one half-section of land, to be located under the direction of the President of the United States. To each of the following persons, Indians by birth, and who are now, or have been, scholars in the Carey Mission School, on the St. Joseph’s, under the direction of the Rev. Isaac McCoy, one quarter-section of land, to be located under the direction of the President of the United States, that is to say: Joseph Bourissa, Noaquett, John Jones, Nuko, Soswa, Manotuk, Betsey Ash, Charles Die, Susannah Isaacs, Harriet Isaacs, Betsey Plummer, Angelina Isaacs, Jemima Isaacs, Jacob Corbly Konkapot, Celicia Nimham, Mark Bourissa, Jude Bourissa, Annowussau, Topenibe, Terrez, Sheshko, Louis Wilmett, Mitchel Wilmett, Lezett Wilmett, Esther Bailey, Roseann Bailey, Eleanor Bailey, Quehkna, William Turner, Chaukenozwoh, Lazarus Bourissa, Achan Bourissa, Achemukqueej Wesauwau, Peter Moose, Ann Sharp, Joseph Wolf, Misnoqua, Pomoqua, Wymego, Cheekeh, Wauwossemoqua, Meeksumau, Kakautmo, Richard Clements, Louis McNeff, Shoshqua, Nocotenoma, Chikawketeh, Musheewoh, Saugana, Msonkqua, Mnitoqua, Okutcheek, Naomi G. Browning, Antoine St. Antoine, Mary; being, in all, fifty-eight. To Jane Martin and Betsey Martin, of Indian descent, each one section of land, to be located under the direction of the President of the United States. To Mary St. Come, of Indian descent, one quarter-section of land, to be located under the direction of the President of the United States. To François Dequindre, of Indian descent, one section of land, to be located under the direction of the President of the United States. To Baptiste Jutreace, of Indian descent, one half-section of land, to be located under the direction of the President of the United States.	• To John B. Bourie, of Indian descent, one section of land, to be located on the Miami river, adjoining the old boundary’ line below Fort Wayne. To Joseph Parks, an Indian, one section of land, to be located at the point where the boundary line strikes the St. Joseph’s, near Metea’s village.	■ To George Cicott, a chief of the Pattawataraies, three sections and a half of land; two sections and a half of which to be located on the Wabash, above the mouth of Crooked creek, running two miles and a half up the river, and back, for quantity; and the remaining section at the falls of Eel river, on both sides thereof. To James Conner, one section of land; to Henry Conner, one section; and to William Conner, one section; beginning opposite the upper end of the Big Island, and running three miles in a direct line, down the Wabash, and back, for quantity. To Hyacinth Lassell, two sections of land, to be located under the direction of the President of the United States. To Louison, a half Pattawatamie, two sections of land, to be located under the direction of the President of the United States. LEWIS CASS, J. BROWN RAY. JOHN TIPTON. . TREATY WITH THE MIAMIES. Articles of a treaty made and concluded near the mouth of the Mississinewa, upon the Wabash, in the State of Indiana, this twenty-third day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty- six, between Lewis Cass, James B. Ray, and John Tipton, commissioners on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and warriors of the Miami tribe of Indians. ARTICLE 1. The Miami tribe of Indians cede to the United States all their claim to land in the State of Indiana, north and west of the Wabash and Miami rivers, and of the cession made by the said tribe to the United States by the treaty concluded at St. Mary’s, October the sixth, one thousand eight hundred and eighteen. ART. 2. From the cession aforesaid, the following reservations, for the use of the said tribe, shall be made: Fourteen sections of land at Seek’s village. Five sections for the Beaver, below and adjoining the preceding reservation. Thirty-six sections at Flat Belly’s village. Five sections for Little Charley, above the old village, on the north side of Eel river. One section for Laventure’s daughter, opposite the islands, about fifteen miles below Fort Wayne. One section for Chapine, above and adjoining Seek’s village. Ten sections at the White Rackoon’s village. Ten sections at the mouth of Mud creek, on Eel river, at the old village. Ten sections at the forks of the Wabash. One reservation, commencing two miles and a half below the mouth of the Mississinewa, and running up the Wabash five miles, with the bank thereof; and from these points, running due north, to Eel river. And it is agreed, that the State of Indiana may lay out a canal or a road through any of these reservations; and for the use of a canal, six chains along the same are hereby appropriated. ART. 3. There shall be granted to each of the persons named in the schedule hereunto annexed, and to their heirs, the tracts of land therein designated; but the land so granted shall never be conveyed without the consent of the President of the United States. ART. 4. The commissioners of the United States have caused to be delivered to the Miami tribe goods to the value of thirty-one thousand and forty dollars and fifty-three cents, in part consideration for the cession herein made; and it is agreed that, if this treaty shall be ratified by the President and Senate of the United States, tho United States shall pay to the persons named in the schedule this day signed by the commissioners, and transmitted to the War Department, the sums affixed to their names, respectively, for goods furnished by them, and amounting to the sum of thirty-one thousand and forty dollars and fifty-three cents. And it is further agreed, that payment for these goods shall be made by the Miami tribe out of their annuity, if this treaty be not ratified by the United States. And the United States further engage to deliver to the said tribe, in the course of the next summer, the additional sum of twenty-six thousand two hundred and fifty-nine dollars and forty-seven cents, in goods. And it is also agreed that an annuity of thirty-five thousand dollars, ten thousand of which shall be in goods, shall be paid to the said tribe in the year one thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven; and thirty thousand dollars, five thousand of which shall be in goods, in the year one thousand eight hundred and twenty-eight; after which time, a permanent annuity of twenty-five thousand dollars shall be paid to them, as long as they exist together as a tribe: which several sums are to include the annuities due by preceding treaties to the said tribe. And the United States further engage to furnish a wagon and one yoke of oxen for each of the following persons, namely: Joseph Riehardville, Black Raekoon, Flat Belly, White Rackoon, François Godfrey, Little Beaver, Mettosanea, Seek, and Little Huron; and one wagon and one yoke of oxen for the band living at the forks of the Wabash.	. And also to cause to be built a house, not exceeding the value of six hundred dollars, for each of the following persons, namely: Joseph Riehardville, François Godfrey, Louison Godfroy, Francis Lafontaine, White Rackoon, La Gros, Jean B. Riehardville, Flat Belly, and Wauweassee. And also to furnish the said tribe with two hundred head of cattle, from four to six years old, and two hundred head of hogs; and to cause to be annually delivered to them two thousand pounds of iron, one thousand pounds of steel, and one thousand pounds of tobacco. And to provide five laborers, to work three months in the year, for the small villages; and three laborers, to work three months in the year, for the Mississinewa band. ART. 5. The Miami tribe being anxious to pay certain claims existing against them, it is agreed, as a part of the consideration for the cession in the first article, that these claims, amounting to seven thousand seven hundred and twenty-seven dollars and forty-seven cents, and which are stated in a schedule this day signed by the commissioners and transmitted to the War Department, shall be paid by the United States. ART. 6. The United States agree to appropriate the sum of two thousand dollars annually, as long as Congress may think proper, for the support of poor infirm persons of the Miami tribe, and for the education of the youth of the said tribe; which sum shall be expended under the direction of the President of the United States. ART. 7. It is agreed that the United States shall purchase of the persons named in the schedule hereunto annexed the land therein mentioned, which was granted to them by the treaty of St. Mary’s, and shall pay the price affixed to their names, respectively; the payments to be made when the title to the land is conveyed to the United States. ART. 8. The Miami tribe shall enjoy the right of hunting upon the land therein conveyed, so long as the same shall be the property of the United States. ART. 9. This treaty, after the same shall be ratified by the President and Senate, shall be binding upon the United States. In testimony whereof, the said Lewis Cass, James B. Ray, and John Tipton, commissioners as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors of the said Miami tribe, have hereunto set their hands, at the Wabash, on the twenty- third day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, and of the independence of the United States the fifty-first. LEWIS CASS, J. BROWN RAY, JOHN TIPTON. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Miami tribe.] Schedule of grants referred to in the third article of the above treaty. To John B. Riehardville, one section of land between the mouth of Pipe creek and the mouth of Eel river, on the north side of the Wabash; and one section on the northwest side of the St. Joseph’s, adjoining the old boundary line; also, one half-section on the east side of the St. Joseph’s, below Chappotee’s village. To John B. Boure, one section on the north side of the St. Joseph’s, including Chappotee’s village. To the wife and children of Charley, a Miami chief, one section where they live. To Ann Hackley and Jack Haekley, one section each, between the Maumee and the St. Joseph’s rivers. To the children of Maria Christiana De Rome, a half-blood Miami, one section between the Maumee and the St. Joseph’s. To Ann Turner, alias Haekley, Rebecca Haekley, and Jane S. Wells, each, one half-section of land, to be located under the direction of the President of the United States. To John B. Riehardville, one section of land upon the north side of the Wabash, to include a large spring nearly opposite the mouth of Pipe creek. To François Godfroy, one section above and adjoining said last grant to John B. Riehardville. To Louison Godfroy, one section above and adjoining the grant to François Godfroy. To Francis Lafontaine, one section above and adjoining the grant to Louison Godfroy. To. John B. Riehardville, junior, one section on the Wabash, below and adjoining the reservation running from the Wabash to Eel river. To Joseph Riehardville, one section above and adjoining the reservation running from the Wabash to Eel river. To La Gros, three sections where he now lives, and one section adjoining the Cranberry, in the Portage prairie. A quarter-section of land to each of the following persons, namely: Charles Gouin, Pierre Goniu, and Therese Gouin, to be located under the direction of the President of the United States. Two sections of land at the old town on Eel river, to be reserved for the use of Metehinequea. LEWIS CASS, .	JOHN TIPTON, OCTOBER 23, 1826.	J. BROWN RAY. g1R.	. DETKOIT, September II, 1826. We have the honor to transmit, herewith, a treaty concluded on the 5th ultimo with the Chippewa tribe of Indians, at the Fond du Lae of Lake Superior. It being one of the principal objects of the treaty to procore the formal and renewed assent of the Chippewas to the pacification entered into between them and the Sioux at Prairie du Chien, in August, 1825, and the first two articles relating wholly to this subject, they require no particular observations. For many years the opinion has been prevalent that there is a rich metalliferous region upon the southern coast of Lake Superior, and recent inquiries have placed this matter beyond doubt. Abundant specimens of native copper have been found, of the purest quality; and it is easy to foresee that a state of things may exist, which may render it important that the United States should possess the right of procuring this copper. It, of course, may be exercised or not, as the Government may think proper. It was an important part of our mission to procure the surrender of the persons guilty of the atrocious murder perpetrated upon Lake Pepin, in 1824, and who escaped from the jail at Michilimackinac in the autumn of 1825. A formal demand was made upon the assembled tribe for their surrender, and no representations or arguments were spared to impress upon them as well the atrocity of the act, as the consequences of a similar course of conduct, and the ultimate determination of the Government. One of the persons attending the council was present at the murder. The opportunity was thus afforded us of taking the most prompt and efficient measures, without the intervention of the slow and powerless deliberation of an Indian eouncih This persun we caused to be brought before us, in the presence of the assembled multitude, with the avowed determination of transporting bint to Mieh- ilimackinac if we believed him guilty. The facts were investigated, as well as the nature of the testimony permitted, and we were satisfied that he was innocent. But the examination was highly useful, and left impressions upon the Indians which we think will check their continued disposition to commit outrages upon our citizens—a disposition which results from no settled feelings of hostility, but is caused by the operation of their own arbitrary customs; the necessity of taking scalps, either to revenge murdered relatives, or to render the young men respectable in the opinion of their countrymen. The residue of the party who committed the murder were far in the interior of the country, and it was therefore impossible to procure their im'mediate apprehension, and would have been fotile to urge it. No physical force could accomplish such a measure. All we could expect was, an assurance that they should be surrendered as soon as they eould be taken, and carried to our nearest post. This pledge was accordingly given, and under such circumstances as induced a belief that every exertion will be used to redeem it. There are three stipulations inserted in the treaty, concerning matters not specifically embraced in our instructions, and we are therefore the more anxious fully to explain the motives which led to their adoption. Lest they should not be satisfactory, they are accompanied with a provision, which will enable the Government to annul or confirm them, without affecting any other portion of the treaty. But we indulge the hope that, on a full examination of the subject, the course we have adopted will be approved. The whole country upon the southern coast of Lake Superior is a sterile region. No vegetable productions are raised, and the game, which was always sparingly scattered over it, is almost exterminated. The Indians are consequently in a very destitute condition, and are, in fact, reduced to the extremity of human suffering. Their furs are not sufficient to procure them powder and ball, blankets, and the few other articles which are essential not to their comfort merely, but to their very existence. Many of them are in a state of actual starvation every winter. A small amount, invested in the most necessary articles, would be of incalculable advantage. Besides, we are at length, after many years’ exertions, acquiring a proper control over them. This has not been done without great difficulty, nor without the most strenuous counteracting efforts on the part of the British authorities. Nothing would sooner or more happily terminate this contest than the timely distribution of a small quantity of goods. The lavish expenditure of the British Government is contrasted with the practice of our own; and this obvious view, and this alone, secured for them the attachment and services of these remote Indians during the last war. The successful experiments which are making at Michilimackinac, and at other points in this quarter, on the subject of Indian education and improvement, evince that it is to this effort we must look for any rational prospect of meliorating the moral and physical condition of this hapless people. They begin to appreciate their importance, and many of them are solicitous that their children should be educated. The institution at Michilimackinac is already full; aud the Sauk de St. Marie, at the outlet of Lake Superior, and commanding the entrance into the Indian country, is the best position, now unoccupied, for the establishment of such an institution. It is not supposed that the amount stipulated will support the school, but there is every reason to believe that the residue will be supplied by the voluntary contributions of benevolent associations and individuals, who, with noble ardor, are devoting themselves to this great work. The duration of the annuity, as well as the sum for the support of the school, depending wholly on the pleasure of the Government, the grants may be resumed whenever they are found to be useless. It is important that some permanent provision should be made for the half-breeds who are scattered through that country. They are principally the descendants of the French voyageurs, who have for many years been engaged in the laborious duties of the Indian trade. It would be equally politic and humane to collect these people into one neighborhood, and induce them to become agriculturists. Situated as they now are, they have neither fixed residence, certain employments, nor such habits as regular business would give them. They form no inconsiderable portion of the physical force of the country, and the moral force they could exert upon the Indians is still stronger. To secure their permanent attachment to our Government is an important object; and, by locating them upon the St. Mary’s river, they would occupy a position most favorable for any operations, offensive or defensive, which future circumstances may render necessary; while the grants they receive, unalienable as they are, would insure their fidelity. And to these considerations is to be added another, little less important. It seems worse than useless to provide the means of education for this class of people, without also making provision for the practical application of the knowledge and habits they may acquire. If, after passing through the missionary school, they are to be thrown back into the society of their Indian relatives, there to seek the means of support, hopeless indeed will be their condition; but if they are placed upon land of their own, on the confines of civilization, they will have stimulus for exertion, and means of employment, and they will become an intermediate link between our own citizens and our wandering neighbors, softening the shades of each, and enjoying the confidence of both. Their example will produce a most salutary and permanent effect. Many of the grantees are now at the school at Michilimackinac, of different ages; some having just entered, and some being about to leave the establishment. It is our firm conviction that upon the immediate fate of these persons depends the issue of all the experiments upon this subject which we are making in this quarter.	J	t The principle of making grants to the half-breeds is fully recognised in all the treaties which have been recently formed in this quarter—at Fort Meigs, in 1817; at St. Mary’s, in 1818; at Saginaw, in 1819; and at Chicago, in 1824; and, more recently, in that concluded with the Sacs and Foxes in 1824, at Washington, by which two hundred thousand acres were appropriated fur this object. It was thought best to make the grants narrow upon the river, and extending a considerable distance back, because such has been the form of the confirmed claims in that quarter, and this mode of location is familiar to the French inhabitants of the country. It has also the advantage of bringing the population together, and enabling it more easily tu defend itself in its distant and exposed regions. It will not here interfere with the mode adopted by the United States in selling their lands, because no land in the rear of this tract can ever be sold. Nature herself has interdicted it, by the sterility of the soil and the inclemency of the climate. It was impracticable to carry into effect that part of our instructions which relates to the treaty at Green Bay. The appropriation did not pass till the 22d May, and the Indians could not be convened at both points, (distant from each other, by any practicable route, at least eight hundred miles,) so as to perform the duty this season. The stipulation in the treaty of Prairie du Chien is, that councils shall be held, upon Lake Superior and at Green Bay; but it also provides that the council upon Lake Superior shall be held in 1826; of course, we were compelled to attend at that place rather than at Green Bay. The latter duty cannot be executed till the summer of 1827, and we have already caused the necessary previous arrangements to be made for this purpose. It may well be supposed that the expenditures for such an expedition cannot be immediately brought to a close. The intelligent agent at the Sault de St. Marie has been charged with the duty of making all the payments, and the whole of the appropriation has been placed in his hands. The accounts, together with the journal of our proceedings, will be prepared and transmitted to the Department as speedily as practicable. ■ We have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servants, LEWIS CASS, THOS. L. MCKENNEY. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War, Washington. CAMP, NEAR THE MOUTH OF THE MISSISSINEWA, ON THE WABASH, SIR:	October 23, 1826. Accompanying this, we have the honor to transmit to you the treaty which was concluded with the Patta- watamies on the 16th instant, and that which was concluded with the Miamies on this day. These treaties have been the result of a long, tedious negotiation, in which every exertiou was used to procure a cession upon the most reasonable terms for the United States; and we are confident in the opinion that the object could not he obtained without assenting to the stipulations which are found in these instruments. It is difficult to ascertain the precise boundary of Indian claims. The lines of demarcation between the different tribes are not distinctly established, and, in fact, their title rests more upon possession than prescription. The. tribes are frequently intermingled, and each has sometimes a common interest in the same district of country. North of the Wabash, the Miamies and Pattawaramies are in this condition. At the treaty of Grouseland, in August, 1805, the right of the former tribe to the country upon the Wabash and its tributaries was recognised, but ■time and subsequent circumstances have materially affected this arrangement. At the treaty of St. Mary’s, in 1818, it was considered important to procure a cession from the Pattawatamies of the country south of the Wabash, and the entire cession from the Vermilion to the Tippecanoe was made by that tribe; and it seemed to be generally admitted by both of these tribes that there was a common and undefined interest in the country north of the Wabash. These circumstances rendered it proper to treat with the Miamies and Pattawatamies for the whole tract to be purchased, in order as well to do justice by them, as to prevent a resort to hostilities, the usual arbiter of Indian disputes. In treating, however, with the Pattawatamies, we were sensible that their title to the most valuable section of the country was not as valid as that of the Miamies, and therefore the consideration paid to them is much less than that paid to the others. The annuity is comparatively small and limited, and the sum appropriated for the purpose of education is determinable at the pleasure of Congress. The amount of the other stipulations (for blacksmith, &c.) is inconsiderable, and the objects themselves are such as are important to the Indians, and cannot be indifferent to the Government. Goods have been distributed to them (as will appear by the fourth article of the treaty) to the amount of $30,547 71, and an additional quantity to the amount of $900 has been promised them. Without this provision, no treaty could have been formed. The Indians always arrive at our treaty grounds poor and naked. They expect to receive some part of the consideration at the mome.nt of signing the treaty. This expectation, in fact, furnishes the only motive for their attendance, and much the most powerful motive for their assent to the measures proposed to them. A reduction in the annuity is effected by these payments, much greater in value than the amount distributed. The sum appropriated for these treaties ($15,000) was certainly intended to defray the necessary expenses attending the convocation of the Indians and the general business of the negotiation. It could not have been expected that any part of the consideration given for the land should be met from this fund. It was barely sufficient, with the most rigid economy, to pay the actual claims for services and supplies essential to the subsistence of the multitude assembled here, to the preservation of the necessary police, and to the successful result to which we have ultimately attained. Under these circumstances, no resource was left us but to purchase goods upon the credit of the negotiation, providing for their payment by the United States, if the treaty should be ratified, and by the Indians, if the ratification should be withheld. Proper invoices and certificates of these purchases have been prepared, and contingent drafts have been drawn on the Department, payable after an appropriation shall be made for that purpose. A schedule of these drafts, dated the 18th instant, accompanies this letter. To them are annexed the invoices, which will fully explain the nature of the supplies which have been furnished.	, Provision has been made for the payment of certain claims against the Pattawatamies, amounting to $9,573. These claims have been agreed to at the particular request of the tribe; and the claimants are exclusively Indian traders, whose property and services have been scattered through the whole Indian country. Considerable deductions have been made from all of them; and the Pattawatamies are anxious for their payment, as well to be relieved from the pressure of these debts, as to procure such credits hereafter as their necessities may require. Lands have been granted to various individuals, as will appear by the subjoined schedule, which exhibits the extent and situation of these tracts. Almost all these persons are of Indian descent; and the few who are not so, are connected with them by early associations, by trade, or by other circumstances. And all these grants have been inserted at the particular request of the Indians; and most of the grantees have materially aided us during the negotiation. In order to guard against any imputations, we have inserted a provision that any of these names may be expunged from the treaty; but we trust that it will not be found necessary for the Senate to exercise this power. Confident expectations arc indulged by the'Indians and the persons interested that these grants will be confirmed, and they, in fact, constitute an integral part of the consideration for the cession. It was impossible to procure the assent of the Pattawatamies or Miamies to a removal west of the Mississippi. They are not yet prepared for this important change in their situation. Time, the destruction of the game, and the approximation of our settlements, are necessary before this measure can be successfully proposed to them. It was urged as far as prudence permitted, and, in fact, until it became apparent that further persuasion would defeat every object we had in view. It was then important that the Indians should be separated into bands, by the intervention of our settlements. As long as they can roam unmolested through the country, we may in vain expect either to reclaim them from the savage life they lead, or to induce them to seek a residence where their habits and pursuits will be less injurious to us. We could not purchase any particular district near the centre of the Patta- watamie country; but that tribe freely consented to give us land for the road described in the treaty, and for the settlement along it. Such a road may at times be useful to them in travelling, and it will readily furnish them with a market for their game, and the means of. procuring their accustomed supplies; but, what is much more important to us, it will sever their possessions, and lead them at no distant day to place their dependance upon agricultural pursuits, or to abandon the country. The eventual importance of this communication to the United States, either in a pecuniary or political view, it is no part of our duty to explain. Such a provision was made for the construction of a road from the rapids of the Miami to the western line of the Connecticut Reserve in Ohio; but, as it has not been frequent in Indian treaties, we thought it proper that the Senate should be enabled to act upon this, as well as other matters in the treaty, without affecting the validity of the cession; and therefore a stipulation has been inserted which will give to that body the entire control of the subject. But our principal difficulty has been with the Miamies. The country which they occupy is much more valuable than that occupied by the Pattawatamies. It is immediately upon the Wabash, and commands the great avenue of communication between the Ohio and the lakes. Eel river, the northern boundary of the Pattawatamie cession, is incorrectly represented upon the maps. In its general course, it is much further from the Wabash than it appears to be upon them; and, from the best calculation we can make, the whole extent of the cession is not less than 2,000,000 of acres, and perhaps amounts to 3,000,000. The tract upon Lake Michigan is essentia) to the interests of Indiana; for, without it, her citizens cau have no access to that important outlet. The district embraced in the Miami cession is probably equal in value to any other tract of similar extent in the western country; and its acquisition was highly important to the State of Indiana, as it interrupts the continuity of her settlements, and prevents her from entering upon that system of internal improvements to which she is invited by nature, policy, and interest. The right conveyed by the Miamies is also more extensive than that conveyed by the Pattawatamies. The latter have ceded their right to the country within specific bounds. To the largest and much the mosy.import- ant of the three cessions made by them, the Miami claim is the most valid. But the Miamies have al ) ceded their whole right to the country north of the Wabash, with the exception of a few small reservations. The United States, by this cession, have acquired a joint interest with the Pattawatamies to an extensive district of country; and although a just regard to public opinion, as well as to the situation of the Indians, will probably prevent them from taking possession of any part of it without the forma) consent of the Pattawatamies, still the extinguishment of the Miami claim will enable us to negotiate with more efficiency, when the proper time arrives for the purchase of the Pattawatamie country, or for the establishment of another boundary between them and the United States. The extent of this Miami’claim we do not know, and it must be left to the Government hereafter to ascertain it, when such a measure becomes necessary. The Miamies are also better organized in their government than the Pattawatamies, and their reduced numbers enable them to act with more unanimity. The preceding annuities due to them were considerable, and they were aware that the possession of the country was highly important to us. Under these circumstances, it was necessary to give them much more for the relinquishment they made, than was given to the Pattawatamies; and, without troubling you with the details of a semi-barbarous negotiation, wh’ich occupied us many days, it is enough to say that the treaty exhibits the most advantageous arrangement which could be made. to find that our conduct has been approved, and that the treaty has been ratified. Certain we are that another or a better one will not be procured, without pursuing a system which we trust will find few advocates. The sum appropriated for holding these treaties, and which we have drawn for, has been placed in the hands of Major R. A. Forsyth, sub-agent in the Indian Department, and appointed by us special commissary for that purpose. The whole has been properly expended, and the vouchers have been examined and approved by us. He will immediately transmit his accounts to the Treasury for settlement. Very respectfully, we are, sir, your obedient servants, Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War. CONGRESS.] 
