NO. 208.	'	[1st SESSION. VIEWS OF THE CHEROKEES IN RELATION TO FURTHER CESSIONS OF THEIR LANDS. ! COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, APRIL 16, 1824. To the Senate of the United States in Congress assembled: We, the undersigned delegation from the Cherokee nation, now on a visit at the seat of Government of the United States, on matters of vast import, as will appear by the President’s message of the 30th of March last, and its accompanying documents, humbly beg leave to submit before your honorable body a few remarks, which we are bound (as we believe) to make, under a sense of duty to our nation, as well as to ourselves. It is with unfeigned regret and pain we discover the. sentiments which are expressed by the Governor of Georgia, in bis letter to the Secretary of War of the 28th of February last; and, also, those expressed by the Georgia delegation in Congress to the President of the United States, on the 10th of March last. We cannot but view the design of those letters as an attempt, bordering on a hostile disposition towards the Cherokee nation, to arrest from them, by arbitrary means, their just rights and liberties, the security of which is solemnly guarantied to them by these United States. As you have a full view of the subject before your honorable body, it is not our purpose to be superfluous: therefore, we will take occasion to assert, under the fullest authority, that all the sentiments expressed in relation to the disposition and determination of the nation never again to cede another foot of land, are positively the production and voice of the tiation; and what has been uttered by us, in the communications which we have made to the Government, since our arrival in this city, is expressive of the true sentiments of the nation, agreeably to our instructions, and that not one word of which has been put into our month by a white man. Any surmises or statements to the contrary are ill-founded and ungenerous. We forbear to animadvert on the aspersion pointed at our chiefs by the pen of the Georgia delegation; it is but a subterfuge. The Cherokees are informed on the situation of the country west of the Mississippi river; and there is not a spot out of the limits of any of the States or Territories thereof, and within the limits of the United States, that they would ever consent to inhabit, because they have unequivocally determined never again to pursue the chase, as heretofore, or to engage in wars, unless by the special call of the Government, to defend the common rights of the United States; and as a removal to the barren waste bordering on the Rocky Mountains, whore water and timber are scarcely to be seen, could be for no other object or inducement than to pursue the buffalo, and to wage wars with the uncultivated Indians in that hemisphere. Imposing facts! We speak from the experience which has been so fepeatedly realized, that such a state of things would inevitably be the result, were the Cherokees to emigrate to that country. But such an event will never take place. The Cherokees have turned their attention to the pursuits of the civilized man; agriculture, manufactures, and the mechanic arts, and education, are all in successful operation in the nation at this time; and, whilst the Cherokees are peacefully endeavoring to enjoy the blessings of civilization and Christianity on the soil of their rightful inheritance; and whilst the exertions and labors of various religious societies of these United States are successfully engaged in promulgating to them the word of truth and life, from the sacred volume of holy writ, and under the patronage of the General Government, they are threatened with removal or extinction. This subject is now before your honorable body for a decision. We appeal to the magnanimity of the American Congress for justice, and the protection of the rights, liberties, and lives of the Cherokee people. We claim it from the United States, by the strongest obligation which imposes it upon them—by treaties; and we expect it from them under that memorable declaration, “ that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” We, therefore, in behalf and under the highest authority of the Cherokee nation, have hereunto affixed our signatures, at Washington City, this 15th day of April, 1824. JNO. ROSS, GEO. LOWREY, '	MAJOR RIDGE, his X mark, ELIJAH HICKS. CONGRESS.] 
