NO. 210 TREATY WITH THE CHEROKEES IN 1804. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, APRIL 30, 1824. [To the Senate of the United States: I communicate to the Senate a treaty entered into with the Cherokee nation as early as 1804, but which, owing to causes not now understood, has never been carried into effect. Of the authenticity of the transaction, a report from the Secretary of War, with the documents accompanying it, furnishes the most unquestionable proof. I submit it to the Senate, for its advice and consent as to the ratification. JAMES MONROE. Articles of a treaty between the United States of America and the Cherokee Indians. Daniel Smith and Return J. Meigs, being commissioned'by Thomas Jefferson, President of the United States, with power of acting in behalf of the said United States in arranging certain matters with the Cherokee nation of Indians; and the underwritten principal chiefs, representing the said nation, having met the said commissioners in a conference at Tellico, and having taken into their consideration certain propositions made to them by the said commissioners of the United States, the parties aforesaid have unanimously agreed and stipulated as is definitely expressed in the following articles: ARTICLE 1. For the. considerations hereinafter expressed, the Cherokee nation relinquish and cede to the United States a tract of land, bounding southerly on the boundary line between the State of Georgia and the said Cherokee nation, beginning at a point on the said boundary line northeasterly of the most northeast plantation in the settlement known by the name of Walford’s settlement, aud running at right angles with the said boundary line four miles into the Cherokee lands; thence, at right angles, southwesterly and parallel to the first mentioned boundary line, so far as that a line, to be run at right angles southerly to the said first mentioned boundary line, shall include in this cession all the plantations in Walford’s settlement, so called, as aforesaid. ART. 2. For and in consideration of the relinquishment and cession, as expressed in the first article, the United States, upon signing the present treaty, shall cause to be delivered to the Cherokees useful goods, wares, and merchandise, to the amount of five thousand dollars, or that sum in money, at the option (timely signified) of the Cherokees, and shall also cause to be delivered, annually, to them, other useful goods, to the amount of one thousand dollars, or money to that amount, at the option of the Cherokees, (timely notice thereof being given,) in addition to the annuity heretofore stipulated, and to be delivered at the usual time of their receiving their annuity. In witness of all and every thing herein determined between the United States and the Cherokee nation, the parties have hereunto set their hands and seals, in the garrison of Tellico, on Cherokee ground, within the United States, this twenty-fourth day of October, in the year one thousand eight hundred and four, and in the twenty-ninth year of the independence and sovereignty of the United States. ,	DANIEL SMITH, RETURN J. MEIGS. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee nation.] SIR:	WAR DEPARTMENT, April 29, 1824. The delegation of Cherokees now in Washington called the attention of the Government, by their letter of the 19th of January last, to a treaty which they alleged had been concluded by commissioners on the part of the United States and their nation, on the 24th of October, 1804. It was ascertained, after diligent search, that no such treaty was to be found in this Department; and no evidence whatever could be obtained in confirmation of the existence of such a treaty. This being communicated to the delegation, they presented a duplicate of the treaty, together with other papers relating to it. With a view to ascertain, as far as it was practicable, the capse which had operated to prevent the ratification of this treaty, I addressed a letter to the Secretary of the Senate, and to Colonel McKee, of the House of Representatives, one of the subscribing witnesses to the treaty, whose replies are herewith submitted; and, lastly, the subject was referred to Mr. Jefferson, whuse answer is enclosed. There can be no doubt of the genuineness of the treaty, or that its non-ratificatiorj by the Senate, at the time, was owing to some accidental circumstance. The delegation having furnished their duplicate of the treaty, accompanied by a request that it be laid before the Senate for its ratification, I have the honor herewith to enclose it, together with all the documents connected with it. 1 have the honor to be, &c. To the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.	J. C. CALHOUN. Extract of a letter from the Cherokee Delegation, addressed to the President of the United States, dated FATHER:	JANUARY 19, 1824. Permit us to add and call your attention to a treaty which was entered into between the Cherokee nation and Daniel Smith and Return J. Meigs, commissioners duly authorized by the then President (Mr. Jefferson) of the United States, on the 24th of October, 1804, for a tract of land in the State of Georgia, known by the name of Wafford’s settlement; for which cession the nation was to receive $1,000 annually. For reasons not fairly known to us, this treaty was not ratified; but the United States kept possession of the land, thereby depriving the nation from receiving the equivalent fur which it was sold. As this treaty was duly authorized and solemnly entered into, and the United States received the land which they had treated for, we conceive it but just that the Cherokees should now receive the equivalent for which they sold the land. Therefore, we hope our present father the President, and the Senate of the United States, will reconsider the subject, and ratify the aforesaid treaty. Extract of a letter from the Secretary of War to the Cherokee Delegation, dated FEBRUARY 6, 1824. The records of this Department have been examined, and no information can be found in relation to the treaty to which you have called the attention of the President. Among the treaties with the Cherokee nation, there are two negotiated at Tellico, on the 25th and 27th October, 1805, by Colonel Meigs and Daniel Smith, as the commissioners of the United States; both of which were ratified during the succeeding session of Congress, and their stipulations have been faithfully fulfilled by the Government. Neither of these, therefore, can be the treaty to which you refer; and as no such treaty, nor any information respecting it, can be found, it is not in the power of the President to comply with your request on the subject. [NOTE.—Some time after this letter was written, a copy of the treaty referred to by the Cherokee delegation, with the copy of the communication from Daniel Smith, one of the commissioners by whom it was concluded, was accidentally found in a bundle of old miscellaneous papers.] SIR:	WAR DEPARTMENT, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, April 15, 1824. I have the honor, in obedience to your order directing me to lay before you the facts and circumstances connected with the treaty of Tellico, entered into on the part of the United States by Daniel Smith and R. J. Meigs, commissioners, and the Cherokee nation of Indians, to make the following report: It appears that a. commission was issued to the abovenamed commissioners, bearing date April 4,1804, empowering them to treat with such of the chief tnen of the Cherokee nation of Indians as should be designated by the nation fur that purpose; and to pursue such measures as, in their opinion, were best calculated to obtain such cession of lands claimed by said nation, within the limits of the State of Tennessee, Kentucky, or Georgia, as could be done on reasonable terms; more especially the land situated between East and West Tennessee, and the land near Currahee mountain, including the settlement of Colonel Wafford, and for such cession as they could obtain from said nation within the limits of Georgia, in the vicinity of Currahee mountain, including Colonel Wafford’s settlement. It further appears that a treaty was accordingly held by the commissioners aforesaid, and concluded by them on the part of the United States, and certain Cherokee chiefs in behalf of their nation, bearing date October 24, 1804; in which, in consideration of the relinquishment and cession, as expressed in the first article of said treaty, it was agreed by the commissioners to deliver to the Cherokees useful goods, wares, and merchandise, to the amount of $5,000, or that sum in money, at the option of the Cherokees; and, in addition to this sum, an annual payment thereafter of §1,000, in goods or money, at the option of the Cherokees. (See treaty, page 507.) It moreover appears that the stipulation for the payment of the §5,000 was fulfilled, (see copy of a letter signed Daniel Smith to H. Dearborn;) but the annual payment of $1,000 does not appear to have been made. The genuineness of the treaty is attested by Colonel John McKee, of the United States Congress. It appears not to have been ratified by the Senate, nor is there any evidence that it ever was submitted, (see Mr. Cutts’s letter.) The treaty referred to by Mr. Cutts, bearing date 25th October, 1805, and which was ratified by the Senate in December, 1805, has no connexion with the one forming the subject of the present inquiry. The Cherokee delegation now at Washington have called the attention of the Government to this subject, in their letter of the 13th February last, (herewith sent.) They ask for a ratification of the treaty, and a fulfilment of its stipulations. All which is respectfully submitted: THOMAS L. MCKENNEY: Tu the Hon. the SECRETARY OF WAR. GENTLEMEN:	WAR DEPARTMENT, April 4, 1804. The President of the United States having appointed you joint commissioners for holding a treaty or conference with such of the chief men of the Cherokee nation of Indians as may be designated by the nation for that purpose, you will please tu take such measures for opening said conference, and at such time and place, as you shall judge expedient; and when a meeting of the parties shall have been effected, you will pursue such measures as, in your opinion, are best calculated tu obtain such cessions of lands claimed by said nation, within the limits of the State uf Tennessee, Kentucky, or Georgia, as can be done on reasonable terms; more especially the land situated between East and West Tennessee, and the land near Currahee mountain, including the settlement of Colonel Wafford and the other white inhabitants within his immediate neighborhood. You are authorized to stipulate tu pay the said nation, in money or goods, for such lands, within the limits aforesaid, as the Cherokees shall agree to cede, such sum or sums as, in your opinion, shall be reasonable, not exceeding $14,000 for any cession which may be obtained within the limits of the States of Tennessee and Kentucky, together with a reasonable annual stipend, not exceeding $3,000; and for such cession as you may obtain from said nation within the limits of Georgia, in the vicinity of Currahee mountain, including Colonel Waffurd’s settlement and the other white inhabitants in his neighborhood, any sum you may think reasonable, not exceeding $5,000, with an annual stipend not exceeding $1,000. If one or two thousand dollars worth of goods will, in your opinion, be useful to be had at the place of holding the treaty, you are hereby authorized to call on Mr. Hooker, at Tellico factory, therefor. The sums stipulated to be paid as a consideration for cessions obtained will be forwarded in money or goods, at the time you shall agree on. For expenses in procuring provisions, &c., you will draw on this Department. Your compensation will be six dollars per day, while actually employed in the conference or treaty, and in travelling to and from the place of holding the same, together with your reasonable and necessary expenses. I have the honor to be, &c. '	H. DEARBORN. P. S.—If you shall be of opinion that it will be useful for you to have five or six thousand dollars in money transmitted prior to the commencement of the treaty, you will please to give notice accordingly, and it will be transmitted. R. J. MEIGS and DANIEL SMITH, Esqrs. SIR:	SOUTHWEST POINT, October 31, 1804. Having been previously assured that our meeting only a convention of the chiefs of the Cherokees would produce a disappointment in the prosecution of our endeavors to obtain a cession of the lands pointed out in our instructions on that head, it was thought best to meet them at Tellico, where they were to assemble on the 10th instant to receive their annuity for the current year. We met them at Tellico on the 10th instant, communicated our authority to treat, and made the propositions directed. We have only succeeded in obtaining a cession of the lands near the Currahee mountain, called Wafford’s settlement. For this cession we stipulated to give them five tiiousand dollars in prompt pay, and one thousand dollars in addition to their former annuity. We drew on the United States factor at Tellico, Mr. Hooker, for goods to the amount of three thousand four hundred and sixty dollars and thirty-three and one-third cents; the balance, fifteen hundred and thirty-nine dollars and sixty-six and two-thirds cents, Mr. James Vann assumed to pay, which was very satisfactory to the Cherokees, and which sum we have engaged to refund tu him within sixty days; and as one of the undersigned will in a few days go to Cumberland, the drafts will only be signed by one. As there would be no difficulty in ascertaining the boundary lines of the ceded tract, and as the persons who were lately removed off were anxious to return, and the cold weather was advancing, two persons, with two Cherokee chiefs, were empowered to run the lines, and report by a plat and remarks. From the particular circumstances of the case, we doubt not this will be agreeable to the Executive. The Cherokees were then urged on the propriety of making a cession of the lands lying between East and West Tennessee. Several days were taken up on this part of our business, and, as far as we could discover, there was a strong party in favor of the cession—probably a majority of the chiefs; but a majority, unless it amounts to nearly the whole, is not considered with them sufficient to determine on matters of great interest, particularly in making cessions of lands. The best informed among them, and who are in favor of their advancement in useful improve meats, are in favor of the cession, as, by lessening the quantity of their wild lands, they will gradually be drawn from the hunting life. To oppose the selling of lands, and to make themselves popular, a party had concerted measures for the purpose of preventing a sale: this was principally among the young chiefs. The principal chiefs had apparently acquiesced, as they say, to let the young roen know and see that they are not competent to conduct business without them, and request this may be mentioned to their father the President; and have pointedly told us that we must not consider the treaty at an end, and that they are concerting measures to resume their proper places, and have fixed on a mode of correspondence with us. They appear strongly induced to this, on account of the clashing of their claims with the Chickasaws. The Chickasaws claim the lands on Duck and Elk rivers, and from the Tennessee ridge to the Tennessee river, and down the Tennessee river, on the north side, under the ridge, to the Ohio. This tract may be estimated at about ten thousand square miles, and is esteemed by those most acquainted with it to be very valuable. They have informed General Robertson, who was with Governor Sevier at the con- .ference, by the appointment of the Legislature of Tennessee, that they will sell this land to the United States. We beg leave to observe, that good policy seems to indicate that the present time should be embraced to make the purchase. The Cherokees claim nearly all the same lands, as being allotted to them by the treaty of Hopewell in 1785, and confirmed to them by the subsequent treaties with them, to and including the treaty of 1798 at Tellico. The Chickasaws say this was done in the first instance at Hopewell, where they had only a small representation, when their claims were not well understood. There had probably been some error, inevitable at that early period after the war. To remedy which, and for other causes, particularly their sending warriors to fight for the United States under Generals St. Clair and Wayne, they obtained front President Washington an acknowledgment of their right to the lands in question. This they have under his signature, dated in 1794 or 1795, which they hold with great care, and call it their parchment. The titles of these two nations to the lands in question are questionable, and they are both conscious of it; each is afraid the other will sell. The Cherokees request that they may bo first consulted on the business. If the lands should be purchased, a relinquishment must be had from each party. Steps are taking to sound the Chickasaws more fully on the subject. If these lands can be had of the Chickasaws, it is probable that it will facilitate the purchase of the lands between East and West Tennessee. Should it be thought proper to treat for these lands, we think it our duty to mention that it will be of importance that General Robertson be appointed a commissioner; be possesses the confidence of both parties, particularly so of the Chickasaws. The treaty for the lands ceded near the Currahee mountain will accompany this communication, together with the receipts for the sum agreed to be paid down. At another conference it will not be necessary to assemble many of the Cherokees, besides the chiefs. As the matter has been so much discussed, they cannot expect to acquire more information on the subject. At the first meeting, it was'necessary. The authority and influence of the chiefs is so limited, that they dare not conclude on any important business but in the presence of a considerable number of their people. We have strong expectations of succeeding in another conference. Wo are, sir, with high respect, your obedient servants, DANIEL SMITH. HENRY DEARBORN, Esq., Secretary of IVar. SIR:	"	HIGHWASSEE GARRISON, December 20, 1811. I am requested by the Cherokee nation to state to the Government, that, in order to have the treaty ratified which was concluded at Tellico on the 24th day of October, 1804, which has been hitherto postponed on account of a misunderstanding respecting the limits of the ceded tract known by the name of Wafford’s settlement, the Cherokee nation are now willing to have the limits extended; and have, at their own motion, and at their own expense, bad a survey made of ten miles and twelve chains, and added to the temporary boundary lines which were run in 1804. With this addition, the tract is now thirty-three miles and seventy-six chains in length, by four miles in width, and will cover every plantation of every settler that can pretend to have any color of claim on account of occupancy before the boundary line was run by Colonel Hawkins, in 1797: on which last mentioned line the ceded tract is bounded in its whole length, as may be seen by its delineation on the enclosed map. The Cherokees conceive that by the extension of the lines, whereby 25,912 acres of land are added, every reasonable objection to the ratification of said treaty is now removed. The purchase money was paid at the signing of the treaty, but they claim a right to the stipulated annuity. The first settlers on this tract were, perhaps, excusable at the time they went on; but after Hawkins’s line was run, in 1797, they could be considered in no other light than in that of intruders, and from that time to the year 1804 had been cause of continual complaints from the Indians, and operated unfavorably in enhancing the expense of extinguishment of the Indian title; and to this cause it may be attributed that the price paid for this cession was higher than has been usually paid for cessions of Indian lands. But it ought not to be considered separately. The obtaining this small tract was only executing a part of our commission; the conferences were kept open by adjournments, until the land lying between East and West Tennessee was obtained. The two cessions acquired by the commissioners were estimated at about 5,000,000 acres,(say 4,500,000;) so that the price paid per acre will be found to be less than two cents. The principal paid as consideration for the two cessions, united, amounted to $19,000 00 The two annuities, amounting to $4,000, maybe said to be derived from a sum producing the same at six per cent, per annum, and may, with propriety, be also called principal, and may be considered as equal to so much stock; that is,	-	-	-	-	66,666 66| These two sums, added, show the price of the two cessions, -	$85,666 66‘4 and will evince, by calculation, that these cessions of land did not. cost the United States two cents per acre. I hope the treaty will now be ratified, that the Cherokees may realize every thing that was stipulated in it. They are as well disposed towards the United States and towards the administration as Indians can be. I have been informed this week, and it may be relied on, that a young chief, who is intelligent, rich, and ambitious, said that he could take with him a body of young Cherokees (warriors, as they call themselves,) to act against the northern Indians, their ancient enemies, whom the Cherokees and Chickasaws drove, from the Tennessee and Cumberland waters many years ago.* At least one-half the land claimed now by these two tribes was acquired by conquest. I do not mention these things because I think the United States need their aid at present: but if our country should be hard pressed by the English Indian auxiliaries, it may perhaps justify meeting them on their own ground; and, as I have before observed, it will be difficult to prevent them from taking a part; for, like all other Indians, they are as un- stable as water, and are acted on from the impulse or pressure of the moment, without the pain of anticipating consequences. I think it my duty to apprize the Government of the disposition of the Indians in my agency. This has induced me to add these observations to the principal subject of my letter. I am, &c. •	RETURN J. MEIGS. WILLIAM EUSTIS, Esq., Secretary of War.	, p S	The enclosed letter of instructions will show that the commissioners were guided by it in every respect. R. J. M. g)R:	HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, April 15, 1824. The enclosed treaty concluded with the Cherokees on the 24th October, 1804, has been transmitted to me, with the request that I would make such remarks as I may think proper, embracing its genuineness, and the reasons, if I know any, why it was never ratified by the Senate. I can state confidently, as well from an intimate knowledge of the handwriting of many of the signers to this instrument, as from a perfect recollection of the negotiating and signing the treaty, that it is genuine. I have never heard any reasons assigned why it has not been ratified. I have the honor to be, &c. The Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War.	JOHN McKEE. Extract of a letter from Colonel Return J. Meigs to the Secretary of War, dated SIR:	HIGHWASSEE GARRISON, August 25,1812. The Cherokee chiefs have requested me to state to you that the citizens on the frontier of the State of Georgia continue to extend their intrusions on the Indian lands; that they now have reached the margin of the Chat- tahoochie river, about ten miles above the Georgia boundary line, and extending along the frontier of Jackson and Franklin counties. Within the tract now intruded on lies the tract known by the name of Wafford’s settlement, once laid out four miles wide and a little less than twenty-four miles long; but the settlers there having complained that Wafford’s settlement ought to have been extended so far southwest along the line of the State as to cover a plantation early made by a man named Vickory, the Cherokees, in order to remove this complaint of their motion, extended the boundary lines ten miles, the same width, so as to cover the plantation of Vickory, making Wafford’s settlement now thirty-four miles long by four in width. I am, respectfully, &c. . RETURN J. MEIGS. Copy of a letter from the Cherokee Delegation. SIR:	CITY OF WASHINGTON, February 13, 1824. We are sorry to understand by your communication of the 6th instant that no information can be found, by examining the records of the Department, in relation to the treaty to which we have called the attention of the President. We would therefore beg leave to lay before the President, through you, the treaty; and the accompanying documents will show that, previous to the cession of this tract of land by this treaty, many white families had intruded on it, and, in consequence thereof, orders for their removal had been issued by the Government; and the officers to whom the orders were given interposed in behalf of the intruders so far as to appeal to the liberality and humanity of the Cherokees to suspend their removal until they should have secured their crops; and the agent, in like manner, introducing similar recommendations, the Cherokees hesitated not to grant the privilege, under assurances that they would be removed so soon as their crops were secured. Such was the course pursued time after time for the indulgence of those intruders, until the negotiation, which was brought about for the purchase of that tract of country, was effected by the treaty of 1804, which is herewith submitted. We have full assurance, from the justness of our application, that there will be no hesitation in the honorable body composing the Senate and the Executive chair in the ratification of the treaty. Colonel John McKee, one of the witnesses to this treaty, is now a representative in Congress from Alabama, who, no doubt, can testify to its authenticity. You will, moreover, discover from the extract of Colonel Meigs’s letter to Mr. Eustis, the Secretary of War, that the Cherokees, in the spirit of conciliation, and in order to appease the minds of the intruders, actually permitted more land to be surveyed than was included under the cession of this treaty, so that their houses and farms might be covered, viz: a tract of land ten miles long and four miles wide, as a gratuity. Such are the facts in relation to this treaty. We forbear any comment on the liberality of the nation on this occasion, and the course which has been pursued towards them in return. Take up the subject, view it in its proper shape, and decide according to the merit of its character: this is all we desire in behalf of the unfortunate people we have the honor to represent. With respect, &c. JOHN ROSS, GEORGE LOWREY, MAJOR RIDGE, Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War.	ELIJAH HICKS. SIR:	OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE SENATE, April 13, 1824. In answer to your letter of yesterday, respecting a treaty with the Cherokee Indians, I have to state that I have caused the executive journals to be examined, and find that no treaty with the Cherokees of the date of October 24, 1804, has ever been submitted to the Senate. A treaty answering to that mentioned in vour letter, in every respect excepting the date, (which is October 25, 1805,) was ratified by the Senate in December, 1805. With great respect, &c. To the Hon. SECRETARY OF WAR. DEAR SIR:	WAR DEPARTMENT, April 19, 1824. It is with extreme reluctance that I subject you to any trouble with any portion of the business of this Department; but, as the information wanted cannot be obtained in this or any other of the Departments, I have taken the liberty to place the enclosed papers in your hands, in the hope that it may be in your power to furnish it. The Cherokee Indians have claimed an annuity of $1,000, under a treaty which appears to have been negotiated in the year 1804, but of which there is no record in this or the State Department. They have, furnished a duplicate, which, with other papers connected with it, I herewith enclose, accompanied by a statement of the case frnm Colonel McKenney, who has charge of the Indian bureau; to which it may be proper to add, that the land ceded under the treaty is in possession of the citizens of Georgia. 'The President is desirous to know whether the. treaty was disapproved by the Executive, and on that account not submitted for the ratification of the Senate; or whether its not having been submitted for ratification was accidental. If you have it in your power to furnish the above, or any other information in relation to it, I shall be happy to receive it, in order that it may be laid before the President. With the highest respect, I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, J. C. CALHOUN. To THOMAS JEFFERSON, late President of the United States. SIR:	MONTICELLO, April 25, 1824. I duly received your letter of the 19th instant, with the documents it covers, relative to the treaty of October 24,1804, with the Cherokees, for the purchase of lands. Recurring to memory alone, 1 can affirm that the treaty- enclosed to me, and now returned, is genuine. It is well remembered, because no case of intruders ever occurred, which excited more anxiety or commiseration with us than that of Wafford’s settlement, which it covered. On the complaint of the Cherokees, we endeavored to purchase the lands from them; but, on their refusal, we assured them the intruders should be removed; and orders were accordingly given. But the officers to whom they were given interceded with the Indians to let the settlers remain until they had gathered their crops; and this indulgence was, I believe, repeated, until at length they agreed to sell the lands. Recurring to my papers, I find the following passage in a letter to General Dearborn, of April 8, 1804, written from this place, where I was on a short visit at the time: “ I think, before I left Washington, we had decided to take immediate measures for endeavoring to purchase of the Cherokees all their lands in Tennessee, or such, the most interesting to that State, as they would be willing to sell; and to name Meigs and Daniel Smith commissioners.” To this General Dearborn answered by the letter of April 14, which I now enclose you, informing me that Smith and Meigs had accordingly been authorized to hold the treaty. This is the last trace of the transaction which I find in my papers. I have, for forty years back, kept a list of every letter or communication I wrote or received. A diligent examination of this list assures me that I never received this treaty. I have preserved press or polygraph copies of every message I ever sent to either House of Congress. A like examination of these proves I never laid this treaty before the Senate. Yet, that the treaty was entered into, is proved by the duplicate copy produced by the Indians, equally authentic with our own; by its actual execution; by the delivery of the lands on their part, and of the price in goods on ours; and by the testimony of Mr. McKee and others. How it has happened that this has been done without ratification by the Senate, I do not know. Two conjectures occur: either the treaty may have been lost by the way, or, if received by the War Office, it may have been mislaid there accidentally, and escaped subsequent recollection. In this case, it may still be in some unsuspected bundle, where nobody will ever think of looking for it. The execution of the treaty having taken place immediately, and on the spot where it was signed, nothing occurred here to recall our attention to it afterwards; and, in the mass of other business engrossing the mind, we have overlooked this, and a failure of duty has been incurred by a lapse of memory. I take to myself my share in this omission, and can only say, in excuse, “ homo sum." The treaty had all my approbation. It is some consolation that the blot may yet be covered, if all parties are agreed. The Indians will, doubtless, consent that their duplicate shall be laid before the Senate, which, being equally an original with that which should have been laid before their predecessors, can receive their ratification, nunc pro tunc. This will sanction all that has been done, on the principle that the confirmation of a proceeding supplies preceding defects. In this way may be repaired a slip of the executive functionaries, unwittingly committed, and full justice be done to the other party. With my regrets that an involuntary failure of recollection in myself, among the other officers of the Government participating in it, should have produced the present embarrassment, be pleased to accept the assurance of my high respect and consideration.	, TH: JEFFERSON. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. Copy of a letter from General Dearborn, referred to in Mr. Jefferson's letter, dated SIR:	WASHINGTON, April 14, 1804. I have been duly honored with your letter of the 8th instant, and have presented a copy to each of the heads of Departments. I think there can be no doubt of the propriety of directing the commanding officers of the respective posts in Upper Louisiana to remove any persons who have set down on lands, without titles, since the 20th of December last, and to prevent, by all the means they respectively possess, any new settlements or surveys, except under titles derived from actual settlers, legally obtained, previous to the cession from Spain to France. I have doubts as to the propriety of vesting any considerable discretionary power in the present commanding officers for removing any actual settlers, except in very clear and indisputable cases. When the militia districts, as contemplated by the act of Congress, shall have been designated, and the commandants appointed, more ample powers may be confided to them than may be expedient to vest in the present commanders; and, in the mean time, new settlements may be prevented. General Daniel Smith and Colonel Meigs have been appointed for holding a conference, or treaty, with the Cherokees, in conformity to your directions; and they are to hold the treaty at such time and place as will, in their opinion, be mnst expedient. With respectful consideration, I am, sir, your obedient servant, To the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. 18th CONGRESS.]	
