No.' 42. [1st Session. S 0 U T H \V E S T E R N T R1B E S. rOMMl'MI'ATF.t) TO THE SENATE. DECE.MHEll 18, 1793. War Department, December 18th, 1793. ‘ Sir: In pursuance of directions from the President of the United States, 1 have the honor to submit to the Senate, further information relatively to the Southwestern frontiers. I have the honor to be. with great respect, your obedient servant, H. KNOX, Secretary of I Far. The Vice President of the United States. James Seagrove to the Secretary of War. Fort Fidius, on the Oconee, 31 s! October, 1793. Sir: B , Since writing you on the 21st instant, the party of mounted militia,-consisting of one hundred and thirty, from this county, crossed the Oconee, at Carr’s Blutf, and proceeded direct to the Chenaw town on the Flint, river, where they expected a large booty in negroes and other property. But in this, they were disappointed. The Indians discovered their approach, and attacked, when endeavoring to ford the river directly opposite the town, killed two, and wounded two more, on which, the party^retreated, leaving behind, their dead. They returned into the settlement about the 26th instant. By certain information receivecl from Mr. Barnard, the Indians did not lose any, and had only three men slightly wounded. That only sixteen Indians and four negroes were opposed to the white party—all the rest belonging to the town, were out hunting on the frontier of Florida. Thus you see the-repeated impediments thrown in my way by the people of this State. 4 On the 27th instant, Charles Weatherford, a white man, who lives in the Upper Creeks, came here with letters to me. and orders from the chiefs, to bring me into the nation, they being desirous to settle nil matters, and live in peace with us. Weatherford was accompanied, as far as the Oakmulgee, by some chiefs and warriors as an escort for me. I should have set oft’immediately with him, but for the following reasons, viz: My having wrote Governor Telfair for the Indian prisoners on the 21st, and sent a public wagon from this to Augusta, m order to convey the prisoners up here, that I might take them with me to their friends. Knowing that this would have a good effect, ! delayed, to have the Governor’s answer, which I received in the negative, by return of express last evening. Another reason was. that I wished to hear-from Mr. Barnard, what effect the expedition against the Chehaw town would have on the minds of the Indians, as I expected him here, if matters continued favorably, to accompany me out. Accordingly, he arrived here on the evening of the 29th. as already related, and, that he had reason to think no unfavorable change would take place, as the Indians had not suffered. Mr. Barnard was accompanied to the Oakmulgee by some Indians, and, from information, there are about ninety now there, waiting for me. In order that the Indians there should not get impatient at any delay on my part, f sent off’ Weatherford on the morning of the 29th, to keep them easy, and since then, have been preparing for my journey, and should set off’ to-morrow, were it not that I have, this morning, received certain information that another party of mounted militia had crossed the Oconee, about fifteen miles above this place, on the morning of the 29th instant, under Colonel Alexander, with declared intentions of attacking some of the Indian towns. This being the case, I am very much at the loss what to do. '1 think it will bo best to delay setting oft’, until I know what this last party will do. From these repeated incursions of the people of Georgia into the Creek towns. I fear the minds of the savages will be irritated and soured to such degree, that it will he impossible to convince them of the good intentions of the President of the United States towards them, and that, if those things are not speedily stopped, a general Indian war is inevitable. From decided and clear information, I am enabled to say, that the whole of the Creek nation is desirousoi’ peace with the United States, and would conclude it with me, could I be amongst them, uninterupted by the Georgians. The Indians discover the temper of the people of this country, and, in consequence, are prepared for the worst, and will go into a general war, if I cannot soon get amongst them: The Creeks have made peace with their neighbors, the Chickasaws and Choctaws, both of which nations have agreed to aid them in a war against tins country, in case they require it. The Choctaws agree to furnish lour thousand men. ’Fite Clierokees undoubtedly will join them, ami most of them have moved on the Creek frontier, to be ready. Matters being in this, situation, nothing, in my opinion, but an immediate change in the conduct of the Governor of Georgia, through the interference of the General Government, can avert the calamities consequent to a war, with powerful savage tribes. Should a war take place, it is a happiness to reflect, that the General Government have left nothing undone to prevent it, and it will plainly appear to the world, that the Executive Government and certain people of Georgia, arc the cause, as peace, on terms of equal justice, hath and is still in their offer. Extract of a letter from Constant Freeman, Jr. to the Secretary of War. dated Fort Finn’s, 5th Xovember, 1793. Sir: Mr. Seagrove set off’ this morning for the Creek nation. He goes by the way of Rock Landing; from thence, he will be escorted by a party of militia horse to the Oakmulgee, where several chiefs are waiting to conduct him to their country. Mr. Barnard, his deputy, has been here several days; he returns with him. From the accounts he gives of the disposition of the Indians, there is reason to hope that all disputes between them and the whites may be amicably settled, provided the people on this frontier should not interrupt the business. But, this is rather to be wished for, than expected. Parties are continually going out, in violation of all order. On the 18th ultimo, one crossed the Oconee, at Carr’s bluff’, consisting of 125 men, under the command of a Major Brenton. General Irwin, the Brigadier of the county, forbid their proceeding, but without effect. On the 22d, they attempted to ford the Flint river, at the Little Chehaw village, and were opposed by a few Indians, who obliged them to retreat. They returned without doing any tiling, and with tin* loss of two killed and ttvo wounded. The Indians had, in this affair, three slightly wounded. It is reported that Colonel Alexander is at this time out with a party; it will therefore be impossible for Mr. Seagrove to accomplish the objects for which be is sent, unless a stop can be put to these irregularities. He has repeatedly made representations to the Executive of this State, but to no purpose. And it would seem that every obstacle has been thrown in the way, whether with design or not I shall not presume to determine. As long as I have been at this post, 1 have been witness to bis zeal and indefatigable labor, and it would be impossible to imagine a more unpleasant life than he leads in consequence of his office. florcrnor Blount to the Secretary of War. Knoxvillk. October 23M, 1793. Sir: 1 have the honor to enclose you the report of General Sevier, of the 25th instant, respecting the pursuit by him given to the. large party or army of Indians, Creeks and Clierokees. that invaded the county of Knox, and killed \iexander Cavet and family, within eight miles of this place, on the 25th of September. As yet. I have not heard from John McKee, whom I have sent, as I before informed you. to the frontiers of South Carolina, to open, if practicable, a communication with the Clierokees in that quarter: for, from this, no per son will venture among them, even with a llag. Since General Sevier’s return, 1 have not heard of the approach of any large party of Indians; but the frontiers are daily harassed with small ones. On Sunday, the 13th of October, a party of twenty-eight killed Mrs. Lewis and five children, burnt and destroyed the buildings and grain in the Greasy cove, in Washington county, one hundred miles to the eastward of tiiis. The inhabitants in this cove, for years, have been thought m perfect safety. A more certain and direct conveyance, w ill leave this place in time to reach you before the session of Congress, by which I will write you more fully. General Sevier to Governor Blount. Ishuk’s Mill, 25th October, 1793. ^51R In obedience to an order from Secretary Smith, 1 marched in pursuit of the large body ol Indians, who, on the 25th of last month, did the mischief in Knox county, near the Gracy valley. For the safety and security ol our army, 1 crossed at one of the upper fords on the Tennessee river, below the mountains. We then bent our course for lliwasce, with expectations of striking the trail, and before w’e reached that river, we discovered four large ones, making directly into the mountains. We proceeded across the Hiwasee, and directed our march for Ks 60 1 tanaula, on (he Coosa river, at which place we arrived on the 14th instent, discovering on our way several other trails leading to the aforesaid place. We there made some Cherokee prisoners, who informed us that John Watts headed the army lately out on our frontiers; that the same was composed of Indians, more or less, from every town in the Cherokee nation; that, from the Turkey’s town, Sallyquoah, CooSawaytah, and several other principal ones, almost to a man was out, joined by a large number of the Upper Creeks, who had passed that place on their return, only a few days since, and had made for a town at the mouth of Hightower river. We, after refreshing the troops, marched for that place, taking the path that leads to that town, along which the Creeks had marched, in live large trails. On the 17th instant, in the afternoon, we arrived at the forks of Coosa and Hightower rivers. Colonel Kelly was ordered, with a part of the Knox regiment, to endeavor to cross the Hightower. The Creeks, and a number of Cherokees. had entrenched themselves, to obstruct the passage. Colonel Kelly and his parly passed down the river, half a mile below the ford, and began to cross at a private place, where there was no ford. Himself and a few others swam over the river; the Indians discovering this movement, immediately left their entrenchments, and ran down the river to oppose their passage, expecting, as I suppose, the whole intended crossing at the lower place. Captain Evans, immediately, with his company of mounted infantry, strained their horses hack to the upper ford, and began to cross the river. Very few had got to the south hank, before the Indians, who had discovered their mistake, returned, and received them furiously at the rising of the bank. An engagement instantly took place, and became very warm, and notwithstanding the enemy were at least four to one in numbers, besides, the advantage of situation, Captain Evans, with bis heroic company, put them in a short time entirely to flight. They left several dead on the ground, and were seen to carry others off both on foot and horse. Bark, and trails of blood from the wounded, were to be seen in every quarter. Their encampment fell into our hands, with a number of their guns, many of which were of the Spanish sort, with their budgets, blankets, and match coats, together with some horses. We lost three men in this engagement, which is all that have fell during the time of our route, although this last attack was the fourth the enemy nad made upon us, but in the others, repulsed without loss. After the last engagement, we crossed the main Coosa, where they had thrown up some works and evacuated; they suffered us to pass unmolested. We then proceeded on our way down the main river, near the Turnip mountain, destroying in our way several Creek and Cherokee towns, which they had settled together on each side of the river, and from which they have all fled, with apparent precipitation, leaving almost every thing behind them. Neither did they, after the last engagement, attempt to annoy or interrupt us on our march, in any manner whatever. I have great reason to believe their ardor and spirit were well checked. The party flogged at Hightower, were those which had been out with Watts. There are three of our men slightly wounded, and two or three horses killed; but the Indians did not, as I have heard of, get a single horse from us the time we were out. We took and destroyed near three hundred beeves, many of which were of the best and largest kind. Of course, their losing so much provision, must distress them very much. Many women and children might have been taken; but, from motives of humanity. I did not encourage it to be done, and several taken were suffered to make their escape. Your Excellency knows the disposition of many that were out on this expedition, and can readily account for this conduct Copy of a letter from Governor Blount to the Secretary of tf'ar. Knoxville, November 21st, 1793. Sib: ' We still continue to enjoy an unexpected cessation of hostilities, the Indians, as yet, not having committed a single murder since the visit General Sevier paid the nation by order of Secretary Smith. I am unable to offer any positive reason for this cessation, as all friendly communication between the Indians and citizens of the United States is cut off; but my opinion is, that it is fear of a second visit that for the moment restrains them. I have the honor to be, &c. 3d Congress.] 
