NO. 247 CONDITION OF THE QUAPAW INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 10, 1827. [SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, January 9, 1827. I have the hunor to accompany this with a report from the officer in charge of the Office of Indian Affairs, and the documents referred to in it; and which contain all the information in the Department called for by a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 18th ultimo, directing the Secretary of War “to communicate to the House any correspondence, or other information in the possession of the War Department, touching the present condition of the Quapaw nation of Indians; and the measures, if any, that have been taken to alleviate their distresses.” I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, '	JAMES BARBOUR. To the Hon. the SPEAKER of the House of Representatives U. S. !5IR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, January 8, 1827. In compliance with your directions, accompanied by a copy of the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 18th ultimo, directing the Secretary of War “ to communicate to the House any correspondence, or other information in the possession of the War Department, touching the present condition of the Quapaw nation of Indians, and the measures, if any, that have been taken to alleviate their distresses,” I have the honor to lay before you the accompanying copies of papers, numbered 1 to 19, inclusive, which embrace allthe information in the possession of this office required by said resolution. It may be properjo add, that the distress which it appears existed among the Quapaws during their removal from Arkansas to their new residence, and immediately after their arrival there, may be attributed, it is believed, to circumstances detailed in paper No. 17; and that this distress, as may be inferred from paper No. 19, was of but short duration, and has some time since ceased. In this paper Captain Gray, the agent, writes, “1 am glad to be able to state, that the Quapaws are perfectly satisfied with their situation, and that they are on very friendly terms with the Gaddoes, as well as all other Indians belonging to the agency.” I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, ... . „ T _	THOMAS L. McKENNEY. io the Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of TVar, No. 1. Extract of a letter from Governor Izard to the Secretary of War, of JULY 1, 1825. On the 20th of last month the principal chief of the Quapaw tribe, attended by a small suite, visited me at this place, and in a formal conference requested that 1 would communicate the wish of his people to their great father, that they may remain a few years longer on the land ceded to the United States by the treaty of November, 1824. I expressed to Hecketon (the hereditary chief) my conviction that such permission could not be granted; but that I would nevertheless comply with his request, and would inform him of the President’s decision. The deputies were satisfied with their reception; and 1 have no doubt that the removal of the tribe to the Caddo country will be effected without difficulty, even before the term stipulated. They asked permission to send a few of their chiefs to investigate the lands which they are to settle on, previously to the migration of the whole nation: to this I consented. They will be attended by an acting Indian sub-agent, Mr. Barraqué, an intelligent Frenchman, who has lived much among them, and who was particularly designated as the person they wished to accompany them. No. 2. Secretary of War to Governor Izard.—[Extract.'] SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, July 8, 1825. I have the honor to enclose herewith a copy of the Quapaw treaty of the 15th day of November last, by which all the claims of the Quapaws to lands in Arkansas are extinguished, except the reservations therein specified. So much of the consideration which is agreed upon, and as is set forth in the second article, and which provides for the payment of $500 to each of the four head chiefs, and $1,000 for the first annuity, has been carried into effect by a remittance of $3,000 for those objects; as has been,, also, that part of the same article which provided for the payment of $4,000, in merchandise, at the signing of the treaty. The remaining obligation in this article, to pay, in addition to their present annuity, the sum of $1,000 for the term of eleven years, will be duly attended to. You will accompany this item in your estimates for your superintendency, annually, and at the proper time. The following sums have been also appropriated by act of Congress of 3d March last, to carry into effect the other provisions of the treaty: $15,372 for the purchase of provisions for six months, as provided for by the fifth article of said treaty. $1,000 fur furnishing facilities for the transportation of the Indians, as provided for by the fifth article of said treaty.	\ $500 for the pay of a sub-agent or interpreter, as provided for by the same article of said treaty. At the proper time, which is referred to your discretion, you will issue in the public papers proposals for the supply of the provisions for the emigrants. As to the kinds which will be best, their selection is left to your discretion. I will thank j'oti, meanwhile, and as soon as you can, to furnish me with an estimate of the cost which is likely to attend on the emigration, upon the best data you may be able to command. You will exercise a strict economy, and bring the disbursements as much within the appropriation as you can consistently with the objects contemplated by it; but in no case must the expenses exceed the appropriation. On submitting your estimates, you will notify the Department of the time when you will require the remittances to be made, which will be duly attended to. It will be proper to have the places of delivery from time to time designated, and their designation is left to your discretion. You will be careful to take bond, with sufficient security, for the faithful execution of the contracts which yon may enter into. It is necessary to be very particular in issuing the rations to the Indians, and taking an account of them, so as to procure the necessary vouchers for settlement with the proper accounting officers of the Treasury. A descriptive roll should be kept of the number of Indians who may receive rations, distinguishing the number of men, women, and children to whom rations may issue. This roll should be duly certified by the agent, Mr. Duval, or his sub-agent. In making the daily issues, the same forms in issuing and certifying should be observed by the agent as are used in the army. The amount daily issued will be certified by the agent or sub-agent, and approved of Jjy you, in consolidated quarterly returns. To children, half-rations will be issued. The following is intended as the outline of an advertisement, leaving the component parts of the ration, and periods for delivery, &c. in blank, to be filled by you: “Proposals will be received, until the 1st day of*	next, to furnish the Quapaw Indians with provisions for six months, commencing on the	day of	next ensuing. “ The supplies required are	. “ The ration to consist of	. “ The amount will be [from so many to so many] rations per day, varying from the largest to the smallest amount, at the option of the agent, upon a notice of thirty days, to be delivered at 	. The first delivery will be on the	day of [the month] thereafter, and so on the	day of each alternate month thereafter, till the last month is included. “ The articles will be required to be of good merchantable quality, to be approved by the agent; and in case of the opinion of the agent being contested, it will be decided by [some fit person to be specified—the commissary, if there is one at hand] to be called upon by the agent to decide. “ Provisions to be delivered in the bulk, at the periods designated, and payment made on delivery, and on being approved by the agent. No advances will be made.” You will notify the Department at what time you will require the $1,000, to furnish the facilities for the transportation of the Indians. You are authorized to appoint a sub-agent or interpreter, to accompany those Indians; an interpreter, if a judicious man can be had, to unite the additional qualifications for sub-agent, would, it is presumed, be best. You will confer, if you can find such a person, the appointment upon him, and report his name to the Department; he will accompany the Quapaws, and reside among them; he will be allowed a sufficient sum, in yottr discretion, to build him a house; three or four hundred dollars, it is presumed, will be sufficient. • I have, <fcc. . JAMES BARBOUR. No. 3. Extract of a letter from Thomas L. McKenney to Captain George Gray, Indian Agent on Red river, dated JULY 9, 1825. It becomes specially important at this time to disencumber the Caddo lands from squatters, as the Quapaws are next winter to unite with the Caddoes, and occupy part of their territory. 89 E No. 4. Extract of a letter from T. L. McKenney to Governor Izard, dated AUGUST 5, 1825. Your letter to the Secretary of War of the 1st ultimo is received. I have the honor, by the direction of the Secretary, to state that he approves of your reply to Hecketoh, the hereditary chief of the Quapaws, to his proposition to’ have the execution of the treaty deferred to a period beyond that which is limited by its provisions. The President, as the father of these people, would be very happy to extend to them any indulgence in his power, and so you will say to them; but, the treaty having been duly ratified, he has no power to vary its provisions, and therefore expects its stipulations to be duly observed. The permission granted them to visit the country of the Caddoes, and the appointment of Mr. Barraqué as acting sub-agent, are approved. No. 5. Extract of a letter from Governor Izard to the Secretary of War, dated SEPTEMBER 3, 1825. I informed you, on the [1st] of July, that a small party of Quapaw (more properly Gappa) chiefs were to visit the country of the Caddoes, to examine the lands on which they are to settle themselves next winter. They returned ten days ago, and I was gratified to hear from themselves that they were pleased with their destined residence, and with their reception by the Caddo tribe. In this transaction, the characteristic improvidence of the Indians is strongly exhibited; they had concluded their treaty with us, and had remained since last November in their own country, without informing the tribe to whom they have stipulated to aggregate themselves of their intentions. The Caddoes and Gappas have a tradition of having been allied in some wars, many years ago; but they have had no intercourse with each other for a long time, and their languages are totally different. The accidental circumstance of a Gappa hunter having resided some months with the former tribe furnished them with an interpreter; they would otherwise have been obliged to employ two of ours to translate their speeches into French and English, and thence again into their respective tongues. From a humane regard for the weak and infirm part of their population, the emigrants are desirous of commencing their removal early in the autumn. I am in daily expectation of learning the time of their departure, which was to be fixed upon at one of their councils. The last visit of the chiefs to me was made previously to seeing their own people on their return from the South. As soon as I shall have due notice, the advertisement for their supplies shall be published, in conformity with the instructions in yoûr despatch ’of the 8th of July, received by the last week’s mail. No. 6. i Extract of a letter from Governor Izard to Colonel Thomas L. McKenney, dated SEPTEMBER 16, 182.’: The dilatory habits of Indians are strongly manifested in the circumstance of the intended removal of the Quapaws. They expressed an earnest wish that they might be enabled to commence their migration to the Red river earlier than is stipulated in their treaty, to which I see no objection; but no decision has been had among themselves about the epoch of their departure; and I am, consequently, prevented from publishing proposals for their supplies on the march, and after their arrival at their destined residence. Should I not hear satisfactorily from them before the 1st of October, I shall advertise for a contract to commence on the 1st of January. No. 7. Extract of a letter from Governor Izard to the Secretary of War, dated ’ SEPTEMBER 24^1825. I have the honor to inform you that the Quapaw Indians will be ready to commence their removal to the Caddo country on the 12th of December. Their population is ascertained to be four hundred and fifty-five individuals; of whom one hundred and fifty-eight are men, one hundred and twenty-three women, and one hundred and seventy- four children under fourteen years of age. The proposals for their supplies will be published in the next Arkansas Gazette. No. 8. Extract of a letter from George Gray, Indian Agent on Red river, to the Secretary of War, dated SEPTEMBER 30, 1825. t Some short time since the Quapaw chiefs visited the Caddoes, and selected a situation to settle on, in about half a mile of my agency, by consent of the Caddo chief. I furnished the Quapaw chiefs with a small quantity of rations, as they were entirely out of provisions. I must acknowledge I was much at a loss whether to furnish the Quapaws with rations or not, as I had never received any instructions respecting them; but, on examining the treaty, I found they were to form a part of the Caddo tribe, and, of course, I should become their agent; which induced me to give them rations. '	No. 9. ®1R:	SULPHUR FORK, RED RIVER, INDIAN AGENCY, October 1, 1825. After closing my letters, the Caddo chief arrived at the agency. I stated to him the wish of the Government as respects those small bands of Indians residing in Louisiana settling on his lands. He observed, he had no objection to their settling on his lands, as it was the wish of the Government; and that he would send a runner down amongst them, giving them permission to remove on his lands. The chief observed that he had never sold lands to the Government, but had permitted the Quapaws, and other Indians that had sold their lands, to reside amongst his people; and he thinks the Government should give him a small annuity, for which he would be very thankful. . n k"1 t',e °P*n>on that a small annuity to the old chief would have a good effect; his influence amongst those small bands of Indians, both in Louisiana and the Spanish provinces, is very great. I have, <fcc. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War.	G. GRAY, Indian Agent. No. 10.	- Extract of a letter from T. L. McKenney to Governor Izard, dated OCTOBER 8, 1825. The Secretary [of War] directs me to say, that he hopes the emigration of the Quapaws, notwithstanding the improvidence which has marked their first steps towards it, may eventuate in an harmonious ge.tting off, and in their contented and happy settlement among their friends the Caddoes. The treaty gives them until the 20(h January; but an earlier start will doubtless subserve the convenience of their old and infirm people and their children. No. 11. Extract of a letter from T. L. McKenney to Governor Izard, dated OCTOBER 20, 1825. The Secretary of War approves of your plan of being prepared by the 1st of January with the rations for the emigrant Indians. It is hoped, for their sakes, they may get off before the season becomes so far advanced. No. 12. Extract of a letter from T. L. McKenney to Governor Izard, dated OCTOBER 27, 1825. Your letter to the Secretary of War of the 24th ultimo is received. You inform the Secretary that the emigration [of the Quapaws] will commence on the 12th of December, and state the number of Indians; but you have omitted to accompany the letter with the estimates. These you will transmit as early as possible; but, to obviate any inconvenience which may arise meanwhile, the Secretary directs that, of the $15,372 appropriated for the purchase of provisions, $10,000 be sent; also, $1,000 for furnishing facilities for the transportation, and $500 for the pay of a sub-agent or interpreter. No. 13. Extract of a letter from Thomas L. McKenney to Captain Gray, dated NOVEMBER 16, 1825. The Secretary approves of the assistance furnished the Quapaws in the way of rations; but he directs that you be very particular in the exercise of your discretion, especially in the disbursements of your agency, as the contingent fund is limited, and might become embarrassed without this care. You will, for the present, defer assembling the small bands of Indians in Louisiana, as yon propose, in order to secure their assent to a removal upon the Caddo lands; but, if the invitation which the chief has sent them by a runner (to join him) shall lead to their removal, you will receive them as a part of the charge of your agency. Meanwhile, you will submit an estimate of the cost which it may require for rations, while assembled to consult and determine upon the measure of removal, should it be necessary to assemble them. The Secretary authorizes you to give to the Caddo chief an annuity, for the time being, of $50, (the first payment you can make him on the 1st of January next,) and tell him it is intended as a token of the good-will of hist great father the President of the United States, and as a small return for his kind feelings towards his brothers the Quapaws, in giving them a home upon his lands, and for the offer he has made the bands now in Louisiana to come and join them. .	No. 14. Extract of a letter from Thomas L. McKenney to Captain George Gray, Indian Agent, Sfc., dated JANUARY 16, 1826. Your letters to the Secretary of War of the 29th and 30th November, and 4th December, are received. The Secretary directs that the condition of building the mill for the Caddoes and the Quapaws, (the latter of whom, on their arrival, you will consider in your charge,) to cost not more than $400, will be, that they bury the hatchet, and make peace in regard to the late murder of one of their people. Tell them their great father hears with surprise that they believe in wizards and witches; that there are no such things; and that he is angry with, them for killing the man under such a foolish belief. You will exert your influence to keep them quiet in regard to that transaction. No. 15. SIR:	CADDO PRAIRIE, RED RIVER, INDIAN AGENCY, April 7, 1826. Permit me to recommend Mitchell Bone as interpreter for the Quapaw languages. Bone is a half-blood Quapaw, and is well qualified to fill the appointment, having a perfect knowledge of every individual belonging to the tribe. 1 have appointed Bone temporarily, from the 1st April, 1826; and, if you think proper to confirm the appointment, I will thank you to state what salary Bone shall receive, and in what manner paid. Their former interpreter has remained on the Arkansas.	• I have the honor, &c. The Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War.	G. GRAY, Indian Agent. No. 16. ’ Extract of a letter from Governor Izard to the Secretary of War, of APRIL 29, 1826. The sub-agent, (Mr. Barraqué,) who conducted the Quapaw tribe to the Red river country, has returned from that duty, which he has performed with zeal, firmness, and ability. The expenses of this removal have been considerably less than had been anticipated. The Indians, on their part, have performed their engagements; they were, however, very reluctant to go, and it was necessary to be peremptory in directing their departure. .	No. 17. ’ Extrada of a letter from Captain George Gray, Indian Agent on Red river, to the Secretary of War, dated APRIL 30, 1826. I feel it my duty to report to you the situation of the Quapaws. They arrived on the opposite side of Red river some time about the 1st of March last, under the charge of a Frenchman by the name of Antoine Barraqué, who was appointed by Governor Izard to pilot the Quapaw Indians to their new situation, and to see that justice was done them in getting their rations. I find, from an examination of the treaty, that the Quapaws are entitled to draw rations from the Government until the last of June next. I a few days since examined into the situation of their rations, and find them entirely destitute of rations, with the exception of three small beeves only; the balance of their beeves (twenty-five in number) was delivered to them on the opposite side of Red river, and have since all run off. Barraqué (the sub-agent appointed by Governor Izard) has thought proper to receive, in part, for rations, money; but I do not know to what amount, nor do I know what number of rations in kind has been issued to them, although I applied to Barraqué for a statement of the rations that had been issued for the months of April, May, and June, which he refused to give, saying that he was only accountable to the Governor. The Quapaws have been entirely destitute of rations, with the exception of three small beeves, since the 1st April; at which time I took charge of them. I am fearful that the Quapaws will be very troublesome to the white settlements this summer, owing to their being destitute of provisions, (and, of course, must be in a starving situation shortly,) and being in a strange country where game is very scarce. Corn is now selling on Red river at one dollar and twenty-five cents per bushel, and scarce. No. 18. SIR: •	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, August 3, 1826. In the absence of the Secretary of War and of Colonel McKenney, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letters of the 4th, 6th, and 7th April last. You will continue the services of Mitchell Bone as Quapaw interpreter, if necessary, until you hear further from the Department. In the mean time, it is proper that you do every thing in your power to conciliate the Quapaws, and render them satisfied with their new residence among the Caddoes. In doing this', much may depend on the selection of a suitable person for interpreter, as the situation affords the best opportunities, with judicious management, of acquiring an influence over the Indians. There is no fixed salary for an interpreter; and the services of Mr. Bone, in that capacity, should be engaged on the most reasonable terms, not exceeding $400 per annum, which is the amount of salary most commonly allowed to interpreters. The sum necessary to pay his salary fur the time he may be employed will be included in your quarterly estimates, on which remittances will be made as usual. Since commencing this letter, yours of the 30th June, enclosing your accounts to that date, has been received. I am, &c.	f Captain GEORGE GRAY, Indian Agent, tÿc.	S. S. HAMILTON. •	No. 19. Extract of a letter from Captain George Gray, Indian Agent on Red river, to the Secretary of War, dated OCTOBER 7, 1826. I received, a few days since, a letter from Mr. Samuel S. Hamilton, directing me to continue Mitchell Bone as Quapaw interpreter, if necessary. It is absolutely necessary that I should have a Quapaw interpreter, as, without one, I could do no kind of business with the Quapaw nation of'Indians. Bone has been selected by the Quapaw chief as interpreter. I am glad to be able to state that the Quapaws are perfectly satisfied with their situation, and that they are on very friendly terms with the Caddoes, as well as all other Indians belonging to the agency. CONGRESS.] 
