No. 121. [1st Session. CHEROKEES AND SIOUX. communicated to the senate, march 29, 1806. To the Senate of the United States: When the convention of the 7th of January, 1806, was entered into with the Cherokees, for the purchase of certain lands, it was believed by both parties, that the eastern limit, when run in the direction therein prescribed, would have included all the waters of Elk river: on proceeding to run that line, however, it was found to omit a considerable extent of those waters, on which were already settled about two hundred families. The Cherokees readily consented, for a moderate compensation, that the line should be so run as to include all the waters of that river. Our commissioners accordingly entered into an explanatory convention for that purpose, which I now lay before the Senate for consideration, whether they will advise and consent to its ratification; a letter from one of the commissioners, now also enclosed, will more fully explain the circumstances which led to it. Lieutenant Pike, on his journey up the Mississippi, in 1805-6, being at the village of the Sioux, between the rivers St. Croix and St. Peter’s, conceived that the position was favorable for a military and commercial post for the United States, whenever it should be thought expedient to advance in that quarter; he, therefore, proposed to the chiefs a cession of lands for that purpose. Their desire of entering into connexion with the United States, and of getting a trading house established there, induced a ready consent to the proposition, and they made, by articles ol' agreement, now enclosed, a voluntary donation to the United States, of two portions of land, the one of nine miles square, at the mouth of the St. Croix, the other from below the mouth of St. Peter's, up the Mississippi, to St. Anthony’s falls, extending nine miles in width on each side of the Mississippi. These portions of land are designated on the map now enclosed. Lieutenant Pike, on his part, made presents to the Indians to some amount. This convention, though dated the 23d of September, 1605. is but lately received: and. although we have no immediate view of establishing a trading post at that place, I submit it to the Senate for the sanction of their advice and consent to its ratification, in order to give to our title a full validity on the part of the United States, whenever it maybe wanting lor the special purpose which constituted, in the minds of the donors, the sole consideration and inducement to the cession. TIL JEFFERSON. March 29, 1808. Articles of a Treaty between the United States of America, by their commissioner Return J. Meigs, who was appointed to hold a conference with the Cherokees, for the purpose of purchasing a tract of land, a site for iron works, and at the mouth of Chickamauga creek, on the south side of Tennessee. Whereas il has been represented to the chiefs and warriors of said nation, that such a site would be desirable, both for the United States and the Cherokee nation, and to their mutual advantage, the chiefs and warriors have agreed to, and sold to the United States, six miles square, at the mouth of Chickamauga creek, on the south side of Tennessee, and to be laid off in a square tract, so as to include the creek to the best advantage for said site. Art. 2. And it is further agreed that the United States shall pay the Cherokee nation the sum of five thousand dollars, so soon as the said treaty shall be ratified, and one thousand bushels of corn: Provided nevertheless, Thai. 'f the iron ore should fail within said limits ceded the United States, then, and in that case, the United States shall have full liberty to get ore off their land in the most suitable place. In testimony whereof, the undersigned commissioner, and the chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee nation, have set their hands and seals. Done at Hiwasee, this second day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seven. RETURN J. MEIGS, [l. s.] GLASS, [l. s.l JOHN LOWRY, [l. s.] And other chiefs. Conference betieeen the United States of America and the Sioux nation of Indians. Whereas, at a conference held between the United States of America and the Sioux nation of Indians, Lieut. Z. M. Pike, of the army of the United States, and the chiefs and warriors of the said tribe, have agreed to the following articles, which, when ratified and approved of by the proper authority, shall be binding on both parties: Article 1. That the Sioux nation grants unto the United States, for the purpose of the establishment of military posts, nine miles square at_ the mouth of the river St. Croix, also, from below the confluence of the Mississippi and St. Peter’s, up the Mississippi, to include the falls of St. Anthony, extending nine miles on eacli side of the river. That the Sioux nation grants to the United States, the full sovereignty and power over said districts, forever, without any let or hindrance whatsoever. Art. 2. That, in consideration of the above grants, the United States Art. 3. The United States promise, on their part, to permit the Sioux to pass, repass, hunt, or make other uses of the said districts, as they have ionnerly done, without any other exception but those specified in article first. ' In testimony hereof, we, the undersigned, have hereunto set our hands and seals, at the mouth of the river St. Peter’s, on the twenty third day of September, one thousand eight hundred and five. Z. M. PIKE, first Lieutenant, [seal.] And Agent at the above conference. LE PETIT CORBEAU, his x mark. [seal.]- WAY AGA ENAGEE, his x mark. [seal.] Hiwasee, September 28, 1807-. Sir: Some time before Double-head’s decease, I stated to him your request, as expressed in your letter of the 1st of April last, that the convention line should be so extended as to comprehend all the waters of Elk river. He readily said, he would go with me, and selected three others on whom lie could depend, and assured me, that the line should be so extended; but, on his being killed, I expected to meet with difficulty in effecting that business. "A few days before I set out on that business, I communicated your request to a large council of chiefs, who were here, receiving their money on account of that convention, and part of their annuity for the present year; from some, through ignorance, and others, from views of taking advantage to raise the compensation, I only received an evasive answer. I then invited the Black Fox, and some others, in whom I could confide, to go w ith me to the place of commencing the line; and on the 7th instant, met General Robertson and Mr. Freeman, at the Chickasaw Old Fields. When on the ground, we soon agreed that the line should be so run as to comprehend all the waters of Elk river, as will appear by the enclosed agreement; we then run such courses as the nature of the ground would admit of, until we intersected the first waters that fall into the Elk, then a direct line to the Cumberland mountain, and fixed a point on the side of the mountain, from which the rocky face of the mountain is the boundary to lands before ceded. With respect to compensation and presents, as you left it to our discretion, we did the best we could. There is upwards of two hundred families on the land, and all that part of it lying above the Tennessee line, surveyed into sections, and covered by land warrants. The Cherokees being in debt to the United States $1,823, 1 offered to cancel that debt as a compensation to the nation, for the alteration of the line; they requested to have it made up to $2,000, and $1,000 and twro rifles, as presents to die chiefs transacting the business. General Robertson was fully in opinion with me, that we ought not to hesitate as to these terms, and they were agreed to. I will state some of the reasons that induced us to these terms: 1st Although they had not the right, they had the power to refuse to extend the line. 2dly. It would have required at least thirty days to have run the traverse, and the true line, at an expense of at least thirty dollars per day, so that near $1,000 is saved on that account. 3dly. To have marched a detachment to remove the inhabitants, would have caused considerable expense; it would have brought distress on the citizens, many of whom went on the land without any design to infract the laws. These people now feel sentiments of gratitude towards the executive department, and the jurisdiction of the State will now be extended over them; it is really an acquisition to the State of Tennessee. With respect to the chiefs who have transacted the business with us, they will have their hands full to satisfy the ignorant, the obstinate, and the cunning of some of their own people, for which they well deserve this silent consideration. At the time the convention was made, every body supposed that the waters of Duck river had their source more east than the waters of Elk river, and that the convention line would cover all the land which was in dispute between the Chickasaws and Cherokees. It is a handsome country, and is now settled cheap enough in all conscience. I am authorized by General Robertson to make this report in his absence. 1 am, very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, RETURN J. MEIGS. [10th Congress.]
