NO. 237.	[1st SESSION. LOCATION OF THE FLORIDA INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, ON THE ISTH OF APRIL, 1826. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, April 17, 1826. I have the honor, in compliance with the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 15th instant, relating to the present location of the Florida Indians, and their country, its soil, and its water, to submit the accompanying papers, marked Nos. 1, 2, 3, which contain all the information in this Department required by the aforesaid resolution. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, JAMES BARBOUR. To the Hon. the SPEAKER of the House of Representatives. No. 1. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, April 17, 1826. I have the honor, in compliance, with your directions, to “ furnish the information called for by the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 15th instant,” directing the Secretary of War to lay before it all the information in the possession of the Department touching the present location of the Florida Indians, with such description of the country, as to soil and water, as is in the power of the Department, to submit, herewith, papers marked Nos. 2 and 3; and respectfully to refer to the printed document (House of Representatives) No. 74, of the 6th of February last; which, together with the above papers, contains all the information touching the subject of the resolution of the 15th instant on file in this office. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, THOS. L. McKENNEY. To the Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War. No. 2. SIR:	FLORIDA AGENCY, February 22, 1826. Finding, on my arrival at the agency, that the chiefs of the Seminole nation were extremely importunate that I should examine the country assigned them by the late treaty, urging strongly that it had not been fairly represented to the President of the United States, and that great injustice had been done to them, I determined to act on the order from your Department, to explore the Indian country, and to report, on my own examination, exactly as 1 should find it to be. I have now the honor, after a faithful and laborious examination of their lands for thirteen days, to make the following report: The Long Swamp, which is on the right of the military road leading from this place to Tampa Bay, is the first land near the present northern line deserving any attention. This swamp is near six miles long, very narrow, and entirely too wet for cultivation, except thirty or forty acres at its southern extremity, which is inhabited by a family of Indians. I consider it of little value. Okihumky signifies in our language one pond; it is an Indian town; the land is too poor for cultivation, and there is very little good land in its neighborhood. Pelack- lakaha is a town occupied by the Indian negroes; its name signifies scattered hammock; there is but little land fit for cultivation about it, and in the rainy season the best of it is under water. Checuchatty, or Red House, is an Indian town on the margin of a large pond: it appears to be an ancient settlement; all the good lands have been exhausted by cultivation, and it is now poor, unhealthy, and has no water near that is fit to drink. The Big Hammock is situated near this town. I spent some days in examining it, and was greatly disappointed in its fertility, extent, and supposed advantages. The Big Hammock is much lower than the adjoining land, which is poor pine sandy hills, wholly unfit for cultivation. There is a large pond in the centre of this hammock, with several drains: in the wet season, it is the greater part under water; in the dry season, there is no water except in this large pond. The soil, from its growth of timber, would induce a passing observer to believe it very fertile; but I found, on examining the land in many places, that it is a light mould, two.or three inches deep, based on white sand, and would, if cultivated, in three years become a bed of sand. The whole extent of this hammock would not make more than a ♦ownship. There is but one small Indian settlement in it; and, take it altogether, I feel confident it has been vastly overrated. I think that a man who is a judge of land would not give more than one dollar per acre for the best of it above high-water mark, which would be but a small part of the whole hammock. I travelled but a short distance, in going south, on the military road: I left it near Okihumky, and examined the whole country to the right of the road as far as Tampa Bay. I visited every spot where any lands were spoken of as being good; and I can say, with truth, I have not seen three hundred acres of good land in my whole route, after leaving the agency. The lands on the Big and Little Withlecoucha are poor, and the lands on Hillsborough river, within the Indian boundary, are of so little value that there is not one Indian settlement on any of them. I did not visit Peas creek. I had suffered so much from drinking water alive with insects, from mosquitoes, and intolerable hot weather, and my horses were so much reduced by the journey and the swarms of horseflies, that I determined to leave that point unexplored, having received satisfactory information that there is but a small tract of good land in that quarter. I never have seen a more wretched tract of country than that which I entered five or six miles south of Chucuchatty: the sand hills rise very high, and the Indian trail winds over an extensive sand ridge for eight or nine miles. The whole of the timber for this distance, as far as the eye can survey, has been killed by fire. The burnt and blackened pines, without a leaf, added to the. dreary poverty of the land, presents the most miserable and gloomy prospect I ever beheld. After descending the southern extremity of this ridge, I entered a low, wet, piney country, spotted with numerous ponds. I had much difficulty to pass through them, although the season has been uncommonly dry. Had much rain fallen, I never could have reached Tampa Bay in that direction. So low was the whole country, as far "bs the Indian boundary extended towards Tampa Bay, that, after riding all day, and until eleven o’clock at night, in the hope that I would find a dry spot to sleep-upon, I was compelled to take up my lodgings on a low wet place for the night. No settlement can ever be made in this region, and there is no land in it worth cultivation. The best of the Indian lands are worth but little: nineteen-twentieths of their whole country, within the present boundary, is by far the poorest and the most miserable region I ever beheld. I have therefore to advise, as my duty demands, and the honor and humanity of my country requires, that the Big Swamp be also given to the Indians, and that the northern line be fixed five miles north of the Big Swamp, and extended to the Okelawaha river east, and so far west as to include the Big Hammock. This line will take in no good land but the Big Swamp, of any consequence; but, by extending it into the pine barren five miles, it will keep off settlers from the Indian boundary who would otherwise crowd near the line, and sell whiskey to the Indians. The pine barren between the south end of Alachua and the Big Swamp is poor, and never can be cultivated. The distance is about twenty-five miles. The Big Swamp is six miles long, and-is about two miles wide, and is healthy, high, rich land. . I have the honor to remain, vour obedient servant, WILLIAM P. DUVAL. To Colonel THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, General Superintendent of Indian Affairs. ’ No. 3. SIR:	TALLAHASSEE, January 13, 1825. Having been called on to state my views of the country laid out for the future residence of the Florida Indians, I can only say that my knowledge of the country from observation is limited, having only travelled through it two ur three times; but, sir, so far as I have seen it, it is the poorest part of Florida, and a large portion of it generally inundated. There are interspersed through the country small light sandy hammocks, which will bear cultivation a few years; but I know of no one spot of good land sufficiently large for one of the several tribes or towns of Indians. My opinion is therefore clear that the said Indians cannot possibly subsist on their present location, and that an extension of the line, so far as to include the Big Swamp, (which is a hammock, containing about five or six thousand acres of pretty good land,) ought to be granted to them; which.is all that is asked by them, so far as I have heard. I am, very respectfully, your excellency’s most obedient servant, BENJAMIN CHAIRES. To His Excellency WILLIAM P. DUVAL. CONGRESS.] 
