No. 126. [2d Session-. DELAWARES AND OTHERS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 22. 1809, To the Senate of the United States: ,   ’ I lay before the Senate, for their consideration whether they will advise and consent to the ratification thereof, a treaty concluded on the 30th September last, with the Delaware, Pattawatamy, Miami, and Eel River Miami, Indian tribes, northwest of the Ohio; a separate article, of the same date, with the said tribes; and a convention with the Wea tribe, concluded on the 26th October last. The whole being accompanied with the explanatory documents. December 22, 1809. JAMES MADISON. War Department, July 15th, 1809. Sir: The President of the United States authorizes and instructs you to take advantage of the most favorable moment for extinguishing the Indian title to the lands lying to the east of the Wabash, and adjoining, south, on the lines of the treaties ol Fort Wayne and Grouseland. The compensation to be paid for this extinguishment should not exceed the rate heretofore given for the Indian title to lands m that quarter. To prevent any future dissatisfaction, chiefs of all the nations who have, or pretend right to these lands, should be present at the treaty; and, il practicable, the cession should be obtained without leaving any reservations. It is discretionary with you to stipulate in what manner the consideration shall be paid, whether in a gross sum, payable after the ratification of the treaty, by instalments, or in an annuity for years, or perpetuity, or, partly, in both these modes, as you may deem most expedient. The payment by instalments is preferred. For the expenses attending the treaty, or treaties, you will draw on this Department, except for the provisions, which you will require of the contractor, unless some other person will agree to furnish them below contract price. Resides reasonable expenses,you will be allowed six dollars per day;aud the secretary to the commission, should one be necessary, three dollars per day, while actually employed. A diary of the proceedings should be kept by the commissioner, or the secretary, and a certified copy thereof forwarded, with the treaty, to this Department. I am, sir, respectfully. &c. His Excellency William H. Harrison. A Treaty between the United States of America and the tribes of Indians called the Delawares, Paltawatumies, Miamies, and Ed River Miamies. James Madison, President of the United States, by William Henry Harrison, Governor and Commander in Chief of the Indiana territory. Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and Commissioner Plenipotentiary of the United States, for treating with the said Indian tribes, and the sachems, head-men, and warriors, of the Delaware, Pattawata-my, Miami, and Eel river tribes of Indians, have agreed and concluded upon the following treaty, which, when ratified by the said President, with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States, shall be binding on said parties: Article 1. The Miami and Eel river tribes, and the Delawares and Pattawatamies, as their allies, agree to cede to the United States, all that tract of country which shall be included between the boundary line, established by the treaty of fort Wayne, the Wabash, and a line to be drawn from the month of a creek called Racoon creek, emptying into the Wabash, on the southeast side, about twelve miles below the mouth of the Vermillion river, so as to strike the boundary line established by the treaty of Grouseland, at such a distance from its commencement, at the northeast corner of the Vincennes tract, as will leave the tract now ceded, thirty miles wide at the narrowest place; and also, all that tract which shall be included between the following boundaries, viz: Beginning at fort Recovery; thence, southwardly along the general boundary line, established by the treaty of Greenville, to its intersection with the boundary line established by the treaty of Grouseland; thence, along said line, toa point from which aline drawn parallel to the first mentioned line will be twelve miles distant from the same, and along the said parallel line to its intersection with a line to be drawn from fort Recovery, parallel to the line established by the said treaty of Grouseland. Art. 2. The Miamies explicitly acknowledge the equal right of the Delawares, with themselves, to the country watered by the White river; but it is also to be clearly understood that neither party shall have the right of disposing of the same, without the consent of the other; and any improvements which shall be made on the said land by the Delawares, or their friends the Mohicans, shall be theirs forever. Art. 3. The compensation to be given for the cession made in the first article, shall be as follows, viz. To the Delawares, a permanent annuity of live hundred dollars; to the Miamies, a like annuity of live hundred dollars; to the Eel river tribe, a like annuity of two hundred and fifty dollars; and to the Pattawatamies, a like annuity of five hundred dollars. Art. 4. All the stipulations made in the treaty of Greenville, relatively to the manner of paying the annuities, and the right of the Indians to hunt upon the land, shall apply to the annuities granted and the land ceded by the present treaty. Art. 5. The consent of the Wea tribe shall be necessary to complete the title to the first tract of land here ceded. A separate convention shall be entered into between them and the United States, and a reasonable allowance of goods given them in hand, and a permanent annuity, w hich shall not be less than three hundred dollars, settled upon them. . Art. t>. 'I'he annuities promised by the third article, and the goods now delivered, to the amount of five thousand two hundred dollars, shall be considered as a full compensation for the cession made in the first article. Art. 7. The tribes who are parties to this treaty, being desirous of putting an end to the depredations which are committed by abandoned individuals of their own color, upon the cattle, horses, &c. of the more industrious and careful, agree to adopt the following regulations, viz. When any theft or other depredation shall be committed by any individual or individuals of one of the tribes, above mentioned, upon the property of any individual or individuals of another tribe, the chiefs of the party injured shall make application to the agent of the United States, who is charged with the delivery of the annuities of the tribe to which-tne offending party belongs, whose duty it shall be to hear the proofs and allegations on either side, and determine between them; and the amount of his award shall be immediately deducted from the annuity of the tribe to which the offending party belongs, and given to the person injured, or the chief of his village, for his use. Art. 8. The United States agree to relinquish their right to the reserve at the old Ouiatanon towns, made by the treaty of Greenville, so far, at least, as to make no further use of it than for the establishment of a military post. Art. 9. The tribes who are parties to this treaty, being desirous to shew their attachment to their brothers, the Kickapoos, agree to cede to the United States, the lands on the northwest side of the Wabash, from the Vincennes tract, to a northwardly extension of the line running from the mouth of the aforesaid Racoon creek,and fifteen miles in width from the Wabash, on condition that the United States, shall allow them an annuity of four hundred dollars; but this article is to have no effect, unless the Kickapoos will agree to it. In testimony whereof, the said William Henry Harrison, and the sachems and war chiefs of the before mentioned tribes, have hereunto set their hands, and affixed their seals, at fort Wayne, this thirtieth of September, one thousand eight hundred and nine. WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON, [l. s.] [Signed also by certain chiefs and warriors of the nations enumerated in the title.] A separate Article, entered into at Fort Wayne, on the 30th day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and nine. Between William Henry Harrison, Commissioner Plenipotentary of the United States for treating with the Indian tribes, and the sachems and chief warriors of the Miami ami Eel river tribes of Indians, which is to be considered as forming pail of the treaty this day concluded, between the United States and the said tribes, and their allies, the Delawares and Pattawatamies. As the greater part of the lands ceded to the United States, by the treaty, this day concluded, was the exclusive property of the Miami nation, and guarantied to them by the treaty of Grouseland, it is considered by the said commissioner, just and reasonable that their request to be allowed some further and additional compensation should be complied with: It is, therefore, agreed, that the United States shall deliver, for their use, in the course of the next spring, at fort Wayne, domestic animals to the amount of five hundred dollars, and the like number for the two following years; and that an armorer shall be also maintained at fort Wayne, for the,, use of the Indians, as heretofore: it is also agreed that, if the Kickapoos confirm the ninth article of the treaty to which this is a supplement, the United States will allow to the Miamies a further permanent annuity of two hundred dollars, and to the Wea and Eel river tribes, a further annuity of one hundred dollars each. In testimony whereof, the said William Henry Harrison, anti the sachems and war chiefs of the said tribes, have hereunto set their hands, and affixed their seals, the day and place above mentioned. WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON, [l. s.] ' [Signed also by certain chiefs and warriors of said tribes of Indians.] A Convention entered into at Vincennes, in the Indiana territory, between William Henry Harrison, Commissioner Plenipotentiary of the United States for treating ivith the Indian tribes, northwest of the Ohio, and the Wea tribe. The said tribe, by their sachems and head warriors', hereby declhre their full and free consent to the treaty concluded at fort Wayne, on the thirtieth ultimo, by the above mentioned commissioner, with the Delaware, Miami, Pattawatamy, and Eel river tribes, and also, to the separate article entered into on the same day with the Miami and Eel river tribes; and the said commissioner, on the part of the United States, agrees to allow the said tribe an additional annuity of three hundred dollars, and a present sum of fifteen hundred dollars, in consideration of the relinquishment made in the first article of said treaty; and a further permanent annuity of one hundred dollars, as soon as the Kickapoos can be brought to give their consent to the ninth article of said treaty. In testimony whereof, the said William Henry Harrison, and the sachems and head-warriors of the said tribe, have hereunto, set their hands, and affixed their seals, the twenty-sixth day of October, eighteen hundred and nine. WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON, [l. s.] [Signed, also, by certain Indian chiefs,] * I 11th Congress.] 
