NO. 165.	[1st SESSION. TRADE AND INTERCOURSE. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, ON THE 5TI1 OF APRIL, 1820. Mr. LEAKE, from the Committee on Indian Affairs, who were “ instructed to inquire into the expediency of providing for the abolition of the system of Indian trade established by a law of the 2d of March, 1811, which has been continued in force until the 3d of March, 1821, and for the disposition of the goods and property of the United States, and for the payment of the proceeds thereof, and of the funds vested in this trade, into the treasury,” made the following report: That, from the year 1775 to August, 1786, our Indian relations were regulated by the agencies of commissioners, who executed, under the direction of the Congress, such arrangements as were from time to time deemed best by that body to be adopted, and pursued such a course of policy as was thought best calculated to promote the peace of the frontiers and the welfare of the Indians. The Indians, under the first system, were divided into three departments—the northern, middle, and southern. Five commissioners were appointed for the southern department, and two for the middle and northern. Among the first arrangements which your committee find to have been adopted, were those which embraced a system of trade with the Indians; and the privilege of prosecuting it was confined to those who should first provide a license from one or more of the commissioners of each respective department; and no person was permitted to trade, except at such posts and places as the commissioners for each department should respectively appoint. On the 29th of April, 1776, it was resolved by the Congress that no traders ought to go into the Indian country without license from the agent in the department, and that care be taken by him to prevent exorbitant prices for goods being exacted from the Indians. Measures were adopted, also, in the same year, though on a limited scale, for the introduction amongst some of the tribes of civilization and Christianity; and the acts of those earlier times are characterized with kindness and a solicitude for the welfare of.the Indians. On the 7th of August, 1786, the Congress passed an ordinance for the regulation of Indian affairs, when the Indian department was divided into two districts—the northern and southern; to each of which was attached a superintendent. It was made the duty of these two superintendents to attend to the execution of such regulations as the Congress should from time to time adopt; to correspond with each other, and with the Secretary of War, in all matters relating to these trusts. Under this ordinance, none but citizens of the United States were suffered to reside among the Indian nations, or were allowed to trade with any nation of Indians within the territory of the United States. No person, citizen or other, under the penalty of $500, was permitted to reside among or trade with any Indian or Indian nation, within the territory of the United States, without a license for that purpose first obtained from the superintendent of the district, or one of his deputies. No person could entitle himself to a license who should not first produce a certificate from the Supreme Executive of one of the States, under the seal of the State, certifying to the applicant’s good moral character, and that he was suitably qualified and provided fur the employment of trader; for which license he was to pay to the superintendent, for the use of the United States, $50. The term of a license was not to exceed one year. No person obtained a license under this ordinance without first giving bond in $3,000 for his adherence to and observance of such rules and regulations for the government of the trade as the Congress might from time to time adopt. It would appear that, notwithstanding all this precaution, the systems were not suited to the humane designs of the Government. ' The plan of holding intercourse with the Indian tribes by the agency of private traders, notwithstanding the regulations with which it was attempted to control them, was unsuited to the promotion of those relations which it was, and is yet, so desirable to sustain with the aborigines of eur country—a people over whose welfare the Government should feel itself particularly bound to exercise the most liberal and parent-like agency. Hence, in 1796, an act was passed under which the existing system of the United States trade and intercourse was organized, and an appropriation of $150,000 was made to carry it into effect. This system provides for the supplying the Indians with all necessary and useful articles at such rates as shall preserve the capital from diminution. This act also provides an additional sum of $8,000 annually, for the payment of agents and clerks, denominated factors and assistant factors, &c. In 1806, a superintendent of Indian trade was authorized to be appointed, and the capital increased io $260,000, and the sum of $13,000 was annually appropriated for the payment of the superintendent, factors, <fcc. In the year 1811, the capiial was increased to $300,000, and $19,250 was annually appropriated for the payment of the superintendent, factors, &,c. From a report made by the superintendent of Indian trade to the Committee on Indian Affairs in the House of Representatives on the 7th of January last, it appears that, of the $300,000 appropriated in the year 1811, not more than $290,000 has been drawn from the treasury; from which it is proper to deduct $10,000 on account of debts centracted by the Indians in their intercourse with the factory then at Fort Wilkinson, and which was secured to the United States by the treaty of Fort Wilkinson, but has not as yet been paid over to the office of superintendent; also, $43,369 61 for property destroyed by the enemy during the late war. This would reduce the capital actually employed in the Indian trade to $236,630 39. The gain appears to be the difference between this amount and $308,855 45, which is $72,225 06. The several acts now in force require that the factors and assistant factors shall engage in their duties upon fixed salaries, and be debarred from the prosecution of any trade, directly or indirectly, except on the public account, under bond and security, and an oath of office. They also require that semi-annual returns be made of all the transactions of each factory, respectively, to the Secretary of the Treasury, and duplicate accounts to be rendered quarter-yearly; one copy to he sent to the Secretary of the Treasury, and the other to be sent to the superintendent of Indian trade. It appears, therefore, that this system is as little liable to abuse as any system could be which is conducted by public agents and carried on upon the public account. And, notwithstanding the losses occasioned by the enemy in the late war, and the great embarrassment under which this trade has labored, occasioned by the opposing influence of a great many unprincipled private traders, it has still sustained itself, unless it be proper to tax the trade with the annual disbursemenis made out of the specific annual appropriation for the pay of the superintendent and agents attached to the factory system. Your committee do not conceive it was intended to be so; for, whether the factory system be abolished or not, agents must still be employed and paid, in order to keep up a friendly intercourse with the Indians, and to carry into effect that policy which the United States have so long since adopted for the benevo lent purpose of civilizing the Indians, and relieving their wants, and rendering their condition more comfortable, by directing their attention to agriculture and domestic manufactures. Notwithstanding the situation of the Indians upon our borders has been greatly ameliorated by the present system, vet, owing to the imperfection of the mode of granting licenses to private traders, the beneficial effects of the system have not been so extensive as they might have been had the mode of granting those licenses been better regulated. With a view to this end, your committee prepared and presented a bill for the better regulation of the private intercourse with the Indians, which bill has passed the Senate, and is now before the House of Representatives. Should this bill eventually become a law, it is believed that the trade with the Indians will be placed on a footing better calculated to promote the benevolent intentions of the Government towards the Indians than any other system which is likely to be effected, inasmuch as it will be in the power of the President of the United States to confine the licenses to those only who can procure recommendations, from sources entitled to the highest credit, of their good moral conduct, of their suitable qualifications, and of their ability to carry on a trade calculated to supply the wants of the Indians, and render their situation more comfortable. And the power to revoke the license of such traders as shall not conform to the regulations prescribed by the President gives to the Government such an entire control over the trade carried on by private traders as to make it subservient to the views of the Government in promoting harmony and tranquillity among the Indians, and gradually improving them in the arts of civilization; and, at the same time, preventing collisions between the traders themselves, as well as between them and the factories of the. United States; and, above all, to prevent the introduction of ardent spirits among the Indians. The evils resulting from selling or giving whiskey to the Indians are incalculable. A reference to the documents contained in a report which your committee recently made to the Senate, on the subject of Indian affaits, furnishes abundant evidence of this lamentable fact. Adopting the experience of the past, relying on the beneficial effects which it is believed will result from the contemplated law just alluded to, and judging from the nature of the factory system, your committee are of opinion that it ought not now to be abandoned. It was commenced, and has been continued, from motives both of prudence and humanity; and though it may not have fully realized the expectations of its friends, it has no doubt produced beneficial effects. If wars have not been entirely prevented by it, they probably, without it, would have been more frequent; and if the Indians have made but little advances in civilization, they probably, without it, would have made less. If greater effects have not resulted, it is to be attributed not to a want of dependence on the part of the Indians on commercial supplies, but to defects in our system of intercourse with them. Scarcely any attempts have beeir made till lately to exclude foreigners; and the granting licenses has not been subject to those checks which are necessary to give to it the most salutary effects. Your committee, therefore, beg leave to recommend the following resolution: Resolved, That it is inexpedient tn abolish the present system of Indian trade as it is now established by law. [NOTE.—See Nos. 157, 158, 163.] 16th CONGRESS.]	
