No. 107. [2d Session. THE SACS AND FOXES. COMMUNICATED To THE SENATE, DECEMBER 31, 1801. To the Senate of the United States: Most of the Indians residing within our Northern boundary, on this side the Mississippi, receiving from ns annual aids in money and necessaries, it was a subject of complaint with the Sacs, that they received nothing, and were connected with us by no treaty. As they own the country in the neighborhood of our settlements of Kaskas-kia and St. Louis, it was thought expedient to engage their friendship; and Governor Harrison was accordingly instructed, in June last, to propose to them an annuity of five or six hundred dollars, stipulating, in return, an adequate cession of territory, and an exact definition of boundaries. The Sacs and Foxes, acting generally as one nation, and coming forward together, he found it necessary to add an annuity for the latter tribe also, enlarging proportionablv the cession of territory; which was accordingly done by the treaty, now communicated, of November the 3d, with those two tribes. This cession giving us a perfect title to such a breadth of country on the eastern side of the Mississippi, with a command of the Ouisconsin, strengthens our means of retaining exclusive commerce with the Indians, on the western side of the Mississippi: a right indispensable to the policy of governing those Indians by commerce rather than by arms. The treaty is now submitted to the Senate for their advice and consent. TH: JEFFERSON. December 31, 1801. .Articles of a Treaty, made at Saint Louis, in the district, of Louisiana, between Willium Henry Harrison, Governor of the Indiana territory and of the district of Louisiana, Superintendent of Indian.Affairs for the said territory and district, and commissioner plenipotentiary of the United States, for concluding any treaty, or treaties, which may be found neecssary with any of the Northwestern tribes of Indians, of the one part; and the chiefs and head men of the united Sac and Fox tribes, of the other part. Article 1. The United States receive the united Sac and Fox tribes into their friendship and protection; and the said tribes agree to consider themselves under (he protection of (he United States, and ot no other Power whatsoever. Art. 2. The general boundary line, between the lands of the United States and of the said Indian tribes, shall be as follows, viz: Beginning at a point on the Missouri river, opposite to the mouth of the Gasconade river; thence, 88 * in a direct course, so as to strike the river Jeffreon, at.the distance of thirty miles from its mouth, and down the said Jeffreon to the Mississippi; thence, up the Mississippi, to the mouth of the Ouisconsin river, and up the same to a point, which shall be thirty-six miles in a direct line from the mouth of the said river; thence, by a direct line, to the point where the Fox river (a branch of the Illinois) leaves the small lake called Sakaegan; thence, down the Fox river, to the Illinois river, and down the same to the Mississippi. And the said tribes, for, and in consideration of the friendship and protection of the United States, which is now extended to them, of the goods (to the value of two thousand two hundred and thirty-four dollars and fifty cents) which are now delivered, and of the annuity hereinafter stipulated to be paid, do hereby cede, and relinquish forever, to the United States, all the lauds included within the above described boundary. Art. 3. In consideration of the cession and relinquishment of land, made in the preceding article, the United States will deliver to the said tribes, at the town of St. Louis, or some other convenient place on the Mississippi, yearly and every year, goods suited to the circumstances of the Indians, of the value of one thousand dollars, (six hundred of which arc intended for the Sacs, and four hundred for the Foxes,) reckoning that value at the first cost of the goods in the city or place in the United States, where they shall be procured. And if the said tribes shall hereafter, at an annual delivery of the goods aforesaid, desire that a part of their annuity should be furnished in domestic animals, implements ot husbandry, and other utensils, convenient for them, or in compensation to useful artificers, who may reside with, or near them, and be employed for their benefit, the same shall, at the subsequent annual delivery, be furnished accordingly. Art. 4. The United States w ill never interrupt the said tribes, in the possession of the lands which they rightfully claim: hut will, on the contrary, protect them in the quiet enjoyment of the same, against their own citizens, and against all other white persons, who may intrude upon them. And the said tribes do hereby engage, that they will never sell their lands, or any part thereof, to any sovereign Power but the United States: nor to the citizens or subjects of any other sovereign Power, nor to the citizens of the United States. Art. 5. Lest the friendship which is now established between the United States and the said Indian tribes, should be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, it is hereby agreed, that, for injuries done by individuals, no private revenge op retaliation shall take place; but, instead thereof, complaint shall be made by the party injured to the other; by the said tribes, or either of them, to the superintendent of Indian affairs, or one of his deputies; and by the superintendent, or other person appointed by the President, to the chiefs of the said tribes. And it shall be the duty of the said chiefs,upon complaint being made, as aforesaid, to deliver up the person, or persons, against whom the complaint is made, to the end that he, or they, may be punished agreeably to the laws ol the State or territory where the offence may have been committed. And, in like manner, it any robbery, violence, or murder, shall be committed on any Indian, or Indians, belonging to the said tribes, or either of them, the person or persons so offending, shall be tried, and if found guilty, punished, in the like manner as if the injury had been done to a white man. And it is further agreed, that the chiefs of the said tribes shall, to the utmost of their power, exert themselves to recover horses, or other property which may be stolen from any citizen or citizens of the United States, by any individual, or individuals of their tribes. And the property so recovered, shall be forthwith delivered to the superintendent, or other person authorized to receive it, that it maybe restored to the proper owner. And in cases where the exertions of the chiefs shall be ineffectual in recovering the property stolen, as aforesaid, if sufficient proof can be obtained, that such property was actually stolen by any Indian, or Indians, belonging to the said tribes or either of them, the United States may deduct from the annuity of the said tribes, a sum equal to the value of the property which has been stolen. And the United States hereby guaranty to any Indian or Indians, of the said tribes, a full indemnification for any horses, or other property, which may be stolen from them, by any of their citizens: Provided, That the property so stolen cannot be recovered, and that sufficient proof is produced that it was actually stolen by a citizen of the United States. Art. 0. If any citizen of the United States, or other white person, should form a settlement, upon lands which are the property of the Sac and Fox tribes, upon complaint being made thereof, to the superintendent, or other person having charge of the affairs of the Indians, such intruder shall forthw ith be removed. Art. 7. As long as the lands which are now ceded to the United States remain their property, the Indians belonging to the said tribes shall enjoy the privilege of living and hunting upon them. Art. 8. As the laws of the United States, regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, are already extended to the country inhabited by the Sacs, and Foxes, and as it is provided by those laws, that no person shall reside, as a trader, in the Indian country, without a licence under the hand and seal of the superintendent ot Indian affairs, or other person appointed for the purpose by the President, the said tribes do promise and agree, that they will not suffer any trader to reside among them, without such licence, and that they will, from time to time, give notice to the superintendent, or to the agent for their tribes, of all the traders that may be in their country. Art. 9. In order to put a stop to the abuses and impositions which are practised upon the said tribes, by the private traders, the United States will, at a convenient time, establish a trading house, or factory, where the individuals of the said tribes can be supplied with goods at a more reasonable rate than they have been accustomed to procure them. Art. 10. In order to evince the sincerity of their friendship and affection for the United States, and a respectful deference for their advice, by an act which will not only be acceptable to them, but to the Common Father of all the nations of the earth, the said tribes do, hereby, solemnly promise and agree, that they will put an end to the bloody war which has heretofore raged between their tribes and those of the Great and Little Osages. And for the purpose of burying the tomahawk, and renewing the friendly intercourse between themselves and the Osages, a meeting of their respective chiefs shall take place, at which, under the direction of the above named commissioner, or the agent of Indian affairs residing at St. Louis, an adjustment of all their differences shall he made, and peace established, upon a firm and lasting basis. Art. 11. As it is probable that the Government of the United States will establish a military post at, or near, the mouth of the Ouisconsin river, ami as the land on the lower side of the river may not be suitable for that purpose, the said tribes hereby agree, that a fort may be built, either on the upper side of the Ouisconsin, or on the right bank of the Mississippi, as the one. or the other may be found most convenient; and a tract of land* not exceeding two miles square, shall be given for that purpose; and the said tribes do further agree, that they will, at all times, allow to traders, and other persons, travelling through their country, under the authority of the United States, a free and safe passage for themselves, and their property, of every description; and that, for such passage, they shall at no time, and on no account whatever, be subject to any toll or exaction. Art. 12, This treaty shall take effect, and be' obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as the same shall have been ratified by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate oi the United States. In testimony whereof, the said William Henry Harrison, and the chiefs and head-men of the said Sac and Fox tribes, have hereunto set their hands, and affixed their seals. Done at St. Louis, in the district of Louisiana, on the third day of November, one thousand eight hundred and four, and of the independence of the United States the twenty ninth. additional article. It is agreed that nothing in this treaty contained shall affect the claim of any individual, or individuals, who may have obtained grants of land from the Spanish Government, and which are not included within the general boundary line laid down in this treaty: Provided, That such grant have at any time been made known to the said tribes, and recognised by them. v WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON. [Signed also by a number of chiefs and warriors of the Sac and Fox tribes of Indians.] W\k Department, June 27, 1804. Sir: Your Excellency’s letter, of the 24th ultimo, has been duly received and considered. It is the opinion of the President of the United States, that every reasonable accommodation ought to be afforded the old Kaskaskias" chief. You will, therefore, please to satisfy every reasonable request he may make on the. score of living: he certainly is entitled to attention, and ought to be enabled to live decently, and in a due degree of independence. You will please to draw on this Department, for such sums as may be necessary for furnishing him with suitable supplies for Ins family use, from time to time. Directions will be. given, for having the boundary line ascertained, run, and marked, as soon as possible. All adjustments with these nations, whose claims may interfere with the Kaskaskias" boundary, as per treaty, will rest with your Excellency. You will take such measures, and make such pecuniary advances to individual chiefs or others, as their respective cases require. It may not be improper to procure from the Sacs, such cessions on both sides of the Illinois, as may entitle them to an annual compensation^' five or six hundred dollars; they ought to relinquish all pretensions to any land on the southern side of the Illinois, and a considerable tract on the other side: and, if any of the principal chiefs of the other nations shall discover an indication to follow the example of the old Kaskaskias" chief, they ought to be encouraged, more especially the Piankeshaws, whose lands divide the Vincennes territory, on the Wabash, from the cessions of the Kaskaskias. It would also be desirable to obtain the tract between the Southern line of the Vincennes territory and the Ohio. You will, of course, embrace every favorable opportunity for obtaining cessions of such parts of the above mentioned tract as may occur by a fair and satisfactory bargain. It is suggested by the President of the United States, for your consideration and opinion, whether it would not be expedient to give certain annuities, to each actual family, during the existence of said family, even if the aggregate to a nation, should be increased 15 or 20 percent. For instance, we give the Piankeshaws live hundred dollars per annum; suppose they have fifty families, we agree to give the nation twelve, dollars for each family annually, and when a family becomes extinct, the annuity to cease, or it, when its members decrease, the annuity to decrease in proportion. I am, &c. Gov. W m. H. Harrison. 9th Congress.] 
