No. 51. [1st Sf.ssio> Sir: THE SOUTHWESTERN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, JUNE 5, 1794. W AR Dk partment, June 5th, 1794. In obedience to the order of the President of the United States, I have the honor to submit to Congress, further information relatively to the recent events up m the Southwestern frontiers. I have the honor to be, &c. II. KNOX, Secretary of fFar. The V ice President of the United States and President of the. Senate. Copy of u letterfrom Constant Freeman, J]gent for the Department of TFur, in Georgia, to the Secretary of War. dated Fort Fiditjs, 11 th May. 1794. Sin: The Indians who left the fort yesterday, made their escape; had they remained until night, they' would not have effected it, as parties of militia were lying on the banks of the river to cut them off’. It is, perhaps, a fortunate, circumstance, that iliey crossed without interruption, as it may yet be possible to restore peace, should the chiefs arrive from Augusta in safety. The officers of the Federal Government are placed in a delicate situation. It is expedient that I.should explain, sir, to you, (he reasons of the Creeks having been about this garrison for some days past. When Mr. Seagrove returned from the nation, on the twenty-fifth of last month, he was accompanied by the Big king of the Cussetahs, and about forty other chiefs and warriors, who came with him lo shew their attachment to liis person, and the desire theyr had   f perpetuating the peace. In the fullest confidence of security', the White-bird-tail king, or Big king of the Cussetahs, the Tuekaubatehee King, the head Warrior of the Tal-lassees, the Mail Dog’s nephew, of the Tuckaubatchecs, George Tool, Big Fear, and the Little Warrior of the Cussetahs, all influential men, went with him to Augusta, to brighten the chain of friendship with the Governor. When Mr. Seagrove left this place, he directed the Indians who remained, to hunt between the Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers, until I he return of their chiefs, and particularly cautioned (hem against going far above this post. Since he left us, several other parties came iu, staid a few hours, and returned to their hunts; that, at one time, there were about one hundred and thirty at the camp opposite this garrison; they demeaned themselves peaceably, and did not, oil any occasion, shew a hostile disposition, particularly' Long Tom, brother to the two Cussetahs who were killed last December; he had assured Mr. Seagrove that he would not do any mischief, but wait until be should bear from him at Philadelphia. When Mr. Barnard returned from Augusta, on the 9th instant, where he had heard of the mischief which had been done above, and of the death of Lieutenant Day, he sent the Indians away, lest any injury should befall them, and, that night, the most of them decamped. At the time of the attack, yesterday morning, there were about twenty-live or thirty in the camp, and twenty in this post; their intentions were to have left us in the evening; they had been alarmed by the accident which bad befallen the Dog king of the Cussetahs. Some, however, were desirous to stay for the return of their chiefs, for whose safety they were extremely anxious. What has happened to them since, under the persuasion that it was the Creeks who had done the mischief, I have before detailed in my letters to you, of the 9th and 10th instant. It is possible that some straggling Indians of that nation may have stolen the horses at Sparks' station, but, the presumption is much stronger that it was done by the Cherokees. Had the former been disposed for war, they had the fairest opportunity to break up the settlements in this quarter; on the contrary, they went into the country without their arms, mixed with the inhabitants, and discovered no signs of fear; besides, it is well known that Indians arc very careful to preserve the lives of their chief men. At the time the theft was committed, the Big king, and those before mentioned, were on their way' to Augusta, and might well be supposed a security for the good behavior of those they had left behind. The exertions made by the Cussefali king, and the other chiefs, to prevent the Tal-lassees from marching against the settlement, most certainly are evidences of their peaceable temper. Things of less moment have also happened, which indicate that they were generally this way disposed. Some tune ago, some horses strayed from a party of the French legion encamped opposite to the Rock Landing; they were found bvthree Creeks, who were hunting in that quarter, and brought to their owners, but, not before the whites bail taken a number from an Indian camp. When Air. Seagrove came to this garrison, a horse thief had made his escape from justice, had crossed the river, and was living to the nation for refuge. He was stopped by some Indians, between this and the Oakmulgee, and although he broke from them, they brought the horse, and delivered it to the owner. Cattle have been put over the river; they have not driven them off', but complained regularly to Mr. Seagrove, and requested that they might be removed. 1 enclose you the copy of a letter which has been this moment received from Mr. Jordan, who had been left by Mr. Seagrove at the Cussetahs. By this, it also appears, that the general wish of the nation lias been to preserve the peace. The runner who brought it, could not be prevailed upon to cross the river, but delivered it to a soldier who bad been sent down to bring him over. The report of the Ucliee Indians, mentioned in my letter of the 9th, was, probably, premature. From the above statement of facts, it may be presumed, that the mischief which provoked the attack of yesterday, was not done bv the Creeks, and that they had not any desire to renew the war with the people of this country. Nothi ng has occurred in this quarter since yesterday. The Indians have all gone to the nation. M ehear that a large party of militia were to have crossed the Oconee, at the Cedar Shoals, last night, to attack the Creek towns. 1 shall, this evening, despatch an express to the Governor, with a copy of the letter received from Mr. Jordan. I am, &e. Copy of a letter from James Jordan iu Lieutenant Colonel-commandant Henry Gaither. Sir: I wrote you a few days ago, by William Gray, that the Half-way house lmlians were turning out for war; tlie report was, at that time, believed, but iliey have either been stopped by the Upper towns, or altered their intentions, for, at this time, is in, the Broken Arrow, and denies that it is his intention to go to war without the whole nation. The head-men of this lown are uneasy about their people that went down with Mr. Seagrove, and they are afraid that Gray will circulate the false report of the Half-way house Indians going to war. They have ordered me to inform you, sir. and they request that you will endeavor to prevent Gray from cir-culatin^these lies, and, also, to inform the people of Greene and Franklin not to be under any apprehension ol danger; they assure me, that, if they can hear or discover any thing of that kind, they will give them the earliest information they tan, through you. . On this occasion, the head-men of this town, and the Cowetas, have exerted themselves much to their credit; they have runners out on all quarters, to stop them if they have, or had, attempted to go. But, sir, the king himself contradicts if. 62 On the 15th instant, one Milford is to have a meeting in the Broken Arrow, hut. upon what business, I cannot say. I wish, if possible, Mr. Barnard to be here by that time, and will be much obliged to you to inform him of it. should he be at the fort. I am, sir. &c. JAMES JORDAN. P. S. They request that you will preventany scouts from crossing the river, as the people are all hunting between the Oakmulgee and Oconee, and that you will be so good as to inform Barnard that Gray’s talks are all lies. I am, &c. J. J. [Dated on the back, 7th May, 1794.] A true copy'. Attest, CONSTANT FREEMAN, A. W.D. Copy of a letter from Constant Freeman, Agent for the Department of War, in Georgia, to the Secretary of War- Fort Fidius, 14tli May, 1794. Sir: The letter I had the honor to write you, on the eleventh inst. was to have been sent by (he way of Savannah.; but, the person to whom I had given it in charge, being stopped at the first house, after he had left this post, by some armed men, I thought it highly prudent to take the letter from him, lest they should make an improper use of the information it contained, if it should have fallen into their hands. It is now sent by the post from Augusta. On the tenth, General Glascock left that place with the Big king, and the other chiefs, under his charge, whom he was directed to conduct to this post On the eleventh he met the express I had sent to the Governor, who informed him of the attack made on the Indians, and of the threats which had been given out to take the chiefs/rom him: this being confirmed from other quarters, he altered his route: and, on the evening of the same day, he crossed the chiefs at the White Bluff, fifteen miles below this. They are, I imagine, safely arrived in the nation. General Glascock came last evening to this place. Mr. Barnard, the deputy agent, had crossed the river, about an hour before, to return to the nation. It would have been fortunate if he had seen General Glascock; he has promised me that he would use all his influence to keep the Indians quiet, until measures can be taken to restore peace. If the chiefs should arrrive in safety, it may yet be possible to prevent the horrors of war. Mr. Barnard will send a runner to me, as soon as he can learn the temper of the Indians. This man has suffered greatly for his attachment to the United States. , The Governor was sending on three of the Indians prisoners, taken last year at the Oakfuskee village; they had left Augusta. As soon as General Glasscock heard the bad news, he directed them to return, as he was apprehensive of danger to their persons. I have written this day to the Governor, requesting him to cause inquiry to be made into the affair of the tenth. General Glascock, who takes this letter to Augusta, is now waiting for me to close it, or I should be more particular. It, however, contains the information upon which I should suppose you to be the most anxious. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, &c. Copy of a letter from James Seagrove, Agent for Indian Affairs, to the Secretary of War. Savannah, 16th May, 1794. Sin: I had the honor of writing you on the 27th ultimo, from fort Fidius, by post: on the third instant I reached Augusta, with six of the principal Creek chiefs, on a visit of friendship to the Governor of Georgia, leaving at, and in the vicinity of, fort Fidius, near one hundred and fifty Indians, who came with, and followed me, out of friendship, when I came from the nation. Governor Mathews received the Indian chiefs with kindness; and I believe was fully satisfied, from what they informed him, of their ardent wish to live in peace with this country. Whilst the chiefs and myself were with the Governor, he received account of two men, belonging to the militia, being killed by Indians, (supposed to be Cherokees) and that the people of the upper part of this State were embodying, to . destroy the Indians who came with me. This alarmed me for their safety, and I applied to the Governor, to have them safely conveyed back to fort Fidius; he accordingly put them under the care of Brigadier General Glascock and a party of horse, who left Augusta the same day I did, which was the 10th instant, but I have not yet heard of their arrival. In my last I informed you that I had established peace with the Creeks, but I fear my labor is now destroyed by the outrageous doings of the lawless people of Georgia. The enclosed papers, which I received last evening b> express, from Governor Mathews, and my letter to him, this day, will explain their conduct, and show you the unnappy situation of matters at this time. I came here in order to meet some despatches which I was informed, at Augusta, were lodged here for me. from the "War Office. I find that Major Habersham has sent them to St. Mary’s, and that the same respects the fortifications to be erected there. 1 shall leave this to-day for that place; and, as soon as I have done what is desired, I , - shall lose no time in seeing you. I am, with all possible respect, sir, your devoted, obedient, very humble servant, JAMES SEAGROVE, Agent Indian Affairs. Copj/ of a letter from the Governor of Georgia to James Seagrove. State House, Augusta, 12//t May, 1794. Sir: Enclosed you will receive a letter from Captain Freeman, which will, I presume, inform you of the unpleasant situation we are likely to be placed in, with the Indians. This unfortunate event has, in all probability, taken place in consequence of the depredations committed on us, whilst you was in Augusta; and which, there is too much reason to apprehend, was committed by the Creeks, as it appears, by a,letter from Captain Roberts, that a small party, from the Usechees, had set off to steal horses on our frontiers, and that the Half-way house had determined for war. Such is the situation of affairs, that it is difficult to know what is best to be done; however, 1 should suppose it . would be most advisable for you to endeavor.to know what will be the determination of the Indians, before you go on to Congress; and, from the circumstance of no lives being lost, 1 am hopeful some means may be adapted to prevent the peaceable part of the nation from being engaged in a war, which, I think, there is too much reason to tear, is inevitable. I am, sir, with respect, your obedient humble servant. GEORGE MATHEWS. James Seagrove, Esq. Agent Indian Affairs. Savannah. Copy of a letter from James Seagrove, Esq. to his Excellency the Governor qf Georgia. Savannah,16th May, 1794. Sir: I received last evening the letter you did me the honor to write, of the 12th instant; it is impossible to express to your Excellency the mortification I feel, at the intelligence conveyed by it. After having submitted, for six months past, to live among the Indians, subject to every possible inconvenience, and exposed every moment to danger of being destroyed, for the purpose of establishing peace, to see the fruit of my labors destroyed in a moment. by the rash and lawless conduct of individuals, at a time when an entire good understanding was established, and in a manner which promised to be permanent, fills my mind with the deepest regret. The Indians, on whom this attack has been made, were of tribes who have been the uniform friends of the white people, and it was done when the chiefs were under sanction of the United States and this State, giving your Excellency sincere proofs of their good disposition, by delivering the prisoners in their possession; and they were preparing, also, to deliver the property taken, since the conference at Colerain, as I hail the honor of stating to your Excellency when I was at Augusta. The manner and circumstance attending this unfortunate affair, must convince your Excellency, as well as every other unprejudiced mind, that it is the result of a preinediated combination, among a number of individuals, to force the Indians to war, contrary to their ardent wishes for peace, and in .violation of the laws of the United States and this State. The persons who have committed these outrages are officers in authority in the militia, and some of whom have been guilty of similar acts not long since. What good purpose can it answer for the public agents to make compacts, or enter into explanations, and labor to avert the mischiefs of war, when the militia officers embody their men at pleasure, and attack and destroy even those who are under the immediate sanction and protection of your Excellency? This attack has been so wanton and unprovoked, that it would be r ain to propose any terms of accommodation, unless the persons who made it are punished. Your Excellency, who is the depositary of the public force, to execute the laws, can best judge how far that is right and practicable; but, unless something of that kind previously takes place. I am so certain the Indians would not listen to any overtures of accommodation, that I shall not propose any. I have done my duty. Peace was completely restored, and in a way that appeared to satisfy your Excellency that the Indians meant candidly to observe the terms of it. It now remains with the Government of Georgia to punish those of its citizens who have thus wantonly violated it on their part, or to prepare for a war with the whole Creek nation, the mischiefs of which are not so easily calculated. The contest is between this Government and its citizens. If the latter cannot be restrained, the Indians have no alternative—they must defend themselves; if they are restrained, and the present aggressors punished, according to law, your Excellency then might certainly count on the continuance of peace; but. 1 confess, I think not otherwise. Should any opportunity offer of doing any thing, tending to a peace, I shall seize it with zeal. I cannot yet believe that it was Creeks who stole the horses from Franklin county, on the 1st instant; but, allowing it was. it could not justify Major Adams’ attack, with one hundred and fifty mounted militia, on the friendly Indians, encamped opposite fort Fidius. on the 10th instant, or that of another party, of ten horsemen, the pieced   ing day, on the camp of the Dog king of the Cussetahs, who the militia shot through the body. My fears for the safety of the six chiefs who \ isited your Excellency, and whom you sent, under care of General Glascock, for fort Fidius, is great, as I have information that their destruction w'as contemplated by parties of men from the upper counties of this State, and that the General, being apprehensive of danger to those people, had altered his route. Should any injury be done these chiefs, all hope of peace with the Creeks will be at an end. Some unexpected public business calls me to St. Mary’s, previous to my going to Philadelphia. I expect, however, to sail for the latter place in ten days from this time, and shall be happy to hear from you before then. Id Congress.] 
