No. 88. [1st Session. PROTECTION OF THE FRONTIERS. COMMUNICATED TO Til e HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, APRIL 22, 1800. Mr. Claiborne, from the committee appointed to “ inquire into the operation of the acts making provision for the establishment of trading houses with the Indian tribes, and into the expediency of reviving and continuing the said acts in force,” reported: That tlie authority to maintain trading houses with the Indians expired with the last session of Congress; that, to judge of the propriety of extending this trade, the committee have asked for information from the Secretaries of \Y ar and of the Treasury, and have received the communications herewith reported: That, under these acts, two trading houses have been established, one on the frontiers of Georgia, the other o.; the frontiers of Tennessee; that they have no information of the usefulness of these establishments, but what is curtained in a letter from the Secretary of War, accompanying this report; that, from the irregularity of the factors in accounting (for it seems that so much of the law, which required that the agent employed at each trading post, shall make up his accounts half yearly, and transmit them to the Secretary of the Treasury, has not been attended to) the committee find it impossible to determine, with certainty, bow far the scheme is practicable, without a diminution of capital, and what the ratio of diminution will be; but that the paper marked F, and herewith reported, being a summary statement of the Indian trade, from the establishment, to the ninth ol’ January, one thousand eight, hundred. will shew the amount of money advanced, and tlie remittances received; and also, the probability that thw capital in trade will be greatly diminished, if not entirely sunk, in a very short time. The committee, however, deem it expedient, that power should be given to employ tlie capital already embarked, for a limited time; but that it should not be enlarged by further draughts from the Treasury, until the establishment is better understood in its several relations; and therefore recommend to the House tlie following resolution: Resolved, That the act, entitled “An act for establishing trading houses with the Indian tribes,” ought to be revived, anil continued in force for one year, and from thence, to the end of the next session of Congress, so as to authorize the further employment of the capital heretofore employed under tlie direction of that act. t i ~ / ■ .. I :■> ] -    j Otli Congress.] 
