NO. 211.	[1st SESSION. PROPOSITION TO EXTINGUISH INDIAN TITLE TO LANDS IN MISSOURI. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, MAY 14, 1824. Mr. BENTON, from the Committee on Indian Affairs, to whom was referred the President’s message, communicating the memorial of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, on the subject of Indians residing within that State, reported: That the following Indians now live within the limits of Missouri: 1. A remnant of Shawanees and Delawares, on the Mississippi river, above Cape Girardeau. 2. A remnant of Shawanees and Delawares, on the head of Currant river. 3. A remnant of Delawares, on the head waters of White river. 4. A remnant of Piankeshaws, on the head waters of Black river. 5. A remnant of Peorias, on the head waters of St. Francis river. 6. A remnant of Kickapoos, on the Osage river. 7. A part of the Osages, on the Osage river. That these remnants and parts of tribes are scattered across the State, from the Mississippi to its western boundary, occupying small districts of country, and surrounded or pressed upon by the white population. The committee believe that such a position must be the effect of accident or inadvertence; and that it is pregnant with evil both tu the Indians themselves, and to the people of the State of Missouri. The experience of centuries has shown that Indian tribes, placed in small masses, in the midst of a white population, are constantly exposed to the influence of causes which operate to the degradation of their character, and to the diminution of their numbers. The contact of two races of people, differing in language and character, and each retaining a recollection of former wars and massacres, gives rise to collisions, both of persons and property, in which the weaker party are most usually the sufferers, both in the first wrong, and in the final punishment. To the State itself, the existence of separate communities within its bosom, and independent of its laws, is a palpable evil, an anomaly in government, and a direct inconsistency with the policy and jurisdiction of a sovereign State. The committee believe that the Federal Government has adopted a system of policy to be observed towards the Indian tribes, the object of which is to perpetuate their existence, and to ameliorate their condition, by gradually turning them from the hunter to the farming state. Approving this humane policy, the committee recommend its application to the remnants and parts of tribes now residing within the State of Missouri. They believe that these Indians are in a fit and proper state to admit of a fair experiment to change their habits. They have all acquired some knowledge of agriculture and of the useful arts. They cultivate corn and vegetables in the spring and summer, and hunt during the autumn and winter. They possess and appreciate the value of the common domestic animals, horses, hogs, cattle, &c. They are the remnants of Once powerful nations. Their names are known to American history. They have retired before the wave of American population, and they are now again overtaken by it, and threatened to be swallowed up in it. The committee would present them as eminently fit subjects for the exercise of that generous policy which has been announced. But, to exercise it with any chance of success, they believe it to be indispensably requisite, first, to relieve them from the pressure and contact of a surrounding white population; and, secondly, to exchange their temporary residence, within the limits of the State of Missouri, to a fixed and permanent home beyond its boundaries. To accomplish these two objects, it will be necessary, first, to acquire a suitable tract of country, which can be assigned to them in perpetuity; and, secondly, to obtain their consent to go to it. It is believed that there will be no difficulty in accomplishing either of these objects. The country immediately west of the State of Missouri and the Territory of Arkansas, to the extent of several hundred thousand square miles, is owned by the Osages and Kanzas. Their ownership is merely nominal. They occupy no more than four ur five points, where their villages are situated; all the rest is idle, or only used for hunting; for which purpose, it is becoming daily less valuable with the daily decrease of game. The acquisition of a part of this ground lor the specific purpose of being assigned to other friendly Indians, it is believed, would not be a difficult task. A tract binding on the western boundary of Missouri and Arkansas, stretching from the Red river to the Missouri, with a breadth of say one or two hundred miles, might be divided into portions suited to the numbers in each tribe, and a portion assigned to each. The Kanzas and Osages would, of course, retain a division suitable to themselves. The consent of the Indians in Missouri to go to these new homes can hardly be doubted. They are fully sensible of the disadvantages of their present position. They have suffered too much from the contact and pressure of a white population not to know its effect. They are too few in number to oppose any resistance to the moral and physical causes which must operate to their degradation, and to the further diminution of their numbers. They must know that their present position is temporary; that an effort to remove them is incessantly made; that the power of the State is against them; and that, sooner or later, they must go. Under these circumstances, they cannot be insensible to the advantages ofchanging, at once, an inconvenient and temporary residence, for a fixed and permanent home; nor can they fail to feel new inducements to cultivate the ground, to build houses, and to plant orchards, when they know that their posterity is to succeed to their possessions. The committee believe it to be a further recommendation to the adoption of this plan, that thereby permanent homes may be acquired, not only for the Indians in Missouri, but for those also who are now in the Territory of Arkansas, and to as many others as may be induced to emigrate from the east side of the Mississippi. The tract of country proposed to be acquired is	miles in length, upon a depth of one or two hundred. It would form com modious settlements for all the Indians, wherever situated, whose present position is inconvenient to themselves and to the whites. The tracts assigned, and the back country towards the. Rocky Mountains, would afford, for some years, game to the hunter. At their villages, the ground would be cultivated: the two pursuits of farming and hunting would be combined. As game disappears, the benefit of supplies from the earth and from domestic animals would be more sensibly felt; and the experience of domestic comforts and regular supplies, if any thing, would attach them to the soil, and work a permanent change in their mode of life. At all events, the day of their final extinction would be deferred, and humanity would have the consolation of an effort to avert their fate. With these views, the committee report a bill, &c. 18th CONGRESS.]	
