No. 132. [1st Session. NORTHWESTERN FRONTIER. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 27, 1811. At an assembly of certain citizens and inhabitants of the territory of Michigan, held on Sunday, the eighth day of December, one thousand eight hundred and eleven, in consequence of receiving information, on the preceding night, of the battle on the Wabash, of the seventh of November, one thousand eight hundred and eleven, Solomon Sibley was elected chairman, Augustus B. Woodward, Secretary. The Gazette of Pittsburg, entitled the Commonwealth, of the twenty-fifth of November, being 'first publicly read in the English language, and afterwards translated into the French language, by sentences. Resolved, unanimously, That it is necessary and expedient to adopt some immediate measures for the protection and defence of these settlements. Resolved, unanimously, 'That it is indispensably necessary to organize and maintain a nocturnal guard in the city of Detroit, without intermission, for thirty days from this date, at least, and as much longer as shall appear to be requisite, from further information which may be received. Resolved. That it is expedient, by the most prompt and practicable means, to obtain information of the dangers impending over these settlements. Resolved, That it is expedient and necessary to appoint a committee of public safety. Ordered, That the said committee be composed of five persons. Ordered, That they be selected by thirteen persons, to be immediately named by the meeting, to retire into a separate apartment, and to consider of, and report the committee, by whose election the committee will abide. Thirteen persons were immediately appointed, who retired into a separate apartment, and, after some time, returned, and reported the following persons as the committee of public Safety: Solomon Sibley, Augustus B. Woodward, James Witherill, George M’Dougall, Daniel Baker. Resolved, That the committee of public safety he empowered and instructed to collect all the pecuniary and physical means of defence, which may be afforded them by the General or the civil Government, or private patriotism, and apply the same, the most effectually, in aid of the temporary protection of the country during this impending danger, and that, as citizens, we will firmly support them, in all honorable means of effecting the above object, at the risk of our lives and properties. And then the assembly adjourned, until called together by the committee of public safety. Attest, SOL. SIBLEY, Chairman. A. B. Woodward, Secretary. At a meeting of citizens, called by the committee of public safety, to consider of a memorial to Congress, held on the tenth day of December, one thousand eight hundred and eleven, the following memorial was unanimously agreed upon, and ordered to be immediately transmitted, and that it he signed by the committee in behalf of the meeting. James Witherill and Daniel Baker having declined acting, Harris Hampden Hickman, and Richard Smyth, were elected to supply the vacancies. Attest, ■ SOL. SIBLEY, Chairman. A. B. Woodward, Secretary. To the President, Senate, and House of Representatives, of the United States of .America, The memorial of the undersigned, in behalf of the citizens and inhabitants of the territory of Michigan, assembled on the eight and tenth days of December, one thousand eight hundred and eleven, respectfully represents, and submits the matters following: Dissatisfactions with the aboriginal inhabitants of these countries have been for some time engendering. They have at length been kindled into an open flame, and their blood, with that of the American citizen, has stained the plains of the Wabash: the first which has been spilt in the Northwestern country, under public authority, since the pacification of Greenville, of the third day of August, one thousand seven hundred ninety-five. We pray the God of peace, in his mercy, to grant that these disasters, so portentous to our country, may spread no farther: and that the forbearance and moderation of our Government, and. at the same time, its firmness, will prevent the conflagration from extending along the whole line of the frontier, from Kaskaskias to Detroit, through the Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan governments. We know, however, from too long and fatal experience, that the savage mind, once fully incensed, once diverted from the pursuit of their ordinary subsistence, once turned upon plunder, once inflamed by the loss of their kindred and friends, once gratified with the taste of blood, is difficult to appease, and as terrible as subtle in vengeance. The horrors of savage belligerence, description cannot paint. No picture can resemble the reality. No effort can bring the imagination up to the standard of the fact. Nor sex, nor age, have claims. The short remnant of life left to the hoary head, trembling with age and infirmities, is snatched away. The tenderest infant, j et imbibing nutrition from the mamilla of maternal love, and the agonized mother herself, alike wait the stroke of the relentless tomahawk. No vestige is left of what fire can consume. Nothing which breathes the breath of life is spared. The animals reared by the cares of civilized man are involved in his destruction. No human foresight can divine the quarter which shall be struck. It is in the dead of the night, in the darkness of the morn, in the howling of the storm, that the demoniac deed is done. The anxieties which crowd upon those of tender sex and years, upon our aged and infirm, and the throb of sensibility which communicates itself from them to those of hardier ages and habits, compel us to approach the fathers of our country, to expose to them the dangers and weakness of this colonial establishment, and to demand the protection of their parental arm. While our representation is on its wing, and ere our wishes, or your intentions, or the extent of the danger, are capable, at this distant separation, of becoming known, we shall be true to ourselves, and true to you; and all that precaution, united with resolution, can effect, we shall endeavor to accomplish. But we confidently trust that inaction or hesitation may prevail no longer: and that effective measures, demanded no less by the solid and permanent interest of the United States, than by our local exposure, will not be delayed. The first impression, which is necessary to be distinctly made, oivthe minds of those to whom the destinies of the republic are confided, is that of our comparative strength, our comparative weakness. To those whose duty or whose wish it may be to possess themselves of information, at once the most accurate, and the most minute, with respect to the topographical and statistical relations of this territory, we give a reference, on the one hand, to the surveys of the whole of'the settled parts of this country, recently taken, and which are of record in the treasury department: and, on the other, to the enumerations of the inhabitants, which have just been completed, and are of record in the Department of State. To generalize this information, and to present it plain and naked to the mind, we will condense the results in few words. In the territory of Michigan, there are nine principal settlements: 1. The River Miami. 6. The River Detroit. 2. The River Raisin. 7. The River Huron of Lake St. Clair. 3. The River Huron of Lake Erie. 8. The River Sinclair. 4. The River Ecorce. 9. The Island of Michilimackinac. 5. The River Rouge. 10. Sundry detached settlements. From the first to the second, in the order they are enumerated, the distance is thirty-two miles. From the second to the sixth, thirty-six miles. From the sixth to the seventh, forty miles. From the seventh to the eighth, thirty-five miles. From thceigth to the ninth, two hundred miles. The total, from one extreme to the other, three hundred forty-three miles. In the three first, the whole population is one thousand three hundred forty souls. The males above sixteen, three hundred ninety-one. In the four next, the whole population is two thousand two hundred and twenty-seven: males, as before, five hundred ninety-nine. In the two last, the whole population is one thousand seventy souls; males, as before, five hundred three. In this territory are two garrisons; one in Detroit, one at Michilimackinac. The first has ninety-four men, the second seventy-nine. Of the whole population, four-fifths are French, the remainder American, with a small portion of British. The whole population of the territory of Michigan, including French. Americans, and British; settlers and troops; whites and persons of color; is four thousand seven hundred sixty two. In other frontier countries, the frontier is on one side. It is also on the extremity. The settlements thicken as you recede from the circumferential establishments. In the peculiar manner in which this territory is settled, two striking particularities are to be observed. First, the whole territory is a double frontier. The British are on one side. The savages on the other. Second, every individual house is a frontier. No one farm is covered by another farm in the rear of it. It may therefore be at once conceived, what would be the situation of the people of the territory of Michigan, in a case of determined hostility against them, by the savages. The inhabitants are so dispersed, that, to assemble one hundred men. upon any one spot, on a sudden nocturnal notice, is physically impossible; and how are even the one hundred to be induced, in the hour of danger, to relinquish the last pleasure this world can present them, that of dying along with their innocent and helpless families, and to abandon them to certain destruction, under tire, perhaps, visionary hone of any where embodj mg in force adequate to meet an enemy! that shall reduce into concert the exertions of two uistinct people, unacquainted with the languages of each other? and who have reason to be divided in the degree of their fear? Is there again a refuge for the helpless in flight? On the south, the savages intercept them from their brethren of'the States. On the west, on the north, they perfectly surround them. Shall they then lift an eye to the east, throw themselves on the mercy of the British, and will they, or can they, there, find mercy? Will reason sanction the idea; or have past events authorized the hone? And what, lastly, is to be expected from the military? They can and will, defend themselves; but they will not march out of the walls of their garrison. They have not even men enough to man their works. Viewing the situation of the country in this light, which is no other than literal truth, the essential inquiry which remains k. what is requisite to be done? Perhaps you will think it right that we on the spot should speak out our minds. We do so then; and trust our sentiments will be approved. First: An increase of the military force is necessary, sufficient to man the works, and afford a body to march out. in aid of the militia; a part cavalry. _ Second: Additional garrisons are necessary on other points of the Northwestern frontier. To present this subject in a view.more systematic, more direct, than by generally referring to it, we suggest three points for new garrisons, calculated, as we conceive, to protect the whole of the present frontier on the north. First: A garrison at the intersection of a meridian line from the mouth of the grand an Glaize river with a line of latitude drawn from the head of the river Sinclair, or, which is the same thing, the embouchure or outlet of lake Huron, being the most northern and western points to which the native title is lawfully extinguished, according to the first article of the treaty of Detroit, of the seventeenth day of November, one thousand eight hundred and seven. We arc decided in our sentiment that this garrison ought not to be on the course of the navigation along the great waters, but in the interior of the peninsula. Formerly, the points on the navigation were the most important. 'Fhere was trade and commercial intercourse : no agriculture. Times have altered. At present, the little commerce which remains is sufficiently safe. It is agricultural protection which is wanted. Without this garrison, you can neither run the lines of the treaty which has been last referred to, nor survey the lands acquired under it; nor sell them when surveyed; nor settle them when sold. Second : A garrison at the mouth of the Wisconsin river, according to the eleventh article of the treaty of St. Louis, of the third day of November, one thousand eight hundred and four; being the most northern and western point to which the native title is lawfully extinguished in that quarter. 99 * Third: A garrison in the same latitude as the mouth ofthe Wisconsin river, on the river Missouri, as soon as legitimate means may be used. 'If peace prevails elsewhere on the frontier, notwithstanding the battle on the Wabash, the increase of the military force, before mentioned, and the establishment of the subsequent garrisons, will, as we conceive, give us protection; and, in that happy event, if we have aught to reproach ourselves with; if we have pressed too hard upon a fugitive people; if we have imposed on one that is ignorant; if, approaching the meridian of our strength, we are becoming indifferent to the happiness, to the rights of an unfortunate race of mankind, who, notwithstanding any temporary injuries they may be capable of inflicting, are destined to melt away before the irresistible advances of an empire, of whose magnitude, of whose stability, they can have no conception; if we have relinquished the feelings of their “Father''’ before they deprive us of the title, let us not refuse our admiration to the spirit which prompts man to defend his home, his country, to the last hour; let us seasonably retrace our steps; let us hasten to recall sentiments of humanity; let us hasten to render them justice! If, on the contrary, pacific exertions have failed, and war and contest prevail, of which your information, notwithstanding our proximity, will be more prompt and authentic than ours: if, at the moment that our dangers and our feelings are announcing, in your halls, the warm blood of life is yet smoking on your frontier; we know of no reliance, iii addition to our own exertions, and the military force to which we have adverted, but detachments of militia from the States of Ohio, Kentucky, New York, and Pennsylvania. We need not urge the importance of our country to you. Your interest, your honor, compel you to keep it; and its intermediate protection is, on one side, a right, on the other a duty. Prompt effective defence is wisdom. The country once lost, who shall count the lives or the treasures you must expend to regain it? All which is humbly and respectfully submitted. SOL. SIBLEY, AUGUSTUS B. WOODWARD, GEO. M’DOUGALL, HARRIS H. HICKMAN. RICHARD SMYTH. 13th Congress.] 
