No. 62. [2d Session. THE CHEROKEES AND CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, ON THE 17TI1 OF FEBRUARY, 1795. Gentlemen of the Senate- arid of the House of Representatives: I have received copies of two acts of the Legislature of Georgia, one passed on the twenty-eighth day of December, and the other on the seventh day of January last, for appropriating and selling the Indian lands within the territorial limits claimed by that State. These copies, though not officially certified, have been transmitted to me in such a manner as to leave no room to doubt their authenticity. These acts embrace an object of such magni -tude and in their consequences may so deeply affect the peace and welfare of the United States, that I have thought it necessary now to lay them before Congress. In confidence, I also forward copies of several documents and papers received from the Governor of the Southwestern territory. By these, it seems, that hostilities with the Cherokees have ceased, and that there is a pleasing prospect of a permanent peace with that nation. But, from all the communications of the Governor, it appears that the Creeks,'in small parties, continue their depredations; and it is uncertain to what they may finally lead. The several papers now communicated, deserve the immediate attention of Congress, who will consider how far the subjects of them may require their co-operation. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, February 17th, 1795. An Act for appropriating a part of the unlocated territory of this State for payment of the late State troops, and for other purposes therein mentioned. Be it, enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Georgia in General Assembly met and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, That, on the expiration of two months after the Indian claim shall he extinguished to the territory hereinafter described, it shall be lawful for any person or persons to obtain a warrant of survey from his Excellency the Governor, for the time being, under the regulations and restrictions hereinafter mentioned, that is to say: There shall be a commissioner of locations, appointed by the Legislature, in each county within this State, whose duty it shall be to keep a fair book of entries, in the form to be prescribed by the Secretary of the State and the Surveyor General, and to receive applications for warrants in terms of this act; but, previously to making any entry therein, such commissioner of locations shall require a certificate of two or more freeholders, together with the oath or affirmation of the person applying, taken before him in writing, setting forth the number anti description of his family entitled to head rights, and that they do intend to settle the lands applied for, agreeably to the tenor of this act. which oath, or affirmation, the said commissioners are severally authorized and required to administer, a copy of which entry, together with the certificate and affidavit aforesaid, shall be transmitted, under the hand and seal of such commissioner, to his Excellency the Governor, who shall thereupon issue his warrant to the person making the entry, as aforesaid, or to his, her, or their legal representatives, under a proper check, directed to all and singular the surveyors to be appointed under this act. And the said commissioners of location shall be, and they are hereby, entitled to demand and receive of the persons applying for and obtaining entries, as aforesaid, the sum of half a dollar for every entry so made by him. And such commissioners, of locations shall, before they enter upon the duties of their office, be respectively sworn, before one or more of the justices of the inferior court of the county in which they shall reside, and enter into bond, with sufficient security, in the sum of one thousand pounds, each, payable to Ins Excellency the Governor, and his successor, for the due and faithful performance of tne duties required of them by this act, which bonds shall be taken by the clerks of the inferior courts of the several counties, and be by them transmitted to the Executive. And his Excellency the Governor shall be entitled to receive, on every warrant issued by him, the sum of half a dollar, and his secretaries half a dollar, and all grants issued in pursuance of this act shall be free from State fees. And be it further enacted, Thatall such warrants may be located to any part or parcel of land south of the Oconee, and within the boundary line described in and by an act, passed and dated at Augusta, on the thirty-first of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven, entitled “ An act for suppressing the violences of the Indians.And, after such warrant is obtained, it shall be the duty of either of the surveyors of the districts, hereinafter mentioned, or their deputies, to survey the same, in the order in which such warrants may be delivered to them, and in the manner following, viz: The said surveyors shall make two fair plats of all surveys made by them, the scale whereof to be inserted in such plats, anti shall plainly and distinctly designate thereon the beginning, angles, distances, marks, and water courses, and other remarkable places crossed or touched, or near to the lines of such lands, and also the quantity of acres, and shall transmit such plats to the surveyor general's office, together with the warrant or order of survey, one of which, with the warrant, shall be filed by the surveyor general, and the other annexed to the grant. And no survey shall be made without chain carriers, who shall actually measure the land surveyed, and shall be paid by the party, for whom the survey shall be made? and such chain carriers shall be first sworn to measure justly and truly, and to deliver a true account thereof to the surveyor, which oath every surveyor is hereby empowered and required to administer. And every survey shall be bounded by natural boundaries, or right lines, and shall be an exact square, unless where such lines interfere with lands already granted or surveyetll or unless where the survey shall be made on any river, or water course, above the width of fifty feet: in which last case the water shall form one side of the survey, and the breadth on such water shall not be more than one-half of the distance back from the water; and the lines of every survey shall be distinctly and plainly marked, leaving no part thereof open, and there shall be one or more station trees plainly marked with a blaze and three chops, in every line, except where it is rendered impracticable by swamps or water courses: Provided, nevertheless, That nothing herein contained shall be construed to extend to prevent any person from obtaining a survey of any island or islands in the navigable waters, the quantity of which shall not exceed what is allowed by this act to be contained in one survey: Provided, also. That no person or persons shall be allowed to obtain a warrant for more than three hundred acres for his, her, or their head right, and fifty acres for his wife, and fifty acres for every freeborn chiltThe or they may have, under the age of sixteen years; and all unmarried persons, from that age and upwards, shall be entitled to a warrant of three hundred acres: And. provided, also. Any person or persons obtaining such warrant, and making such survey, the surveyor making the same, shall, within two months thereafter, advertise the same, in two or more public places adjoining such district, as also in one of the gazettes, in the town of Augusta, at least three months before the same shall be sent to the surveyor general's office, in order to obtain a grant. And be it further enacted, That the officers and soldiers of the late State troops, and their representatives, shall be, and they are hereby, entitled to receive a warrant from his Excellency the Governor, in like manner with the citizens aforesaid, on producing the genuine original bounty warrant, issued under, and by virtue of, the aforesaid act, for such quantity as is therein expressed; auu the said surveyors, to be appointed as aforesaid, shall not locate or survey any lands in the said districts, under any other warrant or warrants whatever, than those issued agreeably to the directions of this act. And be it further enacted, That every person or persons making such survey or surveys, shall, within twelve months, settle in said district, and cultivate at least one acre for every hundred acres he may so locate, and that no one person shall obtain a warrant, in his own name, for any larger quantity than is herein before specified.'And be it further enacted, That, for the encouragement of persons desirous of settling on the said lands, and to extend the limits and increase the population of this State, the said district or country snail be exempt from taxes, for the space of four years, from and after this act shall take effect; and no person or persons shall be bound to pay for such land, more than the usual and customary office fees. And be it further enacted, That the surveyors to be appointed by this act, for the faithful performance of their duty, shall, each and every of them, give bond and sufficient security to his Excellency the Governor, for the time being, in the sum of three thousand pounds, and shall take and subscribe the oath usually administered to surveyors. Any person or persons, or surveyor, who shall presume to survey land in the said district, not duly authorized,.each and every such person or persons shall, for every survey made, forfeit and pay the sum of ten shillings for every acre so surveyed, one-half to the informer, and the other half to and for the use and benefit of this State, which sum shall be prosecuted for by the department of the Attorney General, on the information of any person, and all such surveys shall be, and they are hereby declared to be, null and void. . And whereas many persons have surveyed lands contrary to the laws and welfare of this State, Be it enuccted. That all such survey, or surveys, and the grants founded thereon, be, and the same, and each and every of them, are hereby declared tube, null and void. And be it further enacted. That the sum of twenty thousand dollars be, and the same is hereby, appropriated for the purpose of extinguishing the Indian claims to such territory (should any there be;) and the Senators and Representatives of this State, in the Congress of the United States, are required to apply, without loss of time, for a treaty to be held with such tribes or nations of Indians who may claim the right of soil to such lands, and this law ^ shall begiu to operate within two months after the extinguishment of such claim or claims. And be it further enacted, That three commissioners be appointed to attend any treaty to be held under the authority of the United States, for the purpose of extinguishing tlie Indian claims to tne territory aforesaid, wffio shall be entitled to receive six dollars per (lay each, as a compensation for their services, and they shall be allowed a secretary, who shall receive three dollars per day for his services. And whereas the Indian claims to that tract of country called and known by Tallassee, lying between the rivers Altamaha and St. Mary’s, w ere extinguished by commissioners appointed by the Legislature ot this State, in October, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, by treaty: Be it therefore enacted, That all that tract of country known by the name of Tallassee, be, and the same is hereby, annexed and set apart, lor location, in the same manner, and under the same rules and regulations, as lands described in this act, any law' to the contrary notw ithstanding: Provided, That no location on the lands herein described shall take place until the assent of the General Government shall be first obtained. And be it further enacted, That the territory lying between the rivers Oconee, the branch thereof called the Apalachy, and the Oakmulgee, shall be laid off' into five districts, in the following manner, viz: All that part from the confluence of the Oconee and Oakmulgee l ivers, up to a line to be run directly from Carr’s bluff', on the Oconee, to the place where the Cussetah path crosses the Oakmulgee river, shall form the first district: All that part lying between the said line, and a parallel line to be run directly from the mouth of Shoulderbone to the Oakmulgee river, shall form the second district: All that part lying between the said last mentioned line, and a parallel line to be run from the mouth of Jack’s creek, on the Apalachy river, to where the same shall intersect the northernmost, or the main, branch of the Oakmulgee river, shall form the third district: All that part lying between the north and south branches of the Oakmulgee river, that is to say, from the fork, thereof, up the said northern or main branch of the said Oakmulgee, to the place where the Bloody-trail crosses the same, thence a due west course to the Chatahouchee river, thence down the said river to a point on the same, from which a due east line shall strike the head or source of the main southernmost branch of the said Oakmulgee, thence down the same to the place of beginning, shall form the fourth district: And all the remaining part of the said territory shall form the fifth district. And be it further enacted. That all the district of territory called Tallassee, shall form one other district; and that a surveyor shall be appointed by the Legislature for each and every of the districts abovementioned, who shall give bond and approved security to his Excellency the Governor, in the sum of three thousand pounds each, for the faithful and impartial performance of their duty, agreeably to the principles of this act; and no surveyor shall be at liberty to employ any person as a deputy, in either of the said districts, until he shall have passed the examination of the surveyor general, and be approved by the Governor; nor shall any surveyor retain in his service more than two deputies, and each surveyor shall be responsible for the conduct of his deputies. And be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of the surveyors, to be appointed under this act, to ascertain the quantity of land contained in their respective districts, as nearly as may be; to make a fair plan or plat thereof, marking the several water courses and remarkable places contained therein, and to return the same to tne surveyor general’s office, which shall be there entered of record, before any survey shall be made for any person or persons whatever. . And be it further enacted. That his Excellency the Governor shall, previously to his issuing any warrant of survey to the citizens of this State, or any other person whatsoever, cause three thousand acres of land to be laid off' on the south side of the Altamaha river, on the bluff' lying nearest to the confluence of the Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers; two thousand acres on the south side of the Oconee river, on the most advantageous bluff', near the Rock Landing; together with one thousand acres, in addition to the foregoing, in each of the districts contemplated by this act, in "the most advantageous parts of the said districts, for public uses; and the plats of such surveys shall be recorded in the surveyor general's office, and from thence forward shall be completely held and vested in his Excellency the Governor, for the time being, in trust to and for the use of the public. THOMAS NAPIER, Speaker of the House of Representatives. BENJAMIN TALIAFERRO, President of the Senate. Concurred: December ‘2Sth, l*9t. GEORGE MATHEW S, Governor. An Act supplementary to an act, entitled “ An act for appropriating a part of the unlucated territory of this State, for the payment of the late State troops, and for other purposes therein mentioned," declaring the right of this State to the unappropriated territory thereof, for the protection and support of the frontiers of this State, and for other purposes. Whereas, in and by the articles of confederation, entered into and finally ratified, on the first day of March, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-one, by the then thirteen United States of America, the territory within the limits of each of the said States is, to each of them, respectively, confirmed and guarantied, first, by the second article, to wit: “ Each State retains its sovereignty, freedom, and independence, and every power, jurisdiction, and right, which is not. by the confederation, expressly delegated to the United States in Congress assembled;’’ and, secondly, by the last clause, in the second section, of the ninth article: “ No State shall be deprived of territory, for the benefit of the United States:’’ ^ And whereas, in and by the Definitive Treaty of Peace, signed at Paris, on the third day of September, one thou -sand seven hundred and eighty-three, the boundaries of the United States are established, and those boundaries which limit the westwardly and south westward ly parts of this State, are, therein, thus defined: “ Along the middle of the river Mississippi, until it shall intersect the northernmost part of the thirty-first degree of north latitude; south, by a line drawn due east, from the termination of the line last mentioned, in the latitude of thirty-one degrees north of the equator, to the middle of the river Apalachicola, or Chatahoochee; thence, along the middle thereof, to its junction with the Flint river; thence straight to the head of St Maiy’s river; and thence down along the mid- die of St. Mary’s river, to tire Atlantic ocean;” which boundaries coincide with the southwardly and westwardly boundaries recited in the land act now in force, passed at Savannah, on the seventeenth day of September, one thousand seven bundled and eighty-three: And by the convention held at Beaufort, on the twenty-eighth day of April, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven, between this State and the State of South Carolina, the northern boundary of the State is established, ” from the mouth of the river Savannah, up the said river, to the confluence of Tugelo and Keowee; thence up the Tugelo, and from the source thereof, a due west line to the Mississippi, including islands:” And whereas, in and by the first clause of the sixth article of the federal constitution of the United States of America, all engagements entered into before the adoption of the said constitution, shall be as valid against the United States, under the said constitution, as under the confederation; by the. third clause of the ninth section of the first article of the said constitution, “ no ex post facto law shall be passed;” and, by the second clause of the third section of the fourth article, “ the Congress shall have power to dispose of, and make all needful rules and regulations respecting, the territory, or other property, belonging to the United States, and nothing in this constitution shall be so construed as to prejudice any claims of the United States, or of any particular State:” And whereas the cession made by the State of North Carolina, to the United States, by them accepted on the second day of April, one thousand seven hundred and ninety, is a full acknowledgment and recogniz.al, on their part, that the several States not only have the right of pre-emption, but are in the full exercise of all territorial right within their respective limits: And whereas, notwithstanding the United States did, on the twenty-second day of July, one thousand seven hundred and ninety, by an act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, enact and declare, " That no sale of lands made by Indians, or any tribe or nation of Indians, within the United States, shall be valid to any person or persons, or to any State, whether having the right of pre-emption to such lands or not, unless the same shall be made and duly executed at some public treaty, held under the authority of the United States:” and did, on the seventh day of August, one thousand seven hundred and ninety, by a treaty held at New York, with certain Creek Indians, stipulate, by The fourth article of the said treaty, that the boundary between the citizens of the United States and the Creek nation is, and shall be, “ from where the old line strikes the Savannah; thence, up the said river, to a place on the most northern branch of the same, commonly called the Keowee, where a northeast line, to be drawn from the top of the Ocunna mountain, shall intersect; thence along the saitl line in a southwest direction, to the Tugelo river; thence to the top of the Currahee mountain; thence to the head or source of the main south branch of Oconee river, called the Apalachy river; thence down the middle of the main south branch and river Oconee, to its confluence with the Oakmulgee, which form the river Altamaha; and thence down the middle of the said Altamaha, to the old line on the said l iver; and thence along the said line to the river St. Mary’s;” and, by the fifth article. “ That the United States solemnly guaranty to the Creek nation, all their lands within the limits of the United States, to the westward and southward of the boundary described in the preceding article:” And, finally, whereas the State of Georgia aforesaid, hath, by no act, or in any manner- whatever, transferred, alienated, or conveyed, her right of soil or pre-emption, in any part of the vacant territory within the limits of the said .State, to the United States, the cession dated the first day of February, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-eight, offered by the State of Georgia to the United States, having been, by the said United States in Congress assembled, on the fifteenth day of July, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-eight,' rejected, in which rejection territorial rights are declared to rest on the spirit and meaning of the confederation: And whereas the saitl proposed cession became void, and, on the part of this State, is hereby declared to be null and void to all intents, purposes, and constructions: Sec. 1. Be it therefore enacted by the Senate and Jiepresmtatives of the Freemen of the State of Georgia in General Assembly met and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same. That the State of Georgia aforesaid, is in full possession, and in the full exercise of the jurisdiction and territorial right, and the fee simple thereof; and, that the right of pre-emption to vacant and unappropriated lands lying westwardly and southwestwaidly of the present Indian temporary line, and within the limits of the said State, and the fee simple thereof, together with the right of disposing thereof, is, and are hereby declared to be, in (lie State of Georgia only. Sec. 2. And for the purpose of raising a fund for carrying this act fully into effect: Be it enacted, That all that tract or parcel of land, including islands, situate, lying, and being, within the following boundaries, that is to say: Beginning on the Mobile bay, where the latitude thirty-one degrees north of.the equator intersects the same, running thence, up the said bay. to the mouth of lake Tensaw; thence, up the said lake Tensaw, to the Alabama river, including Currey’s and all other islands therein; thence, up the saitl river Alabama, to the junction of the Coosa and Oakfuskee rivers; thence up the Coosa river, above the Big Shoals, to where it intersects the latitude of thirty-four degrees north of the equator: thence, a clue west course to the Mississippi river; thence, down the middle of the said river, to the latitude of thirty-two degrees, forty minutes: thence, a due east course to the Don orTombigby river; thence, down the middle of the said river, to its junction with the Alabama river; thence, down the middle of the said l iver, to the Mobile bay; thence, down the said Mobile bay, to the place of beginning, shall be sold unto James Gunn. Matthew M‘Allister, and George Walker, and their associates, called the Georgia Company, anil their heirs and assigns, forever, in fee simple, as tenants in common, and not as joint tenants, for the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, to be paid in specie, bank bills of the United States, and warrants for the years one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-four, and one thousand seven hundred and ninety-five, drawn by the Governor, the President of the Senate, and Speaker of the House of Representatives, in the lol lowing manner, that is to say: fifty thousand dollars to be deposited in the treasury previous to the passing of this act, and the remaining two hundred thousand dollars to be paid on or before the first day of November next. Site. 3. And be it further enacted, That whenever the said James Gunn, Matthew M'Allister, and George Walker, and their associates, or their agent or agents, shall produce to his Excellency the Governor, a receipt signed by the treasurer, that they have deposited the aforesaid sum of fifty thousand dollars, according to the tenor and effect of this act, it shall then be the duty of his Excellency the. Governor, anil he is hereby required, to issue and sign to the said James Gunn, Matthew M'Allister, and George Walker, and their associates, their heirs, and assigns, in fee simple, as tenant* in common, and not as joint tenants, a grant for the aforesaid tract of country, they securing the last payment of two hundred thousand dollars to the State, by a mortgage to his Excellency the Governor, and his successors in office, on the whole of the land so granted, which mortgage shall be immediately foreclosed in case default shall be made in the. payment of the said sum of two hundred thousand dollars, on or before the first day of November next, as aforesaid, in the superior court of any county within the State of Georgia, at the discretion of his Excellency the Governor, any law or usage regulating the mode of foreclosing mortgages, tolhe contrary notwithstanding, and the whole sum of fifty thousand dollars deposited, shall become forfeited to and for the use of the State; and the grant to be given to the. said James Gunn, Matthew M'Allister, and George Walker, and their associates, tube, and the same, in that case, is hereby declared to be. null and void. Sec. l. And be it further enacted. That the said Georgia Company shall reserve for, and to the use of. the citizens of Geor gia, exclusively, the quantity of one million of acres of their purchase, in the following manner, to wit: at the expiration of thr ee months, from and after the passing of this act, a subscription book shall be opened at the treasury ollice of this State, and be kept open for the term of four months thereafter, for the purpose of receiving subscriptions of the citizens for the said reserved lands: Provided, That no person, who shall otherwise become a member, or interested in either of the companies herein contemplated, shall be allowed to subscribe for any part of the said reserved land, and no person shall be permitted to subscribe for more than five thousand acres in Ins own name, or in the name of any other citizen, unless duly authorized and appointed by him for that purpose, under a warrant of attorney, executed in the presence of two or more witnesses, one of whom, at least, shall be a justice, appointed for holding the inferior court of the county, where die subscriber resides, which said power of attorney shall be lodged with the treasurer, as his voucher for entering such subscription: And provided also. That the citizens of the respective counties shall not, at any time w ithin three months, from and after the opening of the book of subscriptions, as aforesaid, be allowed to subscribe for more, or a greater quantity, of the said reserved lands, than V   'the proportion hereinafter particularly described and limited, to wit: Chatham, one hundred and seventy thousand acres; Effingham, sixty-two thousand acres; Burke, one hundred and fifty-five thousand acres; Richmond, one hundred and fifty-five thousand acres; Columbia, one hundred and fifty-five thousand acres; Wilkes, two hundred and seventy-two thousand acres; Washington, one hundred and thirty-one thousand acres; Elbert, one hundred and thirty-one thousand acres; Greene, one hundred and twenty-five thousand acres; Franklin, seventy-eight thousand acres; Liberty, sixty-nine thousand acres; Glynn, thirty-two.thousand acres; Camden, thirty-two thousand acres; M’Intosh, thirty-five thousand acres; Bryan, thirty-two thousand acres; Warren, ninety-three thousand acres; Oglethorpe, one hundred and sixteen thousand acres; Montgomery, twenty-three thousand acres; Scriven, thirty-eight thousand acres; and Hancock, ninety-six thousand acres. And it shall be the duty of the treasurer, in all cases of applications to subscribe, to require an.affidavit in writing, in the following words: “I do solemnly swear, (or affirm) that I am in no way interested,directly or indirectly, either as a member, or otherwise, in any company’s purchase of lands in the western part of this State; and that the subscription, which I propose to enter, is in my own proper right, and to my use and benefit only.” And it shall be the duty of the justice, or justices; of the inferior courts, before whom warrants of attorney, authorizing subscriptions, shall be executed, to require a like affidavit on the back of such warrant of attorney, before attesting the same; and the land, so subscribed and paid for, shall be held by such subscribers in fee simple, as tenants in common, and not as joint tenants, on the same terms, and upon the same principles, with the original purchasers of the company in which they shall subscribe; and shall be entitled to fair and equal representation in such company, in proportion' to the quantity of land so by them subscribed and paid for. >- _ , Sf.c. 5. find be it further enacted, That, upon entering any subscription as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the treasurer, and he is hereby required to receive of the subscribers the purchase money, being the proportion of one-fifth part of such subscription, in terms of this act; the remaining four-fifths, or balance of the purchase money, shall, within four months from and after the opening the said book of subscriptions, be paid unto the treasurer, in like manner, as aforesaid; and, in case such balance shall not be paid, on or before the expiration of the said seven months from the passing of this act, that then, and in that case, the subscriber, or subscribers, so failing, shall be at'liberty to withdraw their said subscriptions, together with the money so paid by them, and the lands, so subscribed for by them, shall revert to, and be vested in, the company in which such subscription shall have been made or entered. Sec. G. find be it further enacted. That all that tract ol country, including islands, situate, lying, and being, within the following boundaries, that is to say: beginning on the river Mississippi, at the place where the latitude of thirty-one degrees and eighteen minutes north of the equator intersects the same; thence, a due east course, to the middle of Don or Tombigby river; thence, up the middle of the said river, to where it intersects the latitude of thirty-two degrees and forty minutes north of the equator; thence, a due west course along the Georgia company line, to the river Mississippi; thence, down the middle of the same, to the. place of beginning, shall be sold to Nicholas Long, Thomas Glascock, Ambrose Gordon, and Thomas Cumming, and their associates, called the Georgia Mississippi Company, to them, and their heirs, and assigns, for ever, in fee simple, as tenants in common, and not as joint tenants; for the sum of one hundred and fifty-five thousand dollars, to be paid in gold or silver coin, bank bills of the United States, and such warrants as are made payable in the Georgia Company’s purchase, in the following manner, thatis to say: thirty-one thousand dollars to be deposited previous to the passing of this act, and the remaining one hundred and twenty-four thousand dollars to be paid on or before the first day of November next. Sec. 7. find be it further enacted. That, whenever the said Nicholas Long, Thomas Glascock, Ambrose Gordon, and Thomas Cumming, and their associates, or their agent, or agents, shall produce to his Excellency the Governor, a receipt, signed by the treasurer, that they have deposited the aforesaid sum of thirty-one thousand dollars, according to the tenor and effect of this act; it shall then be the duty of his Excellency the Governor, and he is hereby required, to issue and sign to the said Nicholas Long, Thomas Glascock, Ambrose Gordon, and Thomas Cumming, and their associates, their heirs and assigns'in fee simple, as tenants in common, and not as joint tenants! grant for the aforesaid tract of country, they securing the last payment of one hundred and twenty-four thousand dollars to the State, by a mortgage to his Excellency the Governor, and his successors in office, on the whole of the land so granted, which mortgage shall be immediately foreclosed in case default shall be made in the payment-of the said sum of one hundred and twenty-four thousand dollars, on or before the first day of November next, as aforesaid, in the superior court of any county within the State of Georgia, at the discretion of his Excellency the Governor, any law or usage, regulating the mode of foreclosing mortgages, to the contrary notwithstanding; and the whole sum of thirty-one thousand dollars deposited, shall become forfeited, to and for the use of the State; and the grant to lie given to the said Nicholas Long, Thomas Glascock, Ambrose Gordon, and Thomas Cumming, and their associates, as aforesaid, to be, and the same, in that case, is hereby declared to be, null and void. Sec. 8. find be it further enacted. That the said Georgia Mississippi Company shall reserve, for the use of the citizens of Georgia, exclusively, the quantity of six hundred and twenty thousand acres of their purchase, "to be subscribed for, held, and appropriated, on the same terms, and to be represented, in like manner, as the land reserved by the Georgia Company, as'atoresaid. Sec. 9. findbe it further enacted, That all that tract of country, including islands, situate, lying, and being within the following boundaries, thatis to say: Beginningat the Mississippi river, where the northern boundary line oft his State strikes the same; thence, along the said northern boundary line, due east to the Tennessee river; thence, along the said Tennessee river, to the mouth of Bear creek; thence, up Bear creek, to where the parallel of latitude twenty -fiye British statute miles south of the northern boundary line of this State intersects the. same; thence, along the said last mentioned parallel of latitude, across Tombigby or Twenty-mile creek, due west to the Mississippi river; thence, up the middle of the said riveivto the beginning, shall be sold to John B. Scott, John C. Nightingale, and Wade Hampton, called the Upper Mississippi Company, and to their heirs and assigns forever, in fee simple, as tenants in common, and not as joint tenants, for the sum of thirty-five thousand dollars, to be paid in specie, bank bills of the United States, and such warrants as are made payable in the Georgia Company’s purchase, in manner following that is to say: five thousand dollars, part thereof, to be deposited previous to the passing of this act, and the remaining sum, of thirty thousand dollars, to be paid on or before the first day of November next. Sec. 10. find be it further enacted, That whenever the said John B. Scott, John C. Nightingale, and Wade Hampton, or their agent or agents, shall produce to his Excellency the Governor, a receipt signed by the treasurer, that they have deposited the aforesaid sum of five thousand dollars, according to the tenor and effect of this act, it. shall then be the duty of his Excellency the Governor, and he is hereby required to issue and sign to the said John B. Scott, John C. Nightingale, and Wade Hampton, their heirs and assigns, in fee simple, as tenants in common, and not as joint tenants, a grant for the aforesaid land, they securing thelast payment of thirty thousand dollars to the State, by a mortgage to his Excellency the Governor and his successors in office, on the whole of the land so granted, which mortgage shall be immediately foreclosed, in case default shall be made in the payment of the said sum ol thirty thousand dollars,on or before the first day of November next, as aforesaid,in the superior court of any county within the State of Georgia, at the discretion of his Excellency the Governor; any law or usage, regulating the mode of foreclosing mortgages, to the contrary notwithstanding; and the whole sum of five thousand dollars, deposited, shall become forfeited to and for the use of the State; and the grant to "be given to the said John B. Scott, John C. Nightingale, and Wade Hampton, as aforesajd, to be, and the same, in that case, is hereby declared to be, null and void. Sec. 11. find be it further enacted, That the said Upper Mississippi Company shall reserve, to and for the use of the citizens of Georgia, exclusively, the quantity of one hundred anu thirty eight thousand acres of their purchase, to be subscribed for, held, and appropriated, on the same terms, and to be. represented in like manner, as herein before pointed out, in respect to the lands reserved for the citizens in the Georgia Company. Sec. 12. find be it further enacted. That all that tract of land, including islands, situate, lying, and being within the following boundary lines: Beginning at the mouth of Bear creek, on the south side of Tennessee river: thence, up the said creek, to the most Southern source thereof;lthence, due south to the latitude thirty-four degrees ten minutes north of the equator; thence, a due east course one hundred and twenty miles; thence, a due north course to the great Tennessee river; thence, up the middle of the said river to the northern boundary line of this State: thence, a due west course along the said line, to where it intersects the great Tennessee river, below the Muscle Shoals; thence, up the said river, to the place of beginning, shall be sold unto Zachariah Cox and Matthias Maher, s^and their associates, called the Tennessee Company, and to their heirs and assigns forever, in fee simple, as tenants in common, and not as joint tenants, for the sum of sixty thousand dollars, to be paid in specie, bank bills of the United States, and such warrants as are made payable in the Georgia Company's purchase, that is to say; twelve thousand dollars to be deposited as part thereof, previous to the passing of this act, and the remaining forty-eight thousand dollars to be paid on or before the first day of November next. Sec. 13. And be it further enacted, That whenever the said Zachariah Cox and Matthias Maher, and their associates, or their agent, or agents, shall produce to his Excellency the Governor, a receipt signed by the treasurer, that they have deposited the said sum of twelve thousand dollars, according to the tenor and effect of ibis act, it shall then be the duty of his Excellency the Governor, and he is hereby required to issue and sign to the said Zachariah Cox and Matthias Maher, and their associates, their heirs and assigns, in fee simple, as tenants in common, and not as joint tenants, a grant for the aforesaid tract of country, they securing the last payment of the forty-eight thousand dollars to the State, by a mortgage to his Excellency the Governor, and his successors in office?on the whole of the land so granted: which mortgage shall be immediately foreclosed, in case default shall be made in the payment of the said sum of forty-eight thousand dollars, on or before the first day of November next, as aforesaid, in the superior court of any county within the State of Georgia, at the discretion of his Excellency the. Governor, any law or usage, regulating the mode of foreclosing mortgages, to the contrary, notwithstanding; and the whole sum of twelve thousand dollars deposited, shall become forfeited to, and for the use of, the State. And the grant to be given to the said Zachariah Cox and Matthias Maher, and their associates, aforesaid, to be. and the same, in that caserns hereby declared to be, null and void. Sec. 14. Andie it further enacted, That the said Tennessee Company shall receive, for. and to. the use of the citizens of Georgia, exclusively, the quantity of two hundred and fifty-two thousand acres, to be subscribed for, held, and appropriated, on the same terms, and to be represented in like manner, as the lands reserved by the Georgia Company, as aforesaid. Sec. 15. And be it further enacted. That the said Tennessee Company shall reserve a further quantity of fifty thousand acres, to be gratuitously divided, share and share, alike, between the commissioners appointed by this State for the purpose of examining the quantity, quality, and circumstances, of the great bend of Tennessee river, which shall be held by them as tenants in common, and not as joint tenants, and be represented in like manner as the lands reserved by the other companies, for the use of the citizens, as a compensation to the said commissioners for their services rendered the State in that capacity. Sec. 10. And be it further enacted. That all sums so paid by the citizens, for lands subscribed for by them, agreeably to the terms of this act, shall be received in payment, and as part of the purchase money of the said companies, respectively. Sec. 17. And be it further enacted, That thegrants to be issued to the respective companies, in virtue of this act, shall be free from all further, or other expense, whatsoever, the fees of office accruing upon one grant to each company excepted : which shall be, to the Surveyor General, three dollars: to the Governor of the State, three dollars; and to the Secretary of the State, three dollars; and that the lands to be granted in pursuance of this act, shall be free from taxation, until the inhabitants thereof are represented in the Legislature. Sec. 18. And be it further enacted, That the said grantees, and purchasers of the land aforesaid, shall forbear all hostile and wanton attacks on any of the Indian tribes which may be found within the limits of this State, and keep this State free from all charges and expenses which may attend the preserving of peace between the said Indians and the grantees, and extinguishing the Indian claims to the territory included within their respective purchases: And, provided further, That this State, and the Government thereof, shall, at no time hereafter, be subject to any suit at law, or in equity, or claim, or pretension, whatever, for, or on account of, any deductions in the quantity of the said territory, or for, or on account of, the amount of the purchase money to be paid, as aforesaid, by any recovery which may or shall be had on any form, or other claim, or claims, whatever. Sec. 10. And be it further enacted. That the money arising from the sale of the said territory, except what shall b? appropriated to the extinguishment of Indian claims, as hereinafter expressed, shall be vested in six per cents, or such other stock, in the iunds of the United States, as may be directed by this, or a future Legislature: and the interest arising thereon, or so much thereof as may be necessary, shall be applied to the payment of the civil establishment, and contingent expenses of the Government ot this State. Sec. 20. And be it further enacted. That, immediately after the Indian claims to the land lying between the Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers, including that tract of country lying east of a line to be drawn from the place called Fort Romulus, on the Oakmulgee river, to the head of St. Mary's river, or the northern extremity of the Akinfonoka sw amp, may lie extinguished, the grantees of the several companies, and their associates, are hereby authorized to apply to the Government of the United States, for their concurrence in extinguishing the Indian claims to the different tracts of country by them severally hereby purchased, or as much thereof as to them may seem practicable; which extinguishment of claims to the lands so purchased, shall be at the proper expense of the respective companies, and within five years thereafter the said companies shall severally form settlements on the lands where the claims may be so extinguished, or forfeit the further sum of five thousand dollars, for each company so failing. Sec. 21. And be it further enacted. That the sum often thousand dollars, part of the first payment to be made by the companies aforesaid, shall be, and the same is hereby declared to be, appropriated, and set apart, lor the purpose of extinguishing the Indian claim, in addition to the twenty thousand dollars appropriated by the act, entitled “An act for appropriating a part of the unlocated territory of this State, for the payment of the late State troops, and for other purposes therein mentioned.” Sec. 20. And be it further enacted, That the several grantees, and their associates, shall not be entitled to dispose ol the said territory, in part, or in whole, in any way or manner, to any, foreign king, prince, potentate, or power, whatever; which condition shall be specially expressed on the face of the grant. Sec. 23. And be it further enacted, That all the lands lying westward and southward of the eastern boundary of the several company purchases, and not included therein, estimated at one-fourth of the w hole lands lying westward and southward of the eastern boundary of the said purchases, and supposed to contain seven millions two hundred and fifty thousand acres, shall be,'and the same is hereby declared to be, reserved, and set apart, to, and for the use and benefit of, this State, to be granted out, or otherwise disposed of, as a future Legislature may direct. THOMAS NAPIER, Speaker of the House of Representatives. BENJAMIN TALIAFERRO, January 7, 1795. President of the Senate. GEORGE MATHEWS. Governor. Copy of a letter from Governor Blount to the Secretary of JJ'ar. Knoxvii.le, January 9th, 1795. S,r: I embrace the opportunity, by Mr. Postlewait, who leaves this place in the morning for Philadelphia, to inform you that, on the third instant, the conference or meeting between the Cherokees and myself, respecting the exchange of prisoners, terminated with the pleasing prospects of peace with that nation. I am not prepared to forward to you, by this conveyance, a copy of the journal, but I shall forward a copy by Colonel Hays, of Mero district, who will leave this in three days, at most, for Philadelphia. Notwithstanding the pleasing prospects of peace with the Cherokees, I find myself under the necessity of reporting to you that, on the 20th December, Col. Hugh Tenan, John Brown, and William Gremes, were killed and scalped by Indians, I believe Creeks, on the southern frontiers of Davidson county, about fifteen miles from Nashville. Judging from the very exposed situation of the Cumberland settlers, and their long and unprovoked sufferings at the hands of the Creeks, there is too little reason to hope-that blood-thirsty nation will ever cease to murder and rob those citizens, until it is severely chastised, or an armed force is so posted as to afford those citizens effectual protection. ,   ‘ _ ' 'It cannot but be evident to the United States, that the Creeks, except the superannuated chiefs, who have satiated themselves with blood, pay no regard to the treaty'formed between them, so far as it respects the Cumberland citizens. , ’ "Extract of a letter from Governor Blount to the Secretary of War. Knoxville, January 10, 1795. Sin: 1 have the honor to enclose you the journal of the proceedings between the Cherokee chiefs and myself, which terminated on the 3d instant, with the pleasing prospects of'peace between that nation and the United States. It will be observed, that the leading object of what I said to the chiefs, was to induce the Cherokees to take such steps as would ultimately destroy the. friendship that has too long, for the peace of the United States,,subsisted between that nation and the Creeks, believing that, in so doing, 1 was consulting the true interest of the United States. But, had they have agreed to my propositions, of permitting a company of their young warriors to range on the frontiers of Alero district, for its protection against the Creeks, I should not have called Tor them until I had received your approbation or order, authorizing me so to do. I say, had they have agreed; because you will see that Watts and the Bloody Fellow publicly refused; but it is necessary to inform you that afterwards they both, in a private conversation, told me they had their reasons for denying publicly; namely, that the Creeks would know it before they were ready, and would injure them; but, if I would delay to calj for such a party of their young men, for a short time, they would be ready, and have no objection to their ranging, for the protection of the frontiers. And I assure you, that it Watts, the. Bloody Fellow, and all the chiefs of the Lower towns, were opposed to such a measure, that I could readily draw forth, for such a purpose, at a month’s notice at most, from sixty to two hundred of the young warriors of the Upper towns, provided a few white men, in whom they had confidence, were appointed to lead them. It is with you to instruct me whether their services are necessary'or not. I have told you the prospects of peace with the Cherokees are very pleasing, and in great truth I have so informed you; but it is equally true that, unless effectual measures are taken to stay the murdering hand of the Creeks, that peace is not to be expected ' by the frontier citizens of this territory or Kentucky. Copy of a letter from Governor Blount to the Secretary of War, dated Knoxville, January 20th, 1795.' Sin: ' , . ' ,■ I have judged the information contained in the enclosed copy of a letter from General Robertson, written on the 13th instant, and received last night express, of such importance, and involving such consequences, as to render it my duty to forward it to you express. I also enclose a copy of my answer, of this date, to General Robertson, the two embracing the subjects so fully on which they are written, that I consider any thing further unnecessary. Copy of a letter from General Bohcrtson to Governor Blount, dated >  Nashville, Mero District, January 13th, 1795. Sir: I intended sending off'Shute on the. 10th instant,but at night, on the 9th, five Chickasaws came to my house, as runners from William Colbert and three other chiefs. Captain James Underwood, Captain Mucklishapoy, the elder, and the Old Counsellor, informing that I was to expect them in two or three days, with about seventy warriors, and some women and children, and five Creek scalps, which they had taken near Duck river, on their way to war against this district, which was evidenced by a war club, and other tokens of the kind, as well as halters, bridles, and spurs, and pack-saddles which they were making. The leader.of the Creeks was known by several of the Chickasaws; his name was Shotlatoke, as was his brother, and.have been, as the Chickasaws say, for four or five years past, known to hunt no more than to get support to enable them to pass and repass'in killingand stealing from this district. Their camp was discovered on the evening of the 3d instant, surrounded about day break, and fired upon about sunrise; and the whole party, consisting of five warriors, was killed. One Chickasaw was wounded in the groin, but is like to recover. The Indians came in yesterday in great pomp. I have had a long conference with them, and they all desired m'e to send their talks to your Excellency. Colbert they consider as their head, and all agree to stand by him. They desire me to let you know, that, though they have not seen your Excellency as late as ■some of their nation, your talks are as Iresh in their minds' as when spoken; that they have been waiting since the —conference at this place, to see you retaliate on the Creeks for the many injuries done your people; that it is, as they believe, your good disposition which has prevented it; but that they cannot doubt you have found them fully out by this time, and will no longer believe their lies. They suppose the Creeks have yet some person to write lies for them, as McGillivray used to do, to the President, but wonder he does not believe you in preference. Much more to the same purpose they have said on the subject, and I have endeavored to explain the difficulties under which you labor, but they cannot believe it'is right to suffer injuries without retaliation. Colbert has not been at honie since early in the fall. He informs, that the Creeks have been very insolent in his nation this fall; they have killed one white man, named Sexton, and a number of cattle, mostly belonging to Tom Brown, whose nephew is here with Col-ffiert, and was at the killing of the Creeks. They have come on, resolutely determined to join us, and go and build (_/-block houses on the Tennessee river, and assist in supporting ihem. The place they point out as best, and nearest the Creek nation, is where the road strikes the river on which the prisoners taken out, when Thompson’s family was murdered, crossing the Tennessee at what is called the Creek crossing-place. 1 suggested the mouth of Elk as more proper, but two Chickasaws, that are well acquainted, say it is much farther from the Creeks, and a worse road from the place they propose; and add, that it is on their land, but not far from the line between them and the Cherokees, in proof of which they appeal to the journal of the conference held with them by your Excellency, at this place, and to tne certificate of the bounds of their lands signed by the President, last summer, and delivered to Opoia Mingo. It was no small difficulty for me to convince them I had no power to send men with them to drive off the Creeks on this side of the Tennessee river, and build block houses, and send to your Excellency to support them with provisions, ammunition, and artillery; and, after all the arguments I could make use of, I could not satisfy them otherwise than by sending to you, giving you notice of their request: for, they say, they are now the people of the United States, and are commissioned by the President; himself, which is the cause they have retaliated on his enemies, for injuries done his people; and that they expect a large campaign this spring against the Creeks, and that they are determined to assist the President of the United States in protecting such posts as he shall establish for that purpose. I need fay no more, only that they give every assurance of exerting themselves in behalf of the Lnited States, and often hint that they hope the United States will not leave them to suffer by their friendship, manifested in killing their enemies. But, sir. 1 am in pain, supposing you will not be able to establish the post they expect: and ant certain the Creeks will be revenged before relief can be given them. But, could the post be established as they request, they are of opinion they could keep the Creeks from embodying against their nation, by scouting parties, till an annj would be ready to invade their country. 1 confess, 1 wished the Chickasaws to kill Creeks, but lament their beginning so early. My fears are. that, should they suffer much by the Creeks, and it not be in the power of the United States to relieve them, we will lose their confidence and friendship, and they may eventually become ■our enemies. In all my conferences with the Chickasaws. 1 have only told them I expected an army would go from the United States, the ensuing summer, against the Creek nation: giving them to understand, that this expectation was founded only' in the high opinion I entertained of the wisdom of the counsels of the United States, and not in any order I had received from Government. Colbert has got his Creek wife, and all his children, along, and six negroes, which he intends to putin, with some person, for a crop. 1 wish Shute's return as soon as possible, to save expense: for there are upwards of a hundred Chickasaws now with me. and Colbert says, he turned a number back, but expects some will yet come on. There is an entertainment provided for Colbert and his party, at this place, to-morrow, by subscription: they will be as well received as they could expect. Colonel Roberts has ordered a general muster, and the company of cavalry, in uniform, will escort them from my house. They intend having a war dance at night. Please direct me. as fully as in your power, hov, 1 shall proceed. I am, yours. &e. Copy of a letter from Governor Blount to General Robertson, anted Knoxville, January 20th, 1795. Sir; Your letters of the 9th and 13th instant, were last night delivered to me by Mr. Shute, express; and I assure you no person could be more pleased with the killing of the five Creeks by the Chickasaws than I am, so far as it respects the killing of the Creeks, but, as it respects the Chickasaws and the United States, in its consequences, ] have my doubts whether it will prove beneficial or not. It is certain, from the speech oi the President to Congress, that he did not, at the time he opened it, contemplate a war with the Creeks, as the only notice he takes of that nation is, that the) have been protected from encroachment; but, since that time, the accounts ol the many murders and thefts, by them recently committed, in Mere district, have been faithfully reported to him, which may effect an alteration of opinion respecting them. It is equally certain, that the Chickasaws, by the killing these five Creeks, will involve these two nations in a war with each other, and thereby, it is highly probable, the Southwestern Iron-tiers will, for a time, be relieved from the tomahawk and scalping knife of the latter; but, with you. I fear, if the former are not supported by the United States, in whose behalf they have unadvisedly stepped forward, that it must end in the loss ol their friendship for the United States. I shall, without delay, forward by an express, copies of your letters of the 9th and 1.3th instant, and also a copy of this letter to the Secretary of War, whose answer and instructions may be expected at this place in from forty to fifty days. This length of time will have elapsed before the warm weather, the season for Indian warfare, will commence: besides, it is highly probable, as the party were all killed, that the nation will not be immediately informed of the act of hostility committed against it by the Chickasaws; and it is well known, that all Indian nations are slow in their deliberation, and operations for war—I mean, in large bodies, lienee, it may be fairly presumed, that the Chickasaws have not to expect any large body of Creeks to invade their nation, before I have the honor of receiving the instructions of the President as to (lie part the United States mean to act on the occasion : and, as to small marauding parties of Creeks, the Chickasaws, without the aid of the United States, are able to oppose them, or retaliate their injuries. Colbert and his party, on your receiving this letter, will expect my answer to their propositions respecting the establishment of a block house, &e. It will be best to tell them that I have despatched a hasty runner to the President of the United States, in whom all power is vested, and not in me. to give orders on such important occasions; that his answer may be expected within the time before mentioned, and that no delay should attend the execution ol’such orders as I shall receive respecting the Chickasaws. Point out to him, and his party, the reasons as before stated, with such others as shall occur to you. why the Chickasaws are not to fear a national attack from the Creeks, before I shall he fully informed and instructed, as to the part the United States determine to act on the occasion. A question here presents itself, namely; what are you to do with Colbert and his party, already upwards of one hundred in number, and more expected? who, it seems from your letter, have, from a mistaken opinion, or want of information, as to the true objects of the President of the United States, in giving them commissions, come to defend the frontiers of Mero district against the Creeks, viewing them as the enemies of the United States. This being the case, and Colbert and bis party having already, by killing the live Creeks, involved their nation in a war with the Creeks, if you find it absolutely necessary to the preservation of their friendship with the United States to indulge them in the performance of that duty, which they have come with a determination to perform, I would advise you to employ them accordingly, till the pleasure of the President is known on that head. They (Colbert and his party) will afford more certain security to the frontier inhabitants than an equal number of the militia, consequently you will lessen the number of the militia on duty, meaning such as are authorized by the order of the Secretary of War, of the fourteenth day of April last, so as, by keeping Colbert and his party on Duty, you will not increase the expense of the defence of the district. Herewith you will receive a copy of the journal of the proceedings at Tellico block house, by which you will be informed what passed, between the Cherokees and myself, respecting the Chickasaws, and you are to consider it your duty to use your best efforts to heal the difference, and restore peace between those two nations, as, in so doing, you will promote the interest of the United States. I am. sir, yours. &c. 3d Congress.] 
