No. 58. [2d Session. THE SIX NATIONS, AND ONEIDA, TUSCARORA, AND STOURBRIDGE TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 2, 1793. Gentlemen of the Senate: A spirit of discontent, from several causes, arose, in the early part of the present year, among the Six Nations of Indians, and, particularly, on the ground of a projected settlement by Pennsylvania, at Presqu" Isle, upon lake Erie. The papers upon this point have already been laid before Congress. It was deemed proper, on my part, to endeavor to tranquillize the Indians bv pacific measures; accordingly, a time and place was appointed, at which a free conference should be had upon all the causes of discontent, and an agent was appointed, with the instructions, of which No. 1, herewith transmitted, is a copy. A numerous assembly of Indians was Held at Canandaigua, in the State of New York, the proceedings whereof accompany this message, marked No. 3. The two treaties, the one with the Six Nations, and the other with the Oneida, Tuscarora. and Stockbridge Indians, dwelling in the country ol the Oneidas, which have resulted from the mission of the agent, are herewith laid before the Senate, for their consideration and advice. The original engagement of the United States to the Oneidas, is also sent, herewith. T7 GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, 2c/ January, 1795. A Treaty between the United States of America and the tribes of Indians called the Six Nations. The President ot the f nited States having determined to hold a conference with the Six Nations of Indians, for the purpose ot removing trom their minds all causes ol complaint, and establishing a firm and permanent friendship with them; and Timothy Pickering being appointed sole agent for that purpose; and the agent having met and conferred with the sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the Six Nations, in a general council: Now, in order to accomplish the good design of this conference, the parties have agreed on the following articles, which, when ratified by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States, shall be binding on them and the Six Nations: Article 1. Peace and friendship are hereby firmly established, and shall be perpetual, between the United States and the Six Nations. Art. 2. The United States acknowledge the lands reserved to the Oneida, Onondaga, and Cayuga nations, in their respective treaties with the State of New York, and called their reservations, to be their property; and the United States will never claim the same, nor disturb them, or either of the Six Nations, nor their Indian friends, residing thereon, and united with them, in the free use and enjoyment thereof: but the said reservations shall remain theirs, until they choose to sell the same to the people of the United States, who have the right to purchase. Art. 3. The land of the Seneca nation is bounded as follows: beginning on Lake Ontario, at the northwest corner of the land they sold to Oliver Phelps; the line runs westerly along the lake, as far as Oyongwongyeh creek, at Johnston’s Landing Place, about four miles eastward, from the fort of Niagara; then, southerly, up that creek to its main fork; then, straight to the main fork of Stedman’s. creek, which empties into the river Niagara, above fort Schlosser; and then onward, from that fork, continuing the same straight course, to that river; (this line, from the month of Oyongwongyeh creek, to the river Niagara, above fort Schlosser, being the eastern boundary of a strip of land, extending from the same line to Niagara river, which the Seneca nation ceded to the King of Great Britain, at a treaty held about thirty years ago, with Sir William Johnston:) then the line runs along the Niagara river to Lake Erie; then along Lake Erie, to the northeast corner of a triangular piece of land, which the United States conveyed to the State of Pennsylvania, as by the President’s patent, dated the third day of March, 1792; then due south to the northern boundary of that State; then due east to the southwest corner of the land sold by the Seneca nation to Oliver Phelps; and then north and northerly, along Phelps’s line, to the place of beginning, on Lake Ontario. Now, the United .States acknowledge all the land within the aforementioned boundaries, to be the property of the Seneca nation: am] the United States will never claim the same, nor disturb the Seneca nation, nor any of the Six Nations, or of their Indian friends residing thereon, and united with them, in the free use and enjoyment thereof; but it shall remain theirs, until they choose to sell the same to the people of the United States, who have the right to purchase. Art. 1 The United States having thus described and acknowledged what lands belong to the Oneidas, Onondagas, Cayugas. and Senecas, and engaged never to claim the same, nor to disturb them, or any of the Six Nations, or their Indian friends residing thereon, and united with them, in the free use and enjoyment thereof: now, the Six Nations, and each of them, hereby engage that they will never claim any other lands within the boundaries of the United States, nor ever disturb the people of the United States in the free use and enjoyment thereof. Art. 5. The Seneca nation, all others of the Six Nations concurring, cede to the United States the right of making a wagon road front fort Schlosser to Lake Erie, as far south as Buffalo creek; and the people of the United States shall have the free and undisturbed use of this road, for the purposes of travelling and transportation. And the Six Nations, and each of them, will forever allow to the people of the United States, a free passage through their lands, and the free use of the harbors and rivers adjoining, and within their respective tracts of land, for tlie passing and securing of vessels and boats, and liberty to land their cargoes, where necessary, for their safety. Art. f>. In consideration of the peace and friendship hereby established, anti of the engagements entered into by the Six Nations; and because the I nited States desire, with humanity find kindness, to contribute to their comfortable support: and to render the peace and friendship hereby established strong and perpetual, the United States now deliver to the Six Nations, and the Indians of the other nations residing among, and united with them, a quantity of goods, of the value often thotisand,dollars. And for the same considerations, and with a view to promote the future w elfare of the Six Nations, and of their Indian friends aforesaid, the United States will add the sum of three thousand dollars to the one thousand live hundred dollars heretofore allowed them by an article ratified by the President, on the twenty third day of April. 1792, making in the whole four thousand five hundred dollars; which shall be expended yearly, forever, in purchasing clothing, domestic animals, implements of husbandry, and other utensils, suited to their circumstances, and in compensating useful artificers, who shall reside with or near them, and be employed for their benefit. The immediate application of the whole annual allowance now stipulated, to be made by the superintendent, appointed by the President, for the affairs of the Six Nations, and tneir Indian friends aforesaid. Art. 7. Lest the firm peace and friendship now established should be interrupted by the misconduct of individuals, the United States and Six Nations agree, that, for injuries done by individuals, on either side, no private revenge or retaliation shall take place: but, instead thereof, complaint shall be made by the party injured, to the other: by the Six Nations, or any of them, to the President of the United States, or the superintendent by him appointed; and by the superintendent, or other person appointed by the President, to the principal chiefs of the Six Nations, or of the nation to which the offender belongs; and such prudent measures shall then be pursued, as shall be necessary to preserve our peace and frienship unbroken, untiL the Legislature (or great council) of the United States shall make other equitable provision for the purpose. Note. It is clearly understood by the parties to this treaty, that the annuity, stipulated in the sixth article, is to be applied to the benefit of such of the Six Nations, and of their Indian friends united w ith them, as aforesaid, as do or shall reside, within the boundaries of the United States: for the United States do not interfere with nations, tribes, or families of Indians, elsewhere resident. In witness whereof, the said Timothy Pickering, and the sachems and war chiefs of the said Six Nations, have hereunto set their hands and seals. Done at Canandaigua, in the State of New York, the eleventh day of November, in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-four. TIMOTHY PICKERING. [Signed by fifty-nine sachems and war chiefs of the Six Nations.] Ji Treaty between the United States of ..America and the Oneida, Tuscarora, and Stockbridge Indians, dwelling in the country of the Oneidas. Whereas, in the late war between Great Britain and the United States of America, a body of the Oneida and Tuscarora and Stockbridge Indians, adhered faithfully to the United States, and assisted them with their warriors; and, in consequence of this adherence and assistance, the Oneidas and Tuscaroras, at an unfortunate period of the war, were driven from their homes, and their houses were burnt, and their property destroyed ; and, as the United States, in the time of their distress, acknowledged their obligations to these taitnful friends, and promised to reward them: and the United States being now in a condition to fulfil the promises then made, the following articles are stipulated by the respective parties, for that purpose; to be in force, when ratified by the President and Senate: Article. 1. The United States will pay the sum of five thousand dollars, to be distributed among individuals of the Oneida and Tuscarora nations, as a compensation for their individual losses and services, during the late war between Great Britain and the United States. The only man of the KaughnawaugaS, now remaining in the Oneida country, as well as some few very meritorious persons of (he Stockbridge Indians, will be considered in the distribution. . Art. 2. For the general accommodation of these Indian nations, residing in the country of the Oneidas, the United States will cause to be erected a complete grist mill and saw mill, in a situation to serve the present principal settlements of these nations; or, if such one convenient situation cannot be found, then the United States will cause to be erected two such grist mills arid saw mills, in places where it is now known the proposed accommodation may be effected. Of this trie United States will judge. Art. 3. The United States will provide, during three years after the mills shall be completed, for the expense of employing one or two suitable persons to manage the mills, to keep them in repair, to instruct some young men of the three nations in the arts of the miller and sawyer, and to provide teams and utensils for carrying on the work of the mills. Art. 4. The United States will pay one thousand dollars, to be applied in building a convenient church at Oneida, in the place of tne one which was there burnt by the enemy, in the late war. Art. 5. In consideration of the above stipulations, to be performed on the part of the United States, the Oneida, Tuscarora, and Stockbridge Indians, aforementioned, now acknowledge themselves satisfied, and relinquish all other claims of compensation and rew ards for their losses and services in the late war; excepting, only, the unsatisfied claims of such men of the said nations as bore commissions under the United States, for any arrears which may be due to them as officers. In witness whereof, the chiefs of those nations, residing in the country of the Oneidas, and Timothy Pickering, agent for the United States, have hereto set their hands and seals, at Oneida, the second day of December, in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-four. TIMOTHY PICKERING. [Signed by fifteen sachems and war-chiefs, of the Oneida, Tuscarora, and Stockbridge Indians.] [Note.—Other papers, referred to in the message, are not on file.] 3d Congress.] 
