No. 46. [1st Session. TI1E SOUTHWESTERN TRIBES. communicated to the house of ueeresentatives, February 19, 1794. Mr. Pickins, from the committee to whom was referred the message from the President of the United States, of the 30th ultimo, transmitting the copy of a letter from Constant Freeman, agent for the Whir Department, in Georgia, to the Secretary of War, dated the first of January last, with sundry enclosures, relative to the Creek Indians, made the following report: That the present situation of the Southwestern frontier requires that the Government of the LTnited States take the most speedy and efficacious measures, as well to afford ample protection to the exposed inhabitants of that frontier, Irom the repeated depredations of the hostile Indians, as to prevent unauthorized attacks, by the lawless white inhabitants, on the Indian tribes. That, in order to effect these purposes, the committee recommend the following resolutions: That the President of the United States be authorized to call out such a number of the militia of the said States, as may be requisite to carry on offensive operations against such tribes or towns of Indians as may continue hostile, if, in his opinion, such offensive measures may be necessary, for the security of the frontier inhabitants, by compelling the Indian* to a strict compliance with their treaties, and to prevent unprovoked aggressions by them: Provided, That the whole number of militia, so to be called into service, at any onetime, shall not exceed -officers and privates, and be continued in service, at any one period, longer than the term of-months; the President to be authorized to establish such military posts as he may judge necessary, to prevent, as far as practicable, every depredation of the Indians, within the boundary line, fixed by treaty between the United States and (hem: and also to prevent any lawless attacks, by the white Inhabitants, on the Indians, or encroachments on their hunting ground, without the said line; and to cause military posts to be guarded, by troops raised for the defence of the frontiers; and to cause to be raised, on the terms of the present military establishment, one or more troops of horse, to be employed as patrols between the said posts. That every officer, non-commissioned officer, or private, of the militia of the United Slates, who shall go armed, over the mutual boundary line, and commit murder, or other depredations upon the Indians, without being legally authorized thereto, under the President, every such person, so offending, shall be considered as having voluntarily put himself under military power, and shall be tried by a court-martial, and, if convicted of the murder of any Indian, shall suffer death: and, if convicted of any offence, short of murder, shall suffer such fines and penalties as shall be adjudged by the said court -martial, not extending to the taking life; and, moreover, if such offender be an officer, upon such conviction, he shall be cashiered, and forever thereafter disqualified from holding a military commission within the United States: Provided, That this prohibition shall not. extend to militia officers or privates, pursuing any Indian party, which may have been committing depredations wuthin the present limits of the said States. 5 < 1 Congress.] 
