NO. 187.	[1st SESSION. OPERATIONS OF THE FACTORY SYSTEM. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, MARCH 8, 1822. SIR:	WASHINGTON, January 19, 1822. I have the honor to communicate to you such information as I possess in relation to the subject of the inquiries addressed to me. Question 1. Have yon had opportunities of becoming acquainted with the operation of the factory system? If so, at what points, and since how long? Answer. During the past summer, I had an opportunity of observing the operation of the factory system at Green Bay, where I am a United States Indian agent. Information gained on the spot, during a visit to Chicago in August last, confirmed the results of most of my observations at the former place. Question 2. What is the quality of the goods usually found in those factories? Answer. The quality of the goods in the factory at Green Bay is generally bad; the blankets, and other articles of wool, particularly so. Question 3. Have they been furnished with any of a kind not suited to Indians? Answer. The articles, as far as I know, are suited to the Indian market. Question 4. Have the factory goods, within your knowledge or belief, been sold to any persons except Indians? and, if so, to what description of persons? and were any of those persons fur-traders, with or without licenses? Answer. My impression has always been that the factories were as open to every applicant as any other store, having seen various persons purchase small articles there. An outfit of goods was furnished by Mr. Irwin, factor at Green Bay, to William Morrill, who was licensed by me in September last to trade on the Fox river. Question 5. Have the factors, within your knowledge or belief, in their traffic with Indians, or others, limited their prices to the cost and carriage of the goods? If not, at what advance have they sold? Answer. In the hills for articles bought by me as agent, the original price is stated, to which 50 per cent, is added. The cost on the transportation of one hundredweight from New York to Green Bay does not exceed five dollars. This rate would produce a charge of less, certainly, than 10 per cent, on the original cost of an invoice of goods for the Indian trade, taking the articles together. How an additional expense of 40 per cent, accrues, when there, I am at a loss to conjecture. The quarters and storehouses occupied by the factor at Green Bay, (and the same is believed to be the case generally,) were built, and are kept in repair, by the troops. Details have, within my own knowledge, been made from them to beat the peltries, &c.; and I have reason to believe that every kind of labor necessary to these establishments is performed by soldiers. If, as I never heard to bo the fact, any thing is given to the soldiers for these labors, it must be a discretionary gratuity on the part of the factors or the superintendent. In sales to individuals, I have reason to believe that the factor is as much regulated in his prices by the state of the market as any other trader. Question 6. Have the factors sold ou credit! Answer. I am unable to say what is the practice with respect to Indians. From conversations had with the factor within my agency on the subject of debts due the establishment, it appears to have been his practice to sell to traders on credit. Question 7. Have they sold for any thing except furs and peltries! Answer. Sugar is taken in barter with Indians, and money from any one who is capable of paying it. Question 8. Have they equipped persons with goods, and sent them into the woods to trade, on account of the factories! Answer. I will take this opportunity to remark, that, though familiar with Indians, from having been stationed as a military officer at posts frequented by them, I had no knowledge of the trade carried on with them until last spring, when I was appointed an agent. In September or October last, the factor consulted me as to the necessity of obtaining a license for a person whom he intended to send to trade with the Indians at a place called Milwalky, on Lake Michigan, about two hundred miles from Green Bay. The factor stated to me that my predecessor considered a license in such case superfluous. Deeming the same checks proper as in any other case, bonds were required, as usual, of the individual, and the license was granted. Question 9. Have the factors purchased furs and peltries with money! Answer. Not to my knowledge. Question 10. Have they furnished goods to the United States agents! and, if so, for what purpuse! at what advance upon cost and carriage! of what quality! and how have the factors been paid for thorn! Answer. The purpose for which the few articles purchased by me at the factory were bought, was, to make such presents as the funds appropriated to the agency would admit to Indians who visited me as an officer of the Government, which immemorial custom leads them to expect. The advance upon the cost and carriage I have stated. I have also stated that the quality was bad. Convinced of this, and of the high price, I sent to the agent of the American Fur Company, at Mackinac, for a small invoice of goods to the amount of the balance left in my hands after defraying the expenses of the agency; and I have no hesitation in saying that they formed a more acceptable present to the Indians than double the sum paid for them would have procured from the factory. Whether this proceeds from the extraordinary cheapness of the one, or the unreasonable dearness of the other, I am not able to say, positively; but my impression is, that it proceeds from the latter. The articles bought of the factor, on public account, are paid for in money. Question 11. Are the Indians attached to the factory system! Is there reason to apprehend hostilities from them, if they are withdrawn! Answer. I believe it is admitted, on all hands, that the factories, at those points where alone my opportunities of observation have extended, are altogether useless. 1 have it from the best authority, that the factor at Chicago has been for years soliciting from the superintendent to be removed from his present position, as his remaining there was wholly useless, and that no notice, whatever has been taken of his representations. As to any attachment to the system, the Indians probably understand nothing of the motives which led to its adoption; and, of course, if it does not tend to give them their supplies on better terms, are indifferent to its continuance. Question 12. If the factories are withdrawn, will the Indians suffer for want of the customary supplies, or be exposed to greater or less impositions from traders! Answer. Within the sphere of my observations, so small a part of the wants of the Indians is supplied from the public trading-houses, that their withdrawal would not be felt. The. competition among private traders is sufficient to prevent exactions on the Indians. Question 13. Are the Indians judges of the quality of the goods in which they trade, of the reasonableness of prices, and of the value of their own furs and peltries! Answer. The Indians are very observant, and reputed to be very good judges of the articles which they are accustomed to buy. Their capacity for the petty traffic which they carry on is believed to be much greater than is generally apprehended. The principal fraud practised upon them is believed to be in the article of spirituous liquors, to which the seller attaches a price in proportion to the penalty he would incur from detection. Question 14. What effect, if any, has the factory system in conciliating the good-will of the Indians towards the United States, in reclaiming them from savage habits, and in converting them to Christianity! Answer. The factor has no other relation to the Indian whatever than that of a trader. He is invested with no other character by the Government; and, unless I have been strangely misled by those possessing a more intimate knowledge of Indian prejudices than I can pretend to, it would be highly impolitic to combine, in the same person, the functions of trade with those which might result from any measures which should be adopted for ameliorating the condition of the Indian tribes, in which the personal influence of the agent is important. How, then, is the factor to have influence in conciliating the Indians, in reclaiming them from savage habits, or in converting them to Christianity! Certainly in no other way than by supplying them on better terms than others with the articles they are accustomed to use. If the Indian received benefit in this way, he could appreciate it, and it would be a means of conciliation; if the private trader were undersold, any unfavorable influence which he may be supposed to hold would be removed; and if an addition were made to the comforts of the Indians, it might tend to humanize them, and lead them to Christianity. But admit, as can readily be proven, that the factor sells his goods at no lower rates than other traders, and more need not be said as to the influence of his establishment. Question 15. State, particularly, any instances of fraud or improper conduct, on the part of the factors or subfactors, (if any such have come within your knowledge,) and their characters as faithful agents of Government, or otherwise! Answer. I have stated that no instances of gross fraud on the part of factors came within my knowledge. I have reason to believe that there is no uniformity whatever in the prices of goods at the factory of Green Bay; if goods sold are accounted for at a uniform rate, there is certainly some ground for suspicion. With regard to the character of the factors, I know nothing disadvantageous. The inefficiency of the system appears to have arisen from the wretched character of the supplies, the high prices at which they have been purchased, and the unreasonable advance which has been put upon them. I feel confident that some of the persons interested in the maintenance of this establishment have greatly exaggerated the misconduct of the private traders; have misrepresented the causes why the factories have not been able to keep up a successful competition with them; and made statements of the results which would attend the withdrawal of the factories, the absurdity and hardihood of which are amazing to those having any knowledge of the facts. When the factories were first established, they were probably useful at some points where they were located, in spite of mismanagement; and, though competition in the trade has much increased, the gratuitous use of $300,000, with persons paid for managing it, would now be most important to the Indians, but for the most glaring perversion of the charitable purposes of Government. As it has been conducted, a useless institution has been kept up for years, by plausible statements on paper, and by general declamations about atrocities which never were committed, and horrors to be apprehended, which must have excited the smile of the orator himself. After all, a close examination of the sales made at the factories would be the best means of judging of their importance. The factors have been aware that their existence was in jeopardy, and have not been idle. If any expenses were paid from the fund in trade, the asserted integrity or the small increase of the capital would be an evidence of some trade; but, as no demands are made upon it, it might remain whole ad infinitum, without a particle of business being done.	Your obedient servant, The Hon. the CHAIRMAN of the Committee onlndian Affairs.	JOHN BIDDLE. SIR:	WASHINGTON CITY, January 21, 1822. In conformity with a request of the Committee of the Senate on Indian Affairs, I have the honor to state, (in answer to their several queries,) that I have been, in a great measure, acquainted with the operations of the factory system on the Missouri and Mississippi since 1807. With the factory ou the Mississippi, first at Fort Madison, and now at Prairie du Chien, I have been more particularly acquainted. Until the conclusion of the late war, as well as I can recollect, the goods in those factories were inferior to such as the individual traders made use of; and, except the blankets, which have improved since then, those factories or trading-houses have continued to be furnished with goods of a very inferior quality, and much less adapted to the Indian trade than those in the hands of individuals. I know very well that they have been in the habit of selling to officers, soldiers, citizens, and, in fact, to any body, without reserve. Mr. Johnson, factor at Prairie du Chien, has been in the habit of equipping traders without license, and sending them to trade with the Indians on hunting excursions, unrestrained; and did, in one instance, furnish goods to a Canadian, who was an experienced trader, but at that time considered a most exceptionable character, from the circumstance of his having borne arms against us by the side of the Indians during the late war, and being charged with exciting them to the massacre of the inhabitants of pur frontiers, and who could not have obtained license from proper authority. The factors were not in the habit of limiting their prices to the cost and carriage of their goods; and I am sure never did, except on unsaleable articles. I am not positive as to the advance placed on their goods, but am under the impression that it was estimated at sixty per centum on prime cost. But I know very well that when I was stationed at Prairie du Chien, about four years since, the officers, soldiers, and citizens, in the village and vicinity, in their intercourse with the factory, were charged from forty to sixty per centum advance on the rates at which similar articles are sold in St. Louis, which induced us to believe at the time that there was some mismanagement in the factory department. The factors have sold on credit, but I think not extensively. . The factories take in exchange for their goods every thing the individual trader does—money as soon as furs and peltries; and I believe the factory sustained some loss on the failure of the St. Louis Bank, in the year 1817, in notes received from soldiers stationed there. I will not be positive, but I believe that on one or two occasions the factor on the Mississippi purchased furs and peltries with money taken in trade at his post. I do not recollect to have been furnished with any thing by the factories on the account of Government; but they have sometimes furnished other Indian agents with annuities, and Indian presents; and, a few years since, when they were permitted to act in the capacity of Indian sob-agents, they gave presents out of the factory goods themselves, which were charged to, and paid by, the Indian Department. The Indians cannot be attached to the factories, when they have almost abandoned them. To withdraw the factories, and secure the trade to individual enterprise, under proper regulations, would, in my opinion, be a pleasing circumstance to the Indians of my acquaintance, and lead to no evil, but to happy consequences. They will not suffer for want of supplies, or be subject to greater impositions than they are now. They are generally good judges of the quality of the goods in which they trade, of the reasonableness of prices, and of the value of their own furs and peltries. The factory system has no good effect in conciliating the good-will of the Indians towards us; on the contrary, it is calculated to give them unfavorable impressions, and alienate them from us, by exhibiting the Government of the United States in the light of a common trader. In reclaiming them from savage habits, and in converting them to Christianity, these establishments have the same effect as the individual traders. About four years since, when I was stationed at Prairie du Chien, the factor received what was called soldier or citizen goods, to the amount of several thousand dollars; none of which were intended for the Indian trade, and it was said, and generally believed, to be a private concern. I have seen, in factories, goods evidently the remnants of old stores; and, a few years since, I received of General Clark, who was then superintendent of Indian affairs at St. Louis, a few goods for Indian presents, (furnished him by the factory department,) the most of which were of such inferior quality that I was ashamed to offer them to the Indians, and have them still on hand. I will not charge the factors with a dishonest act, as I do not know what instructions they may have received from the superintendent of Indian trade; but I know they are not above suspicion. It is generally believed in Missouri, Illinois, and, I believe, in Michigan, and by almost every officer with whom I have been stationed on the frontiers, that the superintendent and factors are growing rich in the service. With the highest respect, I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, ■	.	B. O’FALLON, To the Hon. THOMAS H. BENTON.	United States Agent for Indian Affairs on the Missouri. SIR:	WASHINGTON CITY, January 23, 1822. In answer to the queries proposed to me, and enclosed in your communication, as one of the Committee of the Senate of the United States on Indian Affairs, under date of the 21st instant, relative to the factory system of trade and intercourse with the Indians as at present established and conducted, I have the honor to state, in general, such facts as came immediately under my observation in the year 1820, while I was attached to a scientific and exploring expedition, as journalist, under the command of Major Long. That, at the engineer cantonment, a few miles below the Council Bluffs, on the Missouri, I saw a party of chiefs and warriors of the Ottoe tribe, on their way to visit Major O’Fallon, their agent. A gentleman of our party had with him what is terqicd by the Indians and traders a Mackinac, blanket, which is of a superior quality of blankets, and such as are generally furnished by the British traders at Mackinac to the Indians. Several of the Indian party noticed this blanket, and each proposed to exchange his blanket, which was of the description of those supplied by the United States, or their traders, offering, at the same time, something very considerable in addition, as an inducement to effect an exchange. On inquiry, I found that the Indians were under the impression that the blankets, arms, vermilion, &c., furnished to the Indians at Mackinac, were of a superior quality to any they received from the American Government, or procured from its traders. In the course of the expedition, I was at a Cherokee settlement, on the north side of the Arkansas river. At the house of Webber, a chief, there was a store, at which I observed a number of the Indians making considerable purchases preparatory to going on the hunt; and, understanding that the United States had a factory established not far distant from this store, for the accommodation of trade with this nation, I inquired of the Indians why they did not trade at the factory. The reply was, that they could procure all the articles they wanted at this store, at a less price and of a better quality than they could at the factory, and were allowed the same prices for their furs and peltries; they particularly instanced that of blankets, for which there was a difference' of a dollar in the price of each in their favor, by trading at this store. A half-breed, by the name of Rogers, was my interpreter on this occasion. At the mouth of the Verdigris river, (Arkansas,) there was a trading-house, for the accommodation of the Osage Indians, owned by Mr. Glenn; this store, in its supplies to the Indians, gave general satisfaction, as I understood from the chiefs and others of the nation. The foregoing embraces the whole of my observations on the trade with the Indians, during my intercourse with them, which has been most with those nations where no regular traders have yet heen established. It is my impression that the Indians are not particularly attached to the factory system, and that no great inconvenience would result to them if the factories were withdrawn, as their places would, no doubt, be supplied by traders better calculated to satisfy the Indians. It would be their interest to do so, and it would relieve the Indians from a course of trade which they cannot comprehend, in this: that the United States, or rather the Government, should be, a party in competition with traders for the sale of goods, and purchase of furs and peltries. The factory system, used as a means of conciliating the good-will of the Indians towards the United States, or in reclaiming them from savage habits, cannot, in my opinion, have any better effect than if the trade were altogether in the hands of licensed traders, subject to proper regulations. I would here remark, that it is not the interest of the trader or factor to encourage civilization in the Indian population; for, as they advance in that, they recede in the hunt, and the trade becomes less valuable. But few would countenance a system which went to destroy their own interest. Persons capable of instructing the Indian children in the nation in all the first steps to civilization, would be more likely to succeed in that desirable object than the traders. Respectfully submitted by, sir, your most obedient servant, JOHN R. BELL. Hon. THOMAS H. BENTON, Senator United States. GENTLEMEN:	WASHINGTON, January 23, 1822. 1 have had the honor to receive your queries, relative to the public Indian trading-houses, to which I return the following answers: 1st. My “ opportunities of becoming acquainted with the factory system” have been frequent, ever since the year 1806, and apply to the houses which, at different periods, were located at Belle Fontaine, Fort Madison, Chicago, Michilimackinac, Fort Osage, Prairie du Chien, Fort Edwards, and Green Bay. 2d. “The quality of the goods usually found in these factories,” so far as applies to the greater part of what may be properly called “ Indian goods," has always been much inferior to the same description of articles furnished by the private traders, excepting, perhaps, during the late war, when recourse could not be had to European manufactories for supplies of the proper kind. Gunpowder, ball, shot, and the like, were found at the factories of as good a quality as at any private establishment; but the blankets and other dry goods, generally, have been uniformly from twenty-five to fifty per cent, inferior to the corresponding articles supplied by individual adventurers. And the factor at Chicago is also of opinion that remnants, or cut pieces of goods, do not answer quite so well as if they had never been unfolded, or subjected to retail operations, before they reached him. 3d. The factories have been furnished with goods “of a kind not suitable to the Indians,” unless the committee should be of opinion that men and women’s coarse and fine shoes, worsted and cotton hose, tea, glauber salts, alum, and antibilious pills, are necessary to promote the comfort nr restore the health of the aborigines; or that green silk, fancy ribands, and morocco slippers are indispensable to eke out the dress of our “ red sisters.” I have it also from a gentleman now in Congress, that the factory at Detroit, in 1800, contained a large assortment of goods so well adapted to the wants of the white population, that the merchants of the place felt and complained of its competition. 4th. It is “within my knowledge” that goods have been sold to persons engaged in the fur trade by the United States factories at Fort Osage, Fort Edwards, Prairie du Chien, Chicago, and Green Bay, more particularly at the first, third, and last of the places just mentioned. And 1 have every reason to believe that it is the constant practice of all the factors to sell the Government goods to the officers and soldiers of the posts where they are located, and, generally, to the white and mixed population around them. In 1816, Mr. Johnson, the factor at Prairie du Chien, furnished goods to a Mr. Antoine Brisbois, whom he well knew had but a few days before been refused a license by the proper officer; and he continued to supply him during 1817 and 1818. In 1818, a Mr .Michael Brisbois, brother of the former, also received goods of the same factor to trade. In 1820, a Mr. Schell, or Shull, became a trader for the same house, and I believe still continues so. A Mr. Scott Campbell was also supplied in 1820; and the rear is closed by a Mr. Duncan Campbell, who now trades on the Upper Mississippi with an assortment from the same factory,although he is at this moment in the service (and I presume in the pay) of the United States, as interpreter to the Indian agency at the military post near the Falls of St. Anthony. Mr. Irwin, the factor at Green Bay, in 1817 supplied goods to a Mr. Rouse, amounting to upwards of $3,000. He has also sold to various other traders at different times, and has now one trader on the Fox river, and another at Milwalkv, on Lake Michigan. 42 E At the Fort Osage factory, Mr. Sibley furnished, in 1819, goods to a Mr. Noel Mongrain, who, I am informed, was at the time in the Government employ as interpreter for the Osages. All these persons traded with the Indians, in different sections of the country, at a distance from the factories, and their rates of sale had no regard whatever to the injunctions of the laws regulating the Government tradinghouses, which decree that the goods shall be disposed of on terms “ merely to preserve the capital from diminution.” Antoine Brisbois, in 1816, was not licensed. Noel Mongrain was not licensed. During the agency of the late Colonel John Bowyer at Green Bay, licenses to whomsoever dealt with the factory at that place were deemed superfluous. And I have good ground to believe that the law in respect to licenses has been but seldom complied with by those who receive their goods from the public trading-houses. 5th. “The factors, in their traffic with Indians or others,” do nqt limit “their prices to the cost and carriage of the goods.” Their rates of sale are capricious, in the same ratio as competition is weak or vigorous, at hand or afar off. They charge on wholesale operations from 25 to 66§ per cent, on the invoice cost of the articles, and sometimes even a greater advance; the retail prices are considerably higher still. 6th. To at least a majority of the persons enumerated in the reply to the 4th query, the factors have sold on a credit, and I rather think no one of them paid at the time he purchased. Part of an outfit made at Green Bay, in 1817, I know remains unpaid, and I am led to believe that a balance could still be found against Mongrain on the books of the Fort Osage factory. 7th. A communication from the Secretary of War to the House of Representatives, “ read and ordered to lie on the table,” 13th of April, 1820, will show that from 1815 to 1819, inclusive, the receipts in cash at the factories, collectively, amounted to $84,622 17; and the same document tells us that lead, bees’ wax, tallow, Indian mats, feathers, sugar, cotton, and hides, were also received in payment for goods at the public trading-houses. 8th. In 1818, a Mr. Michael Brisbois was furnished by the factor at Prairie du Chien with goods amounting to $1,808 69, to be traded on account of the Government. In some instances, the persons supplied were on their individual risks; but they might as well have been on public account, for, if their trade failed to realize enough, they possessed no means of liquidating the claims of the factor. 9th. I am not aware that the factors have purchased furs or peltries with money; but Mr. Irwin, at Green Bay, sold furs to a Mr. Laird, of Erie, Pennsylvania, some years ago. In what the payment consisted, 1 do not now recollect. 10th. The factories have furnished goods to the Indian agents of the United States on, I believe, pretty much the same terms as to the traders; hut 1 am not sufficiently acquainted with such transactions to speak positively on the subject. 11th. Perhaps the most satisfactory reply to this query is to be found in the proportion of business the Indians transact at these national establishments, compared with the amount they barter to the private traders; which is, speaking within bounds, nine-tenths in favor of the latter. Did the factories really confer advantages, the natives would undoubtedly be attached to the system, and a much larger portion of their furs and peltries would unquestionably be traded there. But when we see Indians, who have been familiar for years with the goods and prices of the factor, quietly pass the door of the public trading-houses, and dispose of their stock to the private traders in the immediate neighborhood, it seems reasonable to conclude that they do not cherish anything resembling a strong partiality for those intended representatives of the national bounty. The amount of trade at the factories has been decreasing for several years, and with its diminution has of course declined the intercourse between the factors and the Indians, until the connexion is, in some instances, nearly destroyed. With the habits of trade the exercise of friendship is almost inseparably connected; and when the common wants or convenience which originally led to an interchange of commodities have either ceased to operate, or are turned into another channel, the feelings of mutual regard which commerce produces are soon blunted, and sickly indifference insensibly supplants vigorous friendship. Such a catastrophe has been latterly witnessed at Chicago, where the factor, conscious of the futility of his establishment, solicited for years to be removed, but his solicitations were not deemed worthy of acknowledgment. The factor rarely meets the Indians except during the process of barter, and, protected as he is by a garrison, he has nothing to apprehend from their dislike or resentment. He has, therefore, no inducement- to cultivate an intimacy, which only promises to interrupt his ease, or break in upon his retirement; and his knowledge, of the natives around him is proportioned to an intercourse so limited and unsociable. The situation of the private trader is very different, for he is constantly in the power of the aborigines, and, from his habits of trade, he necessarily becomes identified with the tribe he commonly visits. On the other hand, their dependance on him periodically for relief, (which they cannot obtain of the factor,) promotes an attachment that is strengthened with every return of their annual supply, which affords support, and secures comfort to their families throughout the inclemency of the succeeding winter. It is not, in my opinion, necessary to travel further in quest of reasons fur the partiality which the Indians evince for the private traders, since their situation relative to the natives, when contrasted with that of the factor, will alone account for the preference. And when to the very opposite deportment of the two characters you add the still more important difference in the quality and price of their goods, we ought no longer to wonder that there exists such a disparity of trade between the privute establishments and public trading-houses. However benevolent the motives may have been which devised the factory systerti, there is no doubt that the Indians have failed to appreciate the benefits they were meant to confer, and the protection they were intended to afford; since it is very well known that, sell your goods to an Indian as low as you please, he always considers every obligation cancelled when he pays the price demanded. The natives consider the factories of so very little consequence to them, that their removal from the country would scarcely be remarked; and, so far from their abolition involving the frontiers in war, I am confident that parting with these ostensible blessings will not create a murmur loud enough to disturb the primeval stillness of the forest. 12th. There are now annually more goods carried into the Indian country by the private traders than can be disposed of; and, admitting the factories have all the influence for which they are so much extolled by those interested in their continuance, the sphere of their operations has not, even at this day, any control whatever over three-fourths of our present Indian trade. Since, therefore, they can, at most, only effect so small a portion of the trade, and as nothing can be more unfounded than the existence of extortion or imposition where their influence cannot possibly reach, I confess 1 am at a loss to imagine what foundation there can be for any well-grounded apprehension. Independent of the many new adventurers which the abolition of the public system of traffic would in all probability tempt into the trade, the present annual surplus of goods will alone be equal to any deficit which may be feared on withdrawing the factories; and those who are acquainted with the present state of our Indian trade will readily admit that competition is sufficiently active and extensive, among the private traders, to secure to the natives, every where, ample supplies on reasonable terms. 13th. It may be safély asserted that all our Indians, accustomed to trade, are competent judges of the goods they purchase of the whites. Using always the very same articles of merchandise, and uniformly the same de scription of goods, the intercourse of long-established trade, sometimes with associations of private traders, but most frequently with contending adventurers, has, by affording them constant opportunities of contrasting prices, enabled them to decide with great accuracy on the quality, and consequent value, not only of every thing they buy, but of every article they sell. And I am positive the Indians are generally quite as capable of judging correctly, in regard to both the quality and price of the goods they deal in, as a large majority of the civilized community are of deciding on the rates of our retail shopkeepers. 14tli. The detailed answer to query 11th has shown how very limited the factor’s influence over the natives must necessarily be, from the peculiarity of his situation; and thence may be gathered the probable effect of the system he represents “in conciliatiog the good-will of the Indians.” But there are other reasons for the failure of the system in producing this conciliation. Along the chain of great lakes, from Ontario to Superior, the Indians within our lines have been, ever since the conquest of Canada, in habits of intimacy with the Canadian Indian authorities; and this intercourse, it is well known, continues with our Indians to the present day. At the British frontier posts, all the public or Government Indian goods have, for the same period, been annually bestowed gratuitously upon the natives: and when our factories were carried to the country approaching Canada, the Indians were so firmly of opinion that the goods deposited there were to be disposed of after the manner of the British, that they frequently charged the factors with selling for their own emolument what their Great Father intended as presents. In the course of time, the undeviating practice of the factor convinced them how much they were mistaken; and when no longer at liberty to doubt, the impression became universal that their American Father must be poor indeed, since he sent his goods into their country to be sold for skins, as by the common trader, who depended on his traffic as the means of subsistence. The marked difference between the American factors and the British Indian agents gave rise to comparisons but little favorable to the character of our country; and while England’s King, by unanimous consent, received from the Indians the appellation of Father, the President of the United States was degraded to the level of a common adventurer. It is also worthy of remark here, that the Indians, during the late war, exhibited a more settled inveteracy against ns in the districts having the benefit of public trade, (say, for instance, Fort Wayne, Chicago, and Fort Madison,) than they evinced in other sections, equally exposed, but without factories; and, however true it may be that causes other than the mere location of a public trading-house produced this vindictive spirit, yet it cannot be denied by those conversant with the subject, that if, instead of the trafficking disposition we exhibited to the natives for fifteen years before the war, we had adopted a more dignified policy in our Indian relations, it is hardly to be believed that nations, who for many years had only met each other as enemies, would have at once, by common consent, buried their animosities, united as members of the same family, and raised the tomahawk'against us with such unparelleled unanimity. The foregoing facts and observations attest most fully the positive inefficiency of the system in conciliating the Indians; for, at Fort Wayne, Chicago, and Fort Madison, previous to the war, public trade was in full operation, and flourished, I believe, beyond any thing we have seen in these latter days; and yet, so far from “reclaiming them from savage habits,” they did not in a single instance, during the whole contest, avert the dreadful effects of an irruption into our defenceless frontier; nor did they even disarm the savage of one particle of his natural ferocity. Little as I value the factory system, so far as it is considered a means of attaching the Indians to the United States, I do think, they are, if possible, still less capable of producing religious reformation in either the Indians or anybody else. The factories have now degenerated into mere places of trade, to which all colors, descriptions, and denominations of people resort for barter; and bear a much more striking resemblance to common country stores, than to the public establishments of a benevolent Government. The desperate efforts which the factors make to secure individually their reputations as traders, and jointly to prop the questionable pecuniary credit of the whole system, are, in my opinion, but little favorable to that serenity of mind, mildness of disposition, and undeviating conformity to a strictly moral deportment, which we, in civilized society, consider essential qualities in those we trust as our guides “ to another and a better world.” Even we value example as high as precept; with savages, the former is most likely to be efficacious. And believing these gentlemen to be equally fallible with the generality of their brethren in trade, I should imagine they were selected by the superintendent of Indian trade more for their trafficking than apostolic abilities, as the head of that department is too intimately acquainted with the nature of missions among a rude people to have appointed the present incumbents to teach repentance and remission of sins to the children of the wilderness. It is hardly necessary to add, that I do not believe either factories or factors are likely to enlarge the jurisdiction of the church. I5th. I have no knowledge whatever that there is a want of probity in any of the factors. It is, nevertheless, true that they have, in some cases, furnished goods to men whose characters were not above suspicion, and, without giving bond for their correct deportment in the Indian country, have sent them to ramble (unrestrained by any pecuniary penalty) over that part of the forest they chose to select for the theatre of their operations; and that, in these vagrant excursions, they frequently met the debtors of the private traders, and induced them to part with the means of paying what they in the autumn had obtained on credit from the trader, in clothing, to protect their families against the rigors of the following winter, and wherewith to pursue the chase advantageously. Now this might not legally be called dishonesty, but sure I am it is hardly fair. It is no less true that the factory system pays no interest for the fund which supports it; that all the officers, whether superintendent, factors, or others, are paid their salaries out of an appropriation totally distinct from the trade fund; that the transportation from any of the Atlantic cities, or even Georgetown, in this District, to any of the northwestern factories, docs not cost ten per cent, on the invoice of a regular assortment of Indian goods, and still less on such mixed supplies as are found at the public trading-houses; and that, notwithstanding the factors usually sell at a rate to yield an average advance of at least fifty per cent, on the cost of their goods, and possess, besides, all these other extraordinary advantages, the original fund is in danger of diminishing. I confess that, to me, it appears inexplicable how any trade can possibly fail to maintain itself, when it maintains all its means of operation, both fiscal and executive, free of every charge; and the wonder increases when we recollect that the sales are at an average of forty per cent, clear gain. I, however, trust that the committee will succeed in giving to this commercial phenomenon a tangible form, although I much fear they will find it the unprofitable labor of “chasing a shadow.” I cannot close the answer to this query without stating my conviction that the factors are every where industrious, persevering, and as much devoted to their business as any men ought to be. For my own part, I believe these public trading-houses of a character completely negative for the purpose of controlling the propensities of the Indians, and attaching them to the United States; and I am confident, from my own knowledge, acquired by sixteen years of actual experience and observation, backed by information which I deem unquestionable, that the factories can never conciliate the good-will of the Indians, reclaim them from savage habits, convert them to Christianity, confer any real advantage in trade, or for an hour preserve peace on the frontiers. In illustration of several of the statements I have made, some of the factories, which may be relied on as genuine, returned to me, when no longer required by the committee. To the COMMITTEE of the Senate, on Indian Affairs. I transmit, herewith, some invoices and accounts from And I have to request that the papers in question be RAMSAY CROOKS. Invoice of merchandise furnished Michael Brisbois from the United States factory at Prairie du Chien, to trade on public account with the Indians at or near the Fox Lead Mines, on the river Mississippi, July 23, 1818. 2 pairs 3 point blankets, new,	- 3 pairs 2j point blankets, new,	- 3 pairs 2 point blankets, new,	- 3 pairs 1 point blankets, new,	- 3 pairs old 2 point blankets, -	- 1 piece blue stroud, 21 yards,	- 1 lb. blue beads,	-	- 4 lb. white beads,	-	- 10 masses scarlet garnet, -	- 6 masses mock garnet, -	- 1 bundle green beads, 1 lb. -	- 1 gross brass finger rings, -	- 6 dozen white finger rings, with glass, - 36 hair pipes, -	-	- 1 dozen children’s bells, large,	- 1 nest tin kettles.	-	- 50 pairs silver ear-bobs, large,	- 50 pairs silver ear-bobs, less, -	- 2 pieces riband, 1 inch wide,	- 2 pieces fancy riband, 1| and 1 inch wide, 1 piece Camperdown calico, 284 yards, - 1 piece wide calico, 20 yards,	- 1 piece domestic calico, 12 yards,	- 1 piece furniture calico, 284 yards,	- 4 copper kettles, weight 21 lbs.,	- 2 rifles,	-	-	- 1 keg powder, 50 lbs.,	-	- 1 pairs armbands,	-	- 2 pairs wristbands,	- 1 crowbars,	-	-	- 2 picks,	-	-	. 2 hammers,	-	-	- 2 lbs. vermilion,	-	- at $12 92 $25 84 11 12 33 36 9 17 27 51 6 67 20 01 3 79 11 37 2 83 59 43 1 84 1 84 1 84 92 50 5 00 374 2 25 - 2 50 - 2 25 25 1 50 33| 12 00 - 33j - 9 50 314 15 87| 25 12 50 2 50 5 00 3 50 7 00 70 19 95 83| 16 70 664 7 98 50 14 25 1 33j 28 00 22 50 45 00 80 40 00 8 54 17 08 3 634 7 27 5 33 10 66 2 92 5 84 3 334 6 67 5 00 10 00 $485 39 Errors excepted: J. W. JOHNSON, U. S. Factor. Invoice of merchandise furnished Michael Brisbois from the United States factory at Prairie du Chien, to trade on public account with the Indians at or near the Fox Lead Mines, on the Mississippi, 9th of August, 1818. 8 pairs 3 point blankets, new, - 8 pairs 24 point blankets, new, - 5 pairs 3 point, old stock, -	- 5 pairs 24 point, old stock,- 3 pieces blue stroud. 56J yards, - 1 piece superfine red stroud, 22| yards,. 3 pieces furniture calico, 84| yards, - 1 piece fancy calico, 291 yards, - 3 pounds vermilion,	-	- 5,000 blue wampum,	-	- 5,000 white wampum,	-	- 10 masses mock garnet,	-	- 2 bundles green beads, 2 pounds, - 100 pairs large ear-bobs,	-	- 100 pairs less ear-bobs,	-	- 100 pairs less ear-bobs, with	stems,	- 1 dozen cow bells,	-	- 6 pairs ear-wheels, 2 inches,	- 4 pairs ear-wheels, 3 inches,	- 2 pairs armbands, eagle,	-	- 6 pairs wristbands, eagle,	-	- 6 hair plates, eagle,	-	- 1 box rifles, 10, No. 4,	-	- $12 92 $103 36 11 12| 89 00 9 17 45 85 4 92 24 60 2 83 160 60 3 17 70 534 55 46 34 50 14 75 5 00 15 00 7 50 37 50 5 00 25 00 374 3 75 2 50 5 00 32 32 00 25 25 00 21 21 00 - 10 00 1 66? 10 00 2 08 8 32 8 54 17 08 3 63 21 78 1 50 9 00 22 00 220 00 $1,015 46? Errors excepted: J. W. JOHNSON, United States Factor. Invoice of merchandise furnished Michael Brisbois from the United States factory at Prairie du Chien, to trade with Indians at or near the Fox Lead Mines, onthe Mississippi, 15th August, 1818. 1 box containing 10 rifles, at $13 67,	-	-	-	-	-	- 100 hair pipes, 207 inches, at 7 cents,	----- 2 papers of needles, at 25 cents,	...... 1 pound colored thread, ------- $136 70 14 49 50 2 00 153 69 Advance, 66| per cent.,	------- 102 46 $256 15 Errors excepted: J. W. JOHNSON, United States Factor. Invoice of merchandise furnished Michael Brisbois from the United States factory at Prairie du Chien, to trade with Indians near the Fox Bead Mines, on the Mississippi, 18th September, 1818. 3 long square-barrel rifles, at $13 67,	-	-	-	-	-	- 3 short rifles, at $12 50,	-	-	-	-	-	-	- 1 dozen fire steels,	------	- $41 01 37 50 50 Advance, 66$ per cent.,	....... 79 01 52 68 $131 69 Errors excepted: J. W. JOHNSON, United States Factor. Michael Brisbois in account with John W. Johnson. 1819. June 25, July 5, July 16, July 19, Aug. 29, Sept. 9, Oct. 10, Oct. 19, Nov. 11, Nov. 15, Nov. 22, Nov. 24, Dec. 7 Dec. 13’ 1820. Jan. 22, Feb. 9, Feb. 15, Feb. 22, March 9, April 6, May 20, DR. 4 boxes antibilious pills,	-	- 3 pounds tea,	-	-	- 1 slip of thread,	-	-	- 6 pipes,	-	-	- l box antibilious pills,	-	- 3 pounds of tea,	-	-	- 6 pounds of tea,	-	-	- 4 pounds of tea,	-	-	- 1 pair fine shoes,	-	-	- 1 pair coarse shoes,	-	-	- 2 pairs boys’ shoes,	-	-	- 1 pair women’s leather shoes, -	- 3 pounds tea,	-	-	- 1 pair boy’s shoes,	-	-	- 2 tin pans,	.... 2 pounds tea,	-	-	- 1 pair coarse shoes,	-	-	- 2 pairs boys’shoes,	-	-	- 1 pair fine shoes,	-	-	- 1 pair coarse shoes,	-	-	- 1 sash, -	-	-	- 4 yards Waterloo prints,	-	- 1 pair coarse shoes,	-	-	- 8 yards Carlisle plaid,	-	- 1819. June 25, Nov. 24, CR. By balance due on old account, -	- By 600 pounds of flour for Shull,	- Balance due J. W. Johnson, -	- CR. By discount with J. P. Gates, -	- By 400 pounds of flour for Indians,	- By this sum for baking flour, -	- By 4 pieces Indian chintz, By 2 pounds vermilion, By baking up to this date. By a barrel of pork, - DR. CR. Balance paid in tea, - at $0 75 $3 00 3 50 10 50 37j 12i 75 75 3 50 10 50 3 50 21 00 3 50 14 00 - 3 00 2 50 - 3 00 - 1 50 3 50 10 50 1 50 3 00 3 50 7 00 - 2 50 3 00 3 00 2 50 - 3 00 75 3 00 2 50 75 6 00 118 37| $3 40 - 36 00 — 39 40 - - 78 97| - $25 00 - 24 00 - 4 00 — 53 00 25 974 - - 11 68 - - 10 00 • 47 654 $25 00 25 00 — 50 00 - - $2 34 J Joseph Rolette in account with J. W. Johnson. DR. 1819. June 25, July 19, Aug. 7, Aug. 12, Aug. 17, Sept. 21, Sept. 23, Oct. 2, Oct. 25, Nov. Nov. 3, 11, Nov. 12, Nov. 22, Dec. 10, 1820. Jan. 16, Jan. 17, Jan. 18, Jan. 24, Feb. 3. Feb. 15, Feb. 25, Feb. 29, March 1, March 13, Note for balance of old account, 1 fancy silk handkerchief, per Mrs. R, - 1 skein silk, per Mrs. R, - 1 buttle peppermint, per Mrs. R, 1 skein silk, per Mrs. R, 1 large dressed deer skin, 2 large dressed deer skins, pound brass wire, at $1 75. 3 pounds tea, delivered Lablanc, at $3 50, 2 pairs women’s leather shoes, per Ferriboutt, 2 pairs women’s leather shoes, per Lablanc, 1 gun for Sioux Indian, (security,) 1 dressed deer skin, delivered Bel), 4 dressed deer skins, at $1 00, 1 box antibilious pills, 1 rifle, for Reed, - 1 pair coarse shoes, $2 50,	D„H„ 1 pair women’s shoes, $1 50, j dellvered Polly’ 1 pair men’s fine shoes, 1 pair women’s fine shoes, $126 21} 2 00 12< 50 2 75 2 62} 10 50 3 00 3 00 15 00 1 50 4 00 75 '22 00 March 14, March 22, March 30, March 31, April 8, May 10, May 15, May 17, May 18, May 23, May 80, June 1, 1 dressed deer skin, at $1 00, 7	> 1 pair moccasins, at 50 cents, 5 0	’ '1 belt, S3 00; 3 pounds wax, $1 00, for Jeanson, 2 pounds alum, - J pound glauber salts,	... } pound glauber salts,	... 1 pair fine shoes, per Polly, for Mr. Lamouch, 1| yard green silk, at $2,00, -	$2 50 7M p 3} yards riband, at 25 cents, -	87}5X	'i yard green silk, per Polly, - 3 yards cotton check, $3 00,7 T w 4 yards ferreting, 50 cents, JL Bnsbois, 5 pairs coarse shoes, at $2 50, (order,) 1 pair coarse shoes, $2 50,	7 2 pairs colored cotton hose, $3 50,5° e ’ 2 pairs coarse shoes, $5 00,	7 1 shawl, $3 00,	borders, - 1 pair worsted hose, $1 75, J i pound alum, - 1 pound tea, per order, ... 3 pairs moccasins,- 5 pounds tea, delivered Polly, at $4 00, - 2 pairs moccasins, (order,) at 50	cents,	- 1 pound glauber salts,	... 5 pound tea, per Jeanson,	- 2 pounds tea, per order,	-	-	. 5 lb. glauber salts, (order,)	- 2 whipsaw files, per order, 9 yards calico, per Mrs. Brisbois, at 75 cents, Cut glass beads for Mrs. R., per Polly, - 1 fusil, sold Sioux Indian, for which you became responsible, 1 plough mould, loaned you November 16, 1818, weighing 6 lbs., in old settlement,	- i lb. salts, - which was not included $4 12} 5 87j June 3, 1819. Sept. 17, Dec. 17, 1820. April 26, June 5, 1^ yard domestic cotton, per Mrs. R., at 75 cents, Your acceptance for Colonel R. Dickson’s account, amounting to CR. 2 dozen each, table, dessert, and tea spoons, 45 lbs. flour, at 6 cents, 1 pair andirons, 44 lbs., at 15 cents, 1 gun, (twice charged,) Amount of Indian account, - John W. Johnson’s account, - Contingent account, J. W. Shull’s account, Amount of account for repairing tools for Shull, Cash for Dickson’s account, - $64 17 2 70 6 60 Balance due, charged on day book, 1 50 4 00 50 50 50 3 00 3 37} 1 00 3 50 12 50 6 00 9 75 50 4 00 1 50 20 00 1 00 25 2 00 8 00 50 1 00 6 75 37} 15 00 50 50 10 00 1 31} 322 90} 45 -50 $368 40} $73 47 15 00 53 914 35 02} 27 00 16 25 6 75 45 50 272 91 95 49 $368 40 This day settled all book accounts, and find the balance due from Mr. Rolette to be $95 49, which stands charged to him on day book, under date of June 5, 1820. SIR:	OFFICE OF INDIAN TRADE, January 28, 1822. I have the honor, in answer to your communication of ihe 24th instant, to reply to it in the order in which the several queries are put. 1st. “ In what towns or cities have you usually purchased goods, including hardware, powder, lead, and tobacco, for the Indian trading-houses?” It is a principle in commerce, that, at whatever point a demand exists, there will exist a corresponding ability to supply it. When this office was in Philadelphia, the 'principal part of the Articles bought by it was procured in that city; when the office was removed to the District of Columbia, the demand in Philadelphia became gradually less and less; and for the reason that our merchants, having the office and its wants always in view, laid themselves out to provide the articles to supply them; whilst the Philadelphians, losing sight of it, were, in the same ratio, unprepared to meet them: and especially does the principle apply to articles used in Indian supplies, they being of but little value except for Indian purposes. Purchases, however, have been, and still are, made in our principal cities of many articles; but our best supplies, and the principal bulk of them, for several years past, have been furnished at the door of this office. Tobacco, for five years past, has been bought at Pittsburg and St. Louis; powder, chiefly from Dupont’s factory at Wilmington, in Delaware, or from his agent, Mr. Cazenove, in Alexandria. I have bought powder in Kentucky, but the factors expressing the disapprobation of the Indians with it, Dupont’s has been generally sent, and at less price. 2d. “ How much have you paid per pound for these last enumerated articles, for the last year?” For tobacco last year was paid, at St. Louis, (the only place at which the article was bought,) eight cents fur inferior, and sixteen and two-thirds cents for superior. No occasion has arisen to make it necessary to buy lead, nor has any been purchased.* Our stock at St. Louis is generally considerable, received from the Sac and Fox Indians, &c.; and from St. Louis it is distributed to the points of our intercourse where it is required. 3d. “ What is the cost per pound of carrying Indian goods from Georgetown, District of Columbia, to St. Louis?” The cost of transportation varies according to circumstances. If the demand for transportation be great, the price is high in that proportion. Last year it cost, at an average, to St. Louis, four and a quarter cents per pound. This year it will be about the same. It has been as high as nine cents per pound, but this is unusual. It ranges between four and six cents per pound. 4th. “At what places have the furs and peltries usually been sold which you have received from the factories?” At this town; where, when it can be so arranged, an annual sale is held. Furs and peltries which cannot be got here in time, but which would arrive after the period generally allotted for the public sale, and which, if kept over till another year, would be eaten up by the expenses and by worms, are sold at New Orleans, Mobile, New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and sometimes at St. Louis, as it is found most convenient. 5th. “ What price have beaver fur and deer skins commanded, by the pound, at the sales made by you in the year 1821, for cash or credit?” In 1821, first quality beaver sold from $3 to $4 90 per pound; inferior or southern, $1 30 to $2 50 per pound. Red deer skins sold from 30 to 33 cents, gray at 22 cents, and shaved from 40 to 41 cents per pound. These were the prices obtained at the annual public auction held in this town in November last. The skins were northern skins, and these always command much higher prices than the southern. In Philadelphia, at public auction, in July- last, best quality southern deer skins sold at 27 cents per pound. In New York, shaved skins sold at 30 cents, red at 24 cents, and gray at 20 cents; damaged, as usual, half-price. Southern beaver sold in New York, at the same time, from 56 cents to $1 12| per pound. These salej are generally on a credit of from three to five months. In illustration of the principle to which I have had the honor to refer, respecting the demand and the ability to supply it, I herewith enclose sundry letters and copies of letters, which may go to show that, although the chief reliance is upon our own merchants for our Indian supplies, yet the state of the markets in our principal cities is inquired into. With what success, the answers to the letters herewith enclosed may serve to illustrate. It will be borne in mind that the agents written to have their interest in their commissions in finding and buying the goods, if they could be procured. Letter marked A, dated 8th May, 1818, contains a request to the agents in New York and Philadelphia to be informed of the state of the markets for the articles named in them. B is the answer from the New York agent. Letter C is the answer from the Philadelphia agent. On comparison of the weights, &c. of the lot he offered to sell, with those called for in my letter, it will be seen that they were not of the proper kinds; but being better than any that could then he had, I proposed afterwards to buy them, when the price had risen 25 per cent. Such is an epitome of the markets of New York and Philadelphia in relation to their ability to furnish Indian supplies. The reasons are to be found in the absence of the demand from the view of the merchants of those places, and in the fact that Indian goods, if not of the proper kinds, are articles in which the importers are sure to lose, they being generally unsuited to other purposes. It is the practice of this office to give to merchants samples and descriptions of all articles in which it deals, reserving the right of selection, and purchasing nothing till it arrives and is inspected, and compared, and approved. This market has become, therefore, the best in the Union for Indian articles. With great respect, sir, T. L. McKENNEY, Superintendent of Indian Affairs. Hon. HENRY JOHNSON, Chairman of the Committee of Indian Affairs. A. Sin:	INDIAN TRADE OFFICE, GEORGETOWN, May 8, 18.18. I will thank you if you will take the trouble to make inquiries in your city after the following articles, and of the following descriptions: Northwest Company blankets, so called: three points, to measure six feet six inches long, and five feet six inches wide; to weigh, per pair, eight and a half pounds. which was for the lake factories, and therefore bought at Pittsburg. Two and a half points to measure six feet three inches long, and five feet two inches wide; to weigh, per pair, seven and à half pounds. Strouds from six to seven quarters wide, to weigh per yard one and a half to one and three-fourths pound. If those goods can be had, please to inform me at what prices. Respectfully, &c. T. L. McKENNEY, Sup't Indian Affairs. To JOSEPH L. DIAS, Esq. Agent for Indian Factories, New York. [Copy of the above sent to Henry Simpson, of Philadelphia, at same time.] SIR:	NEW YORK, June 18, 1818. Your most esteemed favors of the 8th and 14th ultimo are now before me. Relying on your indulgence, I hope you will forgive my having delayed till now answering them, which has been partly occasioned by a hurry of business, and partly by my absence from this city. I have placed to your credit the check for $1,628, enclosed in your said favor of the 14th, and I have since charged you $122 25, for the cost of a parcel of wampum, (say 29,000 white, 1,250 blue,) which I had the honor to forward to you on the 22d May. I was induced to make this purchase in consideration of the price being one dollar lower per 1,000 than what I have been obliged to pay before, and the seller promising me before long an equal quantity of blue ones. As to the inquiries contained in your favor of the 8th, I regret to have to inform you that I have not been able to find out any blankets of the description therein stated, nor do I believe it possible to meet with any. At foot of this, you will find copies of some memoranda I took of some parcels which I was offered, and stating the dimensions, weight, prices, and advances. You will find also some memoranda respecting the strouds. The common credit on those articles is six months; but I expect that I could obtain for the cash a discount of from 3J to 5J. I apprehend that blankets of the weight mentioned in your aforesaid favor of the 8th are very seldom imported into this market, for the dealers in this article with whom I conversed on the subject appear to be unacquainted with blankets of that description. In 1813,1 purchased, by order of General Mason, and forwarded to some of the factories, some 2J and 3 point blankets; but I believe they were of the ordinary sizes and weight, for I remember that I had previously endeavored in vain to procure such ones as you describe. I have the honor, &c. J. LOPES DIAS. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Esq., Superintendent United States Indian Trade. The foregoing is a true copy from the original.	W. FITZHUGH. SIR:	PHILADELPHIA, March 14, 1818. Your favor of the 12th instant was duly received, and I now have the pleasure to reply thereto. The three- point blankets, of which there are 38 bales, 60 pairs in a bale, weighing each 6^ pounds, measuring 1^ yard wide and 2 yards long, real indigo stripes, dressed downwards with the points, and of the very best quality, and which were originally bought by Messrs. Baring, Brothers, & Co. of London, for cash, on account of their being the same kind, in every particular, as the Montreal blanket, or Northwest Company blanket, being ordered of that kind; the price $4 75 per pair, cash; also 5 bales 2J points, 60 pairs per bale, weighing 5 pounds per pair, measure 1^- yard wide, 2 yards long, the same quality, price $3 75 per pair; also 10 bales 3J points, weighing 7| pounds per pair, measure 1£ yard wide, 60 pairs in each bale, 2’ yards long, same quality, $6 25 per pair; also 7 bales blue and red strouds, 7 pieces blue, 3 pieces red, each bale, as pe> sample sent, full 4 wide, well filled and milled, cost 4 shillings sterling per yard, weight 1 pound per yard; also 2 bales 8 pieces blue, 2 pieces scarlet, each bale blue as per sample, of the scarlet no pattern, but cost 5s. 6d. sterling per yard, each piece 31 to 34 yards, price 90 cents per yard, (too low, but must be sold.) 500 dozen butcher knives, as per sample, of light wood handles, at $1 75 per dozen, very cheap. 100 dozen red handled scalping-knives, at $2 per dozen. 10 pairs J green saved list cloths, at $1 75 per yard, (as per sample.) 50 cards of beads, as per sample, at $1 75 per card. 300 pounds of beads, at 90 cents per pound, mostly green, as per sample, but assorted with a few other colors. 10,000 Indian brass bells, at 1 cent per bell. 20 gross Indian awls, at $1 50 per grnss. 100 dozen toilet, pocket, and red covered looking-glasses, at $1 per dozen. I have purchased the 120 pounds of three strand yarn, agreeably to order. I have given the weight of the blankets and strouds according to actual weight; also the measurement; and can say they are as described from conviction, not mere belief; and that I have no doubt they are of the verj’ kind you name: however, all, or any of these articles, I shall be glad to sell you. I name cash for the blankets, because I am ordered to sell them for cash. The strouds are put down also for cash; but, if it makes any difference, some time on them will be given. The butcher knives are very good and very low, and I hope will answer. It will give me great pleasure to execute any orders for you in this city, which I will endeavor to do to your entire satisfaction. Waiting your reply, I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, H. SIMPSON. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Esq., Superintendent Indian Trade U. S., Georgetown, D. C. C. SIR:	PHILADELPHIA, May 11, 1818. In reply to your favor of the Sth instant, I beg leave to state, that there are no blankets in this market of the precise quality and dimensions as those you ask for. For the particulars of the quality of mine, which are the best in this market, I refer you to my letter to you of the 14th March last, and should be glad to sell them to you. With regard to the strouds, I must also state that mine are the best in this market, and of the highest sterling cost. Of these last I have only four bales, which are a consignment, and I must sell them; please make me an offer for them. They are the same as those last sold you, containing the blues and reds; not like those with the scarlets, but much stouter and better. Very respectfully, &c.	H. SIMPSON. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Esq., Superintendent Indian Trade, Georgetown, D. C. SIR:	PHILADELPHIA, May 28, 1818. Not being able to see the owner of the point blankets until to-day, has deferred my reply to your favor of the 25th instant until this time, which I regret very much, as he declines selling the blankets at the prices 1 offered them at in March last. He now asks 25 per cent, more, and will sell them fur cash only. Blanket wool has risen very high in England. Very respectfully, your most obedient servant, H. SIMPSON. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Esq., Superintendent Indian Trade U. S., Georgetown, D. C. SIR:	WASHINGTON CITY, January 26, 1822. The Committee of the Senate on Indian Affairs request you to answer, as soon as convenient, the inquiries which will be found on the following page of this letter. On the part of the committee: THOMAS H. BENTON. Mr. MCKENNEY, Superintendent of Indian Trade, Georgetown. Queries addressed to Mr. McKenney, Superintendent of Indian Trade. 1. What has been the aggregate quantity of each description of articles purchased by you for the Indian trade in the year 1820; the aggregate amount given for each aggregate quantity; the place or places where they were bought; the name or names of the sellers, and the amount bought of each? 2. What has been the aggregate quantity of each description of articles received by you from each of the facto- tories in the year 1821; the aggregate amount for which each description of articles sold; the place or places at which they were sold; the names of the purchasers; the nature of the sales, (whether public or private;) and the terms of payment, whether for ready money or credit? SIR:	INDIAN TRADE OFFICE, February 5, 1822. I have the honor, herewith, to forward sundry abstracts, in compliance with the request of the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate, as contained in your communication of the 26th ult., and which furnish answers to the inquiries which accompanied that communication. Abstract marked A shows the aggregate quantity of each description of articles purchased by me for the Indian trade in the year 1820; the aggregate amount given for each aggregate quantity; the place or places where they were bought; the names of the sellers; and the amount bought of each. Abstracts marked B, C, D, E, F, G, show (each abstract containing the receipts and sales from each factory) what has been the aggregate quantity of each description of articles received by me from each factory in the year 1821; the aggregate amount for which each description of articles was sold, and the place or places at which they were sold; the names of the purchasers; the nature of the sales, whether public or private; the terms of payment, whether for ready money or on credit. Abstract B embraces the call as it applies to the factory at Prairie du Chien; C, the factory at Fort Confederation, on the Tombigbee; D, the factory on the Arkansas; E, Fort Clark, or Osage factory; F, Chicago; G, Fort Edwards. The Marie Decine factory having been just organized, no returns have been received from it; nor were any returns received from the factory on Red river in 1821, owing to delays arising out of the death of the factor. From Green Bay no supplies have been received. From the Fort Edwards factory sundry articles have been received within the present year, and also from the factory on Red river, and from that at Fort Confederation, embracing an estimate of eighty thousand pounds of deer skins, which were sold just within the present year to Geisse and Korckhauss of Philadelphia. For the nature of this sale, see copy of agreement, marked H. It may be proper to remark, that, as the prices of this sale are lower than those realized at the public auction in this town, the skins sold under the contract are southern skins, and are taken, as the contract shows, at a saving of freight and commissions, &c., and the expenses which would have occurred, besides the risk and damage arising out of their voyage here. The letter from New Orleans, marked I, will show the prices of deer skins in that market, as reported by my agents there. Letters K, No. 1, and K, No. 2, will show the correspondence with Geisse and Korckhauss leading to this sale; and letter K, No. 3, contains an offer for the skins by another house in Philadelphia. To save trouble to the committee, I have added a general abstract, which embodies the kinds and amounts of the skins sold, and the total amount received for them. I have the honor to be, sir, with great respect, vour obedient servant, THOS. L. MCKENNEY, S. I. T. The Hon. THOMAS H. BENTON. A. NAMES OF THE SELLERS. WHERE BOUGHT. Fish lines. Yarn. Axes. Kettles. Tin pans* Tin cups. Saddles. Bridles. Leg and body belts. Shoes. Dozen. Amount. Pounds. Amount. No. Amount. Nests. Amount. Nests. Amount. Doz. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. Pairs. Amount. Charles Dean, Henry Simpson, David English, Walter Gody, W. L. Ogden, Charles Hunt & Co., A. C. Cazenove & Co., G. W. Haller, R. Tonge, W. Thomson, John Lutz, John D. Clark, Edward Davis, E. Dupont & Co., - J. and T. Corcoran, A. Joncherez, D. Clagett, H. Derringer, E. Peet, H. C. Neilson, William Mackey, -	- Z. C. Chesley, Thomas C. Hodges, R. Riggs, William McKenney, C. A. Burnett, Price and Morgan, - Truman Beck, Thomas C. Wright, Wharton and Grinage, Samuel McKenney, John Litle, Hazel and Linthicum, A. C. Zabriskie, Montgomery and Stinger, - George Sutton, Ordnance Department, John D. Scott, Georgetown, - Philadelphia, - Georgetown, - Géorgetown, - Georgetown, Georgetown, - Alexandria. Georgetown, Georgetown, - Georgetown, - Georgetown, - Georgetown, - Georgetown, - Wilmington, Del. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Philadelphia. Georgetown. Baltimore. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Philadelphia. Georgetown. Georgetown, - Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown, - New York. New Orleans. Pittsburg. Pittsburg. Georgetown. 57 $45 75 45 $146 00 110 100 $123 75 112 50 12 12 7 18 6 1 $64 80 120 00 63 00 178 50 32 40 8 59 6 4 6 $11 40 10 40 13 95 6 12 $4 50 9 00 15 15 $189 00 189 00 114 114 $145 50 145 50 24 24 $5 50 5 50 96 268 $107 40 258 50 The aggregate quantity and scription, - cost of each de- 57 $45 75 45 $146 00 210 $236 25 56 $467 29 16 $35 75 18 $13 50 30 $378 00 228 $291 00 48 $11 00 364 $365 90 Statement showing the aggregate quantity of each description of articles purchased by Thomas L. McKenney, Superintendent of Indian Trade, for the Indian trade in the year 1820; the aggregate amount given for each aggregate quantity; the place or places where they were bought; the names of the sellers, and the amount bought of each. INDIAN AFFAIRS.	[No. 187. NAMES OF THE SELLERS» WHERE BOUGHT. Powder. Cambric. Stockings. Riband. Kegs. Amount. Yards. Amount. Pairs. Amount. Pieces. Amount. Charles Dean, Henry Simpson, David English, Walter Gody, W. L. Ogden, Charles Hunt & Co., A. C. Cazenove & Co., G. W. Haller, R. Tonge, W. Thomson, John Lutz, John D. Clark, Edward Davis, E. Dupont & Co., - J. and T. Corcoran, A. Joncherez, D. Clagett, H. Derringer, E. Peet, II. C. Neilson, William Mackey, - Z. C. Chesley, Thomas C. Hodges, R. Riggs, William McKenney, C. A. Burnett, Price and Morgan, ■ Truman Beck, Thomas C. Wright, _ Wharton and Grinage, Samuel McKenney, John Litle, Hazel and Linthicum, A. C. Zabriskie, Montgomery and Stinger, - George Sutton, Ordnance Department, John D. Scott, Georgetown. Philadelphia. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Alexandria, Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown, - Wilmington, D. Georgetown, - Georgetown. Georgetown, - Philadelphia. Georgetown, - Baltimore. Georgetown, - Georgetown. Georgetown, - Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Philadelphia. Georgetown. Georgetown, - Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. New York. New Orleans. Pittsburg. Pittsburg. Georgetown. 130 30 $796 93 165 00 24 $7 50 72 144 $18 00 61 68 98 20 * $98 00 21 03 The aggregate quantity and cost of each description,	- 160 $961 93 24 $7 50 216 $79 68 118 $119 03 Linen.	Blankets. Sheeting. Handkerchiefs and shawls. Calico. Domestic cottons. Yards. Amount. Pairs. Amount. Pieces. Amount. Amount. Yards. Amount. Yards. Amount. $505 62 165 25 $70 00	116 47 25 40 73'$67 25 421 32 00 48 50 182 $84 26 1,228 $216 87 77 87 395	134 80 200	550 00 12 44 83 19,997 4,107 38 1822.]	OPERATIONS OF THE FACTORY SYSTEM. 760 $237 18 445 $1,220 87 20 $262 69 1,323 $632 30 710 $206 96 21,225 $4,324 25 NAMES OF THE SELLERS. WHERE BOUGHT. Pipes. Rifles and guns. Silk. Nankeens. Boxes. Amount. No. Amount. Yards. Amount. Pieces. Amount. Charles Dean, Henry Simpson, - David English, Walter Gody, W. L. Ogden, Charles Hunt & Co. A. C. Cazenove & Co. G. W. Haller, R. Tongc, W. Thomson, John Lutz, John D. Clark, Edward Davis, E. Dupont & Co. J. & T. Corcoran, A. Joncherez, D. Clagett, H. Derringer, E. Peet, - H. C. Neilson, William Mackey, - Z. C. Chesley, Thomas C. Hodges, R. Riggs, - William McKenney, C. A. Burnett, Price & Morgan, - Truman Beck, Thomas C. Wright, Wharton & Grinage, Samuel McKenney, John Litle, Hazel and Linthicum, A. C. Zabriskie, - Montgomery & Stinger, - George Sutton, Ordnance Department, John D. Scott, Georgetown. Philadelphia. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Alexandria. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Wilmington, Del. Georgetown. Georgetown, Georgetown. Philadelphia, Georgetown, Baltimore, Georgetown. Georgetown, Georgetown, ' Georgetown, Georgetown, Georgetown, Philadelphia, Georgetown. Georgetown, Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. New York. New Orleans. Pittsburg. Pittsburg, Georgetown. 4 $20 25 141 50 40 40 $2,079 37 500 00 290 21 512 50 147 $116 61 10 40 $9 50 43 50 The aggregate quantity and cost of each description,	... 4 $20 25 271 $3,382 08 147 $116 61 50 . $53 00 Buttons. Vesting. Cords and velvets. Cloth and strouds. Tools. Armbands. Gross. Amount. Yards. Amount. Yards. Amount. Yards. Amount. Chests. Amount. Pairs. Amount. 15 28 «43 78 46 54 23 263 X $20 92 219 49 71 245 $35 50 174 64 409 2,210 402 $467 55 1,883 21 1,434 74 1 $37 00 40 $181 20 43 $90 32 286 $240 41 316 $210 14 3,021 $3,785 50 1 $37 00 40 $181 20 INDIAN AFFAIRS.	[No. 187. NAMES OF THE SELLEES. WHERE BOUGHT. Ear rings. Hats. Flannel. Corn hoes. Pairs. Amount. No. Amount. Yards. Amount. No. Amnunt. Charles Dean, Henry Simpson, - David English, Walter Gody, W. L. Ogden, Charles Hunt & Co. A. C. Cazenove & Co. G. W. Haller, - R. Tongc, W. Thomson, John Lutz, John D. Clark, Edward Davis, E. Dupont & Co. - J. & T. Corcoran, A. Joncherez, D. Clagett, II. Derringer, E. Peet, - H. C. Neilson, . William Mackey, - Z. C. Chesley, - Thomas C. Hodges, R. Riggs, - William McKenney, C. A. Burnett, Price & Morgan, - Truman Beck, Thomas C. Wright, Wharton and Grinage, Samuel McKenney, John Litle, Hazel & Linthicum, A. C. Zabriskie, - Montgomery & Stinger, - George Sutton, Ordnance Department, - John D. Scott, Georgetown. Philadelphia. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Alexandria. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Wilmington, Del. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Philadelphia. Georgetown. Baltimore. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown, Philadelphia. Georgetown, Georgetown, Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. . Georgetown, New York. New Orleans. Pittsburg. Pittsburg. Georgetown. 250 $31 25 128 $241 00 594 $232 65 396 12 $232 92 6 00 The aggregate quantity and cost of each description,	r 250 $31 25 128 $241 00 594 $232 65 408 $238 92 Curtain and fin- ger rings. Needles. Scotch plaid. Cotton balls. Fish hooks. Candlewick. Gross. Amount. Amount. Pieces. Amount. No. Amount. Amount. Lbs. Amount. 22	«31 95	1,000	«2 00 2,500	$9 53	10 $5 50 1822.]	OPERATIONS OF THE FACTORY SYSTEM. 22	$31 95	1,000	$2 00 $33 90	250	50	2,500	$9 53 NAMES OF THE SELLERS. WHERE BOUGHT. Thread. Jews’ harps. Spurs. Gun locks. Lbs. Amount. Gross. Amount. Pairs. Amount. No. Amount. Charles Dean, Henry Simpson, - David English, Walter Gody, W. L. Ogden, Charles Hunt & Co., A. C. Cazenove & Co,, - G. W. Haller, R. Tonge, W. Thomson, John Lutz, John D. Clark, - Edward Davis, E. Dupont & Co., J. & T. Corcoran, A. Joncherez, D. Clagett, H. Derringer, E. Peet, .- H. C. Neilson, William Mackey, - Z. C. Chesley, Thomas C. Hodges, R. Riggs, - William McKenney, C. A. Burnett, Price & Morgan, - Truman Beck, Thomas C. Wright, Wharton and Grinage, Samuel McKenney, John Litle, Hazel & Linthicum, A. C. Zabriskie, - Montgomery & Stinger, - George Sutton, Ordnance Department, John D. Scott, Georgetown. Philadelphia. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Alexandria. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Wilmington, Del. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Philadelphia. Georgetown. Baltimore. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Philadelphia. Georgetown. Georgetown, Georgetown, Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown, New York. New Orleans. Pittsburg. Pittsburg. Georgetown. 79 $117 10 8 $30 16 46 12 $35 80 13 50 78 $129 42 The aggregate quantity and cost of each description, -	-	- 79 $117 10 8 $30 16 58 $49 30 78 $129 42 Shot. Combs. Leno. Drawing knives. Spades. Cards. Lbs. Amount. Doz. Amount. Pieces. Amount. Doz. Amount. Doz. Amount. Doz. pairs. Amount. 1,276 $105 00 18 $37 42 20 $50 00 12 $63 87 2 $26 00 75 $610 43 - - - - - - i 3 75 1,276 $105 00 18 $37 42 20 $50 00 12j $67 62 2 $26 00 75 $610 43 INDIAN AFFAIRS. NAMES OF THE SELLERS. WHERE BOUGHT. Weavers’ slays. Plumes. Pocket knives. Saws. Horse and cow bells. Bed cords. Shot belts and powder flasks. Reeds. Amount. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. Amount. Doz. Amount. No. Amount. Charles Dean, Henry Simpson, - David English, Walter Gody, W. L. Ogden, Charles Hunt & Co., A. C. Cazenove & Co., G. W. Haller, R. Tonge, W. Thomson, John Lutz, John D. Clark, Edward Davis, E. Dupont & Co., J. & T. Corcoran, A. Joncherez, D. Clagett, II. Derringer, E. Peet, - H. C. Neilson, William Mackey, - Z. C. Chesley, Thomas C. Hodges, R. Riggs, - William McKenney, C. A. Burnett, Price & Morgan, - Truman Beck, Thomas C. Wright, Wharton & Grinage, Samuel McKenney, John Litle, Hazel & Linthicum, A. C. Zabriskie, - Montgomery & Stinger, George Sutton, Ordnance Department, John D. Scott, Georgetown. - Philadelphia. - Georgetown. - Georgetown. Georgetown. - Georgetown. - Alexandria. - Georgetown. Georgetown. - Georgetown. - Georgetown. - Georgetown. - Georgetown. - Wilmington, Del. - Georgetown. - Georgetown. Georgetown. • Philadelphia. Georgetown. - Baltimore. Georgetown. - Georgetown. Georgetown. - Georgetown. Georgetown. - Georgetown. - Philadelphia. Georgetown. - Georgetown, Georgetown, - Georgetown. Georgetown. - Georgetown. - New York. - New Orleans. - Pittsburg. - Pittsburg. - Georgetown. 100,100 $210 00 $94 00 207 $20 95 1822.]	OPERATIONS OF THE FACTORY SYSTEM. The aggregate quantity and cost of each description, - 100,100 $210 00 24	$35 04	162 $51 41 6	$42 60 5	$94 00	207 $20 95	12	$9 10 GO GO NAMES OF THE SELLERS. WHERE BOUGHT. Crockery ware. Medicine. Files. Sad irons. Crates. Amount. Boxes. Amount. No. Amount. Lbs. Amount. Charles Dean, Henry Simpson, David English, Walter Gody, W.L. Ogden, Charles Hunt & Co., A. C. Cazenove & Co., G. W. Haller, R. Tonge, ... W. Thomson, John Lutz, - John D. Clark, Edward Davis, E. Dupont & Co., - J. and T. Corcoran, A. Joncherez, D. Clagett, - II. Derringer, E. Peet, - H. C. Neilson, William Mackey, - Z. C. Cliesley, Thomas C. Hodges, It. Riggs, ... William McKenney, C. A. Burnett, Price & Morgan, Truman Beck, Thomas C.Wright, Wharton & Grinage, Samuel McKenney, - JohnLitle, - Hazel & Linthicum, A. C. Zabriskie, Montgomery & Stinger, George Sutton, Ordnance Department, John D. Scott, Georgetown. Philadelphia, Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Alexandria. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Wilmington, Del. Georgetown.. Georgetown. Georgetown. Philadelphia. Georgetown. Baltimore. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Philadelphia. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown. Georgetown, Georgetown, Georgetown, New York, New Orleans, Pittsburg. Pittsburg. Georgetown, 1 59 38 1 57 93 108 30 37 53 5 30 The aggregate quantity and cost of each description, ..... 1 $59 38 1 $57 93 108 $30 37 53 $5 30 Chisels. Augers. Locks. Plane irons. Wampum. Sugar. No. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. Grains. Amount. Lbs. Amount. - 12 5 00 6 2 70 12 4 50 12 4 00 600,000 2,400 00 5,068 557 48 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 50 12 81 12 $5 00 6 $2 70 12 $4 50 12 $4 00 600,000 $2,400 00 5,118 $570 29 INDIAN AFFAIRS. RAMES OF THE SELLERS. WHERE BOUGHT- Coffee. Lead. Soap. Tobacco. Ir Lbs. Amount. Lbs. Am’nt. Lbs. Am’nt. Lbs. Amount. Lbs. Charles Dean, Georgetown, Henry Simpson, Philadelphia, — — David English, Georgetown, — — Walter Gody, Georgetown, — W. L. Ogden, Georgetown, — — Charles Hunt & Co., Georgetown, — — A. C. Cazenove & Co., Alexandria, G. W. Haller, Georgetown, — — R. Tonge, - Georgetown, — —. W. Thomson, Georgetown, — — John Lutz, - Georgetown, — — John D. Clark, Georgetown, Edward Davis, Georgetown, — E. Dupont & Co., - Wilmington, Del. — J. and T. Corcoran, Georgetown, — — A. Joncherez, Georgetown, — — D. Clagett, - Georgetown, — — II. Derringer, Philadelphia, — — E. Peet, - Georgetown, — H. C. Neilson, Baltimore, » William Mackey, - Georgetown, — — Z. C. Chesley, Georgetown, — — Thomas C. Hodges, Georgetown, — — R. Riggs, - Georgetown, — — William McKenney, Georgetown, — C. A. Burnett, Georgetown, — — Price & Morgan, - Philadelphia, — — Truman Beck, Georgetown, — —. Thomas C.Wright, Georgetown, — — Wharton & Grinage, Georgetown, — — Samuel McKenney, Georgetown, — John Litle, ... Georgetown, Hazel & Linthicum, Georgetown, — — A. C. Zabriskie, New York, » Montgomery & Stinger, New Orleans, 3,265 979 50 - George Sutton, Pittsburg, — 506 50 60 201 26 44 1,536 230 40 500 Ordnance Department, Pittsburg, — — John D. Scott, Georgetown, 50 15 37$ - Aggregate quantity and cost of each description, 3,315 $994 87$ 506 $50 60 201 $26 44 1,536 $230 40 500 on. Steel. Nail rods. Window glass. Tea. Pepper. Amount. Lbs. Amount. co 37 50 47 11 75 Amount. Box. Amount. I.bs. Amount. Lbs. Amount. Aggregate amount bought of each. 24 00 9 00 83 83 00 65 15 97 45 75 146 00 123 75 80 70 340 00 107 40 796 93 120 00 63 00 188 90 340 00 55 35 284 00 165 00 1,081 58 20 25 212 50 2,079 37 177 96 500 00 62 80 74 20 161 87 467 55 37 00 212 45 1,883 21 241 00 10,016 50 548 66 59 38 57 93 82 08 2,400 00 1,536 98 839 69 512 50 127 17 $37 50 47 $11 75 $24 00 $9 00 83 $83 00 65 $15 97 $25,799 41 1822.]	OPERATIONS OF THE FACTORY SYSTEM.	345 B. Statement showing the aggregate quantity of each description of articles received by Thomas L. McKenney, Superintendent of Indian Trade, from the Prairie du Chien Factory, in the year 1821; the aggregate amount for which each description of articles was sold; the place or places at which they were sold; the names of the purchasers; the nature of the sales, and terms of payment. HAMES OF THE PURCHASERS. HOW SOLD. WHERE SOLD. TERMS OF SALE. Muskrat skins. Deer skins. Rackoon skins. Wolf, fox, and cat skins. Lead. Mats. Beaver. Number. Amount. Pounds. Amount. Number. Amount. Number. Amount. Pounds. Amount. Number. Amount. Pounds. Amount. B. Ingels, Private, St. Louis, Cash, 1,000 $300 00 25 $5 00 Baine~& Browne, Do. Do. Do. 1,000 310 00 25 5 00 Uzzed & Kirkpatrick, Do. Do. Do. 500 155 00 42 8 40 600 $225 00 80 $30 00 Sold by J. Kennerly, - Do. Do. Do. - - - - - - 18,561 $928 05 31 $24 80 J. Amos, Auction, Georgetown, At ninety days, - « 100 81 00 T. L. Martin, Do. Do. Do. 300 102 00 150 120 50 - - - - - - 33 $79 20 Hower, Do. Do. Do. 100 24 00 150 60 50 - - - - 35 169 75 D. Wright, Do. Do. Do. 100 57 00 100 50 00 Gilbert, - Do. Do. Do. * - 50 40 00 Rickenbough, Do. Do. Do. - - 50 39 50 Steiner, - Do. Do. Do. - - 60 48 00 Pearson, - Do. Do. Do. 300 72 00 178 16 38 Williams, Do. Do. Do. 200 106 00 150 32 00 - • - - - 30 76 50 Rousculp, Do. Do. Do. 110 34 10 150 30 50 B. Gilpin, Do. Do. Do. 200 66 00 T. Beck, - Do. Do. Do. 100 25 00 Brown, - Do. Do. Do. 100 28 00 S. W. Handy, Do. Do. Do. - • - • - •• - - - - •• 30 147 00 Geisse & Korckhauss, Do. Do. Do. - - 2,937 1,128 40 - - 90 36 61 Corcoran, Do. Do. Do. Astor, Do. Do. Do. - - - - - 100 41 00 Windsor, Do. Do. Do. Davis, Do. Do. Do. - - 87 13 05 Fricke, - Do. Do. Do. - 345 75 46 Halsey, - Do. Do. Do. - - 2,667 619 69 E. Hattersly, Do. Do. Do. - 133 17 29 Aggregate quantity of each description, - - - 4,010 - 6,261 - 1,738 - 270 • 18,561 - 31 - 128 Aggregate amount of each description, - - - - - 1,279 10 - 1,872 29 - 743 38 107 64 - 928 05 24 80 ■ 472 45 INDIAN AFFAIRS. co KAMEB OP THB PURCHASERS. UOW BOLD. WHERE SOLD. TERMS OP BALE. Otler skins. Mink skins. Number. Amount. Number. Amount. B. Ingels, Baine & Browne, Uzzed & Kirkpatrick, Sold by J. Kennedy, - J. Amos, - T. L. Martin, Hower, - D. Wright, Gilbert, - Rickenbough, Steiner, - Pearson, - Williams, Rousculp, B. Gilpin, T. Beck, - Brown, - S. W. Handy, Geisse & Korckhauss, Corcoran, Astor, Windsor, Davis, Fricke, - Halsey, - E. Ilattersly, Aggregate quantity of each description, - Aggregate amount of each description, Private, Do. Do. Do. Auction, Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. St. Louis, Do. Do. Do. Georgetown, Dœ Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Cash. Do. . Do. Do. At ninety days. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. ■ Do. 125 50 $500 55 135 $31 10 175 555 135 31 10 Marten skins. Rabbit skins. Fisher skins. Ground bog' skins. Bear skins. Cub skins. Numb. Amount. Numb. Amount. Numb. Amount. Numb. Amount. Numb. Amount. Numb. Amount. 140 $8 75 >5 $11 40 • - 24 $22 80 - - - - 17 $21 25 - - - 53 60 95 19 $10 45 - - - - - 30 $102 20 66 15 - 140 - 77 - 19 - 50 - 17 - 11 40 - 8 75 - 83 75 - 10 45 - 168 - 21 25 1822.]	OPERATIONS OF THE FACTORY SYSTEM. CO c. Statement showing the aggregate quantity of each description of articles received by Thomas L. McKenney, Superintendent of Indian Trade, from the Choctaw Factory, in the year 1821; the ag- gregate amount for which each description of articles was sold; the place or places at which they were sold; the names of the purchasers; the nature of the sales, and the terms of payment. FAMES OF PURCHASERS. HOW SOLD. WHERE SOLD. TERMS OF BALE. Deer skins. Bees’ wax. Tallow. Otter skins. Beaver. Fox and cat skins. Pounds. Amount. Pounds. Amount. P’nds. Amount. No. Amount. Pounds. Amount. No. Amount. Geisse & Korckhauss, McClintock & Hawthorn, Andrew Morris, - Dilworth & Voorhees, Halsey & Ebberts, McClintock & Hawthorn, Geisse & Korckhauss, James Burr,	- Dilworth & Voorhees, Private, Do. Do. Do. , Do. New York, Do. Do. Do. Do. At 3 and 5 months, Cash, Do. Do. Do. 69,411 671 23,806 $11,801 40 268 40 4,393 89 953 355 $333 73 127 80 94 $10 77 50 168 $100 00 336 00 641 $718 87 984 $121 07 Aggregate quantify of each description, - Aggregate amount of each description, - - 93,888 $16,463 69 1,308 $461 53 94 $10 77 218 $436 00 641 $718 87 984 $121 07 INDIAN AFFAIRS. D. Statement showing the aggregate quantity of each description of articles received by Thomas L. McKenney, Superintendent of Indian Trade, from the Arkansas Factory, in the year 1821; the ag- gregate amount for which each description of articles was sold; the place or places at which they were sold; the names of the purchasers; the nature of the sales, and the terms of payment. NAMES OF THE PURCHASERS. HOW SOLD. WHERE SOLD. TERMS OF SALE. Deer skins. Bear oil. Rackoon skins. Beaver. • Bear skins. Cub skins. Wolf, lux, and cat skins. Pounds. Amount. Galls. Amount. No. Amount. Pounds. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. Sold by Price & Morgan, Prior & Pascal, Geisse & Korckhauss, - Juel Brown, 	Pearson, 	Rickenbough, T. C. Wright, R.	Kirby & Co. G. Davis, S.	W. Handy, B. Gilpin, D. Wright, R. Kirby & Co. T.	L. Martin, 	Laurence, R. Windsor, J. Lutz, W. L. Ogden, H. Pyfer, Auction, - Private, - Do. Auction, - Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Philadelphia, New Orleans, Do. Georgetown, Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Cash, Cash, At 3 and 5 months, At ninety days, Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. 714 21,551 $192 78 4,936 78 36 $45 50 200 50 416 150 100 $19 00 74 00 20 00 61 40 22 00 15 00 41 30 30 48 10 $143 50 112 50 108 00 94 80 28 50 80 120 20 70 30 26 $240 00 362 00 60 00 190 50 60 00 62 40 64 26 $57 60 16 90 194 82 $38 80 21 32 Aggregate quantity and amount of each description, 22,265 $5,129 56 36 $45 966 $211 40 159 $487 30 346 $974 90 90 $74 50 276 $60 12 1822.]	OPERATIONS OF THE FACTORY SYSTEM. E. Statement showing the aggregate quantity of each description of articles received by T. L. McKenney, Superintendent of Indian Trade, from the Osage Factory, in the year 1821; the aggregate amount for which each description of articles was sold; the place or places at which they were sold; the names of the purchasers; the nature of the sales; and the terms of payment. JTAME9 OF THE FÜHCHABEBB. HOW BOLD. WHERX SOLD. TERMS OF BALE. Beaver skins. Rackoon skins. Muskrat skins. Bear skins. Cub skins. Otter skins. Wolf, fox, and cat skins. Deer skins. Pounds. Amount. Number. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount, Nu. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. Pounds. Amount. B. Ingels, Private, St. Louis, - Cash, 49 55148 50 ■	Jackson, Auction, Georgetown, At ninety days, • - 50 $30 00 B. Gilpin, Do. Do. Do. - - 50 28 00 Pearson, Do. Do. Do. - 100 51 00 R. Kirby & Co. Do. Do. Do. 64 83 20 63 6 93 J. T. Wilbar, Do. Do. Do. - - - - 26 $7 80 D. Wright, Do. Do. Do. 37 114 70 T. L. Martin, Do. Do. Do. 30 90 00 R. Windsor, Do. Do. Do. 60 $154 50 10 $3 60 Do. 2D 40 00 20 40 394 G. Davis, Do. Do. Do. 33 28 05 - 9 1 80 Corcoran, Do. Do. Do. 53 $163 80 •	.Fricke, Do. Do. Do. - - - 439 144 87 Halsey & Ebberts, Z Do. Do. Do. - - • - - - - - 835 342 35 Aggregate quantity and amount of each description, 180 5436 40 263 $115 93 26 $7 80 80 $194 50 43 $31 65 53 $163 80 29 $7 20 1,668 $609 36 350	INDIANAFFAIRS. F. Statement showing the aggregate quantity of each description of articles received by Thomas L. McKenney, Superintendent of Indian Trade, from the Chicago Factory, in the year 1821; the aggregate amount for which each description of articles was sold; the place or places at which they were sold; the names of the purchasers; the nature of the sales, and the terms of payment. Names of purchasers. How sold. Where sold. Terms of sale. Rackoon skins. Muskrat skins. Otter skins. Mink skins. No. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. No. Am’t. Rousculp,	- Steiner,	- R. Kirby & Co., - T. C. Wright, - Halsey & Ebberts, Auction, Do. Do. Do. Do. Georgetown, Doi Do. Do. At 90 days, Do. Do. Do. Do. 100 57 128 $88 00 50 16 17 28 303 $102 86 16 $68 80 18 $2 88 The aggregate quantity and amount of each description, 285 $155 44 303 $102 86 16 $68 80 18 $2 88 G. Statement showing the aggregate amount of each description of articles received by Thomas L. McKenney, Superintendent of Indian Trade, from the Fort Edwards Factory, in the year l&H-, fhe aggregate amount for which each description of articles was sold; the place or places at which they were sold; the nature of the sale, and the terms of payment. How sold. Where sold. Terms of sale. Bees’ wax. Pounds. Amount. Sold by J. Kinnerly, purchaser not known,	- Private sale, St Louis, - Cash,	- 220 $44 00 General abstract, showing the aggregate quantity of each description of articles received from each of the factories, by the Superintendent of Indian Trade, in the year 1821, and the aggregate amount for which each description of articles was sold, and the total amount sold. FROM WHAT FACTORY RECEIVED. Bear’s oil. Muskrat skins. Deer skins. Rackoon skins. Wolf, fox, and cat skins. Lead. Mats. Beaver. Otter. Gallons. Amount. No. Amount. Pounds. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. Pounds. Amount. No. Amount. Pounds. Amount. No. Amount. B. Prairie du Chien,	-	« C. Choctaw, D. Arkansas,	- E. Osage, - F. Chicago,	- G. Fort Edwards, 36 $45 00 4,010 26 303 $1,279 10 7 80 102 86 6,261 93,888 22,265 1,668 $1,872 29 16,463 69 5,129 56 609 36 1,738 966 263 285 $743 38 211 40 115 93 155 44 270 984 276 29 $107 64 121 07 60 12 7 20 18,561 $928 05 31 $24 80 128 641 159 180 $472 45 718 87 487 30 436 40 175 218 53 16 $555 00 436 00 163 80 68 80 Quantity, Amount, -	- - .. , "" ■ 11. ... , ■ " — 36 $45 00 4,339 $1,389 76 124,082 $24,074 90 3,252 $1,226 15 1,559 $296 03 18,561 $928 05 31 $24 80 1,108 $2,115 02 462 $1,223 60 FROM WHAT FACTORY RECEIVED. Mink. Marten. Rabbit. Fisher. Ground hog. Bear. Cub. Bees’ wax. Tallow. Total amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. No. Amount. Pounds. Amount. Pounds. Amount. B. Prairie du Chien, 135 $31 10 15 $11 40 140 $8 75 77 $83 75 19 $10 45 50 $168 00 17 $21 25 — $6,317 41 C. Choctaw,	... — — — — __ — — — — 1,308 $461 53 94 $10 77 18,211 93 D. Arkansas, — — — — — — — — 346 974 90 90 1 74 50 — — — — 6,982 78 E. Osage, - — — * * 80 194 50 43 31 65 — — — 1,566 64 F. Chicago,	... 18 2 88 — — — — — — 329 98 G. Fort Edwards, - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 220 44 00 - - 44 00 Quantity, 153 15 140 77 19 476 150 1,528 94 Amount, - $33 98 - $11 40 - $8 75 - $83 75 — $10 45 - $1,337 40 - $127 40 - $505 53 — $10 77 $33,452 74 GENERAL ABSTRACT—Continued. (£}• If the sale made under the contract with Geisse and Korckhauss, of the 2d day of January, 1822, be included, of 80,000 pounds deer skins, amounting to about $20,000, the amount will stand at $53,452 74. 352	INDIAN AFFAIRS.	[No. 187. H. It is this day, the 2d of January, 1822, agreed between Thomas L. McKenney, superintendent of Indian trade, and Messrs. Geisse & Korckhauss, of Philadelphia, that, for all the peltries which may be at Mobile and Orleans between this date and the 1st day of April next, the aforesaid Geisse & Korckhauss are to receive and settle for, at the following rates, viz: for all merchantable shaved skins, they agree to pay thirty and a half cents per pound; for all merchantable red skins, twenty-five and a half cents; and for all gray and blue, twenty and a half cents per pound; and for the next grade of quality, two-thirds of the above prices; and for the next grade, half of the above prices. For the deer skins now on hand at this office, from the Fort Edwards factory, they agree to pay for shaved skins, thirty-five cents per pound; for red, thirty cents; and for gray and blue, twenty-five cents; two-thirds of the above prices fur the first grade of unmerchantable, and half price for the second grade of unmerchantable. This lot of skins from Fort Edwards, it is agreed, shall go on to Philadelphia, and be there assorted and weighed; and it is agreed that an agent shall be provided there, by any person Thomas L. McKenney may select; and that agent shall be sworn to do justice in selecting and sorting and weighing the said skins, according to the intent and meaning of the parties, and at the expense of the said Geisse & Korckhauss. It is furthermore agreed, between the aforesaid T. L. McKenney, superintendent of Indian trade, and Geisse & Korckhauss, that the skins at, and which may arrive as stated at New Orleans and Mobile, shall be received at those places free of expense to the said Thomas L. McKenney, superintendent of Indian trade, any further than that shall embrace pay and compensation to his (the said McKenney’s) agent for assorting, weighing, and delivering: and, moreover, that, should said skins have left Mobile and New Orleans before the said Geisse &. Korckhauss shall reach there, or Thomas L. McKenney’s letter directing them to be retained and delivered as aforesaid, then the said skins are to be received in whatever port they may arrive, at the risk and cost of the said Geisse & Korckhauss; they paying freight and all other charges for the same. GEISSE <fc KORCKHAUSS. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Attest: JERE. W. BRONAUGH.	Superintendent Indian Trade. I. SIR:	NEW ORLEANS, November 22, 1821. Referring to ours of the 17th instant, we have to observe, we are lucky enough to meet a mercantile house who have cashed the annexed draft on you, at twenty days’ sight, for $1,800, of this day’s date. We annex a memorandum of sundry cash expenditures made by us for your department, which this draft is intended to meet part of, and we request it will find due honor; In making the purchase for old Fort Confederation, we could find but one vender who would take a draft on Washington. That was for the coffee, which draft was forwarded some time since. We are anxious to receive a statement of the value of the several goods forwarded from Georgetown, Alexandria, and Philadelphia, in order to complete our quarterly account on the 31st of December next, in which your department will be credited with the amount of this draft. You will observe that the annexed memorandum does not include commissions, neither does it include sundry disbursements for drayages, and labor, storage, &.c., not yet posted with us. Respectfully, your obedient servants, McCOY & SCALLAN, Agents Indian Factories. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Esq., Superintendent Indian Trade, Georgetown, D. C. Memorandum of sundry cash disbursements made by McCoy Sp Scallan for United States Indian Department. $1.812 56 SIR:	NEW ORLEANS, November 24, 1821. The foregoing is a copy of a letter of advice accompanying a set of drafts made by us on you, in favor of Messrs. Vincent, Nolte, & Co., at twenty days’ sight, for $1,800. From a wish to serve us, those gentlemen took the draft at four per cent, discount, for which we have taken their voucher. Drafts on New York, Philadelphia, and Baltimore are selling at a discount of one and a half to two per cent.; but no remittances being made to Washington, added to causes before referred to, make drafts on Government authorities at Washington unsaleable. Messrs. Vincent, Nolte, & Co. have forwarded the draft for collection, and have promised, if the nett charges attending it do not amount to four per cent., (including the present discount on ordinary drafts,) they will refund the difference. In a conversation which the writer had yesterday with General Jesup, (quartermaster general,) he was informed that the quartermaster’s department here was supplied with funds by an arrangement which the general had made with the Treasury Department, who had instructed the collector here on the subject; from whom, the writer understands, supplies are had on proper vouchers. We merely present this subject, as it may, perhaps, induce you to make a similar arrangement. We are at all times ready to give ample security for means placed within our control. The steamboat Beaver has just arrived, and will leave for Natchitoches in eight or ten days; by her, the articles for Sulphur Fork will be shipped. 45 E We request leave to annex the price of a few articles in the fur line. Every thing in that way is much in demand. The present quotation is merely nominal, as there is none in market; but we have no doubt the highest quotation might be obtained. We send this, that, by comparing it with northern prices, you might find it advisable to order sales to be made here on the arrival of any from the factories above. Most respectfully, your obedient servants, McCOY & SCALLAN, Agents Indian Factories. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Esq., Superintendent Indian Trade, Georgetown. Shaved deer skins,	-	-	- 25 to 30 cents per pound. In hair do. -	-	- 22 to 27 do. Well-furred	beaver,	-	-	-	275	to	350	do. Otter skins,	-	-	- 250 to 350 cents per piece.	• Muskrats,	-	-	-	18	to	24	do. Bear skins,	-	-	-	100	to	250	do. K, No. 1.' RESPECTED Sin:	PHILADELPHIA, November 24, 1821. Your esteemed favor of the 21st instant is before us, and we perceive that you have written to your different agents in order to ascertain the value of those kinds of deer skins. We should be glad to become the purchasers; but, at the same time, we should wish to save the coasting freight, insurance, and damage done to the skins in these small coasting vessels. If, on the receipt of your offers, you will have the goodness to fix your lowest price for each kind of skins which you may have between this and the 1st day of April next, deliverable at New Orleans and Mobile, then we shall be able to say whether we can afford to give such prices or not. We are willing to give as much as any person who will take the risk of the fall or rise of the market between now and April. For the performance of our engagements, we are willing to give you satisfactory security. At foot, we quote the prices of deer skins nnw in this market. We remain, very respectfully, your most obedient and humble servants, GE1SSE & KORCKHAUSS. Missouri, Illinois, and Indiana skins—shaved, 33 to 35 cents; red, 24 to 27 cents; gray and bine, 22 to 24. Southern deer skins—shaved, 25 to 28 cents; red, 22 to 24 cents; gray and blue, 18 to 21 cents per pound. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Esq., Superintendent Indian Trade, Georgetown, D. C. K, No. 2. RESPECTED SIR:	PHILADELPHIA, December 20, 1821. Your favor of the 17th instant is before us; in answer to which we beg leave to reply, that we shall be glad to become the purchasers of the mentioned deer skins at their full and fair value, and we are willing to give as much as any person in the States. We paid you last year for those skins in Orleans, for shaved 25 cents, for red 22 cents, and for gray and blue 18 cents per pound, and half price for all kinds of unmerchantable skins. On these skins we have lost upwards of two thousand dollars: this was occasioned by the worms, but we are still liable to the same risk. There has no alteration taken place in Europe respecting the prices, since last year, that will warrant to give such prices as those you demand. You are, no doubt, aware that the skins at your last sale would not have brought those extravagant prices, if it had not been for our bidding them tip so high. We will give you for those skins from Fort Edwards factory, for the shaved 35 cents, for the red 30 cents, and for gray and blue 25 cents per pound, and half price for damaged and unmerchantable skins. For those southern skins from or at Mobile and New Orleans, we will pay you for the shaved skins 30 cents, for the red 25 cents, and for the gray and blue 20 cents per pound, and for all damaged and unmerchantable skins half price. The prices which we offer are, in our opinion, considerably above the present market prices, and more than we really intended to give. We refer to the prices current from our different seaports, respecting the prices. If any skins should have been shipped in the mean time from Orleans or Mobile, we are willing to pay freight for the same, and are satisfied with the credit you offer. We remain, very respectfully, your obedient servants, GEISSE & KORCKHAUSS. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Esq., Superintendent Indian Trade, Georgetown, D. C. K, No. 3. SIR:	PHILADELPHIA, November 25, 1821. Your favor of November 21 has been duly received, and, in answer, we offer you the following prices for deer skins, viz: For shaved deer skins, sound quality, per pound, -	-	- 27 cents. Summer, or red skins, do. -	-	-	- 23 Fall or winter do. do. -	-	-	- 18 Damaged skins, half price for each kind, to be delivered at Mobile, and to be paid for by a draft on us in this city, at thirty days’ sight after delivery; security to be given by us to comply with the above agreement; and to take all the deer skins you can deliver at Mobile, they being of the quality and prices as above mentioned, until the 1st of April, 1822. If you should deliver any of them in Baltimore, New York, or Philadelphia, we are willing to give you a half cent more per pound for each of the different qualities. We. regain yours, respectfully,	R. & J. PHILLIPS. N. B. Should the above prices meet your approbation, we should wish to be informed as early as possible, as one of the firm might be at Mobile to receive them. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Esq., Georgetown, D. C. SIR:	OFFICE OF INDIAN TRADE, February 27, 1822. I have had the honor of receiving your communication of the 25th instant, informing me of the decision of the Senate to print the documents transmitted by me to the committee, also the statements of the gentlemen who were examined before the committee in relation to Indian affairs; and proposing, if I had any other papers in relation to the subject which I would wish printed, that I should prepare and transmit them to you as early as possible. On looking over the statements of Messrs. Biddle, O’Fallon, and Crooks, I have considered it might be well to submit a few brief remarks on some parts of the several statements made by them, with which I propose to accompany sundry letters and extracts of letters, tnore fully to illustrate the subject-matter of those statements. I may, perhaps, travel over parts of some of the grounds which have been explored in my other communications; but as the following remarks are intended to apply especially to the statements of those gentlemen, I hope I may be excused for such repetition. I will proceed in the order in which the statements are numbered, beginning with Major Biddle’s. Remarks on Major Biddle's answer to the fifth question. Major Biddle seems to think that the advance on the cost of an article should be confined to the cost of its transportation. A little additional knowledge of the nature of a distant and wilderness trade, embracing damage and loss, and erection and repairs of factory buildings, (as it necessarily most,) would require some other calculations besides the mere cost of transportation, if the capital is to be preserved. The soldiers have done but a very small part of the work in erecting factories, &.C.; and, when they did labor, they were paid for it out of the factory funds. Remarks on his answer to the sixth question. The accompanying extract of my letters to Mr. Johnson, of Prairie du Chien, marked No. 1, will explain why merchandise is sometimes sent from the factories to the Indians. Further remarks upon this practice are deemed unnecessary. Remarks on his answer to the tenth question. It has been considered proper, always, when presents were to be made to Indians in the vicinity of the factories, that a service would be rendered by the Government agent to another branch of the Government operations for him to take/or that purpose the unsaleable articles of the United States factory, which, under any circumstances, must, in the course of time, and in any mercantile establishment, accumulate in a greater or less degree. The sense of the Governor of the Michigan Territory has been very recently expressed on this subject by his agreeing to receive, for the purposes of his agency, whatever articles are in the Green Bay and Chicago factories that should not be considered suitable for a trade at the St. Peter’s. The presumption is, it never entered into the Governor’s conceptions of duty to confine his operations to his own agency, and expend the public money in trade with the agents of the American Fur Company, or any other agency, when, by an interchange of intercourse with another branch of the Government designs, he could promote its prosperity, without at all infringing upon the interests of his own charge.	• Remarks on his answer to the eleventh question. Reasons will be found, in the extracts of letters in illustration of Mr. Crooks’s statement, for the decline of the business of the Chicago and Green Bay factories; as also a reply to the reputed inattention to the representations said to have been made by Mr. Varnum. Although the Government operations at Green Bay and Chicago were suspended by the artifice of individuals, (as will be more fully shown in the remarks I have to make on parts of Mr. Crooks’s statement,) yet it cannot be questioned that the mere presence of the factories has been serviceable to the Indians, by acting as guards, at least indirectly, in regulating the prices of goods and furs. The Indians, it is admitted, are good judges of the articles in which they deal, and, generally, when they are permitted to be sober, they can detect attempts to practise frauds upon them. The traders, knowing this, (however few of the Indians are ever permitted to trade without a previous preparation in the way of liquor,) would not be so apt to demand exorbitant prices, when the Indians could have the option to give them, or go to the factories. This may be illustrated by the fact, as reported to this office by Matthew Irwin, that, previous to the establishment of the Green Bay factory, as much as one dollar and fifty cents had been demanded by the traders of the Indians, and received, for a brass thimble, and eighteen dollars for one pound of tobacco! Remarks on his answer to the twelfth question. The competition and advantages which Major Biddle sopposed woold result to the Indians from it are certainly illusory. Compacts, and not competition, would be the consequence, provided the power of the American Fur Company, as it is denominated, would permit it. Remarks on part of his answer to the fourteenth question. Suppose it were admitted that the factory prices are actually higher than the prices asked for similar articles by the traders, would this prove that the Indians were not advantaged by it? Is it not easy to ask a dollar for an article which is known, in a regular trade, to be worth two dollars, and yet for a deception to be practised, by so qualifying the articles received for it, especially from drunken Indians, as to secure, instead of one dollar or two dollars, four or five, and thus impoverish men under the show of liberality and guise of cheapness? Remarks on his answer to the fifteenth question. I enclose a copy of a letter, marked No. 2, from Major Thomas Biddle. Colonel Atkinson wrote at the same time to the honorable the Secretary of War. This letter has been published by the Senate. These letters may serve to show the views of those gentlemen of the practices of the private intercourse with the Indians. Volumes might be compiled from history, beginning with the earliest settlements of this country, taking io the Dutch traders of the New England States of the sixteenth century, and coming to our times, to prove how essentially at war their practices have always been with the peace and welfare, and even the lives of the Indians. I shall reserve the remarks I have to make on the charge of Mr. Varnum’s having so frequently written to this office, without getting a reply, for a place in the division which will be allotted for Mr. Crooks. It remains for Major Biddle to reconcile to the good sense of the country his answers to the third and fifteenth questions. In answer to the third question, he says “ the articles, as far as he knows, are suited to the Indian trade." In his answer to the fifteenth question, he attributes the failure of Mr. Varnum’s business, as one of three causes, “ to the wretched character of the supplies."Remarks on Major O'Fallon's statements. I find but little to notice in the statements of this gentleman. There are a few things, however, which it may be well to refer to. I have already explained the grounds upon which it is considered proper to sell to other persons besides Indians. It is presumed this is understood. 1 have furnished, with the remarks made on Major Biddle’s statements, the reasons and principles which govern the factors in sending outfits to Indians. If Mr. Johnson engaged the services of such a person as the one referred to by Major O’Fallon, he must have been under a deception as to his character; he did it, certainly, in disobedience of his instructions. Four years ago Mr. Johnson called for some lighter articles “to be traded with half-breeds;” and, as is the practice of this office, the articles called for by the factor were sent. In this supply was the article of women’s morocco shoes, which cost about 75 and 87i cents per pair. If Indians, emerging from their rougher coverings, are desirous of imitating the whites in their exterior appearances, there seems no reason why they should be refused the privilege. The insinuation respecting the object of this supply, and also that which is reported by Major O’Fallon, on the grounds of the reports in Missouri, Illinois, and Michigan, that the “superintendent and factors are growing rich in the service,” cannot be considered as entitled to any notice. The conduct and concerns of this office are at all times in readiness to be accounted for to the proper authorities. It just occurs to me that I have a letter from Major O’Fallon, addressed to Governor Clark, dated May 10, 1817, extracts of which accompany this, marked No. 3, from which may be gathered the opinions of Major O’Fallon, in 1817, of the conduct of the British and Mackinac traders; and who those British and Mackinac traders are, may be ascertained from letters, and extracts of letters, which will accompany my remarks on the statement of Mr. Ramsay Crooks. Remarks on Mr. Crooks’s statement. 1 have reserved for the remarks 1 have to make on this gentleman’s report to the committee the information I have, which I beg leave to annex, in extracts of sundry letters received from Mr. Irwin, of Green Bay, marked Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, because Mr. Crooks is himself frequently referred to in them; and because he has borne a distinguished part in producing the interruption of the intercourse on the part of the Indians with the factory at that place; and because he, being agent for the American Fur Company, now so called, had a good deal at stake in overturning these establishments, and has much more at stake in the overthrow of the entire system. These letters speak for themselves. As to what was done twenty-two years ago at Detroit, no person now living, it is presumed, will be held accountable for. It is not a little surprising that, in the haste which is made to grasp the trade with our Indians, the agent of the American Fur Company, as its title denotes it, should not know that it is within the limits of the acknowledged duty of one branch of the Government operations of this country to furnish any and every facility which it may be in the power of another to afford. If officers and soldiers, therefore, at the factory establishments, want clothing, or any other article which the factor can supply, it is within his instructions to furnish it. The taking of tallow and feathers, and sugar, and hides, and even wild oats, from Indians, in exchange for what they want, is countenanced and considered proper; and it illustrates that a market may be had at the factories for these things, which would not be within reach of the Indians but for the factories—the traders taking nothing but furs and peltries. The explanations have been given why the trade, especially at Green Bay and Chicago, has declined; and no man knows better than Mr. Crooks the causes of this decline, and the means which it is necessary to adopt at any time to produce the same results elsewhere. No man, as an Indian trader, has equal power with him, so far as money and experience are concerned. 1 now come to remark upon the assertions of both Major Biddle and Mr. Crooks, (taking the language of the latter,) respecting Mr. Varnum’s solicitiug/or years to be removed, but his solicitations were not deemed worthy of acknowledgment. I enclose, in reply to this, an extract from my letter dated December, 1820, marked No. 14; also, a letter from Mr. Varnum of June, 1817, with my reply, marked No. 13, in which he proposes an extension of the operations of the factory. The factory at Chicago, in charge of Mr. Varnum, did not go into operation till 1816; soon after which, the excellence of the furs taken there made it an object with the traders to destroy the Government intercourse. The measures adopted for this purpose are set forth in the letters and extracts already submitted. The compact, by 1818, had completely succeeded. I was informed of these proceedings, and in 1818 my mind was made up, and I knew the power of these “ British and Mackinac” traders, and others, to be competent to put down the Green Bay and Chicago factories; and there being no efficient regulations under the license system to sustain them, or indeed any others, I felt it my duty first to suggest to the chairman of the Committee of the House of Representatives, under a call of his, what I considered important to a preservation of the system, and recommended in 1818, about two years after the Chicago factory had been in operation, under a full view of what was going on, and a conviction of the design on the part of the traders to overthrow the system, and there being no checks to restrain them, that, unless the system were strengthened, there could be no better time for its abandonment than that. See extract of my letter to the chairman of the Committee of the House of Representatives, herewith sent, marked No. 11. The system was continued, however, in its manacled state, one year after another, and only one'year at atime, making it uncertain whether it would be finally continued or abandoned. Meanwhile, under the hope, year after year, that something would be done, and being unwilling to recommend a removal until the matter should be finally decided, leaving the Indians in that quarter without any guard in the event of a continuance of the system, I delayed moving in the subject till July last, when, perceiving that the capital was likely to be intrenched upon by the continuance of both the Green Bay and Chicago factories, I recommended their abandonment and removal to the St. Peter’s, as per my letter to the honorable the Secretary of War. See copy herewith, marked No. 12. I enclose three letters from Mr. Sibley, of Missouri, illustrative of the nature of the trade, as prosecuted by individuals, &c., marked Nos. 15,16, and 17. All which is respectfully submitted.	THOS. L. McKENNEY, «S. I. T. The Hon. HENRY JOHNSON, Chairman of the Committee of the Senate on Indian Affairs. No. 1. Extract of a letter from the Superintendent of Indian Trade to J. W. Johnson, United States Factor at Prairie du Chien, dated SEPTEMBER 2, 1816. I have considered what remains, and particularly the desire of the Sac Indians, near the Lead Mines, to be supplied with merchandise. It is entirely within the scope of our policy to extend every reasonable assistance to all the Indians within our limits, so far as that may be practicable, and consistent with the amount of our trading capital. At present, however, I am unable to see how this can be done to any considerable extent, or at all, unless you could send supplies from Prairie du Chieu, and out of your stock now in trade, which might be augmented somewhat for this purpose. To make a depot at St. Louis, and supply individuals from it at cost and charges, however valuable the results might be, in putting down British traders, and in attaching the Indians to us, cannot be done at this time. This, however, may be done, if Congress shall accede to the plan of the Secretary of War, in augmenting the capital of this establishment; and, under judicious regulations, much good would no doubt result from it. Meanwhile, you can exercise your discretion in pushing on occasional supplies from the factory at Prairie du Chien, which, as I have said, shall be occasionally and additionally replenished. It is hardly necessary for roe to call your attention to the risk that is involved in sending out traders. I am sure that you will have an eye upon their honesty and fair dealings, and, in case you shall be deceived, have in your possession sufficient security, as a reserve, to bring op their arrears. This point well guarded, and which must, of course, be left to you, I shall be gratified if those Indians, on the river St. Peter’s and at the Lead Mines, could have their wants supplied, if but partially. Extract from the same to the same, dated MARCH 11,1819. I beg leave to call your attention to the privilege granted you to issue supplies of merchandise to American traders of good character, and, generally, under the instructions which that permission embraced. It appears to me that the plan is liable to abuse; and, however the effects may go to lessen the evils growing out of the peddling system, carried on by foreigners, and all sorts of characters, to the injury of the Indians and the disgrace of human nature, yet a danger appears to be apprehended on the other hand. It is that which implies exorbitant charges, which those to whom you furnish supplies have it in their power to make; and, by this means, the relief which it was intended, through them, to carry in amongst the Indians, may be converted into an evil. I suggest, therefore, and beg that you will have the goodness to attend to it with all the punctuality which its importance merits, that you be particular, first, in the sort of men (especially in their just and moral character) to whom you may intrust this liberty; secondly, require of them prompt and frequent settlements; thirdly, trust to no man another supply till he pays for the preceding; fourthly, to his invoice add a column, and affix to each article the price he is to ask the Indians, and regulate the advance upon a scale of equal justice, which implies a just compensation to him for his trouble, and the distance of the tribe or tribes with whom he may trade, and a fair demand upon the Indians. Direct, also, what he is to allow for the various skins he may take in barter. Of all this you will be the best judge. I refer it to your discretion, with but one additional remark: the Indians must be justly treated and dealt by, and we must, so far as we have the power to control the trade, do by them accordingly. No trader, who goes out from the factory, being aided with supplies by it, will be permitted to violate the rules which relate to it. He must do his business with the natives without the intervention of whiskey or any spirituous liquors. It is the curse of these people. We should use all proper and lawful means to save them from its baleful effects. Take, such testimony against a trader who may violate your instructions as you may think ought to condemn him, and trust him no more. He must consent to dispense with legal requirements, and let his good conduct keep him free from even slight imputations. In relation to the suitableness of the supplies which go from this office, I beg leave to subjoin an extract from a letter received from Governor Cass, dated in August, 1816; and to add, that out of forty odd thousand dollars worth of this very stock, which was sent out in that year, only about $800 worth was bought outside of this District. THOMAS L. McKENNEY, Superintendent Indian Trade. Extract. I have been much gratified to find the goods sent here for the Indians are very well selected. Perfect justice has been done. I am informed by persons in the Indian Department that such a selection was never sent to this country. In fact, I cannot conceive that they could be better suited to the objects for which they are sent. No. 2. Extract of a letter from Major Thomas Biddle to Colonel H. Atkinson, dated at CAMP MISSOURI, MISSOURI RIVER, October 29, 1819. These traders are continually endeavoring to lessen each other in the eyes of the Indians, not only by abusive words, but by all sorts of low tricks and manœuvres. If a trader trusts an Indian, his opponent uses all his endeavors to purchase the furs he may take, or prevent in any way his being paid. Each trader supports his favorite chief, which produces not only intestine commotions and divisions in the tribe, but destroys the influence of the principal chief, who should always be under the control of the Government. The introduction of ardent spirits is one of the unhappy consequences of this opposition among traders; so violent is the attachment of Indians for it, that he who gives most is sure to obtain furs; while, should any one attempt to trade without it, be is sure of losing ground with his antagonist. No bargain is ever concluded without it, and the law on that subject is evaded by their saying they give, not sell it. The traders being afraid to trust the Indians, they cannot make distant hunts: this, and their attachment to whiskey, induce them to hang about in the vicinities of trading establishments, and as they take furs sell them for whiskey; the consequence is, that but few furs are taken, as much of the hunting season is lost in intoxication and indolence. The Indians witnessing the efforts of these people to cheat and injure each other, and knowing no other or no more important white men, they readily imbibe the idea that all white men are alike bad. The imposing appearance of the army equipments of white men, and the novelty and convenience of their merchandise, had impressed the Indians with a high idea of their power and importance; but the avidity with which beaver skins are sought after, the tricks and wrangling made use of, and the degradations submitted to in obtaining them, have induced a belief that the whites cannot exist without them, and have made a great change in their opinion of our importance, our justice, and our power. Under the plea of trading with the Indians, white trappers and hunters obtain a footing in their country. The old man and his son whipped and robbed this summer by the Pawnees, and the three men killed about the same time by the Sioux, were persons of this description; the trouble these sorts of transactions may occasion the Government cannot be readily calculated. It will illustrate what I have said to narrate what happened on my visit to the Maha nation, from which I yesterday returned. The nation were preparing to start on their winter’s hunt, and endeavoring to obtain guns, powder, and lead, to subsist themselves while trapping. They complained bitterly ihat they could not procure enough of these articles. The traders were afraid to trust them. There were two traders in the camp, both jealous and apprehensive of each other; in conversation with the Indians, they invariably abused the traders, and the traders abused each other. The tribe separated into small hunting bands, very much dissatisfied, and the traders would send round occasional!)' to these bands to purchase their furs: a keg of whiskey was considered an indispensable equipment for such an undertaking. I had found on my arrival most of the principal men drunk. The Big Elk, who is so much our friend, and who formerly possessed unlimited power in his nation, was so drunk for two days, that I could not deliver your letter to him; when I gave it, I requested the interpreter to inform him that I had been two days waiting to deliver a letter from you, but that, very much to my surprise, I had found him too drunk to transact business. He appeared affected at what I said, acknowledged how unworthy it was in him to be in that situation, and admitted he had lost much power by it. He blamed the whites for bringing liquor into the country; said that when be knew it was not to be had, he felt no inclination for it; but that when it was near and attainable, his attachment for it was irresistible. Besides, said he, your traders come among my nation, give medals, and make chiefs of every man who can obtain a party to trap beaver. It is the ambition of these chiefs that opposes me and makes me powerless. I know that there are. Mahas now alive as brave and as wise as I am; it was fortune or chance that placed me at the head of the nation, and I cannot control my tribe while the whites assist those who oppose me. Thus is the influence of this valuable and sensible Indian lost to his tribe and the Government; and thus is a man, who possesses some traits that do honor to human nature, debased and made a beast of. No. 3. Extracts from B. O'Ballon's letter to Governor Clark, dated MAY 10,1817. On reaching Prairie du Chien, my surprise and disappointment were on the extreme, in meeting with numerous British traders (equipped with licenses under the authority of my Government) whose conduct during the late Indian war was the most unprincipled, the most inhuman, and disgraceful to civilized man. Suspicious characters, the very men who had been instrumental in the destruction of many of the women and children of our frontiers, I found were licensed traders, and ready to take a dishonorable part in distressing and checking the progress of American enterprise. Be assured that I complied strictly with your request, by keeping a watchful eye over the feelings of the Indians, and the disposition and conduct of the faithless Mackinac traders. From appearances and Indian reports, the Mackinac traders left no measure unturned in endeavoring to make the minds of the Indians more corrupt, destroy the little influence the Americans had acquired over some few, and have me, the only American in that country, destroyed. No doubt exists in my mind but that the forty-five Chippewas, (who visited me during the winter,) between whom and the Sioux I effected a peace, were sent by some of the villanous British traders of the northwest to massacre or rob me; they, during a stay of three days, showed every disposition to commit murder or robbery, which I am induced to believe was prevented by the unexpected arrival of the Sioux. No. 4. Extract of a letter from the Factor at Green Bay to the Superintendent of Indian Trade, dated MARCH 10, 1817. The opportunity of conveying this being immediate, leaves me little time to state why so little business has been done at this factory during the winter; and, without going into a detail of minor reasons, I believe the principal ones will be found to be these: 1st. The admission of many British traders, who have been accustomed to do business in this quarter, and who placed themselves in the most advantageous places for business within fifty, seventy, and one hundred miles of this; 2dly. The hints given the Indians by these traders to follow them, lest the Americans might punish them for their recent bad conduct during the late war; 3dly. The practice (conducted secretly) of vending whiskey; and 4thly. The prejudices excited by the traders against our factories. I recognise among them many who were openly and highly instrumental in exciting the Indians of our territory to rise in arms against us during the late war. I think, if British traders are to be admitted to trade with Indians, regard should be had to their past, or, at least, a guaranty given for their future conduct. The Indian agents* in this quarter, contrary to custom, exact $50 from each private trader, British or American, for each annual license, which is considered as a perquisite of office, notwithstanding they are salary officers. No. 5. Extract of a letter from Matthew Irwin, United States Factor at Green Bay, to the Superintendent of Indian Trade, dated GREEN BAY, September 29, 1817. I have more than once given you my opinion in relation to the state of this factory, and what it might probably accomplish; and I recollect I stated that it could supply the wants of all the Indians comprised in this district. In compliance with this belief, I made corresponding arrangements, after the receipt of your letter of the 28th [a copj' of which is enclosed, marked No. 18,] of May last. Several applications were made by American citizens to obtain merchandise, for the purpose of supplying the wants of the Indians; and presuming it to be the intention of the Government to have the Indians supplied by them, I encouraged, after the receipt of your said letter, the applications of Lewis Rouse and Thomas P. James, who incurred considerable expense in making the preparatory arrangements for that purpose. They had, too, an assurance from the Indian agent here that he' would not license British subjects to trade where they intended to establish themselves. Mr. Rouse was to supply the Indians at and near the Ouisconsin, and Mr. James those at Menomonie river, and intended to send a person to Winnebago lake. A few days previous to their departure for those places, information was received that a number of British traders, licensed by the Indian agent at Mackinac, were on their way to trade with the Indians at the places tn which Mr. Rouse and Mr. James intended going; and a confirmation of it soon after came in a letter from the Governor of Michigan Territory to the Indian agent at Mackinac, informing him that he had received a letter from the Secretary of War, stating that Mr- John Jacob Astor had purchased the whole of the interest in the late Southwest Company, and wishing every facility ’Major Puthuff, since dismissed. to be given him in carrying on his trade with the Indians; in consequence of which, the Governor directed the said agent to license all persons that the agent of Mr. Astor should name to him. Mr. Astor’s agent is a Mr. Crooks, a known and professed British subject, who named to the agent at Mackinac a number of persons, (all British subjects,) whom the agent licensed. Several of them came to this place for the purpose of trading with the Indians at the Ouisconsin, and other places. This at once would have determined Mr. Rouse and Mr. James to abandon their undertaking, but they had engaged the necessary number of persons for the usual period, (six months,) and incurred other expenses. They therefore determined not to abandon their undertaking, although they feci persuaded it will eventually be a bad business, as they think they are not able to cope in business with old and experienced persons, personally acquainted with the Indians, &c. Should they be correct, I fear it will be difficult to persuade other American citizens to undertake to supply the Indians in this quarter. Besides the British traders licensed to trade at the Ouisconsin, others were licensed by the agent at Mackinac to trade at the Upper Mississippi and this pince, at which, in the village alone, six are licensed; and all of them, with one exception, held commissions during the late war, are influential with the Indians, and were named by me in my letter of the 24th of July last to the Indian agent here, a copy of which I transmitted you. The persons engaged by the American house of David Stone & Co. were British subjects, and they were, I understand, licensed by the agent at Mackinac. Governor Clark last year directed the stoppage of British subjects entering' the Mississippi; Governor Edwards requested the agent at Chicago to prevent them from entering the Illinois. What reasons exist for allowing them to trade with the Indians in this quarter, I am al a loss to imagine. It is well known it is not necessary to license British subjects to trade at Mackinac, as very little business is done there by the Indians; and if it were greater, the American storekeepers could attend to it. At Chicago, the factory used to supply all the Indians in that quarter; and it can be well established that it is wholly unnecessary tu license a single person at this place; for last year a British trader (Peter Grignon) supplied all the Indians at or near the Ouisconsin, and another (Peter Powell) those at Menomonie river; and the trade, in this village was attended to by two or three British subjects, who, altogether, did not make twenty packs. There appears a palpable incongruity in the manner of conducting the Indian trade: the factors are sent to supply the wants of the Indians, and the Indian agents can adopt such measures as to defeat all their plans to that end. It is very certain that the authority vested in them to issue licenses is well calculated to destroy all the benefits that might be expected from the factories; particularly, too, when they interfere with each other’s districts, as is the case with the agent at Mackinac, who is in the constant practice of licensing persons to trade here and on the Mississippi. I can promise nothing from this factory whilst these irregularities exist. It was not ex'pected that Mr. Astor would engage to do business with the Indians none but British subjects, and those, too, so exceptionable in every particular. Considering, then, that the plans which I might adopt next year fer supplying the Indians are liable to be frustrated by the impediments which seem to be put in the way of the prosperity of the factory, and the consequent injury it would do to the individuals I might engage for that purpose, I must beg you to decline sending any more merchandise here, unless the Secretary of War can correct the irregularities which 1 have alluded to. The truth is, the factories require to be well supported before they can be of any utility; one of the first measures to which should be, the prohibition to grant licenses where the factory can supply the necessities of the Indians. No. 6. Extract of a letter from Matthew Irwin, United States Factor at Green Bay, to the Superintendent of Indian Trade, dated • GREEN BAY, June 18, 1818. Your letter of the 6th of March requires that I should notice it in a particular manner, though I fear I shall not do justice to the subject. You say, from the refusal on the part of the Government to let foreigners into a participation of our trade, that you think I may calculate on success in future, and that you look to a revival of the trade. There can be nothing more certain than that, if foreigners were kept out of the country, a good business might be done here. It appears that the Government has been under an impression that the Southwest Company, of which Mr. John Jacob Astor is the head, is strictly an American company; and, in consequence, some privileges in relation to trade have been granted to that company, and of such a nature as to put it out of the power of any persons concerned in fur companies, who, if they consulted their interest, would, whilst the British possess influence over the Indians, employ none but British subjects.' The circumstance I allude to is this: A short time previous to the declaration of war, Mr. Astor obtained from the then Secretary of the Treasury (Mr. Gallatin) an order directing the collector of the customs at Mackinac to suffer Mr. Astor to have his furs (which were at the British post St. Joseph’s) landed at Mackinac. The agent employed on that business was a British subject. On his way to St. Joseph’s, he communicated to the British at Malden that war had been, or would be, declared. The British made corresponding arrangements, and landed on the island of Mackinac with regulars, Canadians, and Indians, before the commanding officer there had notice that war had been declared. The same course was about to be pursued at Detroit, before the arrival of troops with General Hull, who, having been on the march there, frustrated it. The giving Mr. Astor the order to suffer his furs to be landed at and shipped from Mackinac, had, it was believed, for its object, to secure them from capture or detention, should they have been shipped from St. Joseph’s after the declaration of war should be known. The collector read the order in the presence.of several persons. Mr. Astor’s agent brought the furs to Mackinac in company with the British troops, and the whole transaction is well known at Mackinac and Detroit. ■ No. 7. Extract of a letter from the Factor at Green Bay to the Superintendent of Indian Trade, dated AUGUST 10, 1818. Seeing that the business of this factory must, in some measure, be regulated by the various fluctuations which occur in the Indian trade, I reduced the prices of many of the goods on hand, particularly those first received, as I discovered that if I did not do it I should do little or no business, in consequence of a determination on the part of British traders to undersell the goods in the factory. They put in practice a plan (suggested by Joseph Rolette) for preventing the factory from doing any business. It was this: each trader to advance a piece of struuds, with the usual assortment of other articles, (termed by them an assorted piece of stroud,) to be sold at first cost, and keeping a person employed to watch the arrival of the Indians, and take them to the house where those goods were kept. It proved as they desired—successful; and will account, in some measure, for the little business I have done with Indians. ■	No. 8. Extract of a letter from the United States Factor at Green Bay to the Superintendent of Indian Trade. The fact can be established, that, in almost every case, the persons engaged by Mr. Astor’s principal agent, (Mr. Crooks, who is a British subject,) were known British subjects; many of them having held commissions under the British Government, and headed Indians during the late war. For example: at this place Mr. Astor sent goods to the following persons last fall, to be traded alongside the factory, viz: To John Lowe, Lewis Grignon, Augustine Grignon, and Peter Powell, British subjects, and holding commissions from the British Government, in the Indian department, during the late war. And the following persons were sent by Mr. Astor in the neighborhood of Mr. Rouse, whom I sent to do business with the Indians at the Ouisconsin, viz: Peter Grignon, Mr. Jacobs, Mr. Chaperaux, and J. B. Grignon, British subjects belonging to this place, and holding commissions during the late war from the British Government, in the Indian department. And Mr. Lusienaux, a British subject, was sent by Mr. Astor to trade with the Indians at Winnebago lake. At Menomonie river, where I sent Mr. Thomas P. James to trade, he was opposed by a Canadian sent by Mr. Astor; and, in an underhand manner, by Peter Powell, a British subject, who held a commission in the Indian department during the late war. It appears that the persons sent by Mr. Astor to other places to trade with Indians were British subjects; and, when it happened that the principal person having charge of the goods was culpable in his conduct during the late war, in that case a discharged soldier was procured at Mackinac to accompany the goods, who would affect to have the agency of them, whilst all the others, even the boatmen, were British subjects. Similar conduct has been observed by the house of David Stone & Co. at Mackinac; one of the partners of which (Michael Dousman) piloted the British armament to Mackinac during the late war. Stone’s house opposes that of Astor’s in trade. Added to these irregularities, must be noticed the traffic carried on secretly in whiskey at this place. The Indians are frequently kept in a state of intoxication, giving their furs, &c. at great sacrifices for whiskey. A return to reason will induce many of them to mention who sold them the whiskey, but it is deemed illegal to accept Indian testimony; so that the British and American traders (of the latter several have arrived here) may deal in whiskey without the smallest chance of detection. The agents of Mr. Astor hold out an idea that they will, ere long, be able to break down the factories; and they menace the Indian agents, and others who may interfere with them, with dismission from office, through Mr. Astor. They say that a representation from Messrs. Crooks and Stewart (Mr. Astor’s agents) led to the dismission of the Indian agent at Mackinac, and they also say that the Indian agent here is to be dismissed. It appears that the commanding officer at Prairie du Chien undertook, at the instigation of the Indian agent, to stop and send to St. Louis some of Mr. Astor’s British trading subjects. For this act it is said the agent will be dismissed from the public service; and we have now the novel spectacle before us of a British subject (Mr. Crooks) travelling to the prairie, with a passport from Governor Cass, said to have been given by authority of the War Department, to inquire into the conduct of the Indian agent and commanding officer. No. 9. Extract of a letter fr.om the United States Factor at Green Bay to the Superintendent of Indian Trade, dated FEBRUARY 15, 1820. Since the receipt of your letter of the 10th of September last, (which I acknowledged on the 1st of December,) nothing has been done by the Indian agent to restrain the British traders residing in the village from having intercourse with the Indians in the way of trade. In fact, from the prejudices they have excited against American traders, the Indian trade is confined to the British traders, who, from selling whiskey privately, and from the ties of relationship, &c. with the Indians, will continue to enjoy it so long as the orders relative to the subject are unattended to by the agent. The Indian trade is virtually surrendered to those persons, and no efforts on my part can prevent it; the remedy must come from another quarter. The Indians are altogether led away by the British traders; and, whilst the American traders and officers are insulted by the Indians at a distance from the fort, those traders are cherished and caressed. The proof of which I will give you. 1st. Some time last summer, a boat loaded with goods, and owned by an American trader, (Mr. Armitinger,) was fired upon by some Indians near Winnebago lake. 2d. Captain Whistler, of the army, wrote from Winnebago lake that the Indians had fired upon his boat, while on his way to St. Louis in August last. 3d. Doctor Madison, of the army, informed his correspondent here that some Indians plundered him at Winnebago lake last fall. 4th. Lewis Grignon, James Porlier & Son, and Augustus, (British subjects,) proceeded to the Ouisconsin last fall with their boats loaded with goods, without experiencing insult or obstruction. On the contrary, the Indians in that direction accompanied them for the purpose of hunting for them, during the fall, winter, and spring. I am confident that nothing but an unqualified expulsion of those traders from this place, for the due observance of the orders received, will produce a favorable change io the minds of the Indians. The village contains from forty-five to forty-eight families, who all profess to be the subjects of Britain, and from ten to twelve British traders rule them. This state of things has existed for many years, without any present prospect of alteration. No. 10. Extract of a letter from the Factor at Green Bay to the Superintendent of Indian Trade, dated OCTOBER 6, 1821. Mr. Kenzie, son to the Indian sub-agent at Chicago, and agent for the American Fur Company, has been detected in selling large quantities of whiskey to the Indians, at and near Milwalky of Lake Michigan; in consequence of which, the Indian agent at Chicago directed him to close his concerns at Milwalky in sixty days, and then leave the place. Some Indians from that place represented to me that they would be badly off for a trader, should Mr. Kenzie leave them; in consequence of which, I engaged Mr. Vieau, a citizen of the United States, and a professed Indian trader, to repair there for the purpose of supplying the wants of the Indians. I have supplied him with $2,228 25 worth of goods, and have agreed to allow him $200 from the time of his departure till his return next spring, with an allowance of some coarse clothing and subsistence. Two boatmen and two boys will receive, altogether, $200, with some coarse clothing and subsistence. Mr. Vieau is well known here for his integrity, and possesses property enough here to cover the whole amount with which I have intrusted him. No. 11. Extract of a letter from the Superintendent of Indian Trade to the honorable Henry Southard, Chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs of the House of Representatives, dated DECEMBER 28, 1818. I cannot, therefore, forego the obligations I feel to urge the necessity of giving to the existing Government intercourse that support and protection which the generosity of its design, and the nobleness of its object, appear to me to merit; and this implies a better regulated license system, so as to restrict such individuals as may hereafter go amongst our home Indians; to cancel the licenses of such as are now acting under such authority, (and this may be done by a law, forbidding their removal except through particular channels, and under other restrictions;) and an augmentation of the trade fund: a close investigation of the state of which warrants me in saying, that, rid of the private traders, except such as would be really useful, the trade could be made to embrace our home Indians, if, to its present capital, which is shown to be only $236,630 39, were added as much as would bring it up to $300,000. These two things being done, results alike favorable to the Indians, and to the peace and security of our borders, would no doubt be realized; and these would be no less gratifying to the Government, than to those humane and benevolent men who are coming in with so much ardor in aid of the Government design. But, unless these two things can be realized, I feel it to be no less my duty to assure you that, in my opinion, no future period could so well answer to wind up the business of the Government trade as the present. No. 12. SIR:	INDIAN TRADE OFFICE, July 5, 1821. I have the honor respectfully to represent, that for three years last past the two factories on the lakes, one at Chicago, the other at Green Bay, have been in a measure useless to the Indians, and, in a pecuniary point of view, to the Government also. This state of things is owing entirely to the unsuitable provisions which exist for the regulation of the trade. Hordes of private adventurers, availing themselves of the looseness of the system, have crowded into those parts on account of the superiority of the furs which are taken there, and level aîl sorts of policy but their own, by the powerful agency which they derive from the free use of spirituous liquors as an article of their commerce, and after which the Indians, however afflicting they know the consequences to be, will go. This view of the state of these two factories should have been given thus formally before, had I not waited in the hope that Congress would have placed this trade under the guidance of suitable regulations, which, if done, would insure to the Government the harmony and attachment of these lake Indians, and to the Indians all the consequences which the Government contemplated in the adoption of this just and humane branch of its policy. This hope, and the apprehension that a removal of the factories (which, although they do but little in the way of trade, operate as a check to the traders,) might expose the Indians to oppression, seemed to authorize me in waiting for the final judgment of Congress in this matter. I am unable, however, on a review of this subject, to realize in the proceedings of the last Congress any additional disposition to place this item upon what I conceive its proper basis; aod the continuation of the same inactivity which has hitherto characterized the business done at these two factories promising to make inroads upon the fund allotted for the trade, I do not feel myself authorized further to delay a decision on the subject, and recommend it accordingly for the Executive approval: it is, to break up and discontinue the two factories located at Chicago and Green Bay. In making this decision, however, I am led to it entirely from considerations growing out of the duty which my trust imposes on me, and which embraces an obligation binding on me to keep the capital from diminution, and not from considerations of policy. My opinion is, that an abandonment of these posts must tend to much excitement, and a corresponding alienation of feelings on the part of the Indians from the Government, as well as to bloodshed. This, however, is a part of the case at which I feel myself authorized but incidentally to glance. I propose, on breaking up the trading-houses at Chicago and Green Bay, to unite the stocks, so far as they may furnish suitable materials, and follow the military post with a factory to the St. Peter’s. The Government is not yet known in the exercise of its parental capacity in supplying the wants of the Indians in that region. In addition to the advantages which the Indians will derive from a factory located at or near the military post, will be the active and abundant returns which will be received from it. If this recommendation be approved, I will have to dispose of, at Chicago, the items enumerated in the enclosed invoice, which are unsuited to a trade at St. Peter’s, and which, supposing they may be useful in the event of a treaty with any tribes of Indians in that region, I propose to turn over to the Indian Department at cost and charges, and pass the amount to the debit of the Indian Department account with this office. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, The Hon. SECRETARY OF WAR.	Superintendent Indian Trade. No. 13. SIR:	UNITED STATES FACTORY, CHICAGO, June 20, 1817. The exclusion of foreigners from participating in the Indian trade will, it is believed, justify the extension of the operations of this establishment. This, together with the consideration of the large supply of blankets and cloths now on hand, induces me to recommend a distribution of the goods of this factory among the adjacent villages, for trade, to such an exte.nt as will insure the sale of nearly all by the expiration of the trading season. Such a measure, I am well convinced, will be highly gratifying to the Indians, as a great number, by this means, will be enabled to supply themselves with goods on more reasonable terms than could otherwise be done; nor do I apprehend any difficulty in effecting it to the advantage of the Government, as gentlemen of unquestionable integrity have already applied for such outfits. An answer on this subject, as early as convenient, will be highly gratifying. I am, with great respect, your most obedient servant, JACOB B. VARNUM, THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Esq.	United States Factor. 46 E From the Superintendent of Indian Trade to the United States Factor at Chicago, dated SIR:	SEPTEMBER 10,1817. Your letter of the 20th June is before me. The subject of distributing the merchandise of the factory, and settling in other agencies, with a view to augment the sales and serve the Indians, is one which has had my consideration. There can be no objection to the measure but on account of the risk it involves. It is true the discretion of the factor is of importance to regulate this point, but experience has proved that he may sometimes be mistaken. From the possibility of losing, I have discountenanced this kind of extension of the trade, except under circumstances of particular restriction and security; and, in general, it has been hard to procure the latter. If, however, you can place in separate hands—say from two to four—an amount of goods, in the whole, amounting tu fifteen hundred or two thousand dollars at the most, without injury to the assortment of the stock of the factory, and under terms of security satisfactory to yourself, I can have no objection, provided that in no case any additional supply be furnished to either of the sub-traders until the previous one be settled for; having out, at no time, an amount exceeding two thousand dollars.	THOMAS L. McKENNEY. No. 14. Extract of a letter from the Superintendent of Indian Trade to the United States Factor at Chicago, dated _	DECEMBER 20, 1820. Without some alleviating circumstances of better business, or a new framing of laws, under which so much abuse of the system has got in. by the agency of private traders, it will become necessary to discontinue the factory in your charge. I have waited thus long, hoping that Congress would act in relation to this matter. No. 15. SIR:	FORT OSAGE, April 16, 1819. I am yet ignorant what alterations have been made by Congress, at their last session, in our Indian trade system, though I have accidentally learned that the trading-houses are continued for another year. I said “ Indian trade system;” so it is called; but it is no more like a system, than the yells of an Indian are like music; and yet it is complained that “ the Government system has not effected much, if any, good; that it has not realized the public expectations; has not civilized and Christianized the savages, or extended and strengthened the influence of the Government among the Indians.” Little, indeed, has this “ system” effected, and that little is more than ought reasonably to have been expected, if it is considered how very defective our laws are on the subject of Indian trade and intercourse, and how little support this system, as it is called, has ever received from Government. True, it has received its existence from Government, and has, by sufferance, from year to year, been kept in a miserable languishing state to this time. Like a wretch under sentence of death, it has been reprieved from year to year, still under sentence, growing weaker and weaker; while its enemies are acquiring fresh vigor from new hopes; and, in the mean time, this poor skeleton of a wretched system is tortured with upbraidings, abuse, and reproaches, because blood still flows on the frontiers, and the tomahawk and scalping-knife are not exchanged for the Bible and the plough. Let our legislators look fairly into this subject. If it is a subject worthy to be considered, why is it so neglected? If unworthy, dismiss it, and let loose the hungry traders. If the lives and property of our frontier people are in the safe-keeping of their Government, it would seem proper that Government should control those whose irregular commerce places those lives and that property in jeopardy. If we (I rank myself among the frontier settlers) are not entitled to that protection, keep us no longer in suspense; give up the Indian trade (and with it, of course, all influence over the Indians) to “individual enterprise," and let this be proclaimed along the frontiers: “Americans, farmers! you who may emphatically be called the pioneers of civilization; you have been induced to remove your families to the borders, you have purchased lands there from the Government, and have been led to believe that your Government possessed and meant to retain the power to control your only enemies, the savages and the traders, and thus afford you protection; and such truly was the intention of Government. But, it is now different; the clamorous cupidity of the traders will no longer be restrained; the Indian trade must be given up to ‘individual enterprise,’ to merciless men, who feel not for your sufferings, and care not for your wrongs; to intriguing foreigners, who thirst for the blood of your wives and little ones; to the unprincipled pioneers of commerce of every shade and hue. We will instruct these people to conduct their trade honestly, to abstain from every practice that may have a tendency to endanger your peace and safety, and we shall compel them to give bonds, with securities, for the faithful observance of our instructions. Further, we cannot protect you, for these enterprising people must be left free to pursue the trade with the Indians; they are entitled to the benefits of the fur trade, and have assured us, on their honor, that they cannot prosecute it to their liking under the present checks and restrictions. “Your property will be sacrificed, your families murdered, and your farms desolated; but these men insist upon their rights, and the fur trade must be left open to them. Your Indian neighbors must also be given up to the moral and political schooling of this worthy class of citizens; they will be kept in darkness, and their natural pursuits of war and hunting protracted as long as there remains a beaver or a bear in these extensive forests. If they sometimes break in upon you, and commit robberies and murders, you know it is the nature of a savage so to act. Perhaps these traders might, if they thought proper, divest them of those propensities, and induce them to adopt the arts and the habits of civilization, and your example would greatly encourage them; but, alas! this would not accord with the traders’ interest, nor can they look upon your example with a friendly eye. What is the bleeding scalp of an infant, compared with the rich fur of a beaver skin? “ You are numerous, peaceful, and industrious; many of you have borne arms in the defence of your country; many are settled on that very land given to you by your Government for military services, to which you once fondly hoped to retire in safety, to pass the remnant of your lives in happiness. But you have deceived yourselves; you are still doomed to a life of toil and danger; your little property, the fruits of many years’ labor, must be left exposed to savage depredations; your arms must defend the frontiers, and the blood of your wives and children appease the savage propensities of your Indian neighbors, who must be left in their present unhappy state, a scourge to our frontiers, a reproach to the Government; but profitable to those few highly favored, because highly meritorious citizens, the Indian traders.”	. But I hope for better things; and, although we are left for another year powerless and unprotected from the malice and the galling insults of every renegado trader; although the agents of the Government are still subjected to the derision and the open opposition of the traders, without any official power to compel those people to treat the institutions of the Government with a becoming respect; still I look forward, confidently, to the next Congress, for better regulations. Under that hope, I shall content myself as well as I can to serve out another year; still using personal- influence instead of that which ought to belong, but docs not, to my official station, to support the character of Government, and cause its policy to be respected among the Indians. 1 will conclude these remarks, sir, with this assurance, that, under present circumstances, the United States trading-houses in this quarter are very little better than useless to the Government as respects any political influence they have over the Indians, (though they are certainly great conveniences, and some protection to those people;) and, in my opinion, had better be abolished, unless they are regenerated, better protected, and continued in operation for a longer term, instead of from year to year, as heretofore.	Very respectfully, sir, &c. G. C. SIBLEY. THOMAS L. MCKENNEY, Esq., Superintendent of Indian Trade. No. 16. Extract of a letter from George C. Sibley, United States Factor at Fort Osage, to the Superintendent of Indian Trade, dated MAY 16, 1820. About half of the Little Osages were here a few days ago; they brought little or nothing to trade. They came to ask for their annuity for 1820, which I, of course, refused to pay them, having received no order to do so, it not being yet due, and the tribe not being fairly representéd. They had been sent by the traders, in order to excite a spirit of hostility against the Government, knowing full well that their application must fail. They affected to be very angry; left me hastily; declared the treaty between them and the United States at an end, and said they never would come here again. I made no attempt to stay them, knowing that they were merely playing the fool, and that it was better to let them discover their folly themselves. But if those peddlers are not kept from among the Indians, they will, most inevitably, all be totally ruined; cruel wars will be excited; our frontiers will again bleed; and the wretched Indians crushed. Mark me, sir; these things are near at hand. No. 17. Extract of a letter from George C. Sibley, United States Factor at Fort Osage, to the Superintendent of Indian Trade, dated FEBRUARY 3, 1818. A prejudice has already gone forth among the Indians that the Americans cannot make goods of a good quality. They believe that all the blankets, cloths, &c. of common quality, are of American manufacture, and that the British only make the best kinds. The traders tell them that there are none but American goods for sale at the factory, and that, although they are sold at low prices, they are, nevertheless, very dear, considering the quality; but that their goods are of the real British kind—a little dearer, to be sure, but also a great deal better and handsomer. This is an argument that operates most powerfully against the factories, and not a little, I assure you, in favor of British politics. This present season I have had the good fortune to check, in some degree, this prejudice, as it relates to this trading-house. My goods are of better quality than I have generally been supplied with, and, although inferior to the British northwest goods, will still bear some comparison with them, and have given rise to an opinion among the Indians that the Americans are improving in the important art of making blankets and cloth; which opinion I desire to strengthen and confirm by means of the excellence of next year’s supplies. No. 18. The Superintendent of Indian Trade to Matthew Irwin, United States Factor at Green Bay. SIR:	OFFICE OF INDIAN TRADE, May 28, 1817. Your letters of the 10th of March are before me: one covering an inventory of goods, furs, and cash on hand, and debts due the factory; the other, two sets of salar}' and subsistence accounts for the last quarter of 1816; also, your letter of advice to Zadock Walker, Esq., which I have transmitted by this day’s mail. You have not stated what goods were exchanged or sold for the debts, and furs, and cash; no outgoings being specified, except the goods sold Colonel Chambers, in whose bill there is an error of eight dollars; thirty yards of blue cloth, at four dollars, being entered $112 instead of $120.	'When you furnish goods to an Indian agent for the use of the Indians, it would be. proper to take a draft for the amount, and remit it to this office. Two hundred and eighty-nine dollars and forty-four cents appear to have been furnished the Indian agent, and no draft accompanied your invoice. You state that 200 barrels of salt, a quantity of iron, brushes, turpentine, &c. were purchased by Major Woolley, at Pittsburg, and there is no invoice of them. There has been no account rendered of a purchase of iron. Invoices of the other articles are enclosed. I must beg the favor of you to adhere, in al) respects, to the forms required by this office, and which, if you have never had them, shall be sent you. Errors, no matter how small, cause delays and give trouble. I must request your particular attention to the subject of your quarterly accounts, not only to render them punctually, but also to have them faultless and errorless; as far so, at least, as practicable. I should like to hear of your prospects for trade; whether the factory promises to increase in its operations. I am averse to a credit business, except so far as your letter of instructions warrants. 1 mention this to guard you. Great caution is required. Quick returns are all-essential to a vigorous prosecution of the trade, and I look for them from each establishment. If factories are not well supported, it is evidence the Indians do not require them; and, it being a plan for their benefit, when they cease to require them it becomes a duty to send the means of administering comforts amongst other tribes who need help. I hope you will do well at Green Bay. I feel the force of your remarks on British traders, and hope they will soon be expelled. I am aware of their pertinacious adherence to a system, which nothing but exertions active and constant on youf part can check; and if they cannot be controlled, their influence can be lessened. Are there no means to detect those who sell whiskey! If so, why not make examples of a few of them? Such of the British traders as you recognise as having been hostile to us during the war, report to the agent, and transmit me copies of your remonstrance, which I will take care, in case he should omit or forget to act, to hand io to the War Department. Specify in your statement that the agent receives fifty dollars for issuing a license, and I will report upon it. There is much risk in crediting goods to be carried amongst the Indians; the plan is a good one, if the risk were less. I have no objection to authorize you to send small parcels out to serve the Indians, never to amount to more than $2,000, and this sum to be in sundry hands; not to repeat an advance to any one till the previous one is fully adjusted. But issue none except on security. 17th CONGRESS.]	
