NO. 249 PROCEEDINGS OF THE LEGISLATURE OF GEORGIA IN RELATION TO THE TREATY MADE WITH THE CREEKS AT THE INDIAN SPRINGS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 23, 1827. [GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, "MILLEDGEVILLE, January 8, 1827. In the absence of the Governor, I transmit the enclosed report and resolutions of the Legislature of Georgia, passed the 22d ultimo, with the accompanying documents, and, in his name, request that you will be pleased to present them to the House of Representatives of the United States at as early a day as possible, and ask their serious consideration of the same, for the purposes and objects therein expressed. With great consideration and respect, I have the honor to be, gentlemen, your obedient servant, E. H. PIERCE, Secretary. EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, FELLOW-CITIZENS:	MILLEDGEVILLE, November 7, 1826. The political year jost terminated has been distinguished by nothing so much as the decease of Thomas Jefferson and John Adains, who, after laying the foundation of American independence, and filling the highest offices of state through a long series of time, survived to the fiftieth anniversary of the independence they had declared; and on that day, almost at the same hour, died, full of years and full of honor, deplored by the whole nation, whose grief was testified by a universal mourning, accompanied with every demonstration of love, respect, and veneration. ■'Among the many tokens of the tender mercies of Divine Providence towards our country, none have been more signal than those which accompanied this memorable dispensation; so much so, that our sorrows have found solace and comfort in the admiration and gratitude due to Almighty God for the special interposition which, by its circumstances, made their deaths not less glorious than their lives had been exemplary and illustrious. It was known to the,last Legislature, that, for certain reasons expressed by the President of the United States, he would call the attention of Congress, at their first meeting, to the validity of the treaty negotiated at the Indian Springs in 1825; and in his message to the Congress, at the opening of the session, after announcing that “ the treaty had been ratified under the unsuspecting impression that it had been negotiated in good faith,” he promised to lay before that body the subsequent transactions in relation to it. The President failed to do so. Towards the close of the session of Congress, he did submit to the Senate a new treaty, in abrogation of the old one, with a general declaration of the falsehood and deception practised by the commissioners, in their official communications with the Government, of the numerical inferiority of the party which signed it, and of their consequent inability to carry it into effect, but unaccompanied by a single document or voucher to support any fact or principle contained in that declaration. The Senate, as you know, ratified the treaty; and the one of the Indian Springs, of prior date, of prior ratification, and passing vested rights to Georgia, was declared null and void. The objections to this proceeding, considered altogether novel and unprecedented, were obvious. Georgia, for whose benefit alone the treaty was negotiated, was deprived, without her consent, of interests already vested. The party with whom the old treaty had been negotiated was not recognised as a party at all in the conclusion of the new; and in the execution of the new treaty, without their consent, and even against their consent, they have not merely been deprived of every right which they could claim under the old or new, but have been, to all intents and purposes, denationalized, and forced either to submit unconditionally to the power of their enemies, or to abandon their country. It was with a knowledge of what was improspect, from the first annunciation of the President to Congress, that the Legislature of Georgia, at the close of its session, again reviewed and again confirmed the validity of the treaty of the Indian Springs. This confirmatiotf was the more imposing, because the Legislature which first acknowledged the authority of that treaty had returned to the people; its conduct had been passed in review; and, of course, a favorable verdict pronounced upon it. The act of the Legislature, founded on the provisions of the old treaty, having been, as it were, re-enacted by a succeeding Legislature, was to be regarded as mandatory and imperative, to be carried into effect by the Executive, under his oath of office, according to its requisitions, unless forbidden by paramount considerations: there could be none paramount but what would be found in the constitution of the United States, and none such were found. The constitution itself, in denouncing an act impairing the obligation of contracts, recognised the sacredness of the treaty of the Indian Springs. The Executive of Georgia, therefore, had no alternative but to carry that treaty into effect, in conformity with the repeatedly expressed will of the Legislature. His intentions were early communicated, in the most frank and ingenuous manner, to the Executive Government at Washington; and from that time to the present moment he has never ceased to remonstrate and protest, on every occasion requiring it, against any act injuriously affecting interests of Georgia derived under it. But there were other reasons for maintaining the inviolability of the treaty of the Indian Springs. By that treaty, Georgia had acquired all her territory within the Creek limits; by the new, she was to acquire less; and the difference between them was, by the stipulations of the new, guarantied to the Indians forever. The Governor could in no manner recognise the power of the President and Senate, by the abrogation of the old treaty, to violate the constitution of Georgia. The constitution of Georgia, as well as the articles of agreement entered into in conformity with it, had settled her permanent boundaries irrevocably. The new treaty prescribed new boundaries for Georgia, and, by its perpetual guaranty, made them permanent. Lands, the rightful property of Georgia, were taken from her, and ceded to the Indians forever; and the jurisdiction over the river Chattahoochie, which had been secured exclusively to her by the original charter, by her constitution, and by the articles of agreement and cession, was divided by the new treaty between Alabama and Georgia. As no power is given by the constitution of the United States to the Government of the United States to alter or revoke the constitution of a State, it would have been not merely an unpardonable indifference to her rights and honor to have submitted in silence to these palpable infractions of them, but the Chief Magistrate would have believed himself guilty of a criminal desertion of the interests of the State, if his sanction or countenance had been given to such an instrument. If the difference between the provisions of the old and new treaties had been a nominal, not a real difference, the United States and Georgia could have proceeded in good faith, and without collision of interest, to execute either, as the one or the other was believed to be the constitutional law; but as those provisions were variant in several particulars involving essential rights, and as one of them especially (whether so designed or not) would have effectually postponed the settlement of the country for an entire year, it could not be expected that Georgia would surrender rights, interests, and principle too, because the President of the United States considered the new treaty the constitutional law. The Government of either State is to be considered as an independent moral agent, having a conscience of its own, the arbiter within itself of right and wrong, to be influenced or controlled only by Divine authority; and the conscience of this Government has already passed definitively on the validity of the treaty of the Indian Springs. And here permit me to remark, that, with regard to the rights of sovereignty and jurisdiction generally which Georgia claims under her charter to the territory within her limits in the occupancy of the Indians, there is such a radical difference of opinion between the authorities of Georgia and those of the United States, that the harmony and tranquillity of the two Governments, so much to be cherished by all good men, can never be maintained uninterruptedly until those Indians shall have been removed. In illustration of this, it is sufficient to inform you that, on a recent occasion, the right of Georgia to make even a reconnoissance within that territory, with a view to eventual internal improvement, was denied, and that denial accompanied by a formal protest of the President of the United States against it; and, moreover, that when about the same time there were indications of a hostile feeling on the part of the Indians, which threatened interruption to our commissioners engaged in running, with the consent and approbation of the United States, the dividing line between Alabama and this State, and precautionary measures were taken for their safety, Georgia was given to understand that she had no right to extend her protection to her own officers, engaged on her own soil, in carrying into effect an act of her own Legislature, against such hostility. It is vain to look into the constitution of the United States to find what rights of sovereignty and jurisdiction acquired under the charter over the territory within her limits Georgia has surrendered to the Federal Government. No such surrender has been made; and yet Georgia, in her late intercourse with the United States, has been treated in this respect as if she had no rights of sovereignty or jurisdiction at all; and this, too, whilst the laws of the United States, as well as the articles of agreement and cession, distinctly recognise and proclaim them, and, of course, to the very same extent as they are asserted by the treaty of Hopewell and others. The forlorn and helpless condition to which the McIntosh or friendly party of the Creeks have been reduced by the continued persecutions to which they have been exposed, is submitted to you as claiming your humane and benevolent consideration. This portion of the Creek tribe having fought the battles of the United States, and vanquished the hostile part of it, who were at once their enemies and the enemies of the United States, it was hoped that they would have been regarded with some degree of favor by that Government and people, in whose defence they had expended their blood, and put to hazard every thing dear to them. For a time, this hope was not disappointed. General Jackson, by his treaty of 1814, had recognised their services and their claims; their chieftain was distinguished by the favor of the Government; and be and his followers were regarded not only as the faithful and devoted friends nf the whites, but as the conquerors of the Red Sticks, then numbering two-thirds of the whole nation, whose rights of territory, by the laws of war, passed to the victors. It was the conviction of the justice of their cause, and of the rights acquired by it, which dictated the letter of the Secretary of War of the 17th of March, 1817, recognising, in full, the power of McIntosh and his followers to sell the country. When, in obedience to the expressed wishes of the United States, McIntosh, with others, proceeded (at the treaty of the Indian Springs) to exercise this acknowledged power, the power was denied, and the murder of himself and chiefs which followed looked upon without emotion; whilst the murderers were cherished, caressed, and honored by the Government of the United States; his followers left without home, without protection, without bread, and finally denationalized and put under the ban; so that, at last, they were considered as no part of the nation, having no claim of territory, and, of course, no rightful participation in the consideration for which the territory was sold; and, what is worse than all, the money which should have been given to them under the treaty, not only given to their enemies, but made the instrument of seducing from their allegiance the friends of McIntosh, who had no alternative but to take the bribe or share the calamities of the party. To complete their degradation as an unworthy and ignoble race, the President, in bis official message to the Senate, has deigned to stigmatize them as “ an impotent and helpless minority,” “ unable to execute their engagements;” as “ fugitives instigated by a vindictive fury,” “ making extravagant and unwarrantable demands, whilst they were eating the bread and begging the protection of the United States;” and, again, as “ a party making unwarrantable pretensions and extravagant demands, and having no claims on the United States other than of impartial and rigorous justice.” Is it to be wondered that, under such treatment, the friendly party should be reduced to a mere remnant, an impotent and helpless minority? or is it not a subject of wonder that, instead of one thousand which remain, there should be one left, bearing the name or rallying under the standard of McIntosh? We cannot permit ourselves to believe'that the Congress of the United States will not itself regard with tenderness and compassion a portion of the human family, reduced by reverses to piteous distress, deserted by the inconstancy of friendship, and abandoned to the sports of fortune. Whether, in reference to that part of the territory of Georgia yet in the occupancy of the Cherokees, you will think proper, in conformity with the recommendation to that effect contained in a late message, to extend the laws over it as a right resulting from your general sovereignty and jurisdiction, or whether you will abide the result of future negotiations by the United States to extinguish their claims, in virtue of the compact of 1802, will be for you, as the only competent authority, to decide. A state of things so unnatural, and so fruitful of evil, as an independent Government of a semi-barbarous people co-existing within the same limits, cannot long continue; and wise counsels must direct that relations which cannot be maintained in peace should be dissolved before any occasion can occur to break that peace. How ungenerously tantalizing to this unhappy tribe would be a policy inviting them to a local habitation and repose, when the Fates had already decreed their destiny to be fixed and irreversible upon another soil! To perpetuate the remnant of a noble race, we ask of the United States to give them a restingplace within boundaries of their own, fruitful, ample, and salubrious; such as they command, and such as, in humanity, they should bestow; where the arts of civilization and the lights of Christianity can reach them unmixed with the corrupting and contagious vices of the whites, and where their perpetuity and independence can be assured. If the United States hesitate now, a few years will bring them to just reflections, but too late to save from irredeemable waste and decay the numerical strength and moral energies of a people so far preserved by the encouragement and patronage of the United States, with the tolerance of Georgia.	'Messrs. Crawford, Blount, and Hamilton were appointed commissioners, James Camak mathematician, assisted by the chief civil engineer, and Edward L. Thomas surveyor, in pursuance of a resolution of the Legislature, to run the dividing line between this State and Alabama. These gentlemen have, in the execution of their several trusts, discharged the duties confided to them to my entire satisfaction. Those assigned to the commissioners were delicate and arduous, and, whilst they respected (as they ought) the rights of others, they have not been unmindful of what was due to the State they represented, its honor, interest, and dignity. The chief civil engineer, having received the appointment from the Executive, was to be considered as under his exclusive direction and control, until,the meeting of the Legislature. His power over this officer was, however, from a consideration of fitness and propriety, voluntarily and cheerfully, but informally, surrendered to the board of public works, with a settled purpose not to interfere with the exercise of that power, unless claims to his services of higher interest to the public should, at any time, be interposed. An occasion offered, and he was ordered, without hesitation, from the less to the more important service. It is to be regretted that the commissioners of Alabama could not feel themselves authorized to concur with those of Georgia. The correspondence between the two commissions will exhibit the view's of each; and it is not presuming too much to say, that those of Georgia are not the less satisfactory because they have not received the concurrence or approbation of the commissioners of Alabama. If the first bend above Uchee, and Coweta, or Cussetah towns,.from which a line to Nickojack did not strike the river, would not satisfy the requisitions of the articles of agreement and cession, it was not to be expected that any other bend above it, and farther removed from the Uchee and the towns, wnuld. It was the less to be expected that the commissioners of Georgia would consent to pass that bend, for no other reason than that Alabama w’ould take more, and Georgia less, of territory by it. And when the commissioners, without the concurrence of those of Alabama, finally adopted the point of JMiller’s Bend, it was the point which was about midway between that assumed as the true one by the Governor of Alabama, and the one ultimately proposed by her commissioners to ours. As the commissioners of Alabama would not agree to run from the first bend immediately above Uchee, and as a line running from that bend intersecting the. river would have made the boundary not a straight one, as contemplated by the articles, but a devious one, straight upon the land and meandering on the water, it is difficult to perceive how the Government of Alabama can withhold its assent front a boundary which, contemplated in all its aspects, would seem, at least to us, to reconcile more differences and present fewer objections than any. The commissioners of Alabama appear to consider Georgia as the principal party to the measure, having the deepest concern and interest in it; and the boundary having been established by the act of Georgia, any participation in the expense has been declined, and the whole of it suffered to fall on this Government alone. The expense, therefore, unavoidably considerable, is believed to have been incurred with as little of wastefulness and extravagance as could be expected from an operation so tedious, and conducted under so many disadvantages. The report, correspondence, and documents relating to this subject, with the account of the expenditures, will be laid before you. It is proposed, in concert with the General Government, to commence running the dividing line between this State and Florida on the 1st day of December next. The correspondence in relation to it is submitted; and it will be seen that no difficulties can be expected to arise to embarrass the operation, or to prevent the most desirable conclusion of it. After a tedious correspondence with several of the most distinguished of the engineers of the United States, from which no satisfactory result could be promised, Hamilton Fulton, Esq., a gentleman of known integrity of character, and recommended by the most eminent of the engineers of England, was appointed to the office of chief civil engineer. It is hoped that Mr. Fulton will not disappoint the just expectations of the public. The proceedings of the board of public works, after their first organization, are submitted to you. A plan of internal improvement having been digested and prescribed by the Legislature, nothing remained for them but to adopt the most prompt and appropriate measures to carry it into effect. The report of the board and of the chief engineer will disclose the first practical operations under them, and will enable you to decide upon the merits of the past, and what, for the future, in furtherance of the plan, the public interest shall require. To open new sources of commerce, and give facilities to those already open, are the great objects of the system: if, by a communication between the waters of Tennessee and those of Georgia, the trade of the Mississippi and Ohio can be diverted to our Atlantic ports, the freight and commissions would more than suffice to replace, with the ordinary interest, the capital which might be employed in effecting that communication; and, if this were true at the beginning, the progressively increasing commerce which an almost unbounded region, with a rapidly augmenting population, would supply, might convert a channel of intercourse into a permanent source of revenue to the State. Whatever can be realized, in this respect, will depend on the facilities given to the projected canal across the peninsula of Florida, which, forming a line of steamboat communication between the western waters and our Atlantic ports, cheap, continuous, and comparatively safe, may have advantages over the short and more direct route, not open to this valuable instrument of conveyance. As connected with such an undertaking, the States of Alabama and Tennessee have been consulted; and their views in relation to it, so far as communicated, are submitted. With respect to that part of public improvement designed to facilitate the intercourses of trade within our own limits, the obvious rule will be to adapt our measures not only to the actual state of the trade and commerce of the country, but to the means which we can command to give efficacy and success to them: and, whether canals, or railroads, or turnpikes, shall, in different situations, be considered as best adapted to this end, to limit both capital and labor to a single object at a time, until that object is accomplished. It need not excite, surprise, if, before a long time, with the exception of the level alluvial country, the rail will universally supersede the canal, having the advantage of cheapness, expedition, healthfulness, safety, and certainty. You will receive, with other documents on this subject, a communication from the Governor of South Carolina, which looks to the improvement of the navigation of the Savannah river, by a concert of measures and combination of resources of that State and this, depending on the authority of their respective Legislatures, with my answer; which will disclose to you my own views and opinions in relation to the subject, and to which it may be only necessary to add, that those views and opinions remain unchanged. The honorable William Schley, in compliance with his engagements, has completed his Digest of the English Statutes. The work was approved by the Executive, and, it is believed, merits, and will receive, the approbation of the Legislature. If to this work were added a Digest of the Common and Statute Law, or if the principles of these, the civil law, and of the Napoleoij code, as applicable to our condition and circumstances, could be embodied into one general system of jurisprudence, taking the place of all, it would be worthy the refinement of the age, and would confer imperishable honor on the legislators and sages who would devise and execute it. No system of jurisprudence will avail for al) the beneficent ends of its institution, without a well-organized judiciary to carry it into effect; and, on this subject, it may be sufficient to remind the Legislature of that defective organization of our own, to which its attention has been so repeatedly, but hitherto unprofitably, called. > Our academic institutions continue to flourish, and Franklin College, at the head of'them, sustains its merited reputation. To its other professorships, a chair of moral philosophy, rhetoric, and belles-lettres has been added; and the discipline and subordination maintained by the proper authorities are not known to be surpassed by those which prevail in the best regulated colleges of the country. It is recommended to you to consolidate the poor school fund, to augment it, to secure by sufficient guards its faithful application, and to diffuse its benefits as extensively as possible among the poor and indigent. These are the classes of the community who, in their means of livelihood, fall below mediocrity; and who, on this account, as well as on account of their numbers, have the strongest claims for that assistance which will enable them, by the instruction of primary schools, to discharge, in peace and in war, with most usefulness to themselves and advantage to the country, all the duties of gond citizens. Of the militia, nothing will be added to the numerous invitations given to the Legislature for the révisai and improvement of a system so radically defective, that it is almost impossible to maintain the necessary organization under it. The evil has found a palliative, however, in the encouragement extensively given to the formation of volunteer corps, (cavalry and infantry,) which now present a force highly respectable for number, armament, and discipline, ready to be called into service at a moment’s warning, and inspired by the. most patriotic sentiments. The annual reports of the different banks are submitted. The interests of the State, of the stockholders, and of the trading and commercial community, claim your immediate attention to the actual condition of the Bank of Darien. Whether it shall be left to the operation of time, under the direction of the institution as established by the charter, to restore, the capital, with a view to ulterior active operations; or whether the Legislature, for the purpose of restoring the capital, with a view either to further operations, or a final settlement of its affairs, shall take the management into their own hands, are alternatives submitted to your discretion. Your decision will be governed by an estimate of the deep stake which the treasury has in the event; of the inconvenience resulting to all the parties concerned from a postponed restoration of the capital; of the proportion which the circulating medium bears to the actual demand for it; and of the powers which you yourselves possess of giving the desired efficacy to any measure, for the accomplishment of either or all of these objects. The organization of the territory lately acquired by the treaty of the Indian Springs will be a subject of early attention. The public reservations will particularly require a provision, which will not merely place them beyond the probability of trespass or intrusion, but will make them available, with the least possible delay, for all the benefits and advantages expected to be derived from them. j i T'16 ^Ja'ms f°r militia services remain unacted on by Congress. Our citizens interested in them suffer by the delay, whilst the delay results in no advantage to the United States. It is, indeed, a useless procrastination of what must inevitably come to pass as an irreversible decree of justice. The objection hitherto taken, of the mersion of these claims in the articles of agreement and cession, must be satisfactorily removed by the evidence communicated irom this department, and which shows that the commissioners of the United Slates who negotiated the articles subsequently recognised the claims as in no manner connected with the stipulations of that instrument. The militia claims and the territorial claims of Georgia, remaining unsatisfied for twenty or thirty years, have given rise to the unhappy differences subsisting between the Federal Government and this. It is sincerely hoped that these differences approach to an amicable termination, and that enlightened counsels, united to better feelings, wdl restore the harmony which it is so much the interest of both parties to cultivate and cherish. Wrong has been done to Georgia, her views misrepresented, and her character traduced; but wrong will come to right; and what prejudice has misrepresented, history will correct. That history, from infancy to the present moment, falsifies the charges by which malignancy has sought to make her odious. In all her departments, her representatives and magistracy, in peace and in war, have failed in nothing of their duty to the United States. To the constitutional law, a ready and cheerful obedience has been rendered at all times. In seasons of danger, her contributions have been given without stint, and her sword drawn upon the first appeal. If for these she claims no merit, she deserves no reproach. They are the righteous only whom wc acknowledge as our peers; and to their judgment we submit our actions, without bespeaking for them any thing but the award due to their intrinsic merits. I cannot conclude this message without congratulating you on the blessings communicated to society by that universal toleration of religion, (the guaranty of our political constitutions,) by which the intolerant himself, as well as the believing and unbelieving, are exempt from all responsibility but to their Maker; whilst the numerous sectaries of the Christian church, differing in creeds, but united in the faith given to the sermon on the mount, preach and worship securely almost in the same temple, spreading the benign doctrines of that sermon far and wide, impressing their saeredness by precept and example, and laying the prosperity of society in the deep foundations of a pure morality. It becomes nations and communities, like individuals, from time to time to render homage and adoration to the Supreme Governor of the universe, the Author of every good; to acknowledge his power; to make confession of sins; to ask their forgiveness; to supplicate his mercy, and to deprecate his wrath. It especially becomes us (the most favored of the children of men) to display our gratitude and thankfulness for the continued dispensations of his paternal goodness, by which our independence and liberties are preserved, our industry made fruitful, and its fruits protected; physical evils averted, and moral blessings multiplied; so that the prosperity and happiness we enjoy not only transcend our deserts, but promise a destiny more elevated than any portion of the human family has attained. To set apart a day of thanksgiving and prayer for these past manifestations of a superintending providence may be thought an act of moral and religious duty not inconsistent with the high political ones which you are required to perform, and may propitiate for us, in the time to come, a continuance of the same benignant smiles which our unworthiness may forfeit, but which his loving-kindness is ever ready to dispense to the bumble supplications of the good and virtuous of all nations. Your fellow-citizen, GEORGE M. TROUP. Report of the Committee on the state of the Republic, on the differences between the General Government and the State of Georgia. The Committee on the state of the Republic, to whom was referred that part of the Governor’s communication, and the accompanying documents, which relate to the treaties with the Creek nation of Indians, and our differences with the Genera) Government, have had the same under attentive consideration, and ask leave to make the following report: The unfortunate misunderstanding between the General Government and the State of Georgia has been marked by features of a peculiar character, and plainly indicating a force and power in the former which should have formed the subject of concern, if not alarm, to our sister States; but we regret to say that the very reverse has been the fact, and a cold, if not a reproachful, indifference has taken the place of a much more deserved regard. We are not unapprized of the influence of power, nor are we unmindful of the forbearance claimed from weakness; but we did believe that the structure of the Federal Government was such, its foundations so laid, as we fondly hoped, in the best and most generous feelings of the heart, as to have protected a sister State, if not from injury and oppression, at least from unnecessary insult and contempt. Your committee, speaking, as it sincerely believes, the sentiments of the Legislature of Georgia, cannot but imagine that our wrongs are neither known nor felt; or, if either, in so slight a degree as to be entirely misunderstood by our sister States. Entertaining, as we do, the most exalted veneration for the Union, in reference to its Government, and the most unaffected attachment for the States, in relation to the kindred affections, interests, and habits which bind us together, and believing that these bland relations are wholly reciprocal, we are at a loss to conceive how our repeated complaints have fallen upon the ear of such benevolence with so much apathy, and our remonstrances turned aside with so little concern. It cannot be accounted for upon any other rational principle than the one which is just suggested. It is not now the intention of your committee to betray a clamorous spirit of complaint. The regard which they feel for the dignity and honor of the State they represent would, of itself, sufficiently admonish them to avoid such a course; but when to this is added the fact, which we can in great truth affirm, that we have not a single discontent against the Federal Government, considered in relation to its legitimate powers, there can be no necessity to swell our murmurs beyond the immediate acts which, as we conceive, have the rather sprung from the abuse than the exercise of acknowledged right. In the good feeling and sincerity of the States, we have the most undoubted confidence; in the integrity of purpose, honesty of motive, and fidelity of service of the National Legislature, we cannot feel one distrustful emotion. Before that body we believe we can be respectfully heard; and to that body, we as firmly beliqve, the crisis has arrived when it becomes necessary to prefer a solemn appeal. And we would premise, in a temper of perfect respect, but of not less decisive earnestness, that it is a sovereign, and not a subject, that sues; it is an equal, and not an inferior, that remonstrates; it is an independent member of the Union, and not the subordinate creature of a family, that complains. It is not for forfeited privileges we supplicate, but we seek the redress of violated rights; and in this we cannot for a moment suppose that the States in Congress assembled could desire to see us approach them in any other manner than that of an open, honest, and confident avowal of our grievances. The Executive Department of the General Government has, in fact and principle, distinctly asserted that the States have not the exclusive jurisdiction of the soil within their chartered limits; that the Indians, and the territory occupied by them within the recognised and admitted boundaries of States originally independent, and so acknow- lodged by Great Britain, belong to the exclusive management and control of the General Government; and that the States have no right to exercise jurisdiction over the one or interfere with the other. It has not only asserted the right to prevent a State from exercising jurisdiction within its limits, but it has given open proof of the fact that it will become the ally of the Indians against one nf its own family, and will actually wage war in the very bosom of a State for what, in its own mere discretion, without regard to the opinion of the opposing State, may be deemed an infraction of the federal constitution: thereby at once establishing this monstrous doctrine, that the General Government can and will connect itself with foreign nations in acts of hostility to the local measures of the States, and consequently turning their own power and resources against themselves. The principle is avowed, nay, confirmed by the fact, that an armed force may be directly employed against a State before recourse is had to the civil authorities of the Government to correct whatever real or imaginary violation of law may be thought to exist: thus using at once the strong arm of power in preference to the milder and more moderate course of legal investigation— a resort that deprives the citizen of the valued right of trial, involves the country in all the horrors of war, and can only terminate in the most unspeakable disasters. It has assumed the prerogative to dispense with the established laws of the land opon its own unconditional pleasure, taking upon itself the sole right to judge when they shall or shall not be executed, prejudging cases without a hearing, and screening offenders without a trial. Thereis a public law of the land, wisely intended fur the harmony of the Union, providing for the protection of the State authorities against the insult and abuse of the military establishment of the General Government—an institution always haughty in its deportment, and often dangerous in its purpose. A just complaint was preferred against a general officer of the Union, under this well known law, for acknowledged insult and contumely offered to the Governor of the State; and, though a trial was formally demanded, it was as formally refused, upon the ground that the first insult was given to the officer; and yet a much more meritorious officer, for resenting an outrage, not upon himself but upon his country, was not only tried, but disgraced, at the instance of a petty Spanish province. So far as relates to the States, the principle is now settled, that, in all future cases, for the protection of his officers the President will be the exclusive judge of the nature, degree, and justification of their crime, before it shall be submitted to th,e authorized and competent tribunals of the country; thereby making the law a perfect nullity, and its object a still more vexatious mockery. It has asserted the principle, and confirmed it by the authority of practice, that the Federal Government is not founded in public opinion, or the just wishes and interest of either State or people; and that the views and inclinations of public functionaries will be consulted and promoted in preference to the people, whose servants they are; and officers will be kept in power, made to rule over us, and manage and direct our affairs, long after they have become perfectly odions, against onr will, against onr interest, against our solemn and repeated remonstrances; and, what is more intolerable, when it is well known that their outrages and oppressions come mixed with the most insupportable insult and derision. An officer of the General Government has been stationed near the limits of Georgia in charge of interests highly important to the State, where she was almost exclusively concerned; and, in the execution of his trust, he has been so studious and unwearied in opposition to the feelings and wishes of Georgia, that he has sought every occasion to thwart her views, defeat her designs, and degrade her character; and this, too, in direct contravention of the avowed (and it was hoped sincere) policy of his own Government. The Executive of this State has respectfully and earnestly remonstrated against the continuance in office of a man so lost to the duties of his station, and so unmindful of what was due to his own Government. This remonstrance has been thrice repeated by successive Legislatures, of all parties and all interests in the State; and yet it has been treated, if not with sheer contempt, at least with the most profound and unmoved indifference: thereby evincing that the public good weighs nothing when it conflicts with the interest of the public servant, or the ambition of his irresponsible master. It has asserted, in principle, (which is also not without the aid of fact,) that it can make and break treaties at pleasure, without regard to the interest and desire of States, notwithstanding such treaties are exclusively confined to the rights of States, not in their federative but individual character; rights intimately connected with their safety, inseparable from their sovereignty, and thoroughly identified with their territory and jurisdiction. The original territorial and jurisdictional rights of Georgia are deeply and obviously founded in her acknowledged independence by Great Britain, and long acquiesced in by the other States upon the most mature and solemn deliberation. Though she has formed a compact with her sister States, yet in every stage of that much debated question, from the unsuccessful experiment of the articles of confederation to the still stronger obligations of a national constitution, she has inflexibly reserved the rights of territory and jurisdiction as received from the hands of conquered Britain, and she has never relinquished one particle of either to the Union, or any other Government whatever. With the exception of the territory now forming the States of Alabama and Mississippi, every instrument between them may in vain be searched lor the least concession that will falsify this advisedly made and deliberate declaration. By the cession just referred to, the rights of Georgia received additional confirmation, if such could have been needed; for it gave the most unanswerable proof that the General Government conceived our title both to soil and jurisdiction perfectly unquestionable. By purchasing a part of our soil, they admitted the remainder to be ours; by promising to extinguish the Indian title to permissive occupancy, they acknowledged that we had that previous right; for it must exist somewhere. Before this cession, they had no such right; consequently, it was a concurrent right derived from us, obviously obtained by our consent; and our consent as obviously implies an original right, the exercise of which conclusively settles the question of jurisdiction. Apart from this view of the subject, if we have ever divested ourselves of this right, we. claim an inspection of the instrument by which it was effected. Under this contract, then, (lor we affirm it can be found no where else,) it is most wrongfully assumed by the Executive Department of the General Government that the Indians, and their lands within the chartered and conventional limits of Georgia, passed into the exclusive care and superintendence of the National Government; and that we dare not further interfere with either, unless we are prepared to break down the legion of federal power, or have strength enough to overcome its military arm. By virtue of these articles of cession, and, as it now seems, in pretended compliance with their obligations, a treaty was held at the Indian Springs in 1825. It was constitutionally ratified, formally promulgated, and as deliberately notified to Georgia. The State, believing that, under all its rights, both original as well as those recently acquired for her use by the General Government, there could be no difficulty in proceeding to a disposition of the territory, with a view to its final occupation and improvement—an object, though long, and, to her political standing and interests, injuriously delayed, yet not the less urgent and desirable—passed a law in the succeeding June for its distribution among her waiting and patient citizens. Every thing was done that she could rightfully do, (and we regret to say was permitted to be done by the superior, not to say capricious, power of the General Government,) to realize the full enjoyment of this property, the right to which seemed clearly to have lost its expectant, and had assumed an absolute vested, character. Yet, in the face of all right, both sovereign and vested, was another treaty held and concluded at Washington with an entirely different party, though belonging to the same nation; and all the rights acquired by the first became abrogated and annulled, and Georgia was required to withhold her possession of any other land than that which was specially permitted by the last. It is now fully ascertained that all the land of the first treat}' is not contained in the second, and it seems to be as fully resolved that what the second embraces is all that the State shall, upon her peril, receive. Your committee cannot but view this as a most appalling state of things. It believes, and so it is persuaded every ingenuous mind will believe, that right is with, but power against us; and that the former, as all history tfill mournfully attest, can never successfully contend against the latter. It is a matter of anxious and fearful contemplation what must be the result of this collision, if we fail to enlist the well-known justice and prudence of that part of the General Government to which we have now been compelled so reluctantly to appeal. In order to place this question in a point entirely within the reach of every capacity, we would make but one remark. Could the General Government have annulled the treaty of the Indian Springs by a treaty in which we were to acquire no lands at all, and by which we were to be placed, as formerly, at their perfect pleasure and convenience, for another acquisition? We presume no one will answer in the affirmative. Indeed, the General Government did not so conceive, for it gave the Indians decidedly to understand that the first treaty would not be revoked without a large cession of lands to Georgia; and we have no doubt that the Senate of the United States, acting under an honest and just sense of our rights, confidently believed that the second treaty conferred upon us all the territory claimed from the Creek nation of Indians. Now, if this proposition be undeniable, can any treaty be either just or constitutional that leaves out one single acre of the former purchase? For it is impossible to conceive of the justness of a rule, in the application of which it would be good or bad as to the whole, and not as to a. part. As another most astonishing result, arising from this power claimed for the General Government, of managing and controlling the Indians and the lands occupied by them within the chartered limits of old States, it is absolutely- denied to the State of Georgia to enter the Cherokee nation, either to ascertain the boundary between herself and her sister State, or to take any measures connected with the internal improvement of the State; and this, too, within her well-known and acknowledged limits. Indeed, this doctrine is so very strange, not to say alarming, that it requires no small degree of faith to give credit to an assumption so wild and extravagant; and therefore your committee, for the information of its own citizens, as well as to enlighten our fellow-citizens abroad on the subject of our wrongs, supposed by many to be fancied, would beg leave to embody the evidence of the fact in this report. The Governor, in a letter to the Secretary of War, states “ that our chief engineer, engaged in a reconnoissance under orders, and within the unsettled limits of Georgia, has been stopped by the Cherokees, and his further progress threatened to be arrested by force; and further, these infatuated and misguided people threaten to resist byforce the execution of the measures concerted by the Governments of Georgia and Alabama, for ascertaining the dividing line between the two States.” In answer to this letter, the Secretary of War states, distinctly, that it is the opinion of the President that these measures cannot be effectuated without the consent of the Indians; and concludes, “ the President is persuaded that this consent may be obtained by amicable and pacific means. If, however, it cannot, he deems a resort to coercive measures as altogether unwarrantable. If, in the justness of this view, the constituted authorities of Georgia should coincide, it will be gratifying to the President; but, to guard against the consequences of different views on their part, he feels himself required to protest, in the name of the United States, against the use of forcible and hostile means to effect the purposes referred to in your letter.” These are some of the chief powers assumed by the General Government over the rights of Georgia; but there are very many circumstances of peculiar aggravation attending their exercise, which have given keen and deep-felt mortification to the feelings of Georgia. As a sovereign State, in connexion with others, as we fondly hope, upon terms of the most sincere regard and affection, all looking, and with no common solicitude, to the maintenance of their own rights and dignity, we cannot but believe we shall kindle a sympathy strong enough at least to put down the force of prejudice, too successfully arrayed against us, though we may ultimately fail in challenging a just and returning respect for our much abused and neglected privileges. We have been insulted by petty agents; we have been browbeaten and derided by Indians. Our Chief Magistrate at home, and our representatives in Congress, while in the public service and under the very eye of the General Government, have been compelled to brook the insolence of half-breeds; we have been prevented, nay, ordered to desist, from surveying our own lands, when no possible harm could ensue, and when, too, the General Government, under precisely similar circumstances, was carrying on its own surveys among Indians unremoved from recently acquired lands—a privilege heretofore uninterruptedly enjoyed by every new frontier State, and questioned only for the first time in the case of Georgia, one of the original “ thirteen States;" we have had our Indian allies, those who long defended Georgia from the tomahawk of the very Indians who are now so high in favor, murdered in cold blood, their families exiled from home, made wanderers and outcasts from the very country which but nine years ago was declared to be exclusively theirs, under the plighted faith and solemn written guaranty of the General Government: and all these misfortunes, cruelties, and hardships they have been destined to endure from no other cause, as we verily believe, than that of being the unswerving friends of Georgia. These are reflections that cannot fail to inspire the most touching sensibility; there is a point and anguish in their effect which, perhaps, it were better to suppress than to vent; and though, in silencing their upbraidings, a severe reproach is spared to the national character, yet it will be well understood by every candid mind, as it must be certainly felt by every honest bosom. We cannot but trust that the authority to which we have now referred these unhappy differences will duly appreciate the motive as well as the object of this appeal. Our reliance is upon the wisdom and justice of the nation. We want nothing more than we would be willing to grant; and, if we know our own hearts, there is not a grievance we have enumerated, which, if offered to any of our sister States, we would not promptly resent and redress, and, risking every thing, feel it a bounden duty to make common cause with the injured party. We want nothing that does not fairly belong to the State sovereignties. To whatever our sister States will submit, in that we must acquiesce; if they would be contented with the treatment Georgia has received, and will come out with a public declaration of the fact, from that moment our complaints are hushed. We threaten no consequences; it would be idle and vain to do so. The loss of confidence and affection, by reason of neglect and disappointment, is consequence enough to a reflecting nation; and a high-minded and generous people cannot turn from such a result without emotions of the deepest regret. Under this view of the subject, your committee beg leave to offer the following resolutions: Resolved, That Georgia owns exclusively the soil and jurisdiction of all the territory within her present chartered and conventional limits, and, with the exception of the right to regulate commerce among the Indian tribes, claims the right to exercise over any people, white or red, within those limits, the authority of her laws, as she in her wisdom may think proper; and that she has never relinquished said right, either territorial or jurisdictional, to the General Government, in any manner or by any instrument whatever; and the exercise of such right by said last-mentioned Government is illegal, unwarrantable, and unjust. Resolved, That threatening a State with an armed force, and actually attempting to carry said threats into execution, by stationing the military on its borders, whether the conduct of the State thus sought to be overawed be right or wrong, is contrary to the spirit and genius of our Government; a fundamental principle of which is, that the military is subordinate to the civil authority. The former being the instrument of fatal necessity, makes a resort to the latter always indispensable in the first instance. Any other course is destructive of free government, subversive of State rights, and tending to the complete annihilation of State sovereignty. , Resolved, That the refusal to arrest and punish a military officer of the General Government, who had grossly violated a law of the land, in abusing and insulting the highest authorities of a State, is, as we conceive, an abuse of office, and, if not properly atoned for, will and ought to leave this lasting reproach upon the nation—that, even in republics, the law affords no protection against the views of power or the resentments of ambition. Resolved, That the retention of a civil officer in power, after earnest and repeated solicitations for his removal from a sovereign State, through its highest authorities, in which there was uncommon unanimity, and after, too, it was known to his Government that he was not only opposed to its own views, but was extremely inimical to the interests of the State in which he was placed, and highly insulting to her public functionaries, is a instance of contempt for the. opinion of a State, and a disregard for the welfare of a large portion of the community, highly dangerous to the principles of representative government, where the public servant acts for the people, and not for himself, and where, as soon as he becomes obnoxious to their interests, he ought to be removed. Resolved, That the attempted abrogation of the treaty of the Indian Springs by the treaty of Washington, in so far as it divested the State of Georgia of any right acquired under the former, is illegal and unconstitutional; and. we feel the utmost confidence that, when the General Government comes to be informed that Georgia is deprived of lands to which she had an unquestionable claim by virtue of the first treaty, it will think with us in this regard, and, actuated by its accustomed sense of justice, will take speedy steps to remove all obstructions to the full enjoyment of this (at present) contested right. Resolved, That the assertion of the President, that we have no right to enter the Indian country within our own limits for the purpose of ascertaining boundary, and effecting measures connected with the peaceable objects of internal improvement; without the consent of the Indians, is a doctrine which this State will not admit, and against which it does most solemnly protest. In this she has every confidence of the support of her sister States, especially those who have so long and so uninterruptedly enjoyed a similar right. And his solemn protest against any measures contemplated by the State to exert her right over this necessary and essential part of her sovereignty, is an instance of dictation and federal supremacy unwarranted by any grant of power to the General Government, and which we trust and believe the National Legislature will promptly disavow. Resolved, That a separate copy of this report, with the documents necessary to support the facts therein detailed, he forwarded by his excellency the Governor to our Senators and Representatives in Congress, to be by them respectively presented to each branch of Congress, with a request that they use their best exdftions to have redressed the grievances of this State, in the various particulars to which this report has reference; and, for the future, harmony of the States, to request of that body to make an explicit declaration of the rights that belong to the National Government, and those which belong to the State of Georgia, (and consequently to the other States,) resulting from the immediate difference of opinion specially enumerated in the foregoing report. Resolved, That his excellency the Governor be requested to forward also a copy of this report and the documents to the Governor of each State in the Union, with an earnest and respectful request that he lay the same before the Legislature of his State; and they are hereby most affectionately and respectfully solicited to express to this State whether they are prepared to admit the foregoing principles, and the powers growing out of them, as belonging to the General Government, and whether Georgia is bound and must submit tu the treatment which she conceives she has most wrongfully sustained at the hands of the Executive Department of the General Government. Approved, December, 1826. G. M. TROUP, Governor. CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE GOVERNOR OF GEORGIA AND THE GENERAL GOVERNMENT, ON THE SUBJECT OF A FURTHER ACQUISITION OF TERRITORY. Secretary of IVar to Governor Troup. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 17, 1824. I am directed by the President of the United States to enclose for your information copies of a communication from the Cherokee delegation now at this place, the answer of this Department to their communication, and the reply; by which you will perceive that the nation is very adverse to making any additional cessions of land to the United States. I avail myself of the opportunity to assure you that it will afford the President much pleasure to adopt any measure in his power which may tend to the fulfilment of the convention with the Slate of Georgia, with the least possible delay. With this view, he would be gratified to receive the aid of your opinion on a subject so interesting to the State over which you preside. I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, J. C. CALHOUN. His Excellency GEORGE M. TROUP, Milledgeville, Georgia. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War. EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, February 28, 1824. I have received this day your letter of the 17th instant. Be pleased to present to the President my acknowledgments for the attention which he has given to the requisition of Georgia, and especially for the manifestation of his sincere desire to adopt any measure in his power which may tend to the fulfilment of the convention with the State of Georgia, with the least possible delay. In compliance with his wishes, I hasten 1o lay before him my views and expectations, as connected with this fulfilment. In your effort to open a negotiation with the Cherokee delegation for extinguishment of claims, you are met by a flat negative to two fair and liberal propositions: the first, to purchase for valuable consideration in money; the second, to accommodate them with equivalent territory in a favorable situation beyond the Mississippi. Unreasonable as the answer has been, my mind was fully prepared for such a one. It had been made known to me some time before that a council had been formed in the nation, for the special purpose of coming to the resolution that the State of Georgia should never acquire, for any consideration, another acre of Cherokee land, either thiough the agency of the United States or otherwise; and, in conformity with this resolution, all the measures were preconcerted to enable the chiefs to present themselves before the President, with a boldness bordering on effrontery, and to receive his first advance to negotiation with the emphatic Nu!—a word easily pronounced, but in this instance most unadvisedly; not the spontaneous offspring of Indian feeling and sentiment, but a word put into his mouth by white men,,who are nourished and protected by the power of the United States; who have no common interest or sympathies with those whom they instigate to use it; and who, fixed’upon the soil almost without metes or bounds, regard it as a goodly heritage for their descendants, which no power can limit or take away. From the day of the signature of the articles of agreement and cession, this word ceased to be available to the Indians for any permanent interest of their own. From that day, the power of protestation which they have so recently interposed departed from them, and could never be used but for a little delay, or for a better bargain. On that day, the fee-simple passed from the rightful proprietors to Georgia; and Georgia, after a lapse of twenty years, demands nothing of the competent authority but the amotion of the tenants in possession. The answer is not only no! but never! And is this a fit and proper one to be given to the demand of the people of Georgia, who have endured so long and so patiently? who have parted with an empire for a song? who have waited to see the United States reimbursed all their expenses, and a nett revenue flowing into their coffers from the land which was their birthright? a people who, having made a little reservation for themselves by compact, are now told, in answer to their just and reasonable demand, that this compact is only conditional, depending for its fulfilment on the will and pleasure of the Indians; that the primitive aboriginal rights are such now, as they were before the discovery of the country; and that, if Georgia wants land, the United States have enough in Florida or elsewhere to give her? How is this insult and mockery to be repelled, proceeding as it does from the polluted lips of outcasts and vagabonds, who make the chiefs the instruments of reiterating it at Washington? No, sir; this trick of vulgar cunning is only to be met by the firmness and dignity which become the United States Government, which it has never failed to manifest on every occasion calling for it, and which he who is the special depositary of these sacred qualities has always displayed to so much advantage to his high office and to the country. The Indians must be made to understand that no talks will be listened to but such as proceed from councils strictly Indian in character and composition; that the compact with Georgia is a very different instrument from that which has been represented to them; that by it the word of the United States is passed, and that nothing can redeem it but the cession of all their lands within her limits; that the time has come when to postpone this redemption would be essentially a breach of faith, of which the United States will never permit herself to be suspected; that, consultiog the comfort and happiness of the Indians alone, the United States have omitted to press this measure upon them until the very last hour: that the United States have made sacrifices for Indian interest, and will expect some small ones from the Indians in return; that, if (hey desire civilization, nothing is more consistent with it than concentration, and that, without regard to the acquisition of territory, the United States have acted upon this principle from the beginning, as a fundamental one irt their system of improvement; that, beyond the limits of Georgia, and within the territory proper of the United States, there are lands enough for the Cherokees and all their generations to come, of which the United States possess tho full and absolute dominion, where they may sit down in quiet and peaceful enjoyment, and where none canV’ome to make them afraid; that, on the other hand, if, tired of the arts of civilization, they will betake themselves to their old pursuits, you have made a fair and liberal offer of wilderness enough, abounding in game, where the white man will not speedily come to trespass or to annoy; that, in presenting these honorable overtures, you are actuated by a sincere regard to Indian interest; that, in the rejection of both, you can perceive nothing but an unfriendly spirit; and that, finally, if they persevere in this rejection, the consequences are inevitable—1st, that you must assist the Georgians in occupying the country which is their own, and which is unjustly withheld from them; or, 2dly, in resisting the occupation, to make war upon and shed the blood of your brothers and friends. Having said so much, it remains only to advert to the other topics contained in your letter to the Indian delegation; and for these a word will suffice: 1st. The reservation of part of our territory for the settlement of the Indians; 2d. Their incorporation into and amalgamation with our society. As to the first, the answer is, the articles of agreement having made no provision for such reservation, none can be made without the consent of Georgia; and that Georgia will never give her assent to any without an equivalent, (if she would with one,) is absolutely certain. With regard to the second proposition, the answer is, that if such a scheme were practicable at all, the utmost of the rights and privileges which public opinion would concede to Indians would be to fix them in a middle station between the negro and the white man; and that, as long as they survived this degradation, without the possibility of attaining the elevation of the latter, they would gradually sink to the condition of the former—a point of degeneracy below which they could not fall. It is likely that, before they reached this, their wretchedness would find relief in broken heaits. Most assuredly, nothing will contribute so essentially to that scanty share of human happiness which is left them as their concentration and insulation, where, having enough for the wants of agriculture, they will, in their seclusion, afford no pretexts for the intrusions or annoyances of the white man. Thus frankly, in compliance with the request of thç President, I submit to him my general views on this interesting subject. Thus frankly I will deem it my duty to submit them to the Legislature of the State. They are such, no doubt, as have already suggested themselves. They seem to me the only ones which the attitude assumed by the Indians will suffer us to entertain. I am sorry I cannot support them by matter-of-fact information of official character. To me, this is impossible. I can only say, generally, that, among men best informed on Cherokee affairs, the minds of a majority of the nation are well prepared to receive your proposition for removal. In conclusion, I must state not only my hope, but my conviction, that the President will perceive, in every movement on our part in relation to this business, a sincere desire to harmonize with the Union; to maintain peace and tranquillity with the Indians, until longer forbearance will cease to be a virtue; in fact, to lend ourselves, as we have always done, heart and hand, to the support of every wise and virtuous administration of the General Government. But the President will, at the same time,'consider that Georgia has a deep stake in the prompt decision of the present question. Of all the old States, Georgia is the only one whose political organization is incomplete; her civil polity is deranged; her military force cannot be reduced to systematic order and subordination; the extent of her actual resources cannot be counted; the great work of internal improvement is suspended: and all because Georgia is not in the possession of her vacant territory—a territory waste and profitless to the Indians; profitless to the United States; but, in the possession of the rightful owner, a source of strength, of revenue, and of union. Whilst you present to the President my respects, be pleased to accept for yourself the offer of my high consideration for the part you have taken in this transaction. Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War, Washington City. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War. gJR.	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, GEORGIA, April 24, 1824. I cannot refrain from the expression of my surprise at the late communication which the President has ihouoht proper to make to Congress, on the subject of the claims of Georgia against the United States under the articles of agreement and cession of the year 1802. Assuming, as it does, principles which I controvert; asserting facts which I cannot permit myself to admit; it becomes my duty, in the recess of the Legislature of Georgia, tu enter my protest, in behalf of the people of this State, against them, in the same manner as I believe they would themselves do if they had an opportunity of speaking by their immediate representatives. The avowal of these principles, the assertion of these facts, involve the destruction of the compact between Georgia and the United States, make it null and void, and leave no alternative to Georgia but acquiescence or resistance. If nullified by the act of one party, the other party is absolved, and both are free to declare the resumption of their original rights. Will this cancelment make for Georgia or the United States! Give us back our lands; w7e give you back your money; and, without making war upon the States of Alabama and Mississippi, we will run the risk of concluding with them the best bargain we can. It would be a better bargain for Georgia than that the execution of which we urge upon the General Government. But, before this, we will have to ask a little money of you. Refund to Georgia the five millions which you gratuitously presented to certain persons, the price of the pacification of New England, and which you paid from the proceeds of our lands. And is it come to this? Is it discovered at last that Georgia has no claims either upon the United States or upon the Indians, under the compact of 1802? that it is all a dream, a vision, a phantasma, with which the deluded people of Georgia have been plaguing themselves for twenty years? And, I pray you, of what other construction is the message to Congress susceptible? Are not the Indians there treated as allodial proprietors?—as an independent people, having plenum et absolutum dominium, and seised per my et per tout; and that, therefore, Georgia can take nothing but at their will and pleasure? The United States have promised in the compact to extinguish for Georgia the Indian claims to the lands reserved, as soon as it could be done peaceably and on reasonable terms. The President, in his message, construes this into a stipulation to do in this respect whatever it might please the Indians at any time to do; Of what value was such a stipulation to Georgia? She could take nothing by it which she had not without it. Georgia might, according to the President, entreat the United States to ask the favor of the Indians to sell peaceably and on reasonable terms, and, if the Indians pleased to answer no! never! the just claims of Georgia were satisfied now and forever. Was ever such a stipulation heard of before, either in compact between Government and Government, or in contract between man and man? Georgia has not required the United States to invade Indian rights, to satisfy her claims. She has only asked of the United States to do for her what she has detne for herself—acquire Indian lands whensoever and wheresoever she wanted them; employ the same means for us in the fulfilment of treaty obligation, which you habitually employ for yourselves without any such obligation; in short, do as you did in the case of the Florida treat}’ and others. When the President says he and his predecessors have invariably done so, may he not have forgotten the treaty of 1814, when a commanding word to General Jackson would have procured for us the Creek lands within our limits, on at least as good terms as it did procure other lands for the United States beyond them? I appeal to the records of your office, sir, as the voucher of the fact, that when that treaty was negotiated, the obligations of the United States were no more remembered than if the compact of 1802 had never existed. Make an estimate from the same records of what you, since 1802, have acquired for yourselves; and compare it with what, under the pledges of the agreement, you have acquired for Georgia. The difference will be about as one hundred to a unit. And yet it is asserted that the United States have sought every oppor- . tunity to fulfil the stipulations of the compact! And may I ask the favor of you, sir, to put your finger on that particular part of them where it is shown that a proposition to extinguish claims in your behalf has been answered by the potent monosyllable no! and that you have been content? The history of the Plymouth colony and of William Penn might have been illustrated by the patience with which such an answer had been borne. The United States have never pretended, until now, that it would be borne at all. Now we turn over a new leaf; the principle of the old treaty of Philadelphia—the quid pro quo principle—must govern all treaties and satisfy all consciences. Would it had been so from the beginning. I confess to you, sir, 1 do not like this kind of half honesty. If the principle of Penn’s treaty was right, that of every other which followed was wrong; and he who has done wrong, is, in front of conscience, bound to get back to right. To undo promptly and directly what you have unrighteously done, is a dictate, I think, of the Platonic and Socratic school; undoubtedly that of a much higher—the Christian. Begin, therefore, with Georgia, if you please, to unsettle all that has been settled; but let not Georgia be the first and the last. Say, in a spirit of repentance, that what we have taken unlawfully we will restore; that the edict of Pope Alexander of pious memory shall pass for nothing; the proclamations and charters of divers Kings of England for nothing; priority of occupation, priority of civilization, priority of Christianity, all nothing; Spanish precedent, which, by the law of force, took every thing, and gave in return stripes and blows, of course for nothing; and, beseeching the forgiveness of sins, return to the principles and practices of William Penn. But then is not atonement still due to the aboriginal? How, if you take the rule of the message for your guide, can you repair the wrongs of all kinds done him since the landing on the rock at Plymouth? Your whole substance would nnt compensate him by one-half. But, sir, not even the Puritans and the Quakers will consent to give up now; and if things are to remain as we find them, why is Georgia to be selected as a propitiatory offering? It is a fact unquestionable, that, for fifteen or twenty years past, well knowing your obligations to Georgia under the compact, you have encouraged the Cherokees to make progress in all the arts of civilized life of first necessity and comfort, within the acknowledged limits of Georgia. They have been rearing flocks and herds, constructing comfortable buildings, making agricultural improvements of various kinds, organizing a Government adapted to the grade of civilization they had reached, with schools and religious establishments appurtenant, «fcc; and you encouraged the beginning and progress of these things with, certain foreknowledge that they could by no possibility endure. They have been taught by the United States to value them as they ought; if they had not been taught altogether at our expense, and without our consent, we would have had no objection. But this has been the sole cause of the unwillingness of any part of the Cherokees to move. The United States, therefore, create the cause; the Cherokees avail themselves of it to turn their backs upon your propositions for negotiation; and you have no means of escaping the difficulty, but by asserting for the Cherokees rights which they have not, and denying rights to Georgia which you ought to know she has. I do most earnestly wish, sir, that this subject could be disposed of forever.* It never recurs but the heart sickens at the recollection of the crimes connected with it. And are the wrongs of Georgia never to have’an end? When the proclamation of ’64 gave to Georgia the country between the Atlantic and the Mississippi, it was thought we took something by it. It was not believed it gave us (what we and all mankind had before) (he right to ask the In dians to sell lands in fair market. We not only thought differently, but acted differently. We knew that the whole country was ours in virtue of the very best kind of title then recognised by civilized Europe, and, paying proper respect to the occupation of Indians, we exercised all the rights of sovereigns and masters, until Mr. Adams conceived a notion that part of the country belonged to him. So he said to us, “ That part which you occupy you may keep; the rest 1 will take to myself.” Accordingly, he sat down with his army on the banks of the Mississippi, and erected a Territorial Government; Georgia was in no condition to resist. She began, therefore, to supplicate; from supplication she passed, by an effort of great courage, to remonstrance; and thence, suddenly, into the articles of agreement and cession, where we still find her. But, in the mean time, what had happened? I blush to think of it. The evils of that sore and nameless iniquity are felt at this hour in all the ramifications of society. The instigators and plotters of it you paid handsomely. How, I will not say; the secret is yet to be revealed. The purity of the President has no doubt kept him a stranger to it, to this moment. But, after all, having proceeded in a course of piecemeal execution of the articles for twenty years, why do you stop short, and say to us, All this has been gratuitous; we owed you nothing, and we have paid you a great deal; your restlessness and inquietude and importunities, our harassments and perplexities and expenses, have all been the results of false conceits and hallucinations, and they must have an end? Accordingly, it is recommended to end them by proposing a removal of the Indians, with their consent; not because the United States are bound by the compact to take this or any other measure to place Georgia at once in possession of her territory, but because of considerations confined exclusively to the welfare and prosperity of the Indians. I am, notwithstanding, gratified that the President and myself, differing unfortunately on other points, should concur in this as a measure indispensable to the improvement of the condition of the Indians, and necessary to secure their permanent peace and happiness. But why this could not have been accomplished without the intervention of Congress, I cannot easily conceive. A treaty for the exchange of lands would seem to me to be as obviously within the compass of Executive powers as a treaty for the purchase of lands, or any other object. If the instrument of persuasion is the only admissible one for the attainment of the end, I do not know how Congress can, by any act of theirs, make that which is already in the hands of the President more efficient for your own purposes. Delay is certain to follow, and, anxious as we are to know our fate, it is delay we deprecate. The first detachment from the body of the Cherokees moved across the Mississippi on the naked promise or suggestion of Mr. Jefferson; a majority of the Cherokees would do so now. One more instance, if you please, of the unkind and unfriendly treatment recently received at the hands of the United States. The President, in the course of the present session, has considered it his duty to recommend to Congress to make provision for the claims of the Massachusetts militia; claims which Congress had hitherto refused to recognise, because, with very few exceptions, that militia, in the late war with England, flagrante bello, were arrayed against the constituted authorities of the Federal Government. Georgia, too, has militia claims against the Federal Government of some twenty or thirty years standing, which have been constantly urged upon the justice of Congress. I remember to have introduced them before the Senate, and so unexceptionable were they deemed by that enlightened body, that their validity was sanctioned without a dissenting voice. They would have passed the House of Representatives also; but, on their way, they fell into bad company; they fell in with the Massachusetts claims, then most obnoxious, and shared their fate; they were claims for services faithfully and patriotically rendered in defence of our frontier against the Indians. They amount to $120,000, at least. When we press the United States for payment, the answer is, These claims, and all other claims of Georgia, were merged in the articles of agreement and cession; and when we go to look for the article in which this supposed mersion is to be found, we will as readily find it in that very important one which gives to us the right to ask the lands of the Indians, and to the Indians the corresponding right to answer No! as in any other. 1 will trouble you no further on this unpleasant subject. The causes which led me to the expositions and references contained in this paper are not of my seeking. I would willingly have avoided them. The absolute denial of our rights, as we understand, and have long understood them, at the moment when we believed they would have been most respected, is a subject of mortification and regret. So far as 1 participate these feelings with my countrymen, I assure you, sir, they are not the offspring of this day or this hour. Smarting under a sense of our wrongs, within the first hour 1 set my foot on the floor of the Senate Chamber I had occasion to expose the wrongs of Georgia, and to apprize the Senators that 1 would never vote for an Indian treaty until the claims of Georgia were satisfied. My convictions and my feelings remain the same to this day. Nevertheless, my sentiments towards the President are unchanged. Who can be exempt from error, amidst the cares and troubles of such an office? What heart so callous as not to pardon injuries inflicted by it? We forgive, but our rights are still our rights. At what time, and in what manner, they will be asserted, must depend upon the representatives of the people. Respectfully, G. M. TROUP. The Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of TVor, Washington. CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE GENERAL GOVERNMENT ON THE SUBJECT OF THE TREATIES, AND THE LtNE DIVIDING GEORGIA AND ALABAMA. Governor Troup to the President of the United States. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, February II, 1826. As I will proceed on the 2d day of September next, under the authority of the Legislature of Georgia, to occupy the country ceded by the treaty concluded at the Indian Springs on the I2th day of February, 1825; and as the running of the dividing line between this State and the State of Alabama must necessarily precede the survey, which will immediately follow that occupation; as the Government of the United States, having been formally invited to co-operate, has, in declining it officially, made known to the Government of Georgia that the running of the line is a matter in which Georgia and Alabama are alone concerned, and with which the United States have nothing to do; as Alabama did consent, and, it is believed, notified that consent to the United States, as she certainly did to Georgia; as Alabama is well disposed to co-operate with Georgia in the execution of the work; as it can have DO assignable connexion with the existence or non-existence of the treaty, it having been fixed unalterably by the constitution and the articles of agreement as the permanent boundary, and as the treaty recognises and confirms it; as the Government of Georgia is resolved, after having encountered very many obstacles, equally unlooked for and unnecessary, to carry into effect its repeated decree; as the season will soon arrive most favorable to its execution with accuracy and precision; and as General Gaines, in his letter of the 14th June last, had, in the name of his 93 E Government, expressly forbidden the ronning of the line, as well as the survey of the lands, and had assembled troops on the frontier to enforce the prohibition; and as the Secretary of War, by the order of the President, notified this Government that no entry upon, or survey of, the country would be permitted, and, moreover, directed the commanding general to employ a military force to prevent any such entry or survey; it is respectfully asked of the President whether his resolotion in these respects remains unchanged, and, if unchanged, whether the military force will be employed against us, with or without the auxiliary aid and co-operation of the savages; or whether these last will be restrained by the authority of the United States from interposing their arms at all; or whether they will be left to the indulgence of their natural feelings, under the artificial excitements of the day, to assume the character of neutrals, or of partisans and marauders, as those feelings and excitements may dictate? It is hoped and expected that the frankness of the President’s answer will correspond with the importance of the occasion which prompts to this inquiry, so that'nothing hereafter will be chargeable to the imperfection of our language, or the insincerity of either of the parties. And that the President may be in full possession of the considerations which influence this Government, and, more especially, that he may acquit the authorities here of precipitancy, prejudice, or undue diffidence in the wisdom and patriotism of the councils of the Union, I will take the liberty to submit the documentary and official evidence, which, it is trusted, will sustain and justify this Government in the eyes of the world in the measures to which, for its own safety, it may be obliged to have recourse. First, then, the ronning of the dividing line between Alabama and this State has no assignable connexion with the existence or non-existence of the treaty; the right to run the line having accrued to Georgia by the articles of agreement and cession of 1S02—a right undisputed until now, and which ought to be indisputable now, because at that time made by the constitution the permanent boundary of the State. The constitution, in the twenty-third section of the first article, after defining the boundaries of the State, proceeds to authorize a sale to the United States, under the authority of the Legislature; but that sale being effected, (as it was by the articles of agreement and cession of 1802,) the remaining territory is declared to be the property of the whole body of the people, and inalienable but by themselves.**** Secondly. The repeatedly official assertion of the right of Georgia; (a) the official concurrence of Alabama; (b) and the official acquiescence ef the Government of the United States, (c) Thirdly. The public acts and resolutions of Georgia have kept separate and distinct the subject of running the line, and tli'at of surveying the lands, any further than that the one must necessarily precede the other. But, with respect to the right to run the line at pleasure, never having entertained but one opinion concerning it, and disclaiming any authority on the part of the United States to bring it into controversy àt all, whilst in deference to the councils of the Union the Legislature consented to postpone the survey, they did not consent to postpone the running of the line, and, of course, left it where they found it, viz: discretionary with the Executive to run it whenever he might deem proper. When the Legislature authorized the Executive to postpone the survey until the expiration of the time limited by treaty, but to proceed immediately at the expiration of that time, they could not have intended to postpone the running of the line, because, as that must necessarily precede the survey, such postponement would defeat the survey, (rf) Fourthly. The Legislature were therefore indifferent whether the treaty was declared null and void, or not, as regarded the running of the line; the running, having been ordered long before the treaty was even in contemplation, had nothing to do with it, and therefore was to be carried into execution whether such a treaty was ever brought into existence or not. If the treaty expedites the running now, it is only because the running roost necessarily precede the survey, which will commence on the 2d of September next, the day after the time limited by the treaty for the occupation of the Indians. Fifthly. We are prohibited, by military force, from ronning the same description of boundary line which we are almost daily in the practice of running without murmur or complaint from the General Government—1 mean the exterior boundary line which separates our frontier counties from the Indians. Here the Indians are equally liable to trespass, encroachment, and interruption of all kinds from the whites; to be cheated and defrauded of their effects, ill-treated in their persons, and even their lands taken from them by the onskilfolness or dishonesty of surveyors. It has been shown that, in the contemplated measure, the Government of the United States has been repeatedly invited to participate, not only to protect its own interests, but those of the Indians; the Indians themselves would have been invited. In running the line between the Cherokees and Georgia, under the treaty, both the United States and the Cherokees would be invited to be present. If the Indians, therefore, should, in either instance, suffer detriment by an act of the Government of Georgia, the Government of the United States would be there present to correct or redress it. Sixthly. Other States have run lines, separating their territory from that of the Indians, without permission of the General Government; the States of Tennessee and North Carolina and Georgia have done so, and their legality has not been questioned by that Government. In many instances, too, these lines have passed through territory in the exclusive occupation of the Indians. [See the reports of the commissioners of the State: one dated 15th October, 1819; the other dated 13th July, 1818, ronning the lines between Tennessee and North Carolina and Georgia.]	, Seventhly. The Executive of the United States has repeatedly, uniformly, and without reservation or condition, admitted the right of Georgia both to run the line and make the survey at the expiration of the time limited by the treaty; and, in the letter of the Secretary of War, so late as the 30th day of August last, viz: after the Government had been placed in possession of all the information which it now has, of the bribery and corruption, and abuse of instructions, practised to procure it, the Executive of the United States expressed itself highly gratified and delighted that the Executive of Georgia had consented to postpone the survey, even until the meeting of the Legislature of the State. It will be seen, on comparing the correspondence and official message of the Governor with the paragraph of the letter of the Secretary of War, (marked e,) that the Secretary has committed a very great error. So far from the Governor consenting to await the decision of the Congress, he protested, in the most positive terms, against a reference of the treaty at all. The Governor never engaged to do more than to postpone the survey until the meeting of the Legislature of the State. You have perceived, sir, from every past indication of public sentiment, that nothing can skake the confidence of the Government and the people of Georgia in the validity of the treaty of the Indian Springs; and, as I flatter myself with the hope that the preceding illustration may afford some insight into the absolute right of the State of Georgia to run the dividing line between Georgia and Alabama whensoever she pleases, I have taken the liberty to trouble you thus far. It is my unpleasant duty to trespass upon your attention yet a little longer. Information, not wholly of official character, has been received, that, in the new treaty lately negotiated with the hostile chiefs, a line has been designated as a true dividing line between the two tribes, by which something like three hundred thousand acres of lands, as acquired by the treaty of the Indian Springs, are taken from us and given to the Cherokees. For this treaty, of course, we care nothing; because, in declaring the inviolability of the old, we have already proclaimed the invalidity of the new. But neither yourself nor myself can be altogether indifferent to the consequences of this ill-judged measure. A false line has been adopted, which favors the Cherokees; the true one, which favors the Georgians, blotted out. The true line will be the one followed by the commissioners of Georgia, who are appointed to run it. The false line will be the one claimed by the Cherokees as the true one. I much fear you have not been made familiar with the territorial history of both tribes; it is short, but not, on that account, the more appropriate to the subject of this letter. But I cannot help saying to you that, of all the measures which you have thought proper to adopt in relation to the matters in controversy between the two Governments, there is no one which has given me more pain or solicitude, because no one partaking of more injustice, hardship, and oppression, than that now complained of. In giving a new boundary to the Cherokees, you have given them new feelings, hostile to the interests and people of Georgia; they will recognise no other line, in future, than that you have thought proper to prescribe; they will suffer none other to be run, but by coercion of the sword. Without any controversy between the Creeks and Cherokees, involving.territorial boundary, or bringing this line into question, but such as might easily, according to their usages and customs, have been settled among themselves, you have become gratuitously a volunteer in the service of the Cherokees, to procure for them, by cession from the hostile chiefs, lands which belong neither to them nor to the Cherokees, but which belonged more particularly to the friendly Creeks, and which now belong to us by cession from both friendly and hostile chiefs: thus giving to the Cherokees a little more space for the pursuits of agriculture and the civilized arts, by a permanent location assured to them, adverse to the claims and demands of Georgia, and preparing them for the promised admission into the Union as an independent State. Not only so; you will probably have caused, on all these accounts, an expenditure of blood and treasure to the State of Georgia, from which she would have been otherwise exempt. And suffer me, in no unkindly spirit, to inquire, if such be the consequences resulting from these, what will be those which must follow the ulterior, and not distant, assertion by Georgia of her right to all the territory of the Cherokees within the limits settled by the articles of agreement and cession? (f)	* One of two things has happened: either the people of Georgia, and the authorities who represent them, have, by the illusions of interest or prejudice, or both, been overwhelmed by sudden and impenetrable darkness, benumbing and stupifying their faculties; or the councils of those of whose measures they complain have been directed by a strange infatuation. The old treaty is proposed to be annulled, either because of corruption practised to procure it; of an abuse of powers by the commissioners; of an inadequate representation of the nation; or of the boundary on one side being an artificial instead of a natural boundary. If an irreversible sentence of denunciation and annulment is to be pronounced against the old treaty because of these, what is to become of the new? The old treaty, negotiated by your own agents, in the woods, seven hundred miles from the seat of Government, with nothing but their written instructions to direct them, in a simple unostentatious manner, without any display of power, not even a guard or an escort, and with comparatively limited command of money, with a foreknowledge of their accountability to you both for the fulfilment of their instructions and the appropriation of the money, and, finally, the former ratification, agreeably to the forms enjoined by the constitution: the new treaty, negotiated at Washington, in the presence of the Government, with enough of pomp and circumstance to dazzle or overawe; where a smile gives animation and buoyancy to despair; and where the lion-hearted savage himself can be made to quake and cower beneath a frown; where moneyed means lead into temptation, and the annals of Indian diplomacy furnish no moral nomenclature by which to estimate the. terms perfidious, treacherous,&c.; where instructions could be varied,from hour to hour, to every exigency; where, indeed, any party might be considered as the nation, and any boundary a good one: it is under all these circumstances that, at Washington, we are to presume the existence of perfect freedom of will, uncontrolled and unrestrained, united to the romantic love of country, dictating every article and paragraph of the new treaty; whilst, in the woods of Georgia, the same freedom has been corrupted by gold, and the will misdirected to the ruin of Indian rights and interests. We cannot look upon these things with the same eyes; but when the effects and consequences come, however they may be regarded by others, I can assure you they will inflict a deep wound upon ourselves. The augmented expense, and the almost inevitable bloodshed, in running both the Alabama and Cherokee lines, to say nothing of the multiplied obstacles opposed to the Executive of Georgia in the execution of his duties by these unfortunate events, combine to make this a long, complaining, and perhaps importunate letter. The public duty, which impels me to write, will incline you to a patient reading. We are never better employed than in hearing the griefs and lamentations of our friends, unless in the kindliest of all offices—that of assuaging and comforting them. With the highest consideration, I am your obedient servant, G. M. TROUP. (a) The resolutions of the Legislature of Georgia, of November 29,1822, November 28,1823, and June 11,1825. IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, November 15, 1822. The dividing line between this State and the State of Alabama never having been run, in conformity with the articles of agreement and cession entered into on the 24th day of April, 1802, between the commissioners of the State of Georgia on the one part, and the commissioners of the United States on the other part, from the month of Uchee creek, on the Chattahoocbie river; thence, in a direct line, to Nickojack, on the Tennessee river; and as it is now in contemplation to hold a treaty for the acquisition of lands from the Indians, which must bound upon said line; and as it is highly important to the two States, for various considerations, that said line should no longer remain undefined by the proper and usual marks; and the Legislature being of opinion that said articles of agreement and cession render it obligatory on the United States to cause said line to be run, and at the expense of the General Government: Resolved, That the Governor be requested to take as speedy measures as possible to present this subject to the President of the United States, and to bring the same before Congress, if necessary, for the purpose of procuring tite said line to be run as early as possible. Resolved, That the Governor be authorized to appoint two fit and proper persons, one of whom shall be an artist, to accompany such person or persons as may be appointed on the part of the United States to run said line. Resolved, That the Governor of this State communicate the above resolutions to the Executive of the State of Alabama, and solicit the concurrence of that State to the same, and to appoint one or more persons to attend the running of said line. Approved, November 29, 1822. IN SENATE, November 21, 1823. Resolved, That his excellency the Governor be requested to continue those exertions, which have already been commenced, to insure a speedy running and marking of the line dividing this State from the State of Alabama, in pursuance of a resolution of the last General Assembly. Approved, November 28,1823. IN SENATE, June 4, 1825. Resolved, That the Governor be required, as soon as practicable, to procure the services of some competent person or persons to ascertain the boundary line between this State and Alabama, according to the terms of the compact entered into between this State and the United States, in the year 1802; first giving to the Governor of Alabama due notice thereof, so that commissioners on the part of that State may be appointed to co-operate with the commissioners appointed on the part of this State, if the Government of said State shall deem it necessary to do so.	, Approved, June 11,1825. (b) Resolutions relative to the dividing line between this State and the State of Georgia. Whereas, the dividing line between this State and the State of Georgia never having been run, in conformity to the articles of agreement and cession entered into on the 24th day of April, 1802, between the commissioners of the State of Georgia on the one part, and the commissioners of the United States on the other part, from the mouth of Uchee creek, on the Chattahoochie river; thence, in a direct line, to Nickojack, on the Tennessee river: and as it is now in contemplation to hold a treaty for the acquisition of lands from the Indians, which must bound upon said line: and as it is highly important to the two States, for various considerations, that the said line should no longer remain undefined by the present marks: and.this Legislature being of opinion that the said articles of agreement and cession render it obligatory on the United States to cause said line to be run as early as possible: SECTION 1. Be it resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Alabama in General Assembly convened, That the Governor be requested to take as speedy measures as possible to present this subject to the President of the United States, and to bring the same before Congress, if necessary, for the purpose of procuring said line to be run as early as possible. SEC. 2. And be it further resolved, That there shall be appointed, by joint vote of both Houses of t|pe General Assembly, two commissioners, one of whom shall be an artist, to accompany such person or persons as may be appointed on the part of the United States to run said line. SEC. 3. And be it further resolved, That the Governor of this State communicate the above resolutions to the Executive of the State of Georgia, and solicit the concurrence of that State to the same. A. P. BAGBY, Speaker of the House of Representatives. '	NICHOLAS DAVIS, ' President of the Senate. Approved, January 1, 1823.	ISRAEL PICKENS, Governor. STATE OF ALABAMA, to wit: I, James J. Pleasants, Secretary of State for the State of Alabama, do hereby certify that the foregoing resolutions are true copies taken from the original on file in the Executive office. Given under my hand, and the seal of the State, at Cahawba, this tenth day of January, in the year one thousand eight hundred and twenty-three, and of American independence the forty-seventh. JAMES J. PLEASANTS, Secretary of State. (c) Extract from the Secretary of War's letter, dated .	JULY 13, 1824. The convention between the United States and Georgia of the 24th of April, 1802, makes no provision that the line shall be run by the United States; and as the Legislature of Alabama have expressed no desire that it should be run by the United States, it is believed that any line which might be run and marked under their authority would not be obligatory, unless done by consent of both States interested. Should such an assent be had, and Congress think proper to make an appropriation for the expense of running and marking the line, the President would very cheerfully comply with the request of the Legislature of Georgia. Extract from a letter of the same Department, dated APRIL 28, 1825. 1 have the honor, in reply to your request for the appointment of commissioners on the part of the United States to meet commissioners to be appointed on the part of Georgia, to run and mark the dividing line between that State and Alabama, to state, that the difficulties opposed to your request, as communicated in a letter to you from this Department of the 13th of July last, are insuperable. The States have ever justly held among the attributes of their sovereignty the right of regulating, according to their uwn will, the method of arranging their boundaries with their conterminous States. It is believed, therefore, that the running of the line between Georgia and Alabama is a subject exclusively belonging to those States. (d) The act of the Legislature of the 9th of June, 1825, authorized the survey, and extended the criminal laws of the State over the territory acquired by the United States, for the use of Georgia, at the treaty of the Indian Springs of the 12th of February, 1825. The'following extract from the official message of the Governor explains why the survey, as authorized, was not prosecuted. “ The President having ultimately resolved to refer the treaty to Congress for reconsideration, because of alleged intrigue and treachery practised tn obtain it, the resolution of the Executive to prosecute the survey, under the act of the Legislature of the 9th of June last, was changed, and the change immediately communicated to the President.” Extract from the resolution of the Legislature of December 23, 1825. Resolved, That full reliance is, and ought to be, placed in the late treaty concluded between the United States, for the use of Georgia, and the Creek nation of Indians, at the Indian Springs; that the title of the territory obtained by said treaty, within the limits of Georgia, is considered as an absolute vested interest; and that nothing short of the whole territory thus acquired will be satisfactory; and that the right of entry, immediately upon the expiration of the time limited in the treaty, be insisted on, and accordingly carried into effect. (e) “ He has heard, therefore, with the most lively satisfaction, the determination of your excellency to proceed no further in the survey until the Congress of the United States and the Legislature of Georgia shall have had an opportunity of acting upon the subject as, in their respective judgments, the rights, duties, and obligations of all the parties concerned may require.” (f) Extract from the convention between the Creek and Cherokee nations of Indians, held December 11, 1821, on the subject of their boundary. General William McIntosh, in council between the Creeks and Cherokees, has this day made a treaty about their boundary lines, viz: ARTICLE 1. We do hereby acknowledge [this] shall be the line: from the Buzzard’s Roost, on the Chattahoo- chie, a direct line running to the mouth of Wills’s creek, on the Coosa river: al) north of the said line is the Cherokee lands; all south of the said line is the Creek lands. ART. 2. Wè, the commissioners, do further agree that all the Creeks north of the said line above mentioned shall become subject to the Cherokee nation. ART. 3. All the Cherokees south of the said line shall be subject to the Creek nation. ART. 12. We, the commissioners of both nations, do hereby agree for and in behalf of our nation, that the lines subscribed in the foregoing treaty shall be ratified when the heads of both nations sign this treaty. We, the commissioners, do hereby set our hands and seal, this 11th day of December, 1821. We, the undersigned, do hereby certify that the foregoing chiefs of the Cherokee and Creek nations did sign their names, as commissioners of both nations, to this treaty. Samuel Hawk,	Joseph Marshall, Colonel Ridge,	Chilly McIntosh. Governor Troup to the President of the United States. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, March 9, 1826. I embrace, with great pleasure, the first instant after having been myself corrected to correct an error into which, from the indistinct information received here of the provisions of the new treaty, I was inadvertently led, in the communication which 1 had the honor to address to you on the 11th day of February last. Necessarily precluded from acting on official information until the fate of the new treaty had been decided, it became my duty, for the purpose of averting apprehended evil, to act promptly upon the best which the nature of the case afforded; that, of course, is still the best I can resort to, and it warrants the belief that the three hundred thousand acres, supposed to be given to the Cherokees, have not been given to them, but to the Creeks; and, consequently, that the dividing line between the two tribes, viz: McIntosh’s line of 1822, will, for any thing contained in the new treaty, remain unaltered. It is confidently hoped, therefore, that, with regard to the running of that line, we may experience no difficulty or obstruction from the Cherokees. It is the alteration of the other and most important one, viz: the line between the Big Bend and Nickojack, as guarantied by the articles of agreement and cession, which remains a subject of specific and distinct remonstrance; and it is the inevitable permanency of that alteration which, replete with evil and full of danger, produces here in- . quietude and alarm. The new treaty having its foundation in the last resolution of the hostile chiefs, officially declared, that they will never surrender the country but with their lives, the inference is irresistible, that our rights depending, for the future, on that resolution, the new boundary is to be considered a permanent one; an inference the more warrantable, because, the old treaty, being as much a matter of contract, passing vested rights, as the articles of agreement and cession, if the new treaty can rescind the old, it can rescind the articles of agreement and cession; and it is the boundary, as established by those articles, which now constitutes the chief value of them. The articles of the treaty, either as negotiated or ratified, (if ratified at all,) not being before me, I can only write of what I understand them to be. With respect to other matters of fact, I may be equally deceived or mistaken; with respect to the inference drawn from them, I cannot be. To avert mischief by timely remonstrance, and not to misrepresent the views or proceedings of the Government of the United States, was the only object in addressing the letter to you of the 11th ultimo; and if, in this or that, there be any thing else of error or misconception, none will be more ready to make acknowledgment and reparation than, Sir, verv respectfully, your obedient servant, '	G. M. TROUP. The Secretary of War to the Governor of Georgia. g1R.	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 4, 1826. Governor Murphy having addressed me on the subject of ascertaining the boundary line between Georgia and Alabama, I think it due to you, from a previous correspondence had with the delegation of Georgia in the Senate, as well as with yourself, as also from the equal interest which Georgia has in the measure, to furnish you with a copy of my reply, which is herewith enclosed. I am, most respectfully, your obedient servant, JAMES BARBOUR. The Secretary of War to Governor Murphy, dated SIR;	WAR DEPARTMENT, June 4, 1826. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt on yesterday of your communication dated 10th of March, covering the resolution of the Legislature of Alabama, authorizing you to appoint commissioners to ascertain the boundary line between Alabama and Georgia. In reply, it gives me pleasure to communicate to you, that the President is gratified that a measure so desirable to two States as that of fixing their boundary may be carried into effect without objection or difficulty, at least on the part of the United States; no provision, however, has been made by Congress for the appointment of a commissioner, or any money appropriated to meet the expenses of such an appointment. And he would fain hope that this subject may be equitably and satisfactorily adjusted by the two States, without the interposition of the Government of the United States. Should, however, the difficulties to which you refer as probable really occur, and continue insurmountable, on their being communicated to this Department the President would feel himself bound to.refer the subject to Congress, who would decide whether it was a case requiring their interference. I am, most respectfully, your obedient servant, JAMES BARBOUR. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 17, 1826. I have had the honor to receive your communication of the 4th instant, accompanied by a letter addressed to the Governor of Alabama, in which the President has been pleased to express his gratification “that a measure so desirable to two States as that of fixing their boundary may be carried intu effect without objection or difficulty, at least on the part of the United States.” It is not apprehended that any serious difficulty will occur between the two States; and the expression of this sentiment by the President, so favorable to the removal of one embarrassment, will prove, it is hoped, the precursor of the removal of all, in the unhappy differences which have occurred between the General Government and this, on other subjects connected with it. Accept my thanks for the politeness which dictated your communication, and, with them, the assurance of my respectful consideration. G. M. TROUP. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War.'SIR: .	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 29, 1826. The enclosed copy of a letter, this morning received from our chief engineer, engaged in a reconnoissance under orders, and within the unsettled limits of Georgia, will inform you that he has been stopped by the Cherokees, and his further progress threatened to be arrested by force; and further, that these infatuated and misguided people threaten to resist by force the execution of the measure concerted by the Governments of Georgia and Alabama for ascertaining the dividing line between the two States. Very respectfully, G. M. TROUP. The Secretary of War to Governor Troup. SIR:	WAR DEPARTMENT, August 6, 1826. Your letter of the 29th June, with its enclosure, has been submitted to the consideration of the President. I am directed to state to you his opinion, that a surveyor reconnoissance of the lands secured by treaties to the Cherokee Indians, to which treaties the United States are parties, and to the observance of which their faith is pledged, cannot be lawfully made without the consent of the Indians. To obtain that consent, a letter (a copy of which is herewith enclosed) has been written to the agent of the United States with the Cherokee Indians. The President is persuaded that this consent may be obtained by amicable and pacific means. If, however, it cannot, he deems a resort to coercive measures as altogether unwarrantable. If, in the justness of this view, the constituted authorities of Georgia should coincide, it will be gratifying to the President. But, to guard against the consequences of different views on their part, he feels himself required to protest, in the name of the United States, against the use of forcible and hostile means to effect the purposes referred to in your letter. With great respect, I have the honor to be your obedient servant, Copy of a letter from the Secretary of War to Colonel H. Montgomery, agent for the Cherokees. SIR:	WAR DEPARTMENT, July 19, 1826. A letter has been received from Governor Troup, accompanied by one from Mr. Fulton, by which the President is informed that the commissioners charged with the reconnoissance of the country of which the lands of the Cherokees form a part, for the purpose of ascertaining the practicability of a canal, have been forbidden to proceed till the subject could be referred to the Executive of the United States. Thus referred to, the President directs that you endeavor, by reasoning with the chiefs, to reconcile them to the survey, as it is not perceived that any injury can result to them from the measure. It is intimated, in the correspondence above referred to, that the Cherokees will oppose the marking of the boundary line between Georgia and Alabama. Let them be duly impressed with the necessity of this service being performed, that the measure is important to Georgia and Alabama, without injury to them, and one which the President has acquiesced in, and necessary in connexion with the late treaty negotiated with the Creeks. I have the honor to be, &c. JAMES BARBOUR. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, August 26, 1826. To my letter of the 29th June, announcing the resolution of the Cherokees to resist the officers of Georgia in the execution of their duties, I did not receive your answer until yesterday. Accept my thanks for your politeness in transmitting, by an enclosure, a copy of your communication to the United States agent; and tender them, if you please, to the President, for the counsel he has thought proper to interpose on this occasion. As in my letter, to which yours is an answer, no intimation had been given of an intention to resort to force to execute surveys or reconnoissances in the Indian country, I could not perceive on what authority such intention had been assumed, as the basis not only of a premonition that the employment of force by this Government, for such purposes, would be altogether unwarrantable, but of a formal protest, in behalf of the United States, against it. Whilst no doubt was entertained of the constitutional right of Georgia to protect from insult, and against any power, her officers employed within her territory, in execution of her own orders, whether that territory be in the occupation of Indians or not, it had not been resolved, as you seem to have imagined, to resort to force to execute the engineering reconnoissances or surveys in the Indian country; it was resolved to give effectual protection to our commissioners engaged in running the dividing line between Georgia and Alabama—a measure which, if it had been provoked, the Executive Government of the United States should have been the last to complain of. It was not considered possible, that, after having given its cheerful acquiescence to the running of the line, it should have denied to Georgia and Alabama the only means by which, in a probable contingency, the measure could be executed; and that, whilst the two States, under the encouragement of the United States, were actually engaged in its execution, they should be enjoined by the United States to forbear the only means by which their officers could be protected from a threatened insult. It was resolved, therefore, to have recourse to force for the protection of the commissioners. AU the measures were taken to make this force available; and it gives me pleasure to state, as highly honorable to the chief of it, that, for this purpose, Georgia would have had the cheerful co-operation of the Government of Alabama. If the President has considered it his duty to interpose his formal protest against the execution by Georgia of reconnoissances or surveys of any kind in her own territory occupied by the Indians, much more is it conceived to be the duty of the Governor of Georgia to protest most solemnly against the doctrines on which that protest is founded. Sir, it would be unavailing to open a discussion of this subject; the United States Government has long since concluded to discuss nothing with the States; it asserts supremacy, and in the spirit of supremacy it orders and executes. Within her chartered limits, Georgia is denied the power to ask the Indians to sell to her her own lands. She is denied the right of way or intercourse, by her own soil, with her sister States. Within her own territory she is divested of all the rights of sovereignty and jurisdiction which appertain to it, as if she were the greatest stranger; and is treated, in relation to it, as if she had neither charter, title, claim, nor pretence of claim. The Indians are the lords paramount; and whilst we are nut permitted to demand right at all, we are allowed the privilege of receiving favors from them through you only. My word for it, sir, these doctrines may be fashionable for the day, but they cannot last. Georgia must be sovereign upon her own soil, within her chartered limits; she has made no surrender of her territorial sovereignty and jurisdiction by entering into the Union. The power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes is no diminution, much less renunciation of either. It is not necessary to the regulation of commerce with the Creeks and Cherokees that the Creeks and Cherokees should be kept within the limits of Georgia; it is sufficient for the exercise of your rights in this respect that they are within your own limits; but, as in either case they would be within the limits of the United States, you will readily perceive how vast the difference is between controlling things in a country which you justly claim, and in one to which you have no rightful claim; in a country where the sovereignty and jurisdiction would be acknow- ledgedly yours, and in one where, with regard to the sovereignty and jurisdiction, you are considered, and will be treated, as a foreign Power. The United States Government, no more than any foreign Government, is permitted to insult officers of Georgia, within the territory of Georgia, occupied in the discharge of their lawful duty. Georgia has the right, which she always had, in common with the colonies and colonizing countries, to prescribe limits within her charter to the territories of the aborigines. It is no derogation from this right that Georgia has never exercised it but on terms of treaty; if she has forborne, from motives of humanity, she may deserve praise, but ought not to suffer loss. The exclusive right, claimed by the United States, to purchase lands from the Indians, is only the right to purchase those of which she claims the sovereignty and jurisdiction. She has no such exclusive right in relation to territory the sovereignty and jurisdiction of which are claimed by Georgia. If Georgia retains her colonial right, under charter, to remove the Indians from her lands, à fortiori, she has a right to enter into peaceable purchase of the same lands. To have surrendered this right to the United States, would have been virtually to surrender her territory; yet the United States have constantly exercised it, with our tolerance, over the territory of Georgia, as she has over her own. Georgia, with her rights of territorial sovereignty and jurisdiction, unimpaired by the constitution, has, in practice, asserted none of these rights; she has forborne them for the sake of peace. When, on a late occasion, she proposed an innocent act of survey, preparatory to the occupation of her territory acquired under treaty—an act inconsistent neither with the rights of the United States nor with the occupancy of the" Indians—she was threatened with a military force, as if she had been a stranger committing wilful trespass on the acknowledged property of the United States. You will pardon this brief exposition; it is rendered necessary by your recurrence to principles and doctrines, the implied admission of which might involve the forfeiture or impair the rights of sovereignty and jurisdiction which this State claims over her vacant territory, and of which she ought never to be divested, but with her voluntary and express consent. It was a matter of sincere gratification when, in a former correspondence, I perceived, or thought I perceived, symptoms of a kind and conciliatory spirit, which, met by one equally kind, would reconcile the parties in controversy, giving the past to oblivion, and opening a new way, upon lasting foundations, to concord and harmony; and now, it is cause of the most painful regret to observe the slightest indications of a return to opposite principles on the part of those with whom the authorities here have no wish or desire so strong as that of cultivating the most amicable and friendly intercourse. With great respect and consideration, G. M. TROUP. The Secretary of War to the Governor of Georgia. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, September 16, 1826. By the treaty with the Creeks, negotiated at Washington, it was stipulated that they should retain possession of the lands ceded by that treaty until the 1st January, 1827. Through their agent, (John Crowell,) they have transmitted to this Department a document of the following tenor: “ EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, March 9, 1826. “ Ordered, That the Surveyor General give notice, by a circular to be addressed to sectional surveyors, appointed under the authority of the act of the 9th June, 1825, to be dated on the fourth Monday of July instant, requiring each of them to give his personal attendance at Milledgeville on or before the 14th day of August next, for the purpose of giving bond and security, and qualifying according to law. And the Surveyor General, having taken bond, and qualified the several sectional surveyors, as aforesaid, will, according to the provisions of the same act, prepare and deliver his instructions to proceed in the execution of their respective duties on the first Monday of September next, making all possible despatch consistent with accuracy and correctness. And he is further directed to give the district surveyors, appointed by authority of the same act, reasonable notice of the time when their services may be required, that they may also appear at the seat of Government, to give bond and security, and be qualified agreeably to law, before they proceed to the execution of their duties, as assigned them by the said act. “ By the Governor: “ E.. WOOD, Secretary."and direct him to say, in their behalf, that they are much disturbed ^tthe idea of the surveyors entering the country before they can secure their little crops, and remove their crops, and fo express to the Executive their disapprobation of the measure; that, while they are perfect!}' reconciled to the terms of the treaty, and will cheerfully comply with its provisions on their part, they hope and believe that the Government of the United States will protect them in their rights against the encroachments of Georgia; and they express their apprehensions that much mischief will ensue to them from the proposed premature survey, and the consequences of which it will be the cause. If the Indians had acquiesced in your measure, the President, so far from interfering, would have been pleased in the speedy fulfilment of the wishes of Georgia, in relation to the possession of these lands; but, when they are dissatisfied, and have appealed to him to cause to be observed the articles of that very treaty under which the land was ceded, but possession retained to the 1st January, 1827, he feels himself constrained, by the plighted faith of the nation, to state to you that he considers an entry on the ceded lands, for the purpose of surveying them, as a violation of the treaty. Ever disposed to promote the wishes of any member of the confederacy to the uttermost of his power, the President has directed the agent to use his best efforts to reconcile the Indians to the measures you propose, in which, if he succeed, yon will be duly notified; but, if that be impracticable, it is expected that Georgia will desist from any further prosecution of the survey until it is authorized by the treaty; and when reference is had to the small portion of intervening time, the President can see no inducement on the part of Georgia to enter the territory of the Indians against their will, and in violation of the supreme law of the land. I have the honor to be your obedient servant, •	JAMES BARBOUR. His Excellency G. M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GA., MILLEDGEVILLE, October 6, 1826. I did not receive your letter of the 16th ultimo before the 30th, it having been delayed, as appeared by the post mark, at Charleston. Be pleased to assure the President that what has been communicated to him as a remonstrance of the Indians against the survey is no remonstrance of theirs, but of some officious intermeddlers in their behalf, who, in misrepresenting the Indians, have only given a faithful representation of their own sordid interests and passions. Our surveyors, some of whom have already finished their work, and all of whom will have completed it in a very short time, have not only suffered no interruption, but have met with the most cordial and friendly reception, with the exception of a single instance, where two of the lower chiefs, notoriously instigated by white men, had interposed threats, founded, as they alleged, on the authority of the Indian agent; in truth, the subject of survey throughout has been theoretically and practically treated by them as it deserved. The survey has not merely been regarded as an operation innocent in itself, and unproductive of harm either to the persons or property of the Indians, but it has been considered as a source of accommodation and emolument, by opening a market for their surplus commodities, which are either perishable or not easily removable. The officers engaged in it, having been appointed by the Legislature, are presumed to carry with them firmness of character, which not only forbids the supposition that they will commit trespass on the Indians themselves, but warrants the belief that they will, to the utmost of their power, prevent others from ooing so; and to this effect they are instructed. The surveyors operate as a check upon that description of persons, hundreds of whom, without authority of law, but according to custom, intrude upon the Indian occupancy, whom neither you nor I, with our utmost means, would be able to restrain, and whom nothing will restrain but the laws, which, in a short time now, will be extended over the country. The President concedes the right of occupancy and settlement to Georgia on the 1st day of January. If, according to the established rule, the concession of a right implies the concession of all the means without which that right cannot be enjoyed, the survey on the 1st of September was an act of indisputable right, without which Georgia could not occupy the country on the 1st of January. The President cannu: mean that the survey of the cuuntry is the occupation of the country, because that would be a perversion of language; and if he only means that the Indians are not to suffer the least disturbance in their persons or effects before the 1st of January, I trust that the President has found a sufficient guaranty for this in the universal and joyous acquiescence of the Indians themselves. And here permit me to say to the President, in all frankness, that I believe himself, and yoursell, and the Senate, have been grossly deceived and imposed on, in framing at least one of the stipulations of the instrument called the new treaty. Why, with regard to the time for the occupation of the country, was not the provision of the new treaty made to correspond with that of the old? This concidence would at least have removed one difficulty; but it escaped his and your observation that it was designed for the very purpose, in gratification of the worst of passions, by those who seek to embitter the controversy between the United Slates and Georgia, of postponing the settlement of the country one year; a postponement which, to the President, might seem to be no very great evil, but which, I assure you, would be considered and felt as a very great one, not by ourselves only, but by the Indians and the United States. The contrivers of this trick believed that you would prevent a survey before the 1st of January, and they well knew, if you did, that, consistently with our system, the country could not be occupied before the following year; and the reasons for this, which you may not fully comprehend, are universally understood and appreciated here. With a correct knowledge of the circumstances, the President, “ consulting the views and interests of the people of Georgia,” would never have suffered this despicable stratagem to have passed unexposed or unpunished. The survey being disposed of, it only remains to invite the attention of the President to that part of the subject from which further embarrassment and misunderstanding may possibly arise: I mean the western boundary of Georgia, as prescribed, contrary to her constitution and the articles,of agreement, by the instrument called the new treaty. My views on this subject have long since been submitted, in all possible candor, to the President. The President, however, consulting the views and interests of Georgia, as well as the interests of the United States, will not suffer, if he can avoid it, a conscientious difference of opinion to be a source of mischief and calamity to either. I may be mistaken or deceived, but the impression here has been uniform from the beginning, that the Indians who negotiated that instrument intended to cede to Georgia all the lands claimed by Georgia; and that the President, the Senate, and the Georgia delegation so understood it: rumor has lately said that the Indians still so understand it. Of all this, however, you possess the more ample means of information; and it is only permitted to me to say, that, if these things be true, it depends on the President to remove, by a single word, every obstacle to the adjustment of all the differences unhappily connected with this subject. With great consideration and respect, I have the honor to be, G. M. TROUP. Governor Troup to the, Georgia Delegation in Congress, on the subject of the treaties and boundary line. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, January 9, 1826.	< I am supported on a sick bed only to express my confident expectation that you will not entertain for a moment the proposition submitted by the United States, on the part of the hostile Indians; that proposition being inconsistent with the treaty of the Indian Springs, which is to be considered inviolable; and the more so, as the Legislature of this State has again explicitly recognised that inviolability, and directed the Executive, as heretofore, to carry the treaty into full effect, according to its stipulations. The treaty being the supreme law, and the articles of agreement and cession having established the permanent boundary, in conformity with the twenty-third section of the first article of the constitution, no human authority exists to change or alter one tittle of it, save the whole people in convention assembled. I even regret that you should have considered it of any importance to make the concession that Georgia might have been satisfied by a further partial extinguishment of territory, as it had been my settled purpose from the beginning, so far as depended on me, never to receive from the United States one square foot less than the entire country within the limits of Georgia. You now see that if Georgia had received less, she never would have received more; nevertheless, I know you to have been governed by the most pure and patriotic motives throughout. Wilh great consideration and respect, G. M. TROUP. Governor Troup to the Georgia Delegation in Congress. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, February 7, 1826. I am apprehensive, from the suggestion contained in a letter received by the last mail from Washington, that a sentence in my letter of the 9th ultimo has been misconstrued. In speaking of a concession made by the delegation, nothing more was meant than the concession which, in answer to the Secretary of War, you thought it of sufficient importance to make, viz: that Georgia might have been satisfied for the time with an extinguishment of Indian claim to a less amount than that embraced within the limits prescribed by the articles of agreement and cession: a most innocent concession, indeed, because you could not know that the Legislature would or would not accept such a treaty. The Executive could only speak for itself, and therefore it was 1 expressed my regret that you had even deemed it of sufficient importance to say to the Secretary that Georgia might have consented to accept a treaty, at any time previously, which stipulated for only a partial extinguishment. You will see in my entire correspondence with the General Government, from my first letter to Mr. Calhoun, then Secretary of War, that I have considered the surrender of the whole as a sine qua non, for I most conscientiously believed that one more treaty, whatever it might be, whether for more or less of territory, would be the last. You are now convinced of it, because you have seen the hostile Indians dictating the permanent boundary of the Slate to suit their convenience, and the Executive Government of the Union deigning graciously to receive that dictation; whilst the Government of Georgia itself has no power to alter the boundary, it being irrevocably fixed by the constitution and the articles of agreement and cession. Not one word was written, or intended (o be written, about your having made a concession of a right of any kind; a concession which the writer knew it would be as difficult to extract from you, as from your friend and humble servant, G. M. TROUP. 94 E	• Governor Troup to the Georgia Delegation in Congress. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, February 15, 1826. In summoning the Board of Public Works to meet on the third Monday of March next, beyond which time that meeting could not be postponed, I was obliged simultaneously to make preparations for the running of the dividing lines between this State and Alabama, and between this State and the Cherokees. These preparations were in a state of forwardness, when I was unexpectedly informed that a new treaty had been negotiated at Washington with the hostile chiefs, superseding the old one, and establishing new boundaries, not only with Alabama, but with the Cherokees. Although the information received here was not presented (as it could not be) in detail, there was too much reason to believe that the outlines of the negotiation were stated with sufficient distinctness to make it a subject of serious remonstrance before the President. If either line were altered by consent of the Executive authority of the United States, it was obvious that the party whose interest was favored by the alteration would adhere to the last extremity to' that alteration as the just and true one, and would denounce our own as arbitrary and illegal. Whilst, therefore, from the general sketch given of the outlines of this new treaty, a great deal was left to hypothesis and conjecture, enough was disclosed to establish the fact of most importance—thé fact of alteration. So far as we are informed, we cannot understand from which side of the Chattahoochie the reservation is taken; nor whether it be taken for the benefit of the hostile party, or for the benefit of the Cherokees; nor whether the object be to depart from the McIntosh line altogether. In either case, it is so much land taken from us, and probably, as the irregular figure which the boundaries describe would indicate, land of first quality, reserved for the comfort and accommodation of favorite chiefs. However this may be, you will see, from the tenor and spirit of the letter to the President, (a copy of which, with the annexed documents, is herewith forwarded for your information,) that no time was to be lost on my part, if any thing could be hoped from this last appeal to the Executive Government. You will, if you think proper, be pleased to make known to it, informally, (what could not with so much propriety be submitted in that letter,) as justificatory of the immediate exercise of an absolute right, that it will not be possible to commence tho work of internal improvement, as authorized by the last Legislature, and apparently with the universal sanction of the people, now warmly embarked in this interesting cause, and for which every necessary preparation can be made, by the opening of the summer, unless our permanent western and temporary northern boundaries are satisfactorily ascertained and marked. With the highest consideration and respect, vour friend, G. M. TROUP. CORRESPONDENCE WITH MESSRS. COBB AND BERRIEN AND THE SECRETARY OF WAR ON THE SUB- J	JECT OF THE LINE AND SURVEY OF THE LAND. Governor Troup to the Hon. Thomas W. Cobb and John M. Berrien. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, January 26, 1826. Do me the favor to learn distinctly from the Secretary of War whether in his or his agent’s different communications it was the intention of the Government of the United States to prohibit the running of the dividing line between Alabama and this State, as well as the survey of the lands. You may do this either by an official note, or otherwise, in your names. General Gaines is explicit enough, but the Secretary of War is sometimes obscure on this subject. The object is to possess myself of an unequivocal declaration, which will admit of but one construction, and without delay. Very sincerely and respectfully, G. M. TROUP. Honorable Thomas TV. Cobb and John M. Berrien to Governor Troup, dated SIR:	WASHINGTON, February 22, 1826. Pursuant to the request contained in your favor of the 26th ultimo, directed to us, as long ago as the 7th instant we addressed to the Secretary of War a note making the inquiries and seeking the explanations suggested in your letter in regard to the “ intention of the Government of the United States to prohibit the running of the dividing line between Alabama and Georgia, as well as the surveying of the lands;” and in which we sought from him an “ unequivocal declaration, which would admit of but one construction.” This morning we received an answer from the Secretary of War, which we do ourselves the honor to enclose for your information. We have the honor to be, respectfully, &c. THOMAS W. COBB, JOHN M. BERRIEN. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 20, 1826. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 7th instant, which 1 submitted to the President. In reply, I am instructed to say, that the uncertain posture of affairs in respect to the lands proposed to be surveyed, and through which the dividing line referred to is to be run, renders it unnecessary, if not.improper, that any definitive answer should be given to the questions contained in your letter at this time. The earliest moment which relieves the subject of these difficulties will be seized to furnish the most satisfactory answer which the cir- . cumstances of the case will justify, and which will be guided by a wish to gratify both Georgia and Alabama, as far as is consistent with the other obligations of the Executive. I have the honor to be yoür obedient servant, Hon. THOMAS W. COBB and JOHN MACPHERSON BERRIEN, U. S. Senate. The Georgia Delegation to the Seeretary of War. SIR:	WASHINGTON, January 7, 1826. Your letter of the 24th ultimo, addressed to the members of Congress from Georgia, was duly received. An answer has been delayed by the absence of some of the undersigned from the city; not that any difference of opinion among them was anticipated, but under a conviction that it was proper that their perfect agreement should not be left to conjecture. We learn with pleasure that the President is anxious to relieve the controversy with the Creeks from all difficulty, so far as Georgia is particularly concerned; and do not permit ourselves to doubt his sincere wish to place the subject on a footing acceptable to the State we have the honor to represent, of which you give us assurance. It is in this spirit that we receive the expression of your desire to ascertain the wishes of Georgia on the question: Whether it is most advisable to refer the treaty, with the objections to its validity, to Congress, for their decision; or, ‘accepting a new basis of the Chattahoochie as a boundary between that State and the Creeks, to resume a negotiation with the hope that certain exceptionable conditions, coupled with it by them, may be satisfactorily modified. While we feel it our duty to state that we are without any express instructions on this subject; that we do not feel ourselves authorized, in the absence of such instructions, to determine what are the wishes of the State on the interesting questions which you propose; and that we presume the President has received a distinct.expression of those wishes, in relation to the treaty at the Indian Springs, from the constitutional organs of the State sovereignty, we do not wish to withhold from the Chief Magistrate of the Union a frank avowal of our opinions on the interesting subjects of your inquiry. It is our duty, then, to state, that in our judgment neither branch of the alternative which you propose will meet the wishes of the State of Georgia, or comport with the obligations of the Executive of the United States to a member of the Union. The State, we believe, does not and cannot suppose that Congress will entertain a question concerning the original validity of a treaty ratified and promulgated by the proper departments, with all the solemnities required by the constitution, to which no objections are now urged which were not distinctly presented to the President prior to its submission to the Senate, and by him as distinctly brought to the view of that body, when asking their advice and consent to the ratification of that instrument. It looks, we think, with a confidence yet undiminished to the complete execution, within the time specified in the compact, of the treaty in question, and to immediate arrangements for the removal of the Cherokee Indians; and our firm conviction is, that the State of Georgia does not and cannot admit the right by the General Government to cede away any portion of its soil for permanent or temporary occupation to the Creek or any other Indian tribe. We are equally assured that the complete extinguishment of the Indian title to all the lands within the limits of Georgia (a measure at all times interesting to her citizens) has now, under the pressure of the circumstances which have grown out of this controversy, come to be considered by them as vitally connected with their safety, and with the preservation of the rights of the State as a member of this Union. The undersigned feel themselves constrained to make an additional suggestion; they trust it will not be considered inconsistent with the most perfect respect to the Chief Magistrate of the Union. In their judgment, the State of Georgia, all other considerations apart, will not and cannot acquiesce in any discussion of the validity of the treaty in question, on such evidence as that by which it has been assailed. Resident near the scene of this controversy, and deeply interested in its result, her citizens and her public functionaries have been attentive observers of the process by which it has been conducted. They know and they feel that this evidence has been obtained by means totally adverse to and inconsistent with the just views of the President of the United States, because adverse to and inconsistent with the ascertainment of truth. They know and they feel that the Indian agent, profiting by the excitement of feeling into which the special agent of the Government had unhappily fallen, has unduly exerted the influence of his station to obtain from persons (for the most part subject to his control) a statement of circumstances which have no foundation in fact, and from those untutored savages who were committed to his protection an expression of feelings which the great body of the nation do not entertain. They know and they feel that to lift the veil from this transaction, to expose its real character to the President of the United States, it is only necessary that that influence should be withdrawn. They still hope that the earnest wishes of a faithful member of the American confederacy will not be urged in vain before the Chief Executive .Magistrate; and, with this knowledge, this feeling, and this hope, they cannot permit themselves to believe that the President will ultimately adopt either branch of the alternative which you propose. On the contrary, they rely that, with a just respect to the rights of the State, and a paternal regard to the wishes and feelings of her people, he will, by the recall of this officer, remove the whole source of this unhappy controversy, give to Georgia peace throughout her borders, and tranquillity and happiness to the children of the forest. [Signed by the Georgia Delegation in Congress.] 

Extract from the treaty of Fort Jackson. Whereas an unprovoked, inhuman, and sanguinary war, waged by the hostile Creeks against the United States, hath been repelled, prosecuted, and determined, successfully on the part of the said States, in conformity with principles of national justice and honorable warfare: and whereas consideration is due to the rectitude of proceeding, dictated by instructions relating to the re-establishment of peace: Be it remembered, that, prior to the conquest of that part of the Creek nation hostile to the United States, numberless aggressionshad been committed against the peace, the. property, and the lives of citizens of the United States and those of the Creek nation in amity with her, at the mouth of Duck river, Fort Minims, and elsewhere, contrary to the national faith and the regard due to an article of the treaty concluded at New York in the year 1790 between the two nations; that the United States, previous to the perpetration of such outrages, did, in order to insure future amity and concord between the Creek nation and the said States, in conformity with the stipulations of former treaties, fulfil with punctuality and good faith her engagements to the said nation; that more than two-thirds of the whole number of chiefs and warriors of the Creek nation, disregarding the genuine spirit of existing treaties, suffered themselves to be instigated to violations of their national honor and the respect due to a part of their own nation faithful to the United States and the principles of humanity, by impostors denominating themselves prophets, and by the duplicity and misrepresentation of foreign emissaries whose Governments are at war, open or understood, with the United States. Extract of a letter from the Honorable. George Graham, acting Secretary of War, to William McIntosh, Yoholomico, and Tuskcnehau, Creek deputation, dated FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 17, 1817. The land which was guarantied to you by the treaty signed by General Jackson, and your chiefs and headmen, on the 9th of August, 1814, is your land; and your father the President, who holds you and your nation fast by the hand, will take care that no part of it is taken from you, except by the free consent of your chiefs and headmen, given in council, and fur a valuable consideration. CORRESPONDENCE WITH MESSRS. COBB AND BERRIEN ON THE SUBJECT OF THE NEW TREATY. The Honorable Thomas W. Cobb to Governor Troup. SIR:	WASHINGTON, April 22, 1826. I have the honor to inform you that on yesterday evening the Senate passed finally on the new treaty with the Creeks, made at this place in January last, with the supplemental article thereto. Although it is not perfectly certain that all the lands in Georgia occupied by the Creeks are thereby ceded, yet I am, and for many weeks have been, under the belief that, when the line between Georgia and Alabama comes to be run, it will be found that Georgia has acquired all she has a right to claim. The uncertainty results from a want of correct information as to the true course of the Chattahoochie from Buzzard’s Roost to Fort Mitchell, and of the bend of the river at which the line is to commence. Such being my opinion, (and I formed it from every source of information to which I could resort here,) I could not say that all was not ceded. It, however, makes but little difference; because, if all is not acquired in Georgia by the new treaty that was acquired by that of the Indian Springs, not a doubt can remain (such was (he almost universal impression in the Senate, so far as'l eould collect opinion,) but that any court of the United States must sustain the claims of the State under the treaty of the Indian Springs. Enclosed I send you the President’s message and the. report of the Secretary of War on the treaty. These were all the documents before the Senate. Colonel King made a call for the evidence to impeach the treaty; the Senate, however, would not sustain it. My colleague and myself voted against the call, on the ground that, so far as regarded the validity of the treaty, that evidence was exporte, inasmuch as it was collected on the charges against the agent, and not on the treaty; and that, so far as respected the treaty, both Georgia and the commissioners had no notice of its being taken, or informed that it would be collected. We were, however, perfectly willing (and so avowed ourselves in the Senate) that the validity of the treaty should be inquired into in Senate, and to authorize persons and papers to be sent for. After the signing of the treaty, and before ratification, we made divers efforts to procure modifications, which would quiet with certainty the claims of Georgia, and make more ample provision fur the comfort and removal of the McIntosh Indians. The supplemental article is the only one procured, and that is not what we wished; but this was all we eould do. After that was signed, I submitted to the President the projet of a treaty, which, if it had been agreed to, I should have-voted fur. After consideration, however, the President declined submitting it to the Indians. In Senate, our first effort was to amend the first article, by substituting for it one declaring that neither party should require of the other the execution of the treaty of the Indian Springs, further than the same was already executed. This avoided the positive declaration that the treaty of the Indian Springs was void. It was resisted, however; many Senators declaring it was, in effect, the same thing. We then waived further question about boundary, because of our not knowing, with certainty, whether all the lands in Georgia were or were not acquired; and, finally, by way of a proviso to the resolution of ratification, endeavored to secure advantages to the friendly Indians which would have been satisfactory to them. This proviso was offered and ably supported by Judge WlJflflof Tennessee, for whose exertions for the interests of Georgia, throughout the business, I feel greatly indebted. It was rejected on the final vote. Both my colleague and myself, having full faith in the validity of the treaty of the Indian Springs, and, consequently, that it ought not to be set aside; nay, that, constitutionally, it eould not be annulled; and believing that sufficient provision was not made for the McIntosh Indians, who had suffered so much, we voted against the ratification of the treaty. It is submitted to my constituents, whether right or wrong. I will procure and transmit to you a copy of the journal of the Senate, as soon as I can. My family misfortunes will induce me to return home in a few days. I shall bring with me all the correspondence held with the Department on the subject. The President has promised to recommend that more ample provision be made for the friendly Indians- by act of Congress. The poor creatures are depressed and broken-hearted. I cannot stay to vote on this measure.	• I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant, His Excellency G. M. TROIP.	THOMAS W. COBB. The Honorable John M. Berrien to Governor Troup. DEAB SIR:	WASHINGTON, April 22, 1826. Mr. Cobb advised you, by the last mail, that the treaty with the Creek tribe had been finally acted upon by the Senate yesterday. I was myself prevented from writing, by the circumstance which I stated to you in a postscript nf his letter.	. From the commencement of this affair, it was manifest that we should have to contend against the weight of the administration, and the reluctance of those, even among our own friends, who wished to avoid the necessity of deciding the whole merits of the controversy. Up to the moment when the last additional article was negotiated, 1 believed we should be able to get the new treaty rejected; hut at all times I have felt much apprehension of the late of the old treaty, when that should be submitted to the decision of the Senate. While things were in this state of uncertainty, my colleague, who had been examining various maps, with a view to answer certain inquiries made by Major Crawford, came to the conclusion that much less of the land within our limits was left out by the new treaty than we had before supposed. In this opinion he was supported by Major Merriwether, whose knowledge of the country gave that opinion a claim to much respect. We determined, after consultation, to communicate this new view to the Secretary of War, and to suggest to him the probability that, when the fact came to be known to the Indians, they might be induced to extend the terms of the treaty, sn as to embrace all the lands within the limits of Georgia. We told him, at the same time, that, although some constitutional difficulties would still remain, it would relieve tbe question from its chief embarrassment—that which arose from the vested right acquired by Georgia under the former treaty; and urged that this extension should, in terms, embrace all the lands within the limits of Georgia. At this moment Colonel Benton interposed, and entered into our views of the subject; but, finding (he Indians determined to have a specified boundary, he eventually adopted that which is found in the additional article. My colleague, for the reasons which he has explained to you, believes that it will include all our lands. His opinion is supported by that of Major Merriwether, and 1 have no reason to doubt its truth. If this be so, our object is attained; and I am now satisfied, from what occurred in the course of the debate, that, even without this additional article, the new treaty would have been ratified. Thus, the additional article may be considered as a clear gain to Georgia. Still, the treaty, as presented, had insuperable objections in our view. It unnecessarily declared the old treaty tu be null and void; and it did not contain sufficient provisions for the McIntosh party to induce them to emigrate. We endeavored, in vain, to remove these objections, and also to obtain a concession, in express terms, of the lands within our limits. We failed, and, consequently, voted against the treaty; in all which, we trust, we have met your views and the wishes of the people of Georgia. Tbe McIntosh party here have assured us that, if sufficient encouragement is afforded, they can carry away a very large proportion of the nation; and those who opposed the insertion of provisions necessary for this purpose in the treaty, on the ground that it might endanger ils ratification, expressed their willingness to make the same provisions by law. To meet this view, I have to-day presented a resolution, which has been agreed to, instructing the Committee on Indian Affairs to inquire into the expediency of reporting a bill for this purpose. What will be the fate of this measure, I know not. If it prevail, I shall believe that a most important object is secured to Georgia; one which will atone, in some degree, for previous indignities and violation of her rights. You shall be duly advised of its progress. I cannot conclude this letter, without stating to you that we have, in all this affair, received a frank and cordial support from General Harrisun, of Ohio; from Colonel Hayne, of South Carolina; from Mr. Van Buren, of New York; and, though last, not least, from Judge \Vhite, of Tennessee. Pray let me hear from you at your earliest leisure; and believe me always, verv truly, yours, ' JOHN M. BERRIEN. His Excellency Governor TROUP. Governor Troup to Messrs. Cobb and Berrien. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, May 4, 1826. I have received the several communications which you did me the favor to write, explanatory of the proceedings of the Senate, connected with the amendment of the old, and adoption of the new treaty. It gave me pleasure to learn that you had disapproved those proceedings, and voted against tbe instrument called the new treaty. I recognise no power in the Senate of the United States, in conjunction with the President, to abrogate, for any political consideration whatever, any treaty constitutionally ratified; much less the power assumed by that body, to revoke an article of the convention of 1802 between the United States and Georgia, which establishes the boundary between Georgia and Alabama, and to prescribe a new boundary, different from and inconsistent with it. I recognise no power in the President and Senate to guaranty to the Indians in perpetuity those lands which, by the convention, they were pledged to surrender to Georgia at an early day, and which ought to have been surrendered long ago. I cannot admit that the President and Senate can render null and void an act of the. Legislature of this State, founded on a treaty constitutionally ratified, by an arbitrary revocation of that treaty. The cancelment of the old treaty had been resolved, right or wrong; for this extraordinary and unheard-of measure was taken on the naked allegation of the President, unsupported by a single document; whilst the ungenerous rebuke by the President of the friendly chiefs, in his official message, shows the temper which dictated it. Unless all the sources of information here shall pruve to be erroneous and deceptive, the State (if the validity of the new treaty be admitted) has been defrauded of one million of acres of her very best lands. Do me the favor to present my best thanks to General Harrison, Colonel Hayne, Mr. Van Buren, and Judge White, for their able and liberal cu-operation with you in the cause of the weak against the strong, and, as I trust, of the just against the unjust. With great respect and consideration, G. M. TROUP. GOVERNOR’S MESSAGE AND DOCUMENTS OF DECEMBER 9, 1826. EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, December 9, 1826. To the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Georgia: I take great pleasure in communicating to the Legislature a despatch this morning received from the Secretary of War of the United States, by which it will be seen that the hope expressed in the message of the 7th ult., that our differences with the General Government approached to a termination, has not been disappointed. It now appears to have been the intention of the parties to the instrument called the new treaty that Georgia should acquire all the Creek lands within her limits; and as it is the intention which must control the construction of that instrument, it may be expected that Georgia will meet with no further obstacle to the occupation and settlement of the whole country. If the Governor of Georgia had committed “ the most serious mistake” imputed to him in this despatch, he would have received the President’s rebuke with thankfulness, because nothing could be more desirable to him than such a correction of this mistake as it has pleased the President to make. But the Governor of Georgia has committed no mistake. If the Government of the United States believed they had acquired all the lands, when in fact they had not, the mistake was theirs, not ours. We believed that all the lands had not been acquired; and so the fact is, according to the admission of the President himself. The boundary of the new treaty is, on the face of it, described to be a permanent, not a temporary boundary; and it is guarantied as permanent by the United States. Taking the language of the new treaty for his guide, tbe Governor of Georgia could not mistake that language. It was not permitted to that officer to infer intentions which the language disavowed, and of which he could not know any thing but from the language. For the first time, and in the despatch of the Secretary of War, the Government of the United States has thought proper to disclose to the Government of Georgia those intentions, although so Ion" a"o as the Ilth of February last it was made known to the President that, if such a boundary was established^3 the new treaty, it would “be considered a permanent boundary, and, of course, in violation of the constitution of Georgia; a declaration which has since that time been repeated again and again, without any intimation from the Government of the United States that such an inference was an erroneous or mistaken one; but, on the contrary, it has been uniformly insisted that the new treaty was the supreme law of the land, and would be carried strictly into effect. No authority was recognised as competent to establish a boundary for Georgia but that of Georgia herself; and the Government of Alabama, the only other party in interest, acknowledged as such by the United States, was long since given to understand that that boundary, once established by Georgia, would be considered good for Georgia until a better could be shown. It is not necessary for the President to anticipate difficulties between Georgia and Alabama. The difficulties •have not yet occurred, and we trust they will not occur. In the mean time, the boundary, as established by Georgia, cannot be considered by the United States as any other than the true boundary; and until Georgia and Alabama shall concur in establishing a different one, it must be so considered by all the parties concerned. G. M. TROUP. The Secretary of War to Governor Troup. SIR;	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, November 27, 1826. A long and distressing illness has prevented me from replying to your letter of the 6th ultimo. Since my partial recovery, I have submitted it to the President, by whom I am instructed to say that you appear to labor under a most serious mistake, in supposing that the last treaty with the Creeks has affected, in any manner, the boundary of Georgia. There is not a tittle in the treaty that has the most distant allusion to that object; nor for one moment would a discussion have been admitted thereon, as it lies entirely out of the competency of the General Government. In anxiously wishing to embrace all their land within the limits of Georgia, every effort was made to induce them to agree to a clause to th'at effect, in so many words. They peremptorily refused, on the ground of their ignorance of the direction of that line. Had the dividing line between Georgia and Alabama been established, I think it highly probable that we should have succeeded in obtaining their relinquishment; the more especially as I perceive that, even by the line run by the Georgia commissioners, to which it is understood, unofficially, the Alabama commissioners dissented, there are less than 200,000 acres of Indian lands. It is matter of regret that any difficulty should have occurred between Georgia and Alabama in fixing their dividing line, as the President had designed, the moment the line had been established, to open fresh negotiations with the Creeks for the purpose of procuring any fragment of land which such line might have left of theirs within the limits of Georgia. Without entering at all into the merits of the controversy between Georgia and Alabama, your excellency must at once perceive that the original difficulty to an entire cession continues to impede our course; and the first instant that it shall be removed will be the one which the Executive will embrace to carry into effect, (by fresh negotiation, if practicable,) the entire cession. I have the honor to be, sir, vour obedient servant, JAMES BARBOUR. His Excellency G. M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia, Milledgeville. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, December II, 1826. Your letter of the 27th ultimo was received on the 9th instant. It gave me pleasure to hear of your recovery from your late illness. Whilst I cannot admit the justice of the reproof, that I had committed a most serious mistake in believing the western line of the new treaty to have been considered as the permanent boundary of Georgia, I have no hesitation in expressing my satisfaction that the President of the United States has thought proper to declare that it was the intention of the parties to that instrument to cede to Georgia all the lands claimed by her within the Creek limits. My practice has been, when I have committed involuntary error, to make confession, and ask pardon. You reprove me for a mistake which is not mine, but yours; and, instead of the double atonement which a fair course of moral reciprocity would exact, I ask nothing but a magnanimous acknowledgment of the wrong done me; and will be content with a denial of even that, if there shall be no occasion in future to ask it either for myself, or for the State I represent. If the construction was a mistaken or erroneous one, it is made so only by your recent declaration of what your intentions actually were. The language of the new treaty fully justified my construction, and I was not permitted to seek your intentions through any other medium than the language; that language describes the western line as a permanent one, because it expressly guaranties all the lands lying west of it to the Indians forever. The permanent boundary line of Georgia, as established by her constitution, having been run and marked by her commissioners, and the Legislature having, within a few days, sanctioned and confirmed it, by an almost unanimous voice, it is now considered, and must be considered by all parties, as the true and settled boundary, unalterable but by the joint consent of Georgia and Alabama. This act of the Legislature of Georgia has been announced to the Government of Alabama, and her concurrence with it is not to be doubted, because it is in strict consonance with the most rational and disinterested construction which Georgia can give to the articles of agreement and cession, and is as favorable to Alabama as any other construction she could claim; unless, indeed, she would assume (what we are persuaded she would not) the exclusive right to dictate a boundary, regardless of the letter and spirit of the articles. With great respect and consideration, Hon. J. BARBOUR.	G. M. TROUP. Governor Troup to Governor Murphy. $IR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, December 8, 1826. I lose no time in communicating to your excellency the information that the Legislature of Georgia has this day given its sanction to the act of our commissioners, who marked the line from the western point of Miller’s Bend to Nickojack, as the true dividing line between Georgia and Alabama. The unanimity which, in both branches of the Legislature, with the exception only of ten voices in one of them, has characterized this measure, whilst it may not be. received by the Legislature of Alabama as conclusive evidence in support of the validity of the established line, will be considered as affording no"equivocal testimony in favor of that construction of the articles of agreement which had been adopted by the commissioners themselves—a construction which, although it dues not adopt the first bend above Uchee, does adopt the first bend above lichee, and nearest to the Cossetah and Coweta towns, from which a direct line to Nickojack would not strike the river; which, although not the same construction as that adopted by your excellency, brings the line nearer to the point indicated by it than to that indicated by the construction of your own commissioners, and which gives us (what it was most clearly designed by the articles to give us) a straight line throughout, and not a devious one—straight upun the land, and tortuous on the river. I cannot but flatter myself, both from the libera) views uniformly disclosed by your excellency, and those not less liberal which must animate the Legislature of Alabama, that your concurrence may be asked with at least a • reasonable, prospect of success; and that two States so nearly allied by the ties of interest and of blood may not be separated, even for a moment, on a question in which neither interest nor principle of any great concernment is involved. Of the principle, what can be said but that your commissioners are not more right than ours! and of the interest, what more than that it is not worth the argument already wasted on it? Taking the line from Bl filer’s Bend, the land which you acquire below is worth more than the land you lose above. Taking the line proposed by your commissioners, we lose the land above and below, and we yield our construction to yours, whilst we honestly believe that ours is right, just, and equitable, and best for you and us. Suffer me to entreat your excellency not to permit, so far as depends on you, a controversy to be opened, which is the more likely to prove interminable, not merely because it is a controversy of boundary, but because, according to my best judgment, Georgia will never be satisfied with any construction of the articles different from that now adopted; and’ought not to be, because you can present to her none more rational or more disinterested. With great consideration and respect, His Excellency Governor MURPHY.	G. M. TROUP. GOVERNOR’S MESSAGE TO THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA, AT THE OPENING OF THE EXTRA SESSION, MAY 23, 1825, WITH A PART OF THE DOCUMENTS ACCOMPANYING THE SAME. EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, May 23, 1825. Fellow-citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives: In calling you together, I have not been unmindful of the personal inconvenience and of the public expense which attend it. Consulting both, little will be submitted to your consideration disconnected with the main subject of your deliberation. The recent acquisition of our vacant territory in the occupation of the Creeks is that subject, and the survey and appropriation the objects which will claim your attention. For the first, we are chiefly indebted to the commissioners of the United States, Colonel Campbell and Major Merriwether. Too much praise cannot be given to these gentlemen for the firmness and intrepidity with which they met the most formidable obstacles, and for the untiring zeal and patient labor with which they conquered them. That of this praise there can be no waste or misapplication, you will read the various documents and correspondence connected with it, and which are submitted. You will distinctly see that the principal difficulties which embarrassed them from beginning to end, which defeated the first treaty at Broken Arrow, and which were well nigh producing a rupture of the last at the Indian Springs, proceeded from a quarter the least of all to be expected—from officers in the pay and confidence of the Federal Government, who, instead of rendering to the commissioners the most cordial co-operation, had organized an opposition; thereby exposing to suspicion their own Government, which, in justification of itself, was finally obliged to avow that the perfidious plots and devices contrived by it were unknown and unauthorized at Washington, al the same time that the authors and contrivers were permitted to escape with but little observation, and certainly without merited punishment. The delegation in Congress, always faithful to their trust, have seconded, by active and incessant labor, the measures taken by this Government to support, not only this important right, but all other rights and interests of the State; and, in the delicate and critical relations which these involved, have so deported themselves as to command the confidence of ourselves and the respect of all who know them. In disposing of the territory thus acquired, it is recommended to you to consult the will of your constituents, so far as that will can be distinctly ascertained. The lands belong to them, in joint and several property, and none but themselves or their immediate representatives can rightfully dispose of them. Recognising this as a fundamental principle, you have, in the exercise of a sound discretion, to look as well to ulterior and remote, as to immediate interests; interests which the people themselves cannot fail to appreciate and cherish, because they directly and equally concern each and every of them now, and their posterity hereafter. They are those of public education; of internal improvement; of relief from taxation, when taxation would be most required and most burdensome; the efficiency of a military system for defence, in providing arms and arsenals, and all the materiel of war, for which no State ought to be dependent on another; and, indeed, every subject which, in peace or war, can conduce to the safety or prosperity of the State, and requiring for its most useful and energetic application the propulsive instrument—money. To dilate upon these topics would be to consume your time uselessly. Your own wisdom will better supply the argument in support of each. Suffice it to say, that the accumulation of a fund for internal improvement, on an extended scale, will, by its judicious application, so multiply your resources and augment your income as to enable you eventually to replace t|iat fund, provide abundantly for all the wants of the State, dispense with taxation, and place you, iu all these respects, oa a footing with the most favored of your sister States, who, with less means, have accomplished more. These are no idle spéculations; the results are about to be realized in an illustrious instance, where a great member of the confederacy has made herself greatest by perfecting what nature had roughly sketched, and thus fulfilling, by a no very complicated process, the highest duties to herself and to God. Our physical advantages are scarcely inferior, and, when it is believed to be quite practicable to divide with her the trade of the western world, our temptations cannot be less. Presupposing, therefore, that the system hitherto adopted for lhe settlement of our territory will be pursued, I advise that the fee upon the grant be fixed at a rate which, whilst it makes the grant essentially a donation, and takes nothing from the pockets of the poorest of our citizens but what will be paid without inconvenience or complaint, will, at the same time, bring something into the treasury, in aid of the general fund appropriated to these objects. To this, the proceeds of the fractions, and of any reservations you may think proper to make, will importantly contribute. Havino- advocated the present system from the beginning, there has been no reason to change my opinion formed ofit. Men and the soil constitute the strength and wealth of nations; and the faster you plant the men, the sooner you can draw on both. No new country has been peopled faster than the territory acquired, from time to time, by Georgia; none more rapidly improved, with the same established modes and customs of improvement. The speculations by which its principle has been vitiated it is our bounden duty to discourage and repress; they defeat the very end of it, because, whilst you contemplate the advantage of the poor, the speculator proys upon the poor, and fattens on it. Having foreseen that troubles might arise in the Indian country, from the proceedings at Broken Arrow and the Indian Springs, I sought an early opportunity after the first indications of them to despatch my aid-de-camp, Col. Lamar, into tbe nation, with a talk for that portion of the tribe which had menaced McIntosh and his friends with injury. This duty was performed entirely to my satisfaction, as you will perceive by the report of Col. Lamar. They professed the most friendly sentiments both towards the whites and towards-McIntosh, and gave assurances that they were meditating harm to neither. It is believed, from recent information, that they acted in perfect sincerity and good faith, and that the subsequent departure from it was the result of the active and malignant interference of white men. In my solicitude for the peace and happiness of this afflicted race, who are about to leave us to try new fortunes in a distant land, I issued the proclamation of the 21st of March, which immediately followed the ratification of the treaty, and"thus transcended the obligations enjoined by strict duty. Having their own pledge that the peace should be kept among themselves, I wished to see no interruption of it by the Georgians; and, honorably for them, there has been none. I verily believe that, but for the insidious practices of evil-minded white men, the entire nation would have moved harmoniously across the Mississippi. The massacre of McIntosh and his friends is to be attributed to them alone. That chieftain, whose whole life had been devoted to Georgia as faithfully as to his own tribe, fell beneath the blows of the assassins, when reposing in the bosom of his family, upon the soil of Georgia—the soil which he had defended against a common enemy, and against his own blood; which he had relinquished forever to our just demands; and which he had abandoned to our present use, only because we asked it. So foul a murder, perpetrated by a foreign force upon our territory, and within our jurisdiction, called aloud for vengeance. It was my settled purpose, having first consulted the Government at Washington, to have dealt out the full measure, of that vengeance; so that honor, humanity, and justice being satisfied, whatever stain may have been left upon our soil, none should upon the page of our history. But the representatives of the people were about to assemble, who would bring with them feelings and sentiments corresponding to the occasion, tempered by a deliberate wisdom and a sound discretion. The task is cheerfully resigned to them; and whatever in the last resort they will, that will be done.. The consternation and alarm which immediately followed the death of McIntosh rendered necessary measures of precaution, as well for the security of the frontier as for the. protection of lhe friendly Indians, who, deserting their homes, fled with their wives and children before the hostile party, and, presenting themselves destitute and defenceless at various points of the frontiers, asked bread of our humanity, and protection of our arms. The quartermasters were directed to supply the one, and our generals ordered to afford the other, and both at the expense of the United States, of which they had due notice. The orders and instructions to Major Generals Wimberly, Miller, and Shorter, with the correspondence, Ac., arc laid before you. The United States Government has been again advised of the earnest desire of the Government of Georgia that the line between this State and the State of Alabama should be run and marked. The United States answer to this last request, that it is a concern of the two States exclusively, in which the United States will not interfere. On the former occasion, as you will remember, the General Government declined a participation, and upon the allegation simply that the State of Alabama had not given her assent. The State of Alabama had, in fact, given her assent, and had sought with much solicitude the concurrence of Georgia. Very recently, her former resolutions upon this subject have been rescinded, and Georgia is left free to run the line with or without her co-operation, as she may deerh best. The correspondence with the General Government and the letter of the Governor of Alabama are submitted. Our claims to the lands occupied by the Cherokees within our limits, as well as those on account of Indian depredations provided for by the first treaty at the Indian Springs, are adverted to only to inform you of the actual state of those interests; and for this purpose the various papers connected with them are laid before you. Since you were last in session, much anxiety and concern has been manifested for all the interests connected with the Bank of Darien. The origin of the excitement, and consequent depreciation of the paper of that institution, may be considered fit subjects of investigation. The report of a committee appointed to examine the state of its affairs, having been reviewed and adopted by you, left at the close of the session the solvency of the bank indisputable. When, on a subsequent occasion, it became necessary for the Executive to pass an order connected with this dopreciation and the administration of the finances, I did not hesitate so to act as to conform the order both to your expressed opinion and the practice of the Treasury. As no change had been made in the condition of the institution, I would suffer none to be made in the payments and receipts of its bills at the Treasury, until you should order otherwise; and whilst I would not permit any measure to be taken which would he construed into depreciation at the Treasury, I would suffer none that would have the least effect to embarrass the operations of the other institutions; and this was the more proper, because the. difficulties of the one institution might be ascribable, in some degree, to remissness or indiscretion in the management, for which it was certainly not entitled to favor, whilst the operation at the Treasury still continued favorable to it, inasmuch as the receipts and payments being confined to Darien bills, and the receipts exceeding the payments, there would be a constant accumulation of such bills, and consequently a subtraction to that amount from the circulation of the country. In every other State of the Union, where bank credit has been sustained, these institutions mutually aid and assist each other, and, by harmonious eo-operation, maintain unimpaired the circulating medium of that State. Those of Georgia must prufit by this wise example. Interest and credit are not to be found in rivalry and discord; and it is sincerely hoped and believed that, in this instance, conflicting opinions have been the result of misapprehension or mistake. The great institution of the. United States keeps them all in check, and should, at the same lime, keep them all in union. The expenses incurred by the reception of General Lafayette amount to $7,198 32, as you will see by the accounts and vouchers which are exhibited. The Executive had, in this instance, received an unlimited power over the public treasure, which ought never to be confided but upon very extraordinary occasions. It is due to the public, as well as to the officer charged with the disbursement, to institute a strict inquiry into the expenditure; thus exacting, as far as practicable after the expenditure, that aceountability which, in ordinary cases, ought to be secured before. Tbe orders given to my aids-de-camp, who were charged with their execution, enjoined on them the strictest economy; and, all circumstances considered, they have not disappointed my expectations. Since your last meeting, our feelings have been again outraged by officious and impertinent intertneddlings with our domestic concerns. Besides the resolution presented for the consideration of the Senate by Mr. King, of New York, it is understood that the Attorney General of the United States, who may be presumed to represent his Government faithfully, and to speak as its mouth-piece, has recently maintained before the Supreme Court doctrines on this subject, which, if sanctioned by that tribunal, will make it quite easy for the Congress, by a short decree, to divest this entire interest, without cost to themselves of one dollar, or of one acre of public land. This is the uniform practice of the Government of the United States: if it wishes a principle established, which it dare not establish for itself, a case is' made before the Supreme Court; and the principle once settled, the act of Congress follows of course. Soon, very soon, therefore, the United States Government, discarding the mask, will openly lend itself tu a combination of fanatics for the destruction of every thing valuable in the southern country; one movement of the Congress unresisted by you, and all is lost. Temporize no longer—make known your resolution that this subject shall not be touched by them, but at their peril; but for its sacred guaranty by the constitution, we never would have become parties to that instrument; at this moment you would not make yourselves parties to any constitution without it; of course, you will not be a party to it, from the moment the General Government shall make that movement. If this matter be an evil, it is our own; if it be a sin, we can implore, the forgiveness of it; to remove it, we ask not even their sympathy or assistance: it may be our physical weakness—it is our moral strength. If, like the Greeks and Romans, the moment we cease to he masters, we are slaves—we thenceforth minister, like the modern Italians, to the luxury and pleasures of our masters. Poets, painters, musicians, arid sculptors we may be; the moral qualities, however, which would make us fair partakers of the grandeur of a great empire, would be gone. We would stand stripped and desolate under a fervid sun and upon a generous soil; a mockery to ourselves, and the very contrast of what, with a little firmness and foresight, we. might have been. I entreat you, therefore, most earnestly, now that it is not too late, to step forth, and, having exhausted the argument, to stand by your arms. Your fellow-citizen, G. M. TROUP. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GA., MILLEDGEVILLE, December 23, 1824. This letter will be presented by a gentleman who honors, in all respects, the commission which you have conferred on him; his colleague is equally distinguished here. On the information of cither, you may, of course, repose implicit confidence. Circumstances have transpired, of late, to make an impression that, in connexion with the conference just held with the Creeks, there has been bad conduct somewhere. My own information had before fixed it where the responsibility of it ought to rest. Of the correctness of this you will judge,after hearingthe clear and frank exposition which will be made to you, as well as to the Georgia delegation, by Colonel Campbell. They were met at the threshold with difficulties, of a character little expected, and which required their utmost ability and exertion to overcome. They have not all been, because they could not be, surmounted; but the result is as favorable, under the circumstances, as could be expected. 2k treaty can be immediately signed upon the conditions which will be disclosed by the commissioners. Any other plan to effectuate the object in which the participation or interference of the agent is permitted, will undoubtedly miscarry. You will share, in a great degree, the feelings of the commissioners of the United States, when you hear from their own lips a recital which might impose upon Government the obligation of vindicating itself before them. Honorable men, of your own appointment, proceed to the execution of your instructions, with full confidence that the way has been opened and rendered smooth by all the means in our power; just and sanguine expectations are indulged of a successful issue by the community in which they live; they look to the reward of highest consolation, that for great and indefatigable exertion, according to their best ability, such an issue would command the thanks and gratitude of the country; all their arrangements are happily concerted for the assembly of the council; on their way to meet it, they learn, for the first time, and in the most casual manner, that the council had been already assembled by different authority; its final decrees passed; and those decrees, of the most adverse character, legistered in the archives of the agency. You may readily conceive the sensations with which such information was received. That the Executive of the United States must be in equal ignorance with themselves as to this procedure, was not for a moment to be doubted; but that such a one could not have been had without the knowledge, or consent, or connivance, or com- ■ mand of your own agent, was certain; and this is most certainly established. Now, sir, permit me to remind you, that of this most perfidious, treacherous, and boldly insolent conduct, you had timely and sufficient warning, by a communication which I had occasion to make to the Executive Government some twelve months since, and which was answered by the confirmation of this same man in his office. That communication was made with the foreknowledge that .he would so uniformly deport himself whenever the interests of Georgia were involved, and with the intent solely that you, as well as ourselves, foreseeing the evil, might remove it with the least delay, as well as the least inconvenience. Now, the Government, hearing with its own ears, from its own representatives, the truth then attempted to be exposed; and seeing, in any further efforts at negotiation, the utter hopelessness of a favorable result, if the intermeddling of the agent be not strictly forbidden, will not hesitate, it is hoped, to leave the commissioners free and unembarrassed to conclude the treaty on the terms proposed. _ Indeed, it is deplorable that, after laboriously combating and surmounting difficulties and obstructions of all kinds, they should have found themselves at last in the centre of divided councils, with your own agent on the side of the adverse party, and without any resource left but the single one of seeking, at Washington, a direct and absolute power to meet the emergency, by signing with McIntosh and his chiefs that treaty. With great consideration and respect, G. M. TROUP. The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, Washington City. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, December 23, 1824. Colonel Campbel] hastens without delay to Washington, to expose before the President and yourselves the circumstances connected with the conference with the Creeks, the issue of that conference, and the power now retired by the commissioners to consummate and perfect a treaty. He carries a letter (of which a copy is enclosed) to the President. In writing it, every indignant feeling was studiously repressed, and I merely asked from him what I believed his own sensibilities would yield spontaneously. 95 E Say to him, in addition, if you please, that it requires more than homàn fortitude to sustain ourselves under this weight of contumely and mortification; that we have borne it quite long enough; and that, so far as it depends on me it will be borne" no longer.	With great consideration and respect, ’	G. M. TROUP. The honorable Senators and Representatives from Georgia in Congress, Washington City. SIR:	COLUMBIA, S. C., January 31, 1825. My return to Georgia has been protracted to a much later period than I intended, or had any reason to expect. The delay at the city was occasioned by the course taken by the Executive of the United States, upon the subject of the negotiation pending with the Creeks. This course made it necessary that I should hold a correspondence with the Secretary of War, preparatory to a special message which the President proposed making to Congress in relation to this exigency in particular, and to Indian emigration generally. The application which I submitted, for authority to hold a treaty with a divided council of the Creeks, was not expressly granted. Such a course, by a decision of the cabinet, was held to be incompatible with the laws of nations and Indian usage; every other facility, however, was promptly afforded. The sub-agent has been removed, the agent himself placed completely under our control, and our instructions so extended and liberalized as to authorize the most sanguine expectations of success. The negotiation will be renewed at the Indian Springs, on the 7th February. Orders to this effect were issued and forwarded from Washington city. I should have reached Georgia five days earlier, but for a snow storm in Virginia—the heaviest I ever encountered. But for this loss of time, an opportunity would have been afforded me of making this communication more full. I now write under the most disadvantageous circumstances to which a stage passenger can be subjected. With great consideration, I have the honor to be your obedient servant, His Excellency G. M. TROUP.	DUNCAN G. CAMPBELL. CREEK NATION, COWETA, January 25, 1825. We, the chiefs of Coweta, Talladega, Cusseta, Broken Arrow, and Hitcheta towns, in council met, do take this method to lay before our father the President of the United States the most distressing difficulties that are existing in our nation, and have been for some time past, owing entirely to the existence of two parties in the nation, known and distinguished by the Red Sticks, (or hostile party,) and the other party friendly to the United States, and who were the warm supporters of the American war against said parly of Indians, and also against the British. For further particulars, we most respectfully refer our father the President to General Jackson, who can. testify to the characters of the present bearers of this remonstrance. It is painful to us to acknowledge that there is an actual necessity of calling upon our father the President of the United States for protection, inasmuch as the Big Warrior, who is influenced by the hostile party, with the exception of a few, is calling his chiefs together, who consist of such Indians as were particularly opposed to the United States during the last American war. One of the most conspicuous chiefs of this council is Gun Boy, whom we took prisoner before Fort Gaines, during Jackson’s campaign against the Seminole Indians—and passing orders and decrees without the consent of any of our towns, apparently for the destruction of our people, who are the friendly party—inasmuch as it certainly will create an interna] war among ourselves; and we hope our father the President of the United States will never admit that his red children, who took his white children by the hand in the defence of the United States, in the last war with Great Britain, should be entirely excluded from having any voice in the nation, or, in other words, excluded from the benefits of their country, and for the Big Warrior and bis party to have the entire prerogative of the nation. We are informed that the Big Warrior and his chiefs are now in council, and we expect are passing such decrees as are derogatory to the safety of McIntosh and the rest of his chiefs; for instance, it has been but a short time since they met in the grand council square, and passed an order for the execution of McIntosh, and any other of his chiefs who would make any pruposition to the United States in favor of selling any part of the country which we now claim; therefore, we have been compelled to guard General McIntosh, since the treaty at Broken Arrow, for his safety. This is not all : there is no doubt but that said council, at the present meeting, will pass an order for the dismissing of General McIntosh, and many others of his adherents, and in all probability they have sent, or will send, a delegation from their council to that amount, although knowing, at the same time, that McIntosh and his chiefs have the superiority in the grand council of the nation; for reasons why, they were the only supporters and defenders of the nation in the last war; and that a number of the Big Warrior’s chiefs forfeited their rights to their country, which they previously had, by their hostility to the United States during the last war. We do, therefore, deny that the Warrior’s party has any right to enter into any such arrangements, and we do also deny that Gun Boy, and several others of the Warrior’s chiefs, have any privilege in the national council, although we have heretofore permitted them to do so: for they did not defend our country from the foreign or domestic foe, but used their utmost exertions against the United States, and m favor of their enemies. We, therefore, head men of the nation, or of the aforesaid towns, assure our father the President that we have much trouble in our country, and much, too, in consequence of our agent’s partiality to the Big Warrior’s party; inasmuch as it appears to create a jealousy with us that the United States are failing to comply with what they once promised us—that is, protection. 'But we are conscious that it is unknown to our father the President. But hoping that our father will make the necessary inquiries of our delegation, and to advise accordingly for his red children’s welfare, of which we will pray, &c. Cowetas.—Tomme Tuskenuggee, his + mark; Hothemarte Tuskenuggee, his + mark; James Island, his + mark; Colonel Blue, his x mark; Coskee Tuskenuggee, his + mark;. James Derriso, his X mark; Tulsa Haijo, his + mark; Arpifka Tuskenuggee, his -|- mark; Efau Tuskeenahar, his X mark; Fosuch Emarlo, his + mark; Thlato Haijo, his 4- mark; Neharholo, his -|- mark; Coweta Tuskeenehar, his + mark; Yeacaskee, his + mark; Farna Micu, his + mark; Joseph Marshall; Benjamin Marshall; John Shuman; Captain Canard, his + mark; Jacob Beaver, his + mark; Foshunch Tuskenuggee, his + mark; Walthocco Hargo, (Taladaga,) his + mark; Tuckelas Emarlo, his + mark; Dick, his + mark; Oakfuskee Tuskenuggee, his + mark; Robin Gaison, his + mark. Broken Arrows.—Arpifkee Tuskenuggee, his + mark; Samnel Miller, his + mark; C. W. Miller, his X mark; Charles Miller, his + mark; Andy Lovett, his + mark; Harper Lovett, his + mark; John Har- rard, his + mark. Cussetas.—Tuckerbatchee Haijo, his + mark. Hitchetas.—Seah Gray.	WM. McINTOSH, Sp. N. Council. „	SAM’L. HAWKINS, Interpreter. CHILLY MCINTOSH, Clerk. CREEK NATION, January 25, 1825. We, the principal chiefs of Coweta, Talladega, Broken Arrow, and Hitchetas towns, in council met, agreeably to a previous notice hy General William McIntosh, whom we acknowledge to be our principal protector and chief, having full confidence in his patriotism, integrity, and great regard for his people, whom he represents, have unanimously recommended and appointed him, and seven others of the national council, to wit: Tomme Tuskenuggee, Othloe Tuskenuggee, Benjamin Derriso, Seah Gray, Arp'fkee Tuskenuggee, Tuckeeparchee Haijo, and Coweta Emarlo, and Samuel Hawkins, interpreter, to meet the President of the United States, our father, and to make such arrangements as will be most conducive to the welfare of our people, and to receive such advice as our father the President may think proper to give; and should our father the President give it as his opinion that the claims of the State of Georgia to the land within her limits would prevent a fee-simple title from vesting in our people, then, in that event, General Win.McIntosh, with the other delegates of our chiefs, are duly authorized, in behalf of our people, to make such arrangements with our father the President, or his commissioners for that purpose, in an exchange for lands west of the Mississippi, such as have been referred to the United States’ commissioners, lately, at the Broken Arrow, assuring the President our father, at the same time, that any thing which the said delegates may do on the occasion will meet the approbation of the National Council in general, inasmuch as there are six of our principal council with General William McIntosh, who are authorized to sign any treaty of that kind which our father the President, and our delegates, may make upon the subject. Signed in open council, the day and date above written. Cowetas. Jacob Beavers, his -f- mark. Tome Tuskenugga, his X mark. Hoethlemarto Tuskenugga, his 4- mark. James Island, bis + mark. Colonel Blue, his + mark. Caskee Tuskenugga, his + mark. James Deriso, his + mark. Tulsa Haijo, his + mark. Arpifka Tuskanuggee, his -f- mark. Efau Tuskanaha, his + mark. Fosuch Emarlo, his -|- mark. Thohato Haijo, his + mark. Neha Halo, his + mark. Coweta Tuskenugga, his + mark. Foshunck Tuskenuggee, his + mark. Talladegas. Wothlo Haijo, his + mark. Tucklas Emcilo, his + mark. Dick, his + mark. Oakfuskee Tuskenuggee, Ids + mark. Robin Garson, his + mark. Broken Arrows. Arpifkee Tuskenuggee, his + mark. Samuel Miller, his + mark. C. W. Miller, his -|- mark. Charles Miller, his + mark. Andy Lovett, Iiis + mark. Yeacaskee, his + mark. Fama Mico, his + mark. Joseph Marshall. Benjamin Marshall. John Sheheeco, his -f- mark. CHILLY MCINTOSH, Clerk o f the National Council. Harper Lovett, his + mark. John Harrard, his + mark. Cussetas. Tuckeebatchee Haijo. Seah Gray. WILLIAM McINTOSH, Sp. N. Council. SAMUEL HAWKINS, Interpreter. NEWNAN, PIKE COUNTY, GEORGIA, January 26, 1825. Some time in March, 1821, I was called on by the State of Georgia to do some surveying of the line of East Florida, on which I visited a small Indian town on the Alapaha river, below the line. The town was called after the chief, (Mico-town.) While I was there he died, and his representatives called on me to examine his papers; and among them I found several letters, written from Colonel Nichols, a British officer, and one from either Ambris- ter or Arbuthnot, I now do not recollect. One of the letters particularly named the Big Warrior as being friendly to them, although he was amongst McIntosh’s Indians; and that, if proper means were made use of, he, the Big Warrior, could be got with his friends to join them, (meaning the British.) The other letters were'principally on the subject of advising the Indians how to overthrow McIntosh and his people; that the British were very strong, and would do great things for them, &c. JOHN II. BRODNAX. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, February 8, 1825. Within this hour the mail has brought an important communication, made by the President to Congress, on the 27th ultimo, and connected with the objects of your commission. Fearing a copy may not have reached you, I hasten to forward, by express, a newspaper which contains it. He can be with you early to-morrow morning. With great consideration and respect, G. M. TROUP. D. G. CAMPBELL and J. MERRIWETHER, Esqrs. United States Commissioners for holding treaty with the Creeks, Indian Springs. DEAR SIR:	INDIAN SPRINGS, February 9, 1825. It affords us much pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of yours of yesterday, enclosing a special message lately made by the President to the Senate of the United States. We were aware that such communication was intended to be made, and had arranged for its transmission to this place. It had not arrived, however, which makes the arrival of your express the more acceptable. The chiefs of the nation are coming in, in considerable numbers. We discover distinctly the decided hostility of a large deputation from Tookaubatchee, but are of the opinion that in council we have the ascendency in numbers and in grade. We cannot admit the possibility of defeat, yet such may be the result. Our expectations are founded upon facts which amount to the strongest assurance of success and we must indulge the gratification; that, even while “ Troup is Governor,” the policy and obligations of the United States will be effected, and the rights of Georgia obtained. With great consideration, we are, sir, vour obedient servants, DUNCAN G. CAMPBELL, JAMES MERRIWETHER. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, February 12, 1825. Accept my thanks for your last letter by express. A despatch from Mr. Forsyth has this moment reached me, and, believing it may be of service to you, I hasten, by another express, to place you in possession of it. Our delegation, as was expected, are resolved to do their duty; it is known to me you will do yours to all parties, and I will endeavor not to be wanting in mine. There can be no doubt of the correctness of the suggestion of Mr. Forsyth, that a treaty concluded with that portion of the’tribe resident in Georgia, for the cession of all the lands within our limits, would be approved by Congress. With great respect and consideration, G. M. TROUP. Messrs. CAMPOELL and MERRIWETHER, United States Commissioners, Indian Springs. SIR:	INDIAN SPRINGS, February 13, 1825. Your express has this moment reached us, and delivered your communication covering the proceedings of Congress upon the Indian question. We are happy to inform you that the “ long agony is over,” and that we concluded a treaty yesterday with what we consider the nation, for nearly the whole country. We enclose you a copy; also, despatches for the Government. These last are addressed to yonr care, to secure their certain transmission by to-morrow’s mail. The original treaty will be conveyed by our secretary to Washington city, by the stage leaving Wilkes, on Thursday next. We are still in time for ratification by the present Senate, and beg to offer you our sincere gratulations upon the more than successful issue of a negotiation in which you have been an ardent co-worker. With great consideration and respect, DUNCAN G. CAMPBELL, His Excellency G. M. TROUP.	JAMES MERRIWETHER. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, February 15, 1825. From what I have learned, unofficially, of the late conduct of the agent at the Indian Springs, his hostility to the interest of Georgia has suffered no abatement. I can by no means vouch for the accuracy of the reports connected with it. The commissioners must know, and, if founded in truth, you will be satisfied, that the agent will leave no efforts unessayed to detain the Creeks in their own country to the last hour limited by the treaty, if he be longer continued in office. McIntosh and all his people are willing to hurry away; the agent can retard or detain them by the multiplication of obstacles which will be insuperable to them. We are much concerned in their speedy removal. With great consideration and respect, G. M. TROUP. The Hon. Senators and Representatives in Congress from Georgia, Washington City. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, February 17, 1825. What was stated in my letter of the 15th, in relation to the conduct of the agent at the Indian Springs, as rumor, is confirmed as matter of fact. Professing good dispositions, and tendering hearty co-operation to the commissioners, he was secretly engaged in undermining them. The chiefs were all (the Tuckaubatchies excepted) ready to sign the treaty; and whilst the commissioners were occupied in the preparation of it, the agent ordered a portion of them to depart by night. When the commissioners, to their astonishment, discovered this secession, they despatched Colonel Williamson in pursuit, and to advise them to return; but their resolution was fixed. And when it was asked why they had thus precipitately turned their backs upon the commissioners, on the very eve of the signature, their answer was, one and all, “ by order of the agent.” You see, therefore, that but for this perfidious interference, the treaty would have been concluded by the entire nation, and with a unanimity almost unexampled. . This last act of the agent proves that he is yet animated by the same inveterate hostility to the interest of Georgia which signalized his conduct and defeated the treaty at Broken Arrow. It is the interest of Georgia, as I believe it is the. wish of her people, that the territory be organized as speedily as possible consistently with the treaty; and as, in expediting the removal of the Indians, much will depend on the facilities afforded by the agent, it is presumable that be will not fail to take the necessary measures to detain them to the last hour limited by the treaty. I understand, further, that those of the tribe who refused their assent to the treaty threaten injury to McIntosh and his chiefs. Should the execution of these threats be attempted, (the treaty having been ratified,) I will feel it to be my duty to punish, in the most summary manner, and with the utmost severity, every such attempt, as an act of hostility committed within the actual territory and acknowledged jurisdiction of Georgia; and this whether the agent of the United States may think proper to deport himself as a neutral or a partisan. With great respect and consideration,	G. M. TROUP. P. S. Dr. Merriwether, the secretary to the commissioners, I learn, proceeds to Washington with the treaty. He will, no doubt, be able to give you any information which you may require touching the proceedings at the Indian Springs.	’’ G. M. T. The Hon. Senators and Representatives in Congress from Georgia, Washington City. A PROCLAMATION. GEORGIA:	• By his excellency G. M. Troup, Governor and Commander-in-chief of the army and navy of this State, and of the militia thereof. Whereas, by a treaty concluded with the Creeks, at the, Indian Springs, on the 12th of February last, their claims to the whole territory within the limits of Georgia were ceded to the United States; and the ratification of the same by the President and Senate having been made known to me; by which act the territory aforesaid, according to the stipulations of the treaty, and of the articles of agreement and cession of the year 1802, will, on or before the 1st day of September, 1826, pass into the actual possession of the State of Georgia: And whereas it is provided in said treaty that the United States shall protect the Indians against the encroachments, hostilities, and imposition of the whites, so that they suffer no interruption, molestation, or injury, in their persons, goods, or effects, their dwellings or the lands they now occopy, until their removal shall have been accomplished, according to the terms of the treaty: I have, therefore, thought proper to issue this my proclamation, warning all persons, citizens of Georgia and others, against trespassing or intruding upon the lands occupied by the Indians within the limits of this State, either for the purpose of settlement or otherwise, as every such act will be in direct violation of the provisions of the treaty aforesaid, and will expose the aggressors to the most certain and summary punishment by the authorities of the State and of the United States. All good citizens, therefore, pursuing the dictates of good faith, will unite in enforcing the obligations of the treaty as the supreme law, aiding and assisting the magistracy in repressing and punishing any disorder or violence which may infringe its provisions. And all officers, civil and military, are commanded to be vigilant in preventing offences onder it, and in detecting and punishing offenders. Given under my hand and the great seal of the State, at the State-house in Milledgeville, this twenty-first day of March, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and twenty-five, and the forty-ninth year of the independence of the United States of America. G. M. TROUP. By the Governor: E. HAMILTON, Secretary of State. SIR:	CHATTAHOOCHIE, March 29, 1825. I take the liberty of sending Samuel Hawkins to you, seeing in the newspapers your proclamation, stating that the treaty was ratified by the President and Senate. We see in the papers, also, where Crowell had written to the Department that chiefs of the lowest grade had signed the treaty, and we see where he says there will be hostilities with us if the United States sign the treaty. We are not any way in danger until he comes home and commences hostility, and urges it himself on us. If the treaty is ratified, if you can let Samuel Hawkins have two thousand dollars, or stand his security in the bank to that amount, we will send men on now to look at the country, to try to move away this fall; the money, if loaned to us, will be paid back as soon as the money comes on to pay the first payment of the treaty. Any information that you can give him will be satisfactory to us. Your dear friend, &c. WILLIAM McINTOSH. To His Excellency G. M. TROUP. DEAR GENERAL:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, March 29, 1825. You will have seen, by my proclamation of the 21st instant, that I have resolved, in fulfilment of the stipulations of the treaty, to maintain inviolate all your rights reserved by it, so that you suffer no detriment or loss by the trespasses or intrusions of the whites, as long as you continue to occupy the country. It is important that the territory acquired by the late treaty should be organized as speedily as possible, consistently with the provisions of that instrument; and not doubting that your assent will be given to the survey of it, before your removal, I have despatched a messenger to you, that your resolution may be communicated to me without delay. It is not presumed that the least inconvenience can result to you from this measure. Besides my own determination to cause the rights of the Indians to be respected in their persons and property at all times, there will be a future and ample security and protection in the selection of the officers who shall be charged with the duty of running the lines, who shall be responsible, nut only that no depredations are committed by themselves, but that none shall be committed by others without their giving prompt notice to the lawful authorities, so that the offenders may be brought to justice. You will understand that there is no intention on my part to hurry your departure; the period of this will be left to your considerations of interest and convenience under the treaty; but as the survey is a work of time, this time can be saved to us, so that, having completed it, nothing will remain but to occupy and settle the country after you shall have left it. I wish you by all means to give me your final answer by this express, thaï I may know what measures it will become my doty to adopt. Your friend. General WILLIAM MCINTOSH, Creek Nation.	G. M. TROUP. DEAR SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, April 4, 1825. I have, written to yourself and Major Merriwether, jointly, but with , an expectation that, upon your own responsibility, you will be able to meet the wishes of General McIntosh, in relation to an advance of money. It is of great importance that every facility should be given to any movement of the Indians, which looks to a speedy removal beyond the Mississippi, and I will thank you to make known to me your resolution by return of mail. With great esteem and consideration, G. M. TROUP. D. G. CAMPBELL, Esq. P. S. It is presumed General McIntosh’s requisition will be sufficient authority, and I have ordered.it placed on file. A draft on the Secretary of War could be negotiated here. G. M. T. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, April 4, 1825. Colonel Hawkins has just arrived from the nation, and announces that the Indians will hold a council in a few days, for the purpose of concerting the necessary measures to enable them to remove beyond the Mississippi in the course of the next fall. They will advance a party to explore the country; and, to defray the expenses of this, they ask for two thousand dollars, which I will thank you to furnish without delay. If you are not in funds, I can advance the amount, on your assurance that it will be reimbursed from the first remittance to you under the treaty. It will be considered, of course, as part of the consideration of the purchase, and debited to them accordingly. With great consideration and respect, G. M. TROUP. Messrs. CAMPBELL and MERRIWETHER, U. S. Commissioners. DEAR GENERAL:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, April 4, 1825. I have received your letter of the 29th 'ultimo by Colonel Hawkins. There will be no danger of any hostility in consequence of the ratification of the treaty. You will find every thing going on peaceably and quietly. If bad white men intermeddle to stir up strifes and excite bad passions among the Indians, 1 will have them punished. The President will do the same. My agent has reported that the Indians opposed to the treaty are quite friendly; that they think of no mischief; that they love you, and will do whatever their father the President advises. The Senate ratified the treaty without any difficulty, although the agent was opposed to it. I write this morning to the United States’ commissioners to furnish you with the necessary funds to enable your commissioners to explore the country west of the Mississippi, so that you may make your arrangements to move during the next fall. As soon as I hear from them, you shall know il. I wish you to inform me as early as possible of your resolution about the running and survey of the country, as mentioned in my letter by express. You will have seen by my proclamation that I have determined the Indians shall suffer no loss or injury from our white people, if I can help it. It is intended to guard them against those people whom they will themselves consider as trespassers and intruders, and not to prevent white people from going into the nation, with honest intentions, to make purchase of stock or property of any kind, which you can lawfully dispose of; all such persons will be suffered to pass and repass without molestation. We will endeavor, too, to appoint good and honest men for our surveyors, so that they will do no harm themselves, and suffer none to be done to the Indians Your friend, G. M. TROUP. General WILLIAM MCINTOSH, Creek Nation. DEAR SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, April 5, 1825. I enclose copies of two letters addressed to you yesterday at Washington, Wilkes. I did not hear until this morning that you would probably attend Warren court. Be pleased to give me an answer by return of mail. ‘	With great consideration and respect, G. M. TROUP. Colonel D. G. CAMPBELL, Warrenton. DEAR SIR:	ACORN BLUFF, April 6, 1825. I received your letter of the 29th March, by the hands of your messenger, which it gave me pleasure to get. On the 10th of this month the chiefs will be here, when I will lay your letter before them; after which, I will inform you what we shall agree to without delay. When this meeting is held, if we agree to the running of the lines, it is my wish that the surveyors should get their support from the red people. I am, dear sir, yours with respect, WILLIAM MCINTOSH. Governor TROUP. DEAR SIR:	WARRENTON, April 7, 1825. By this day’s mail I received copies of your communications of the 4th instant, addressed to Major Merriwether and myself at Washington. The application.for funds on the part of the Creeks, to defray the expense of the exploring party about to be despatched beyond the Mississippi, I consider altogether reasonable, and I am happy that it is in the power of the commissioners to facilitate this movement. I have no hesitation in assuming the responsibility you suggest. Immediately upon discovering that an appropriation had been made to meet the treaty requisites, I addressed a communication to the Secretary of War, inquiring when and in what manner the funds would be placed at our control. I am in daily expectation of an answer, and of being referred to the United States Branch Bank at Savannah. This requisition, however, can be conveniently met by an advance from the balance of the negotiation fund yet remaining in our hands. But, as the time of my return home and the opportunities of remittance are uncertain, I will thank you to make the advance of two thousand dollars, as you have kindly proffered, under the assurance that it will be reimbursed in either of the methods stated, as you may elect. It may be communicated to Colonel Hawkins, (if he is yet with you,) that the payment of the first instalment under the treaty may be expected early in the summer. I have the honor to be, with great esteem and consideration, your obedient servant,	• DUNCAN G. CAMPBELL. His Excellency G. M. TROUP. DEAR GENERAL:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, April 9, 1825. According to your wish, as communicated by my express, I shall send another to-morrow morning to know the result of the deliberations of the council upon the proposition submitted in my last letter, and also to inform you that the money which was asked to be advanced by me, to enable you without delay to explore the country west of the Mississippi, will be ready for you, whenever you send an agent authorized to receive it. I wish you to hasten the return of my express; or, if you have occasion to detain him, to mention to me in your letter the cause of that detention. „	,	Your friend,	G. M. TROUP. General WM. MCINTOSH.	• P" S' There is little doubt but that all or most of our supplies in surveying the country will be derived from the red people, provided they are willing to furnish them on reasonable terms. LOCK-CHA-TALOU-FAU, OR ACRE TOWN, April 12, 1825. I have received your letters of the 29th March and of the 4th instant; in both of which you ask of me to state our resolution in giving consent to the survey and running off the country we lately ceded and now occupy. You state, there will be no danger, in consequence of the ratification of the treaty, of any hostility; and if bad men stir up strifes and excite bad passions amongst the Indians, you will have them punished, and the President will do so too; and that your agent has reported to you that the Indians opposed to the treaty are now friendly; that they think of no mischief. .With regard to the disposition of the Indians who opposed the treaty, and with regard to the danger to the party who on our part made the treaty, we wish that the belief of your excellency may be realized. As to the disposition of your excellency and the President of the United States to punish bad men who intermeddle to stir up strifes amongst us, we are well satisfied of; we know you can and will cause such men to be punished, and will protect the nation from such influences, and defend those who signed the treaty. I have been, however, at some loss in making up my mind, and must confess to you the embarrassment I have labored under. Ever since the President of the United States has had agents residing among us, we have universally considered it our duty to consult him on all important matters that relate to the General Government, or the Government of any particular State; considering him the legal and proper organ through whom all official correspondence should pass in relation to our interests, appertaining to the treaties made with our nation and the United States. Some differences existing between the present agent of the Creek nation and myself, and not having any confidence in his advice, I have determined to act according to the dictates of my best judgment, which results in the determination to agree to the request of your excellency in giving my consent, and, in behalf of the nation who signed the treaty, their consent, that the land lately ceded to the United States at the Indian Springs may be inn off and surveyed whenever you or the General Government may think proper to do so. If the General Government of the United States have no objection, and the agent of the Creek nation, with the party he influences, does not make any objection or opposition to running and surveying the land, myself and the chiefs and Indians who were in favor of the late treaty do not object. We give our consent. I request of your excellency to publish in some of the public newspapers that persons wishing to make purchases of property of any kind, or buy out our improvements for the balance of our time, must first attend at my house and enroll their names, specifying the kind of property purchased, and from whom; stating the residence of each party. All such persons we shall consider coming amongst us as fair traders; and all such as may settle on land, improved or not, in the bounds of the late treaty, will be considered by us and reported as intruders to your excellency, if they do not comply with those terms. I have this moment received a notification from the Little Prince, inviting me and the chiefs in this quarter to attend a meeting of the nation at Broken Arrow, on the 19th instant. My own health will not permit me, probably, to attend the meeting in person, but all of my chiefs will go. I have determined, if my health permits, to accompany the delegation to the western country, in our exploring toor, so soon as we receive the money which we desired you to obtain for us through the commissioners. Your friend and brother, WM. MCINTOSH. His Excellency the GOVERNOR of Georgia. CREEK NATION, April 12, 1825. I have taken the liberty of sending to you a memorial of our chiefs to the Legislature of your State, and request the favor of you to cause it to be laid before them, with such marks of your approbation as you may, in friendship towards us, think proper to bestow. In giving voluntarily oor consent for the survey of the lands in the late treaty, we were actuated by motives of friendship purely towards you and towards your people. No consideration of a mercenary nature could be permitted to enter our breasts when a favor was asked of us, particularly by your excellency, and in behalf of your people. We knew the great importance it was to your people to be ready to occupy the country immediately after our removal from it, and have with true hearts of friendship acceded to your request. We would have thought it disgraceful in us to attempt to make a condition founded on your wants or desires a price for our acquiescence. The opportunity presented itself, and we hope the circumstance will have only the effect to render ourselves worthy of your esteem and friendship. ,	I remain yoor brother and friend, WM. MCINTOSH. To Governor TROUP. To the Members of the Legislature of the State of Georgia: Friends and brothers: We, the chiefs of the Creek nation, who have sold to the United States a part of the country, and intend shortly to remove to a new country, have thought it our duty to lay before you this our last and farewell address. Friends and brothers: We believe you and yoor State have always been our true friends; ever since we took hold of one another’s hands in friendship, we have been as neighbors inhabiting the same country; a country which ihe Great Spirit made to be the home and habitation of his children. The red and white men are all from the same father, and each of them is entitled to a share in this world of the works of his hands, and of the good things he has made for the use of men. The country which you now possess, and that which we now remain on, was by the Great Spirit originally given to his red children. Our brothers, the white men, visited us when we were like the trees of the forest. Our forefathers smoked the pipe of peace and friendship with the forefathers of the white man; and when the white man said we wish to live with the red man, and inhabit the same coontry, we received their presents, and said, welcome; we will give you land for yourselves and for your children. We took the white man by the hand, and held fast to it. We became neighbors, and the children of the white man grew up, and the children of the red man grew up in the same country, and we were brothers. The white men became numeroos as the trees of the forest, and the red men became like the buffalo. Friends and brothers: You are like the mighty storm; we are like the tender and bending tree: we must bow before you; you have torn us up by the roots, but still you are oor brothers .and friends. You have promised to replant os in a better soil, and to watch over us and nurse us. Friends and brothers: The day is come when we surrender the. country of our forefathers—the land of our nativity, our homes, the places of our youthful diversions. We surrender it to our brothers and friends, and our hearts are glad that we were not forced to do so by our enemies. We go; our people will seek new lands; our hearts remain with you.	. Friends and brothers: In days of old and years long past, the Creek nation was strong as the lion, and our warriors were like the trees in number. We were visited by a people that came over the great water. Wc held talks with them; they offered to take us by the hand as friends and brothers, and as the children of one father, the children of the Great Spirit. We met them in friendship, and smoked the pipe of peace like brothers of one family. These white brothers were called the English, and their head warrior lived beyond the great water. We were told by him in the talks he sent us, he was our great father and friend, and he made our nation great presents, and we loved his white children whom he had sent to live on this side of the great water, and we gave them lands, and took fast hold.of their hands in peace and friendship. Friends and brothers: In days long past, the head warrior over the great water sent our nation other talks, and told us his white children, whom we had long held by the hand, had become bad men, and wanted to destroy their head warrior over the water; that they had become our enemies, and that we must let go their hands, take up the tomahawk, and dance the war dance, and help our great father and friend who had made us great by presents, and help our great father over the water to chastise his disobedient children. Another head warrior arose among the Virginia people, whose name was Washington. He sent our people his talks, and told us that the white people on this side of the great water and the red men had long been friends and brothers, and that they were born in the same country, that we were children of the same land, and that we must let go our old father over the water, who would ruin us, and that wc must hold fast to the Virginians. Friends and brothers: We listened to our great father Washington, and let go of our friends the English, and smoked the pipe of friendship and of brotherly love with our Virginia brethren. We found the talks of our great father Washington to be true, and that he. was our true friend, and his people were our friends. We have always taken the talks of the Presidents who came after our beloved great friend Washington. We have considered the Presidents our protectors and friends, and the American people our brothers and neighbors. We found the English deceitful and our real enemies; and we have long ago fought them, as the enemies of ourselves and our American brethren. Friends and brothers: Our nation have always met the talks of our great father the President of the United States; when his agents and commissioners told us he wanted land for his people, we have always been willing to divide with them, and share our country to them. We have had a great country, and we needed the assistance of our white friends. We gave you land, and you gave us presents and money, and you taught us the use of the loom, the plough, and the hoe, and you taught us the way to value the different kinds of property. Friends and brothers: When we were first acquainted with our white friends, we were ignorant, like a child. You were in knowledge, like a man in his full strength. We therefore have always listened to the President as our common father and protector; we look up to him as a son would look up to his father. Friends and brothers: Oiir present chiefs remember the time when we possessed the land to the bank of the Oconee river; some of our old men remember when their hunting ground was the other side of that river. We, however, in our day, have attended the talks of the President, when our nation have sold to our father the President all the land between the limits of the late treaty and the Oconee. Friends and brothers: We have been for several years viewing with great attention the advice of the President to make a treaty with our nation for the lands that lay within the boundary that the State of Georgia wanted or claimed. We have paid great attention to all of his talks through the commissioners, and we are now satisfied that his advice is for our best interest, and that he will not forsake his red children in time of danger and trouble. Friends and brothers: We are satisfied that our claim to the land of our fathers was before all others. The Great Spirit placed us upon it, and gave it to us as our inheritance; but our neighbors and friends, the people of Georgia, wanted more land; their children are growing up like young trees of the forest, and they must have support. Friends and brothers: We, who send you this our farewell talk, have done every thing we could to satisfy our white brothers and friends, and to please the President our father. We have listened to our father the President’s talks, and have determined to make the trial of leaving forever the land of our forefathers, and surrendering it to the United States, for the use of our long beloved neighbors and friends the people of Georgia. Brothers and friends: We have to part with you; you are shortly to be possessors of our lands and our homes; homes dear to us, because we were raised and nourished at them: our habitations are simple and plain, but they afford us shelter from the rain and the. storm; our fare is plain and wholesome, and affords to us support and health; our people are thinly clad, but our huts shelter them from the cold: we have enjoyed, in a considerable degree, many of the comforts of life, rendered familiar to us by our intercourse with our white friends, and to a much greater extent than a people like us can again shortly expect when we are removed to the wilderness uf the west. Friends and brothers: All the comforts we now enjoy we abandon for your sakes. Our wives and helpless children must experience fatigue, hunger, cold, and every other incident that must unavoidably attend us in our travel from this, our late beloved country, to the vast wilderness, full of dangers that we probably do not foresee; but we put our trust in the Great Spirit, and in our father tire President, for protection and aid. Friends and brothers: In all the treaties with the United States for land for your use, we have never asked of your State to grant our nation presents of any description. We now, for the first time, as we are about to take our final leave of you, have thought to introduce ourselves to your notice; and hope that the first and last request of a people, long your neighbors and friends, will not be passed unnoticed by the people of the great and powerful State of Georgia, always professing towards us the greatest friendship and brotherhood. Friends and brothers: To you, as the representatives of our old neighbors and friends, as the children of the Great Spirit, and as our common relations, managing the affairs of the great State of Georgia, we appeal, in terms of friendship, for such aid and assistance as the pleasure of your Assembly, in behalf of your people, may think proper to afford us, previous to our final departure from you. The difficulties, wants, and distresses which await us in our removal in a body of ten thousand of our people, consisting of men, women, and children, must be our apology for introducing ourselves to the consideration of your humanity, charity, and benevolence. Friends and brothers: In behalf of our people, we desire of you, if it may meet with your good pleasure and liberality, to make our nation, or such part as determine to remove, such a donation, in presents of any kind, as the character and dignity of your State may warrant, and the wants, distresses, and long attachment of our people to you may deserve. Friends and brothers: If, after you hear our request, and consider of it, you should think that we arc not entitled to yonr consideration, generosity, or liberality, and that as we are about to leave you forever, and that you now have a legal claim and right to our late country, and that you owe us nothing, still we will remain strong in our former friendship to you. We do not ask of you any thing as a matter of right, or of any legal claim we have on you; but merely desire to recommend ourselves to your generosity and charity. Friends and brothers: We finally assure yon that our attachment towards our old friends and neighbors shall never cease, and that wo will carry with us the feelings of true and devoted friendship towards the State of Georgia, to the United States, and to the Legislature of Georgia. If we should be so happy as to experience any token of their regard, we will teach our children to remember it with gratitude, and cause it to be handed down to the succeeding generations of our nation, that they may forever know that Georgia was their friend in the hour of distress. William McIntosh.	James Derosoe, his X mark. William Miller, his X mark. Ahlyheeky, his x mark. Aubickah, his X mark. Ispogormothe, his X mark. Hothemarta Tustunnuggee, his X Tustunnuggee, his X mark. Hogey McIntosh, his X mark. APRIL 12, 1825. DEAR GENERAL:	MILLEDGEVILLE, April 18, 1825. In one of your late letters, you say something about the consent of the United States, or if the agent and the hostiles do not make opposition. Pray explain to me your meaning. We have nothing to do with the United States, or the agent, or the hostiles, in this matter; all we want is the consent of the friendly Indians who made the treaty. If we wanted the consent of the United States, we could ask it. Your friend, G. M. TROUP. General WILLIAM MCINTOSH, Creek Nation. DEAR SIR:	FAYETTEVILLE, April 14, 1825. I herewith transmit to you the resolutions of the friendly Creek Indians, or those who were in favor of the treaty. As their determination with respect to permitting the recently acquired territory to be run off, or surveyed, is of general importance to the citizens of the State of Georgia, I have deemed it advisable to send them by express, as the most speedy and sure mode of conveyance. You will also receive by the bearer (Mr. Wilson) two other letters. With respect, your most obedient servant, ALEXANDER WARE. His Excellency G. M. TROUP. DEAR GENERAL:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, April 16, 1825. Your two letters of the 12th instant have just been received, by which it is made known to me that, in council, you have given your consent to the survey of the lands. Your memorial to the Legislature will be presented according to your request; and the notice you wish published, in relation to purchases of property of any kind, improvements, &c., will, in the same words as you have written, be printed in our next papers. I hope that you will meet the Little Prince and council in good friendship. I wish to see you all unitedin brotherly affection before you move, and am convinced the President desires the same. Your friend, G. M. TROUP. General WILLIAM MCINTOSH, Creek Nation. DEAR SIR:	CREEK NATION, April 25, 1825. I received your excellency’s request yesterday, dated the 1 Sth instant, and hereby state to you that my only meaning was not to act contrary to stipulations made between our nation and the United States Government; and we do hereby absolutely, freely, and fully give our consent to the State of Georgia to have the boundary belonging to said State surveyed at any time the Legislature of Georgia may think proper, which was ceded at the late treaty of the Indian Springs, signed in behalf of the nation, and by the consent of the chiefs of the same. I have the honor, sir, with great esteem, vours respectfully, WILLIAM McINTOSH. His Excellency GEORGE M. TROUP. DOCUMENTS ON THE SUBJECT OF THE MURDER OF GENERAL WILLIAM McINTOSH AND OTHER FRIENDLY CHIEFS OF THE CREEK NATION; OF THE CAUSES WHICH PRODUCED IT, &c.; ACCOMPANYING THE GOVERNOR’S MESSAGE AT THE OPENING OF THE EXTRA SESSION. GOVERNOR:	MILLEDGEVILLE, February 17, 1825. We met with you yesterday, and dined with you as our father. We meet you to-day in your office, to express our opinions as principal chiefs of Coweta; which expression we have considered best to give you in .writing, that you may know when we act contrary to our talk. In 1813 was the beginning of the hostile party, and General McIntosh was the first red man who joined the United States, and spilt his blood in her defence; at that time, we were warriors under General McIntosh, and fought for our country; and, after peace was made, we were appointed chiefs by General McIntosh, not by Little Prince or the Big Warrior; therefore, we love said McIntosh until death, and will hold fast to his talks, because we know he acts agreeably to our father’s talks, and by him we gain our protection from our father the President. Looking back fo 1813, we believe that, but for the relations which McIntosh sustained to the United States, we should have lost our lands without getting a penny for them. Father: At the la’te treaty of the Indian Springs a good many hostiles, as usual, objected to it. If that party should attempt to breed a disturbance with the friendly Indians, we shall inform vou, for protection; and we hope 96 E vou will protect us in case the hostiles should intrude on os, as we look for protection from you, as we have been trying to gratify the wishes of our father the President. We hope he loves us as his red children; and we hope you love us as friends of justice, as friends of good order, and friends of harmony. We remain your affectionate children, ETOME TUSTUNNUGGE, his X mark. HOETHE MARTA TUSTUNNUGGE, his X mark. SIAH GRAY, his X mark. TUSTUNNUGGE OCHE, his X mark. CHILLY McINTOSH, Clerk of the National Council. I*. S. We wish to know from you, in writing, whether you could protect us, should protection be necessary. OUR FATHER:	FEBRUARY 20, 1825. It gives us great satisfaction that you take us by the hand as your red children, and determine to protect us if any patt of our hair should be injured by the hostile Indians. Yesterday evening we were informed by Chilly McIntosh that you wished to see General McIntosh before his return, to state to him a further subject upon the which we now stand at this present time, for fear they might do injury to us in secret by bad advisers, and, if we think it necessary, that you would send runners on to let the party know that you are ready to protect us, if they should attempt to carry their threats into execution. We have considered the subject, and determine it to be the best plan to afford safety to our headman and us. If you send the runners on to the party, we want a few lines from you to let our friendly people know that you, as commander-in-chief of the State of Georgia, will protect us in case the hostiles should do injury to us, or any of the friendly party. Our father: At the treaty of Broken Arrow, the chiefs got jealous of McIntosh, and threatened to kill him; the charge against him was, that he wanted to sell land to the commissioners of the United States. In 1824, a few chiefs met at a place called the Polecat Springs, and passed a law that, if any persons should sell land or offer it for sale, guns and rope should be their end: this law was intended to prevent General McIntosh from selling land. But it was not agreeably to the laws of the nation; if it was intended to be the national law, it ought to have been read before the national chiefs, and let them determine it—not collect a few chiefs to make a law. Could an individual State pass a law to extend all over the United States, or one county make and enforce a law fnr the government of the whole State? The guns and rope are taken from the pattern of the Cherokees; therefore, we do not consider it a law of the nation to be enforced; it is merely law among themselves; but those who signed their names to the pattern of the Cherokees determine to execute the law. This is the report from some of our friends. If they determine, we are ready to defend ourselves, and, with your assistance, they will find a great difference in numbers. Our characteristic disposition is, to treat all mankind as friends, brothers, and relations: we determine never to impuse on any man, but treat all as friends. Nothing more at present, but remain your affectionate children, ETOME TUSTUNNUGGE, his X mark. HOETHE MARTA TUSTUNNUGGE, his x mark. TUSTUNNUGGE OCHE, his X mark. SIAH GRAY, his X mark. CHILLY McINTOSH, Clerk of the National Council. Extract from the Executive Journal. SATURDAY, February 19, 1825. Several Indian chiefs of the Creek nation, among whom were General McIntosh and Etome Tustunnugge, chief of Coweta, came to the executive chamber to hold a talk with the Governor; they had much to say, and the meeting lasted some time. The substance of what the Indians said was: that they had, in compliance with the wishes of their father the President, and their brethren and friends the Georgians, consented to give up their lands, and move across the Mississippi; that, before their departure, they should have a great many difficulties and troubles to encounter; that their women and children must suffer many privations in passing from their homes, where they had some comforts, to a new and distant country; that they must suffer great loss in their stocks and other property, &c.; but, notwithstanding all this, they were willing to listen to the advice of their great father, and give up their lands: but, in doing which, offence bad been given to some of their people; and as there were bad white men among them, who were endeavoring to stir up their own people to do them harm, and more especially as the agent was among their worst enemies, and they could expect no protection or support from him, they wanted to know whether they could be certain of protection from the Government of the United States and from that of Georgia, tec. The Governor answered that he was happy to hear that, in compliance with the wishes of the.ir great father, they had finally resolved to give up their lands; that their father intended nothing but for their good; that he talked the language of truth and sincerity; and that, when he advised them to move across the Mississippi, all the good and wise men of the United States knew that it was the best advice he could give them; they were exchanging lands which belonged to the Georgians for lands which were better, and would belong to themselves and their children forever. That the President was wise enough to know all the difficulties they would have to encounter, but he still thought it would be for their good; that, with regard to their women and children, and their property, the Governor thought ample provision had been made by the treaty, not only to enable them to remove their women and children in comfort, but to cover any losses they might sustain by the removal, &c.; and that, with regard to protection either against their own people who were hostile, or against the whites, he had no doubt their father the President would afford them all the protection their situation might require. That, as to the State of Georgia, they should, so far as depended on him, find protection at all times; and that, so long as they conducted themselves well, the people of Georgia would be ready to support him in it with all 'their hearts, for they had for a long time been the friends of Georgia in peace and war; and that they themselves had fought and bled for Georgia in the last war, and that the Georgians could not forget them, &c. Here General McIntosh adverted to certain events of the last war; spoke of the Big Warrior as having been inimical in heart to the United States, but joined the. friendly party through fear; his late opposition to the treaty, &.C.; of a certain chief, (Gun Boy,) the principal leader of the hostile party since the death of the Big Warrior, having threatened his life, and his endeavors to prejudice the Indians against him and his followers; his having defeated the same chief and taken him prisoner near Fort Gaines, during the late war; of the rights of the friendly party to dispose of their land, when, in their opinion, and in that of their father the President, it was the interest of the nation and that of the United States for them to do so, with or without the consent of the hostile party. To the latter part of which the Governor replied: That it was impossible for the United States Government, in all their transactions with the Creeks, not to feel a difference, if they did not make any, between the friendly and hostile part of the nation; that, in the business of the treaty, the President could not but consider it as the act of the nation, provided the whole country was ceded. But what ought to be considered the act of the nation, would still be a question. The Government might be quite well-disposed to consider the act of McIntosh and his friends as such a one. It would not be expected that al) would unite in the sale of the lands; it would have to be left finally to the President and Senate to decide who had the right; and, in making this decision, there was little doubt that, all other things being equal, they would give a preference to the friendly Indians. This was natural; fur, although a treaty of peace furgives what has passed, the parties to it cannot forget; and the people of the United States (but more particularly the people of Georgia) cannot forget the distinction they were obliged to make when, in the late war, they found McIntosh and his friends fighting un their side, and the hostiles fighting on the side of their enemies, &c. Etpme Tustunnugge, at the close, begged leave to hand the Governor a paper, which, he said, he wished him to keep, fur that he had been deceived by white men, and was opposed at first to a sale of the lands; but since then his eyes had been opened, and he had listened to the voice of his great father; and that now he approved, in all things, of the talk which had been just delivered, <fcc. EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GA., MILLEDGEVILLE, February 26, 1825. In consequence of the apprehensions expressed in a talk delivered by the friendly chiefs of the Creek nation, on the 19th inst., the written communication delivered at the same time, and another on the 21st, by Etome Tus- tenuggee, of the hostile intentions of the unfriendly party in said nation towards McIntosh and his friends, in consequence of the late treaty; and, in compliance with the promises given them, that every aid should be afforded them within the power of this Government, it is thought proper to send a friendly talk to the chiefs of Tuckaubatchee a'nd Cussetah, at the same time forewarning them of the danger to which they will expose themselves by any outrage committed on McIntosh, or any of the friendly Indians, in consequence of said treaty. Accordingly, Colonel Henry G. Lamar is despatched with a talk to said hostile chiefs, in the following words, to wit: To the Chiefs and Headmen of Tuckaubatchee and Cussetah:	. I hear bad things of you. You threaten McIntosh and his people, because they listened to their father the President, and ceded the lands to the Georgians. They acted like good and dutiful children. You opposed yourselves to the wishes of your great father, who was doing the best for the interest of his red people, and would not sign the treaty: but this you did, as I believe, under the influence of bad men, who pretended to be your friends, but who cared nothing about you. Now I tell you, take care and walk straight. McIntosh and his people are under my protection, as well as under the protection of the United States. If any harm is done by you, or any of your people, to McIntosh or his people, I will treat you in the same way as if you were to come into our white settlements and do the like. I will pursue you until I have full satisfaction. Do not let bad men persuade you that because you live in and near to Alabama you will be safe. If you commit one act of hostility on this side the. line, I will follow and punish you. But I hope there will be no occasion for this, and that you will take counsel of wise and good men, and so conduct yourselves fur the future as to receive the approbation and protection of your father the President, and that I also may look upon you as friends, and treat you accordingly. This message will be delivered to you by my aid-de-camp, Col. Lamar. G. M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GA., MILLEDGEVILLE, February 26, 1825. The Tuckaubatchee and Cussetah towns, adverse to the late measure of treaty concluded at the Indian Springs, having menaced the friendly Indians who signed that treaty with insult and injury, in consequence of their willingness to make cession of their lands to the Georgians, it is resolved to despatch you with a message to those towns, to represent to them the danger which will ensue if they attempt to carry into effect their hostile designs. They are the weaker party, and no attempts of this character are to be dreaded but such as are made covertly and in secrecy. But whether of the one or other character, they are forewarned they will be punished with the utmost severity. From the moment of the ratification, the territory will be considered as belonging to Georgia, in all respects, excepting merely the temporary occupancy of the Indians; and any act of disorder or violence committed there will be treated as committed within the actual jurisdiction of the State, and, of course, the Indians committing it pursued and punished wheresoever they may go. You will meet them with friendly dispositions: say to them, in accordance with the spirit of the message which you carry, that it is the settled opinion of all the wise and good men of the United States that the Indians, looking to nothing but their own interest, present and future, ought to move without delay beyond the Mississippi. They already know this to be the advice of their great father. They will soon know it to be the advice of his great council, the Congress. None but bad men, hostile to their true interests, will ever advise them to the contrary. You will take with you the published documents, showing the views of the President in relation to the conduct of both the agent and Cherokees at Broken Arrow; the indignation with which he viewed their conduct, and, of course, the indignation with which he will regard the conduct of the Indians hostile to the treaty, if they do not in future deport themselves as men deserving his love and friendship; and another paper, less authentic, but not altogether unofficial, taken from the National Journal, in which they wdl see that the Indians west of the Mississippi, without foreknowledge of the views or plans of the President, have adopted the same views, and are concerting the same measures for bringing all the Indians together on the west of the Mississippi; and that soon, very soon, they will all go; so that a red man will not be seen between the Mississippi and the lakes. Having delivered the message, together with the talks, as directed, to the two towns, and receiving their answer, either verbally or in writing, you will return and make report to me with as little delay as passible. Respectfully, Col. HENRY G. LAMAR, Aid-de-camp. GOVERNOR:	NEWNAN, March 3, 1825. I take the authority to inform you that since we left you we have not got home, in consequence of the hostiles. I met my friends at Flint river, William Miller and A. Tustenuggee, and they tell me that they ran them off, threaten s kill them, cut their throats, and set up their heads by the road for a show; they are determined to die on their own country, and they have appointed men tokill seven chiefs, General McIntosh, myself, Joseph Marshall, Samr uel Hawkins, James Island, Eteme Tustenuggee, and Colonel Miller. Since the treaty, the hostile party have been in council a second time at Broken Arrow, and are now at Tuckaubatchee holding a council; they have not broken up yet. We understand they have sent a memorial on to the President not to interfere with them or assist its; to let them settle it among themselves. No doubt they are determined to destroy us, if they can. Myself and father parted at the Indian Springs, on our way home. Since I heard the news, I have despatched a runner to him, not to stay one moment at hume, bot tu meet me at this place. Excuse my handwriting. This is not half I know, but the bearer of this is in a hurry. I remain your son, His Excellency G. M. TROUP.	CHILLY McINTOSH. DEAR FRIEND:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, March 5, 1825. Your letter of the 3d came safe to me this moment. I am sorry to hear that the hostiles continue to be such fools and madmen. They will soon be taught better. If they do not listen to my talks sent by Col. Lamar, I will send a military force tu the line, to keep them in order and punish offenders. Col. Lamar left this for Cos- setah and Tuckaubatchee last Sunday, the 27th February. He must have arrived at the council before this. It is as I told you it would be, the hostiles have been set on by bad white men. I hope your father will keep out of their way, until they are brooght to their senses. Yours, sincerely, CHILLY MCINTOSH, Creek Nation.	G. M. TROUP. SIR:	MILLEDGEVILLE, March 10, 1825. In obedience to your instructions of the 26th of February last, I proceeded to the towns of Cussetah and Tuckaubatchee, for the fulfilment of the duties required. On my arrival at the former place, on the 2d instant, I. judged it impracticable to wait the length of time which would unavoidably be consumed in calling the chiefs; I therefore appointed a time for their assemblage by my return, and continued without delay to Tuckaubatchee, where I arrived on the 4th. Fortenately, the chiefs and headmen had met in council for the purpose of regulating the internal government of the town. They were immediately informed of nty arrival and my object, and that I desired to see them in council so soon as they were prepared for my reception. Their reply was, that they were ready at an}' time to hear what I had to communicate. Our salutation was friendly, and they gave every testimony of the indulgence of the most amicable feelings. Ho-po-eithlea Yoholough seems to have succeeded the Big Warrior in authority for the present, and will so continue until another individual is designated by appointment. I will not pretend in this report to give, in full, the talk I there delivered in council, as I had not reduced the same to writing. I hope it will fully subserve all your purposes to know the most prominent points on which my remarks at that place were predicated. I informed them of the reasons why you had sent the communication. I stated that information had been received, from a source in which you placed reliance, that, in consequence of their being adverse to the treaty, they had become angry with McIntosh, as well as all others who had been dutiful in obeying the wishes of the President, and designed pursuing them with vengeance. That, if this report were nntrue, it would be to the mutual interest of all parties tu so understand it; that if it be true, and the attempt should be made to gratify so depraved a feeling, (hey had exposed to their view the penalties which would be incurred by so rash a determination. That it behooved them to look to the lessons of experience which the divisions and hostilities of ■he late war in their nation would furnish; that they should turn a deaf ear to the evil counsel of bad men, and listen to the advice of their father the President; that he united wisdom with goodness, and would point out the only way of promoting their ultimate happiness. This he had done to his council, (the Congress,) as well as in his instructions to his commissioners, as I would show from documents. That not only had the President suggested the plan, but that a deputation from the tribes beyond the Mississippi was now on the way to Washington city, desiring the consummation of the same object, and that all the tribes between the Mississippi and the lakes were invited by their red brothers to come and settle on their land; that they would be received by the right hand of friendship, and could there indulge a perfect security from the annoyance of the white man; that then there would be no conflicting interests, and all strife would cease to exist. I then read the document expressive of the President’s desire of a successful termination of the treaty, the extract from the National Journal, containing an account of the proceedings of Indians west of the Mississippi, and concluded with your communication. They heard me with attention and respect; and when informed that I had closed, Ho-po-eitblea Yoholough made the following reply, in substance. However, as near as memory will serve me, I will give you his words, as communicated to me by the interpreter. He said he was glad to see me, and gratified that you had placed it in his power to contradict the reports which had reached Georgia. That he loved his white brothers, and loved their peace; he also loved McIntosh. That on hearing the false tales about his wishing to spill blood, he was sick at heart, and his blood was chilled. That in the war he fought with McIntosh and his white brothers to subdue the hostiles, and succeeded. That his enemies in war were now under his authority, and to employ them against his best friends was what had never entered his mind. He loved his father, and would never offend him. That not one murmur had by him been placed on the winds, to be carried to Georgia, against his white or red brothers. That McIntosh having made the treaty would not make him his enemy; he still loved him; he spoke with one tongue; he never deceived; he should be sorry that his father should hear such bad things. He wished his ear to be. stopped, and pay no attention to them. That his father had told him, while Hawkins was agent, to throw away his gun, quit the. chase, and cultivate the land. He followed his advice, and knew it to be good. His gun was now rusty; he could not see to shoot; instead of his gun, he used the plough and the hoe. That if his people desired war, they had not the means of carrying it on; more than half were without guns, but that they never thought of spilling blood. He wished me, on my return home, to inform the Governor of these things, so that his white brothers might not be disturbed. To which he subjoined, that he had met me as a brother; he hoped I was satisfied, and that we would part as we had met. He then, on request, appointed Charles Cornells to accompany me to Cussetah, saying, if I had not requested it, it would have been done, as he had previously determined to adopt that eourse. I have been thus particular, in order to place it in your power to form an opinion independent of my own. Previously to my arrival at Tuckaubatchee, from gross misrepresentations, I had reason to suppose they indulged the most malevolent feelings towards those favorable to the treaty. Indeed, had I given credence to reports, my conclusion would have been that they were on the point of commencing immediate hostilities. Such was the prevailing feeling, from exaggerated accounts, that on application to two half-breeds, near Fort Mitchell, to accompany me to Tuckaubatchee as interpreters, they declined, through fear, stating that they had understood the Tuckaubatchees were determined to enforce the law passed at the Polecat Spring, and it being known that they were friendly to the treaty, and relations of Colonel Miller, although fear might restrain them from open violence to their persons, they would secretly murder them. From all the discoveries I was capable of making, I can arrive at no other conclusion than that the feelings of this town have been totally misconceived. However, what has been done will have the good effect of restoring the minds of those disturbed to their accustomed ease. On the 7th instant, in conformity to previous arrangements, the Cussetahs assembled in council. Finding it difficult to progress in business by verbal communications, I determined to obviate the difficulty by writing and reading to them the following address, only changing the language occasionally, that it might be the better adapted to their understanding: My friends and brothers: I am sent here by the Governor of Georgia io reconcile difficulties which he has understood exist among you, and, in doing this, I shall talk plain and tell you the truth; after this is done, if you are deceived, it will be your own fault, and you cannot say that the Governor of Georgia, through me, did not warn you of the only way to avoid error and do right. We love you, and wish to live in peace. We wish you to love one another, and live in peace also. We have understood that, in consequence of McIntosh and others having signed the late treaty, you are angry, and wish to stain your hands in their blood; we hope, for the honor of your nation, for your own peace, happiness, and safety, that these reports are untrue. If they be true, check the mad career of your feelings. If you do not, it will involve you in calamities tenfold greater than those from which you have narrowly escaped in the late war. McIntosh and his party have acted as dutiful children in obeying the advice of our wise and good father the President: this I shall show you by documents from his own hand. Then, having acted in obedience to the will of our father, if you should murder him, or any of his men, or suffer the same to be done, your white brothers will revenge their death, if in the burning of your houses, or at the expense of the life of every red man in your town. But in all this, the innocent would not be punished with the guilty. Let me ask you a question: You have a rifle that has long procured you food, and subdued your enemies; it never fails to kill when properly directed. Suppose you level it at a deer: it snaps, or fires and fails to kill; do you on that account break or throw away a weapon so necessary to your existence and security? And why should you wish to treat McIntosh less kindly than your gun? Has he not been your friend in peace and in war? Has he not always been faithful to your interests, and dutiful to your father the President? The. treaty was made in accordance with the advice and wishes of your father, as I have before stated, and will ultimately work the independence, and, in the end, the happiness of the red people. And shall this be requited with the and the rape? We have heard so: we have heard that you have listened to the counsel of bad men, that they have wrought among you an angry excitement, and that McIntosh and his chiefs are to be the victims to appease your exasperated feelings. You are warned to turn from such wicked counsel; and be assured, no friend, true to the interest of the red man, would recommend the gratification of such feelings. If you should attempt it, your nation would be divided. Take a number of reeds, bind them close, you cannot break them; separate them, or divide the bunch, and the weakest of you can break them in pieces. This would be the condition with your people; divided, you would fall without the power to make one manly struggle. You would be surrounded by white men, who, by reason of your bad conduct, you would make your common enemies. They outnumber the trees in your forest. I have said that McIntosh and those who signed the treaty acted in strict obedience to the request of your father. Listen and learn his will, and in future let it guide your determinations. [I here read the documents showing the views of the President as to their removal, and his wish for the successful termination of the treaty, and the paper showing the wishes of the Indians beyond the Mississippi, and made a few remarks on those subjects, and proceeded.] Now you see what bad men have told yon is untrue. It was the wish of your father that the treaty should bo held, the land ceded, and that al) of you should move beyond the Mississippi, where you in future could not be disturbed in the titles to your land; where the buffalo, the bear, and the deer could be chased by your young men; or, what would be more desirable, they could settle down permanently, and' before long, enjoy al) the comforts of civilized life. These are the wishes of your father. He is wise and good. He studies to promote your happiness. Then why do you not say, Father, “ thy will be done.” By so doing, you can select your country, and make a choice before the Cherokees, or any other nation; the President will give you the title to the land you acquire in the exchange. No nation, not even your father, could then take it from you. No disputes would then exist about land. I say, then, listen to what your father tells you is right, and you will do well. I wish you now to inform me what I must say to the Governor of Georgia, and what he must say to the President. .Must 1 tell him the news he has heard of your wishing to kill McIntosh and his men is false? Must I say you love them, and love their peace, and that you are reconciled to what they have done? Must I say you will punish your bad men who attempt to do harm to those who signed the treaty? I hope you will place it in my power to tell him good news, so that in future there will be no disturbance between our red brothers, or between rhe white and the red man. ’ I then read your communication, and Little Prince replied, in a few words, by unequivocally denying any contemplated hostilities to those who signed the treaty. He further stated, that the circumstances attending the flight of Colonel Miller and Arbicker originated from causes so trifling in their nature that the headmen did not judge them worthy of notice, and that they ought not to be considered as indicating the indulgence of unfriendly feelings; that none such were indulged. He appealed to his chiefs to confirm these statements. I have, as concisely as was consistent with a minute detail of facts, communicated all that passed in council. My own opinion, which is partly conjectural, and in part formed from observation and conversations had with some of the Indians, is this: Leave them to themselves; if they clearly understand what are the wishes of the President, they will conform to them. I speak of them collectively as a people. They have no correct notions of our Government and their relative connexion with it. Their conclusion is, that the powers of the President are absolute, and that he has an unquestionable right to coerce obedience. But, independent of this notion of fear, the unlimited confidence reposed in the wisdom and virtue of the President is a sure, guaranty of the successful accomplishment of his wishes. In order to destroy the effects of this influence, I discover that the belief has been imposed upon them, (at least tu some extent,) that the commissioners, being Georgians, were only subserving thé interest and wishes of Georgia. There are a number of white men settled among them, who heretofore looked with pleasure on their prospects of enjoying the benefits of a permanent location, who have acquired their confidence by the connexions they have formed, and I have no doubt that their influence is secretly exerted to excite discontent, and inculcate opinions adverse to the interest of Georgia and the policy of the General Government. There is another prevailing feeling among them. They indulge the belief that, should they move beyond the Mississippi, a perpetual warfare with the tribes inhabiting that country would be the inevitable consequence. You will discover in iny talk to them, with the view tu produce a complete reconciliation, I endeavored to refute that opinion. If the treaty is ratified, I have no doubt that al) clamor will cease; for, in proportion as they understand the wishes of the President, and the course of conduct oor Government adopts towards them, in the same degree will all other influence be diminished. Added to this, what has been done was done, no doubt, with the view to prevent its ratification. The cause, therefore, which produced the excitement will cease to exist after that desirable object is accomplished. If anv additional information should be desired on points not embraced in this report, on intimation they will receive a prompt consideration. 1 am, sir, your obedient servant, HENRY G. LAMAR. His Excellency GEORGE M. TROUP. SrR;	CREEK NATION, April 10, 1825. I feel it my duty to state to you, that, being at the Creek agency since the late treaty at the Indian Springs» I was in conversation with the agent, John Crowell, who told me, when I went home, to tell the chiefs of the upper towns that if they listened to the talks of McIntosh he would sell them and their lands in less than a year, and told me that I must say everything I could against General McIntosh. Mr..Henry Crowell, in the presence and hearing of the agent, told me that the United States commissioners offered him, just before the late treaty, ten thousand dollars and five miles square of land if he would use his exertions to cause the nation to sell their land; but he said that he answered the commissioners by saying that he would have nothing to do with it. He told me that if he had done as the commissioners wished, he would not be doing justice to the Indians; but, if he had done so, it would have been to his interest, as he would have got a great deal of money. The agent said that I and my brother, Samuel Hawkins, ought to collect the Indians when General McIntosh was gone to Washington, and burn down his houses and destroy his property, because of his disposition to sell the land. 1 am your obedient servant, BENJAMIN HAWKINS. To Governor TROUP. SIR:	CREEK NATION, April 12, 1825. I have taken the liberty of addressing you on this occasion, believing you to be the friend of our nation, and of stating to you some facts which relate to the conduct of our agent, Mr. John Crowell, which I will at any time, if called upon, swear to. When the agent, John Crowell, first paid money to the nation as their annuity, in 1821, he paid it in fifty and hundred dollar bills to the principal chiefs, to be divided by them to their respective towns; the Big Warrior told the agent, at the time, that the money could not be fairly divided, for the want of smaller bills, and requested the agent the next time he paid them off to bring small bills. Before the agent had ever met the chiefs in council, his brother, Mr. Thomas Crowell, brought to Fort Mitchell a large stock of goods; and, when the agent came to the council-house, he told the chiefs that his brother had goods, and that he had given him a license, and that they might buy what goods they wanted. The chiefs, having what money was to go to their respective towns in large bills of fifty and one hundred dollars, were compelled to go to Thomas Crowell and buy domestic homespun, at fifty cents per yard, of the same description of goods that General McIntosh had furnished the nation at twenty- five cents per yard only a few months ago, or to make an unequal division of their money, or go to the settlements for change. At the time the annuity was paid to the nation in 1822, the agent, John Crowell, again paid off the nation in fifty and one hundred dollar bills; and, when the chiefs asked him for change, he said his brother was provided with change or small bills, and, at the same time, cautioned the chiefs against counterfeiters, and said there were a great many counterfeit bills and many suspicious persons about, but that the change his brother had was genuine. The chiefs, after receiving the respective amounts allowed their towns, went to Mr. Thomas Crowell, the agent’s brother, and asked him to change their money; he told them, the chiefs, (myself acting as interpreter,) that he would give to the chiefs of the towns each five dollars in cash, but that the balance of the money must be laid out in goods. Some of the chiefs agreed to do so; but others refused, and went off To those who bought his goodspin order to make a division to their towns, he charged thirty-seven and a half cents per yard. General McIntosh had goods there, and sold homespun at thirty-one and a quarter cents per yard. I can further state that I was the interpreter when J. Crowell told the chiefs that bis brother, Henry Crowell, who lives at the agency, wanted to make fields on the west side of Flint river, and said the land on the reserve was worn out, and he could not make a support on it; but his brother said to him that he did not want to clear a field for the Georgians, and he (the agent) asked the. chiefs if they intended shortly to part with their lands. The Big Warrior replied, at the same time laughing, that he (the agent) need not be afraid that the nation wpuld shortly sell their lauds to Georgia. I have since understood from the head chiefs that no direct permission was granted to the aaent or his brother to clear a Geld on the west side of the river; but the agent's brother has a large field on the west side of the river, and has rented out all the fields on the reserve. I remain your humble servant, SAMUEL HAWKINS, of the Creek Nation. To Governor TROUP. Since the last treaty, I have been told by a number of the chiefs of this nation that Hambly, the agent’s interpreter, (during the time the United States commissioners wore endeavoring to effect a treaty at Fort Mitchell,) came to the square, and told the chiefs, early in the morning, that the agent had sent him to tell them what the commissioners would have to say to them; and it was the agent’s wish that they all should be of one mind, and answer the commissioners, as they had promised him, (the agent,) by saying that “ We have no more land for sale.” I had omitted to state to you a fact, which heretofore has been unusual in oor transactions with the United States. In the year 1822, when the agent was about paying the nation their annuity, he charged between sixty and one hundred dollars, (the precise sum not recollected,) and deducted it from the annuity of that year; and stated that his reason for doing so was, that he had to pay that much to a person to go to Darien or Savannah to bring up the sum of the annuity. Ir was submitted to by the nation, but considered as an imposition and unjust. SAMUEL HAWKINS. B,R:	CREEK AGENCY, August 22, 1823. I received your letter hy Kitch, giving an account of the conduct of McIntosh in relation to Stinson. I should be glad if my business would admit of my going to Chattahoochie at present; but 1 ant engaged making out my accounts for the present year, ending the 31st of this mouth, and cannot leave home until after that time. I wish you to state, in plain and positive terms, to the Prince, that I call upon him, as the headman of this nation, to have Stinson taken and brought to me at all hazards: if six men are not enough, send six hundred, and take him by force, if he has to destroy McIntosh and his whole establishment to effect it. Tell him it will reflect disgrace on him, as the headman of the nation, to suffer one chief to prevent his orders from being put into execution; and this conduct of McIntosh is quite sufficient to break him as a chief. If, however, he does suffer McIntosh to protect this man in violating the laws of the United States, his nation must suffer fur it; for he may rest assured that the Government will not put up with it. And is it possible that he will allow the conduct of one man to do so serious an injury to his innocent people? If, however, he will nut have this man taken, I shall adopt such steps as will insure his arrest, and pay the expenses of it out of the annuity, even should it take the whole of it. I can get men front Georgia that will take him by paying enough for it; and, rather than not have him, I will pay every dollar of the annuity for him. I shall inform the Government of McIntosh’s conduct; and the President will, no doubt, hold the nation accountable for it. I wish you to impress upon the mind of the Prince the difficulty which this transaction will place the nation in, should this man be protected by an Indian. This nation, since the war, have acquired a good character for their good behavior with the President; and I should dislike fur them to lose or tarnish it, by protecting a white man in violating the laws of the United States. The receipt which I took for the annuity, and the one from Colonel Lovett for beef, have miscarried. I enclose another, which you will get signed, and return to me, after getting the names of those about Fort Mitchell. Send it by mail to Captain Walker, to be signed by the Warrior, &.c. JOHN CROWELL. Colonel WJI. HAMBLY, Chattahoochie. LINE CREEK, FAYETTE COUNTY, GEORGIA, May 1, 1825. The information you have'no doubt received by Chilly McIntosh and other Indians will be confirmed by the following relation of the circumstances attending the horrid transaction on the Chattahoochie and Tallapoosa, in the Creek nation: On the morning of the 30th April, several neighbors of mine, who lodged on the bank of the Chattahoochie, this side of McIntosh’s, about daybreak heard the war-whoop, and they suppose from two to four hundred guns were fired; the houses were on fire when they set off. An intelligent Indian, (Colonel Miller,) wJio has fled to my house, together with about one hundred and fifty others, states that he supposes there are upwards of four hundred warriors of the hostile party embodied on the Chattahoochie, at McIntosh’s, feasting on all the cattle they can find, hogs, itc., belonging to the friendly party; states, also, t|jat they have taken McIntosh’s negroes and all other property they can find; they, he states, intend marching towards the settlement of the whites in three days. In this I am a little incredulous, though, as far as the resources of our country will afford, I will be prepared. Major Finley Stewart is collecting some volunteers to go out and reconnoitre the country; he will set off as soon as practicable. He (Colonel Miller) supposes, including numbers long cloaked under the garb of friendship, who, since the death of McIntosh, have joined the hostile party, that the hostile party in the nation largely exceed four thousand warriors, and that the friendly party now amount to only five hundred. They implore protection; they need it: they are constantly coming in; say the road is covered with others. Yours, respectfully, ALEXANDER WARE. Governor TROUP. Some provision ought to be made to supply these refugees with food. A. W. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, May 3, 1825. Yesterday, Chilly McIntosh, son of the general, and bearer of this, came with other chiefs to announce the death of his father. On the night of the 29th ultimo, whilst reposing in his bed, the savages hostile to the treaty, in great numbers, beset and fired his house; and this chieftain, whose virtues would have honored any country, perished by the flames or tomahawk. The old chief of Coweta, who was pursued with the same vengeance, and for the same objects, perished with him. The crime of McIntosh and Tustunnuggee is to be sought in the wise and magnanimous conduct which, at the Indian Springs, produced the treaty of the 12th of February, and which, in making a concession of their whole country, satisfied the just claims of Georgia, reconciled the State to the Federal Government, and made happy, nt least in prospect, the condition of the Creeks. When, by the last of his generous actions, he had given his consent, in union with his council, to the survey and appropriation of the country, only to gratify the wishes of the Georgians, and was on the. eve of departure to explore the new home, where the. future fortunes of all were to abide, he met the stroke of the assassin, and the bravest of his race fell by the hands of the most treacherous and cowardly. The guilty authors of this massacre it will be for you to detect and punish. I have done my duty. You will soon read in my official correspondence with your Government, the Indians, and the commissioners, the beginning, the progress, and the end of this frightful tragedy, in which the catastrophe was foreseen; of which, ever and anon, the Government of the United States was distinctly forewarned; and which, by the breath of its nostrils, might have been averted; but which was not averted. In despite of every thing attempted to the contrary, I had before succeeded in maintaining peace. Even now, at the very moment I write, a message, of which you have a copy, is despatched to the surviving chiefs to forbear hostility. I believe the advice will be taken as an order; but it is my duty to inform yon that to keep this peace longer than I can hear from you will be impossible to any efforts of yours or mine, unless the most ample satisfaction and atonement shall be made promptly for the death of Me Intosh and his friend. The Legislature will convene in a few days, and, on this account, I have deferred any measures either of retaliation or protection. With great respect and consideration, G. M. TROUP. The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, Washington City. FRIEND:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, May 3, 1825. I heard with sorrow yesterday of the death of our common friend McIntosh. All good hearts among the whites deplore it as much as you. Satisfaction will be demanded, and satisfaction shall be had; but we must not be hastv about it. We will be coni and deliberate in the measures we take, and then we will be certain to be right. You be'peaceable and quiet until you hear from me, in the same manner as if nothing had happened to McIntosh or Tustunnuggee; but, depend on it, my revenge I will have; it will be such as we have reason to believe the Great Spirit would require, such as our Christ would not think too much, and yet so much that I trust all red and white men will be content with it. Mind what I say to vou until vou hear from me. "	G. M. TROUP. Col. JOSEPH MARSHALL, Creek Nation. GENTLEMEN:	LINE CREEK, FAYETTE COUNTY, May 3, 1825. When you see this letter, stained with the blood of my husband, the last drop of which is now spilt for the friendship he has shown for your people, I know you will remember your pledge to us in behalf of your nation, that, in the worst of events, you would assist and protect us; and when I tell you that at daylight, on Saturday morning last, hundreds of the hostiles surrounded our bouse, and instantly murdered General McIntosh and Tome Tustunnuggee, by shooting near one hundred balls into them—Chilly and Moody Kennard making their escape through a window. They then commenced burning and plundering in the most unprincipled way; so that here I am, driven from the ashes of my smoking dwelling, left with nothing but my poor little naked hungry children, who need some immediate aid from our white friends; and we lean upon you, while you lean upon your Government. About the same time of the morning that they committed the horrid act on the general, another party caught Colonel Samuel Hawkins, and kept him tied till about three o’clock, when the chiefs returned from oor house, and gave orders for his execution in the same way, and refused to leave his implements to cover his body up with; so that it was left exposed to the fowls of the air and the beasts of the forest; and Jenny and her child are here, in the same condition as we are. This party consisted principally of Oakfuskees, Talladegas, and Muckfaws, though there were others with them. The chiefs that appeared to head the party were, Inlockunge, of Muckfaw; Thloc- co-cos-co-mico, of Arpachoochee; Munnauho, (but I know not where he was from,) who said they were ordered to do it by the Little Prince and Hopoeith-yoholo, and that they were supported and encouraged in it by the agent, and the chiefs that were left after the Big Warrior’s death, in a council at Broken Arrow, where they decreed that they would murder all the chiefs who had any hand in selling the land, and burn and destroy and take away all they had, and then send on to the President that he should not have the land. I have not heard of the murder’of any others, but expect that all are dead that could be caught. But by reason of a great freshet in the Chattahoo- chie, they could not get Colon*! Miller nor Hogey McIntosh, nor the Darisaws; and they and Chilly are gone to the Governor. Our country is in a most ruined state, so far as I have heard, (though, by reason of the high waters, word has not circulated fast.) All have fled from their homes in our parts, and taken refuge among our white friends; and I learn there are now at General Ware’s (near this place) from one hundred and fifty to two hundred of them, who are afraid to go to their homes to get a grain of what little corn they have to eat, much more to try to make any more; and if you and your people do not assist us, God help us! we must die either by the sword or by famine. This moment General Ware has come in, and will, in a few minutes, start with a few men and a few friendly Indians to try to get a little something for us to eat. I hope, so soon as you read this, you will lay it before the. Governor and the President, that they may know our miserable condition, and afford us relief as soon as possible. I followed them to their camp, about one mile and a half, to try to beg of them something to cover the dead with; but it was denied me. I tried also to get a horse to take my little children, and some provision to last us to the white settlements, which was given up tu me, and then taken back; and had it not been for some white men who assisted in burying the dead, and getting us to the white settlements, we should have been worse off than we are, if possible. Before I close, I must remark that the whole of the party, so far as I knew them, were hostile during the late war.	■ PEGGY & SUSANNAH McINTOSH. To Col. D. G. CAMPBELL, and Major J. MERRIWETHER, U. S. Commissioners. MY DEAR FRIENDS:	FAYETTE COUNTY, May 3, 1825. I send you this paper, which will not tell you a lie; but, if it had ten tongues, it could not tell all the truth. On the morning of the 30th of April, at break of day, my father’s house was surrounded by a party of hostile Indians, to the number of several hundred, who instantly fired his dwelling, and murdered him and Thomas Tustunnuggee, by shooting more than one hundred balls into them, and took away the whole, of father’s money and property which they could carry off, and destroyed the rest, leaving the family no clothes (some not one rag) nor provision. Brother Chilly was at father’s, and made his escape through a window, under cover of a travelling white man, who obtained leave for them to come out that way. It being not yet light, he was not discovered. While these hostiles were murdering my beloved father, they were tying my husband (Colonel Samuel Hawkins) with cords, to wait the arrival of Itockchunga, Thlococoscomico, and Munoawana, who were the commanders, at father’s, to give orders for the colonel's execution also, which took place about 3 o’clock the same day. And these barbarous men, not content with spilling the blood of both my husband and father, to atone for their constant friendship to both your nation and our own, refused my hands the painful privilege of covering up bis body in the very ground which he lately defended against those hostile murderers, and drove me from my home stripped of my two best friends in one day; stripped of all my property, my provision, and my clothing; with a more painful reflection than all these, that the body of my poor murdered husband should remain unburied, to be devoured by the birds and the beasts. (Was ever poor woman worse off than I?) I have this moment arrived among our white friends, who, although they are very kind, have but little to bestow on me and my poor helpless infant, who must suffer before any aid can reach us from you; but I can live a great while on a very little, besides the confidence I have on you and your Government; for I know, by your promise, you will aid and defend us as soon as you hear of our situation. These murderers are the very same hostiles who treated the whites ten years ago as they have now treated my husband and father; who say they are determined to kill all who had any hand in selling the land; and, when they have completed the work of murdering, burning, plundering, and destruction, they will send the President word that they have saved their land, taken it back, and that he and the white people never shall have it again; which is the order of the beads of the nation, by the advice of the agent. We expect that many of our best friends are already killed, but have not heard, by reason of the waters being too high for word to go quick, which is the only reason Colonel Miller, and others on his side of the river, were, not killed. We are in a dreadful condition; and I do not think there will be one ear of corn made in this part of the nation; for the whole of the friendly party have fled to De Kalb and Fayette counties, too much alarmed to return to their houses to get a little grain of what corn they left for themselves and their families to subsist on, much more to stay at home to make more; and we fear every day that what little provision we left will be destroyed. I am afraid you will think I make it worse; but how can that be? for it is worse of itself than any pen can write. My condition admits of no equal, and mocks me when I try to speak of it. After I was stripped of my last frock but one, humanity and duty called on me to pull it off and spread it over the body of my dead husband, (which was^llowed no other covering,) which I did as a farewell witness of my affection. I was twenty- five miles from any friend, (but sister Catharine, who was with me,) and had to stay all night in the woods surrounded by a thousand hostile Indians, who were constantly insulting and affrighting us; and now I aiti here, with only one old coat to my back, and not a morsel of bread to save us from perishing, or a rag of a blanket to cover my poor little boy from the sun at noon or the dew at night. I am a poor distracted orphan and widow. DUNCAN G. CAMPBELL and JAMES MERRIWETHER,	JANE HAWKINS. United States Commissioners. P. S. If you think proper, I wish this tu be published. ORDERS. HEAD-QUARTERS, MILLEDGEVILLE, May 5,1825. The commander-in-chief, having received information of the existence among the Creeks of the most frightful anarchy and disorder, and of the recent massacre of General McIntosh and the old chief of Coweta, within the actual limits of Georgia, has thought proper to adopt precautionary measures without delay; so that if the United States, bound by the constitution and the treaty to repress and punish hostility among the Indians, and maintain peace upon our borders, shall, by any means, fail in their duty in these respects, a competent force may be held in readiness to march at a moment’s warning, either to repel invasion, suppress insurrection among the Indians within our own territory, or give protection to the friendly Creeks, and avenge the death of McIntosh, who, always a firm friend to Georgia, fell a sacrifice in her cause. Ordered, That Major General Wimberly, Major General Shorter, and Major General Miller, of the 5th, 6th, and 7th divisions, forthwith proceed to take the necessary measures to hold in readiness their respective divisions to march at a moment’s warning, either by detachments or otherwise, as they may be commanded by authority of the Legislature or of the commander-in-chief. By the commander-in-chief:	SEABORN JONES, Aid-de-camp. SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, MILLEDGEVILLE, May 5, 1825. In carrying into effect the enclosed general orders,’you will keep a watchful eye to the frontier of our white settlements, so that you may be able, without communicating with me, to repress, on its first occurrence, any commotion which may happen there in consequence of the state of things prevailing in the nation. These infuriated and misguided people may have the temerity, before the General Government can interpose, to pursue the Indians within our organized limits. You will, therefore, in the spirit of these instructions, give your orders, corresponding with them, to your most confidential officers resident near the frontiers, who, on any sudden emergency of this character, may, without consulting you, proceed instantly to their execution. A copy of General Ware’s letter, received after my general orders were issued, will assure you of the nature and extent of the danger to be apprehended, and of the promptitude with which they are to be carried into effect. With great consideration and respect, G. M. TROUP. A copy addressed to Major Generals WIMBERLY, SHORTER, and MILLER. DEAR SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, May 5, 1825. I have this moment received your letter, and at the very time when I had issued orders to Major Generals Shorter and Wimberly, with corresponding instructions to meet the very exigencies which, from your information, you have reason to anticipate. They will have the contents of your letter communicated to them, that their orders may be despatched with the least possible delay. I wish you to take measures, and the best you can, for the comfortable maintenance of our unhappy friends, whilst they seek refuge among us and are protected by our arms. Additional orders will be immediately given to Major General Miller to hold his division in readiness. The expense of supporting the Indians will be incurred by the State, in the first instance, and reimbursed to her from the first instalment payable to them by the United States. You will therefore hold me responsible for any contracts you may make on this account; whilst, at the same time, I ask the favor of you to cause them to be made on the best possible terms. I sincerely trust, if these infuriated monsters shall have the temerity to set foot within our settled limits, you may have the opportunity to give them the bayonet freely, the instrument which they most dread, and which is most appropriate to the occasion.	Very respectfully and sincerely, your friend, G. M. TROUP. Brigadier General ALEXANDER WARE, Fayetteville, Georgia. To despatch Mr. Jones, he will not wait for a copy of the general orders, as General Shorter will make them known to you by Mr. Jones.	G. M. T. DEAR SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, MILLEDGEVILLE, May 5, 1825. I wish you, in the distribution of your orders, to instruct the different quartermasters, particularly of the frontier counties, where the Indians are most likely to take refuge under the protection of our arms, to look to their comfortable support by contracts, which you will be pleased to instruct them to form with strict regard to economy. The funds will be advanced by the State, on the credit of the United States or the Indians, and will be reimbursed by one or the other.	Very respectfully and sincerely, G. M. TROUP. Addressed to Generals WIMBERLY and MILLER. 97 E gJR.	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, May 5, 1825. I lose no time in communicating, for the information of the President, a copy of a letter received this morning from Brigadier General Ware, commanding the second brigade of the fifth division of the militia of this State, and to advise you that measures have been adopted for the adequate protection of the frontiers, and for the safety of the friendly Indians seeking refuge within our limits, until the authority of the United States can be effectually interposed for these purposes; and that therefore the expenses incurred in the mean time will be considered chargeable to the United States. In due time, the measures referred to will be laid before you in extenso. With great consideration and respect, G. M. TROUP. The SECRETARY OF WAR. Colonel Hawkins, the interpreter and friend of McIntosh, has shared his fate. SIR:	MACON, May 6, 1825. I have just received information in relation to the existing disturbances among the Creek Indians, which I deem sufficiently important to be promptly communicated to you. A Mr. Freeman, a gentleman no doubt of high character, has just arrived in this place from Alabama, with his family: he states that the Indians[appear to be in an alarming state of excitement, and, from their general demeanor, so far as it came under his observation, seem determined upon mischief. Their professions, however, as far as he understood them, are entirely friendly to the whites, with the exception of the agent: on his destruction both parties seem determined. Mr. Freemau passed by Fort Mitchell on Wednesday last, at which place he saw the agent, who informed him that, while at supper the evening before, a runner, from a town about thirty miles distant, informed him that on that night he was to be murdered. The agent had made every preparation in his power for his defence, and stated that he believed his death had been determined on at a talk which was held on the Monday week preceding. He had communicated to the Indians the ratification of the treaty, and suggested to them the propriety of selling that portion of the territory which had been reserved, and to go in a body beyond ihe Mississippi. To the proposition to sell no reply was given, and he was asked if he had signed the treaty. He informed them that he had signed in the character of a witness. After the talk with the agent was over, the Indians held a secret one, from which the agent and all the white residents were excluded; at which time the agent supposes all their schemes of mischief were devised. Since Mr. Freeman left Fort Mitchell, he has been informed that the time at which the agent was to be killed was on Wednesday night, and not on Tuesday night, as communicated by the runner. He entertains no doubt but their purpose is executed before this time. If, however, he should be mistaken in his apprehensions, would it not be proper, from his peculiarly perilous situation, to aflbrd the agent prompt and efficient relief! Both parties of the Indians, those friendly and those hostile to the treaty, are alike excited against him; and both have pronounced the same fate for him. Colonel Crowell, it is believed, could command between three and four hundred Indians, and, if he had military supplies for them, could at least defend himself, although the hostile party is formidable: this opinion has been suggested by Mr. Freeman, but a small additional force could do no injury. There is one circumstance more strongly indicative of the hostile design of the Indians toward the whites generally than their warlike exhibitions. It is this: the whites who have been resident among them, and who are acquainted with their habits and character, are sending their families from the nation. The Indians hold a talk on Monday next; for what purpose it is not known. Yours, respectfully, His Excellency GEO. M. TROUP.	CHARLES J. McDONALD. SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, MILLEDGEVILLE, May 7, 1825. Your letter of the 6th instant, by express, is this moment received. I am happy to learn from him that he bore to you orders from General Wimberly, in consequence of my general orders to him. You are, therefore, already on your guard, and you will not hesitate a moment to take the necessary measures, first to make safe the froutier, and then to give to the agent any protection which, according to the evidence before you, his safety shall demand; and of which, from your proximate situation to him, you will be the exclusive judge. I hope that no harm has befallen him; and, if not, you may assure him that any force which may be necessary to reduce to order and obedience any militant tribes of the Creeks within our limits shall be furnished promptly, under the command of a trusty officer, who will be charged with full powers to act efficiently, under any exigencies which may arise. I thank you for the promptitude with which you have communicated this new information; at the same time, I indulge a hope that the cause of alarm has beeu exaggerated. It is scarcely to bo believed that tiie agent, from whom nothing has been heard, well knowing the contentions which agitate the country, and the imminent perils which surround him, should not have despatched runners to make known to this Government officially, and without delay, the circumstances which your letter discloses upon the authority of a respectable traveller. The express which brought it carries the answer. With great respect and consideration, G. M. TROUP. Brigadier General CHARLES J. MCDONALD, Macon. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, May 9, 1825. I enclose, for your information, a copy of a letter received on the 7th instant from Brigadier General McDonald, commanding the 3d brigade of the 6th division, and my answer. The friendly Indians continue to desert their homes and seek protection within our limits. Our arms are open to receive them at all points, and the necessary measures taken for their’maintenance; the expense of which will devolve on the United States or the Indians—it is hoped on the former. Very respectfully, 'G. M. TROUP. P. S. Up to this time, not a word has been received from the agent. To the SECRETARY OP WAR, Washington City.	« SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, MILLEDGEVILLE, May 10, 1825. You will see by a letter published in the papers of this morning, addressed by the agent to Mr. Bozeman, how' inconsistent the contents of it are with the representations made to you by Mr. Freeman. You will immediately, therefore, on the receipt hereof, arrest the progress of any measures you may have devised for the security of the agent, and return to the position in which you found yourself before you received niy last instructions. „ You will, however, under the general order received through Major General Wimberly, still continue to hold your brigade in readiness to march to any point of the frontier at short notice, lest we may be deceived by appearances and surprised.	Very respectfully, G. M. TROUP. P. S. A copy of your letter and my answer were forwarded to the War Department, for the information of the President. G. M. T. Brigadier General CHARLES J. MCDONALD, Macon, Georgia. GEORGIA, Baldwin County: Personally appeared before me, Harris Allen, one of the justices of the inferior court for said county, Francis Flournoy, who, being duly sworn, deposeth and saith: That lie was at General William McIntosh’s, in the Creek nation, one of the chiefs of said nation, on the morning of the 30th of April last, when, about daybreak, a party of Indians, (with one white man among them, whom the Indians said went by the name of Hudman, as well as I recollect, and who said he was not sent by the chiefs to murder, to burn, or to plunder, but to act as interpreter, and preserve the travellers, should there be any there,) consisting of from two to four hundred, who, as soon as they had closely surrounded the general’s dwelling-house, and fixed a guard round the house whiçh I was in, set fire to the dwellinghouse, and immediately shot the general, who instantly fell, and was drawn out of the house, with considerable effect of the flames; and they continued firing at his corpse, until, I think, they had shot more than fifty balls into him. They then set fire also to the house in which this deponent and one other white man and three chiefs had staid all night; and finding Thomas* Tustunnuggee (a Coweta chief) within, they appeared much gratified, and shot him almost as often as they had done the general; and this deponent drew him out from the flames, and afterwards assisted two other white men to bury them both. This banditti were busily engaged, from the commencement of the horrid scene until a late hour of the, morning, in plundering and destroying every thing valuable, as well the property of the white men who were present as the property of the general; tearing a frock off of a young Indian female, and leaving several children stark naked; carrying off a great many negroes and horses, (and cattle, as they themselves told me,) and said they were ordered to destroy whatever they could not carry off; and I saw them shoot many hogs, which they left on the ground. The general’s Cherokee wife went to the camp of the hostiles, to beg from them a suit of white to bury the general in, which was denied, as she said; and on her return, she informed me that those Indians said they were ordered to do what they bad done by those who ruled the nation since the Big Warrior’s death, and they were supported and encouraged by the agent. I observed, I did not believe that; she replied, they would not tell a lie on the agent, for they must know it would come to his ears, and they would have to answer for it. About eleven o’clock those murderers returned again; and after ascertaining that a plain countenanced old man could understand some English, I observed to him, “ Old gentleman, is this the way your people do—go to a man’s house, shoot him, and burn him and his house, and take every thing he has and carry it away? or are these bad men? what have they done?” He replied, he did not love to kill them, but the heads of the nation said so. I asked if Intockchunga and Thloc-co-eosco-mico were thé heads of the nation? He answered no; Little Prince and Hopoethyoholo were their heads, now the Big Warrior was dead. I replied, these were the very two men that sent word to the Governor that those chiefs should not be hurt. He answered that at first they did send that word to the Governor, and then it was so; but since that, the agent had altered it, and told the council that the only way to get their land back, and keep it, was to kill all that had any hand in selling it, and burn and destroy all they had which they could not carry away; and after that, other chiefs never would attempt to sell their land, for fear of being treated in the same way: and when they had completed the above, as ordered by the council, they would send word to the President that they had saved their land, and had taken it back, and now he and the white people never should have it again. The above article was confirmed by Colonel Hawkins’s widow next day, as coming from the party who murdered him, adding the name of Walker, former subagent, to that of Mr. Crowell. FRANCIS FLOURNOY. Sworn to, and subscribed before me, this 16th day of May, 1825. H. ALLEN, J. I. C. In the circuit court of the United States for the district of Georgia, at Milledgeville, May term, 1825. The grand jury regret that they find it necessary to ask the attention of the court to recent occurrences within the circle of its criminal jurisdiction. In the territory lately ceded to the United States by the Creeks, at the treaty of the Indian Springs, atrocious murders have been committed upon the bodies of William McIntosh, Tome Tustunnuggee and Colonel Hawkins, three distinguished Indian chiefs, at all times the friends of the United States, and just about to hegin a journey to the west, to explore the country preparatory to the removal of the tribe, according to the provisions of the said treaty. Numerous parties of Indians, the friends of the deceased chiefs and of the United States, have been driven, destitute and naked, into the settled parts of the frontiers of this State, for protection from the vengeance of those persons who had just sacrificed those chiefs. It is understood, and believed, that these outrages have been committed by large bodies of armed Indians, principally residents of Alabama. It is greatly to be apprehended and feared that they have been instigated and countenanced by white persons. The grand jury have due confidence in the vigilance of the constituted authorities of the General and State Governments, but they cannot, without a violation of their own duty, refrain from calling, through the court, the attention'of both Governments to the situation of the frontier, and to the consequences of the atrocities committed on the lately ceded territory. Those who have driven the friends of the murdered chiefs into the settled parts of the State may pursue to destroy them in their places of refuge. They recommend that measures of necessary precaution for the protection and succor of the fugitives be immediately taken, and that every attempt to violate their asylum shall be instantly punished. The grand jury deem it necessary to the character of the Government of their country that the authors, perpetrators, aiders, and abettors of the crimes lately committed should be sought for, and, when ascertained, prosecuted and severely punished. They have no language strong enough to mark their abhorrence of the white persons (if any) who have seduced or irritated the unhappy Indians to perpetrate this tragedy. They recommend the severest scrutiny into the conduct of all white persons in the nation, and the judicial prosecution of each and every one of them against whom sufficient evidence to justify it shall be discovered. The grand jury request that a copy of this their presentment should be sent to the President of the United States, and another to the Governor of Georgia, and that the foregoing be published in the newspapers of this place. GUSTAVUS HENDRICK, Foreman. Eppes Duke, Burnell Russell, Geo. W. King, Thomas Dark, John Pinckard, William Cabiness, Joseph Stovall, Silas Ledbetter. GEO. GLEN, Clerk. DEAR FRIEND:	NEWNAN, May 18, 1825. We enclose you a communication for your perusal; we wish it published in the first paper, without you may consider it wrong. There are a number of false statements in the papers; we have caused this meeting to make a true statement, and to have it published. We want you to write us by the man who will deliver this to you, whether you will publish it or not. We have appointed ten chiefs, who will meet our friend Chilly McIntosh in Milledgeville. We want you to make use of your endeavors to have our white friends paid agreeably to our order, for provisions furnished us while we are in your country, out of such moneys as are coming from our lands. ROLLY McINTOSH, his + mark. CHARLEY MILLER, his + mark. • FOURS ATHEE EMARLO, his + mark. CAPTAIN SAMUEL MILLER, his + mark. DICKEY, his + mark. COLONEL WILLIAM MILLER, his + mark. Committee. •His Excellency G. M. TROUP. At a general meeting of the Indians friendly to General McIntosh, and who feel themselves aggrieved of the injuries done by the Indians inimical to the late treaty held at the Indian Springs, the following address was unanimously agreed to, and for the same to be published in the Georgia Messenger and one of the Milledgeville papers: PIKE COUNTS, FLINT RIVER, May 17, 1825. We have discovered in the Georgia Messenger, of Macon, of the 11th instant, a letter signed by our agent» Captain Crowell, that the party of Indians friendly to General McIntosh had threatened his life, and also the life of the Little Prince, who is our principal chief at this time. We acknowledge ourselves General McIntosh’s friends and party; and, if any threat of this kind has been made, it has not come within our knowledge; therefore, we believe it to be a lie. We also see in the same paper information derived from the agency, that the killing of McIntosh, Tome Tustunnuggee, and the two Hawkins, was not intended as hostilities against the whites; that it was only a fulfilment of their own laws, and a law which General McIntosh himself had signed, and declared in the square at Broken Arrow during the late treaty at that place. This law was, that if any Indian chief should sign a treaty of any lands to the whites, he should certainly suffer death. This statement is positively false, and it is only made use of as a pretext for the cruel murders which have been committed. For the correctness of our denial to that statement, we will appeal to the United States commissioners, Colonel Campbell and Captain Merriwether, and many other of our white friends who were present during the treaty; and we further appeal to our agent, who, we believe, will do us that justice as to give the lie to any such reports. It certainly would have been very inconsistent for General McIntosh or any of us to have signed the treaty at the Mineral Springs, had such a law as that come within our knowledge. And it is very droll, too, that such a law as that should exist, and that the national clerk and none of us should have any knowledge of it. We have been in the habit of meeting all councils that concern the nation, as much so as any other chiefs of the nation; and if any such law had been made, we should have known it. We understand that there was a decree of that kind passed by the Big Warrior and his friends, at a place called the Polecat Springs, which is about fifty miles west of Broken Arrow. Broken Arrow is the capital of the nation, where all business of a public nature is transacted; therefore, as that meeting was one which was not ordered at the capital, and not a general one, it could only subject those who were present. It is right for us to state, that our friend Tome Tustunnuggee was present and signed the decree, but we have often heard him say that he did not know the contents when he made his mark, or he should not have done so. And, as fur General McIntosh’s ever signing or sanctioning any such law, we declare it to be false; for when he was told of it, he remonstrated severely against it, and declared that they were unauthorized to pass any such law, and that such a thing could not be a law, for it was impossible for Tuckaubatchee and one or two other towns to meet and pass a law for the destruction of his or any other chiefs who were not present, and particularly at a place where the national council should not have convened. When this meeting was ordered, there was no doubt in our minds that it was not intended for General McIntosh or any of us to have known it; and it was ordered in consequence of the Cherokees sending the Big Warrior and his friends word that they must be mindful of Genera) McIntosh, or he would sell all their lands from them. The Little Prince, who stood as fair as any other chief in the nation, could not have had any knowledge of this law, or at least he had no idea that such a law would be enforced; for the appointment which he then and now holds requires more honor and truth than to have written the following letter to one of our chiefs, and one who signed the treaty, (Colonel Chilly McIntosh,) who was amongst his white friends, in consequence of the severe threats which had been made against all who signed the treaty at the Mineral Springs.	6	S MY FRIEND:	MARCH 4, 1825. I am very sorry to hear of so much fuss amongst my people. I wish to have peace amongst both my white and red brethren. I hope you will take my talk, and come home and not be uneasy; for if any one had threatened your life, I would have certainly beard it. There are some that will talk foolish when drunk. I consider you my son; and if I had heard any such talk, I would let you know it. I wish you and all of you to come home and live as brothers and friends, and trust to our great father for our protector and friend. I have heard of your negroes, and have given orders for them to be fetched home as soon as possible. This may assure you that 1 love you as a son, and wish you home to your family. They are all well at present. LITTLE PRINCE, (or Tustennuck Opoyow,) his X mark. Witnesses: JOHN OWENS, LEMUEL B. NICHOLS. Although it is seen plainly that the Little Prince has and did pledge himself as our father that no hostilities were intended, and all property taken should be restored, he has, (although so pledging himself,) from good authority, ordered and decreed that our principal chiefs amongst us should be murdered, and that in a cruel manner, and our property all destroyed. Such treatment as this is not usual from the father to his children; at least it authorizes ns not to acknowledge, him as our father, and we shall receive no more of his talks. We. have received many other talks from him to the same amount; and that we were alarmed for nothing, and all the fuss which had been made was in consequence of an affray which had taken place with a few drunken Indians who acted foolish; that we should not be hurt or interrupted; peace was what he wanted, and nothing but harmony should exist; and for us to come home to our families and plant our corn. Now, like hogs and sheep tolling to the slaughter pen, so we immediately repaired to our wives and children; and sure enough, what was the consequence? Only a few days rest, when we were awakened from our sleep with the cry of “ Murder—McIntosh is killed, and how many more we do not know. Get up and clear yourselves, for death is your portion; the woods are full of Indians; all will be killed who signed the treaty.” This was very unexpected news to us, and we had a right not to expect it, particularly from talks had at Broken Arrow to the Governor’s aid by the Little Prince and the Big Warrior’s chiefs, declaring that we were in no danger, and all statements to the contrary were lies; that they wanted peace, and nothing else was intended; of course, we expected nothing else. But we had to fly for refuge to our white neighbors, where we have been kindly received, and treated as our situation requires. Every pledge has been forfeited by our father the Little Prince and his friends; therefore it is impossible for ns to have any confidence in what he or any of his friends may hereafter talk. We have lately received a talk from the deputy agent, Captain Triplett. We are sorry that this talk is so onesided; he declares, in the first place, that we must go home and tend our farms; that we shall not be hurt. This talk was made in the presence of white men, to Benjamin Marshall, who is one of our chiefs: murdering should cease; that McIntosh, Tome Tustennuggee, and the two Hawkins, were killed in compliance with the laws of the nation. If there was a law for them to be murdered, that law yet exists; and, admitting we should take, this talk and go home, we should receive the same fate, for we are guilty of the same breach, and should of course receive the same punishment. He further declares that the Indians were cheated out of their lands; that we were all fooled by the United States commissioners, for that they had no land west of the Mississippi, without thej’ would hereafter buy it from the Indians who now reside there; that they (meaning the United States commissioners) had got our lands, and they did not care what became of us, and we would not get any assistance from the whites. Our chief, Benjamin Marshall, asked the captain, if this murder was a fulfilment of the laws of the nation, why did their council at Broken Arrow declare to the Governor’s aid, Colonel Lamar, that there were no hostilities intended, and that they would protect McIntosh, for they had fought by his side and liked him? His reply was, that the Governor’s aid had made that talk himself, and had gone home with a lie in his mouth to the Governor. We must believe, from the talks we received ourselves, that the Governor’s aid has spoken nothing but the truth. After the captain found that we were not satisfied, he observed to a white man that the tree was only topped, and, if we were not satisfied with it, the limbs would be taken off. It is impossible for us to be satisfied, when the captain himself has declared in his talk to us that the Little Prince had never denied, since the death of McIntosh and others, but that he had ordered it; and he would now acknowledge it, for it was perfectly right. If we are to be governed by this talk, we are in a dreadful situation; without homes or friends, or even without means of subsistence, driven from our farms and robbed of our property, and also the moneys arising from our lands taken and given to our enemies. We have too much confidence in our father the President to believe any such talks. He has never deceived us yet; we have, his promise, in and through the United States commissioners, and shall hold it sacred until we find out to the contrary. Our little father the Governor of Georgia has given us a talk, which we shall strictly obey until he may talk We hope that this our communication will be published in the newspapers, for the satisfaction of the world. Signed by us in council this day. Joseph Marshall. Roily McIntosh, his x mark. Colonel Wm. Miller, his x mark. Arpefka Tuskenuggee, of Broken Arrow, bis x mark. Oithlepoyow Tustunuggee, his x mark. James Island, his x mark. MY FRIENDS:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, May 21, 1825. I have this moment received your letter, with the paper which it enclosed, and will, as you request, cause them to be published in the next papers. I hope now that the worst is over. It is true that McIntosh and his friends, who have been so cruelly murdered, cannot be restored to life; but the Great Spirit, who is also good and merciful, will look down upon your sufferings with pity and compassion. He will wipe the tears from your eyes, and soften the hearts of even your enemies among the whites; so that if your great father shall turn his ear from your complaints, or shall fail to punish the white men who, in his name, have disturbed your peace, and brought the heaviest afflictions upon you, he will have to answer for it both to his white children and the Great Spirit. It cannot be doubted, therefore, that all will yet be right. In the mean time, continue to do as I have advised you, and until you hear from me. My officers every where are ordered to take care of you, and make you comfortable. As soon as Chilly returns, you shall know it. Your friend, G. M. TROUP. The CHIEFS and HEADMEN of the friendly Creeks. DOCUMENTS ON THE SUBJECT OF THE CLAIMS OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA UPON THE UNITED STATES, UNDER THE COMPACT OF 1802, IN REFERENCE TO THE LANDS OCCUPIED BY THE CHEROKEES tN THE STATE OF GEORGIA, &c., ACCOMPANYING THE GOVERNOR’S MESSAGE AT THE OPENING OF THE EXTRA SESSION. SIR:	'	GEORGETOWN, March 24, 1825. I have the honor to enclose to voua copy of a letter written to the Secretary of War since the adjournment of Congress, on the subject of the execution of the recent treaty with the Creek Indians, and the formation of a treaty with the Cherokees, for the complete fulfilment of the obligations of the United States to the State of Georgia, under the compact of 1802, with his answer; and several papers, marked A, B, and C, received with it. As I hope to have soon a personal conference with you on this subject, I forbear to make any remarks upon the correspondence enclosed. I am, sir, with perfect respect, your obedient servant, JOHN FORSYTH. His Excellency G. M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia. SIR:	GEORGETOWN, March 9, 1825. By the request of Governor Troup, I had the honor this morning to ask the attention of the President to the claims of the State of Georgia upon the United States, under the compact of 1802. The President desired that I should address myself to you, that the suggestions made on the part of the State might be duly considered. Complying with this desire, I invite your attention, first, to the execution of the treaty lately concluded at the Indian Springs; and, secondly, to the formation of a new treaty with the Cherokees. By the eighth article of the treaty of the Indian Springs, the Creeks must remove from the land occupied by them prior to the 1st of September, 1826. To cover the first payments dne under this treaty, and to provide a fund for the purchase of a permanent residence of the Creeks beyond the Mississippi, a contingent appropriation of $250,000 has been made by Congress. The interest and convenience of Georgia will be best consolted by an immediate removal of the Indians, and no doubt is entertained that the necessary measures will be immediately taken for that purpose. The conduct of the Creek agent, who has spared no pains to prevent the formation and ratification of the treaty, justifies an apprehension that he will not fail to obstruct, as far as is in his power, the accomplishment of the wishes of the State. Under this conviction, a request that the conduct of the agent may be watched, and that no confidence shall be reposed in him that can be consistently withheld, is dictated by the interests of Georgia, the wishes of the Creek tribe, and the honor of the General Government. While anxious that no artifices shall be used to prevent an early removal of the Indians, I pray you to be assured that we have no desire that the Creeks should suffer for our accommodation. We shall complain of no delays that are necessary for their comfort on their journey, and to their permanent security and prosperity in their new homes. As to the formation of a treaty with the Cherokees, the present moment appears to be peculiarly favorable for a complete performance of the obligations of the compact of 1802. Nothing remains to the accomplishment of these objects but to induce the Cherokees to remove from the lands occupied by them within the limits of Georgia. A number of the Cherokee chiefs, the most influential in the nation, are. in Washington. The recent determination of the Creeks to go to the west, in spite of the persuasions and artifices of the Cherokees, must have satisfied the latter that the United States will, sooner or later, insist upon the surrender of the lands in Georgia to that State. Once convinced that their title to the land must be extinguished, it will be easy to satisfy them that their own interest will be most effectually consulted by an immediate arrangement. The records of the War Department show that many of the Cherokees, since 1819, have continued to express a desire to go beyond the Mississippi, and have complained of the injustice of their chiefs, who deprived them, by the treaty of that year, of the privilege of selling their lands for that purpose. In 1821, the Path Killer applied, through General Jackson, to Government, to purchase his claims'. My own opinion is, that the President may, without injustice to the Indians, without violating cither principle or usage, cause a purchase to be made of the Cherokees residing in Georgia of the lands lying in Georgia. Without attempting to demonstrate the soundness of this opinion, I suggest, with great deference, that, if the Cherokees are found now unwilling to treat, their unwillingness would probably be overcome if they were informed that the President would, if the whole, tribe could not be induced to treat, take into serious consideration the proposals made by the Path Killer, and any other proposals which may be hereafter made, by all or any portion of the Cherokees in Georgia, for the sale of all the lands they may occupy lying within the limits of that State. With the hope that a new effort with the Cherokees will have as fortunate a termination as the recent effort with the Creeks, I have the honor to be, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant, „ T	JOHN FORSYTH. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of the Department of IITtr. BLR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 23, 1825. 1 have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 9th instant, conveying the information that you had, by the request of Governor Troup, asked the attention of the President to the claims of the State of Georgia upon the United States tinder the compact of 1802, and the desire of the President that you should .address yourself to me, that the suggestions made on the part of the State might be duly considered; also and, in compliance with this desire, inviting my attention, first, to the execution of the treaty lately concluded with the Creeks at the Indian Springs; and, secondly, to the formation of a new treaty with the Cherokees. The treaty of the Indian Springs, having been ratified, will be carried into effect; measures having been already taken in conformity to its provisions. Upon the second subject referred to in yours, I have the honor to state, in reply, that the President, as well from inclination as a sense of duty, is disposed to carry into effect the conditions of the compact of Georgia, whenever that can be done consistently with its provisions. In this spirit, and in conformity to your suggestion, a letter was addressed from the Department to the delegation of the Cherokees in this place, a copy of which (marked A) is herewith enclosed; also, a copy of their answer, (marked B;) to which is added a copy of a communication, (marked C,) addressed by the Cherokee chiefs to the President. You will readily perceive, from this correspondence, the determined opposition of the Cherokees at this time to the cession of their lands. I am directed by the President to state that he entirely accords in the policy recommended by Mr. Monroe to Congress, at their last session, on the subject of the general removal of the Indians to the west of the Mississippi— a policy believed to be alike advantageous to the citizens of the United States in their neighborhood, and to the Indians themselves. This object, as far as it lies within the sphere of his power, will be promoted, and on every suitable occasion its beneficent effects will be particularly inculcated on the Cherokee nation. 1 have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, • JAMES BARBOUR. To the Hon. JOHN FORSYTH. A. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	OFFICE OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, March 12, 1825. I am directed by the Secretary of War to inquire if you have authority to negotiate with the Government for a sale of your lands, and especially for that portion of them lying within the limits of Georgia? I am, respectfully, your friend and brother, THOMAS L. MCKENNEY. To JOHN Ross, GEORGE LOWREY, and ELIJAH HICKS, Cherokee Delegation. B. Extract of a letter from the Cherokee Delegation to Thomas L. McKenney, dated WASHINGTON, March 14, 1825. Yours of the 12th instant is received. You state that you are directed by the Secretary of War to inquire if we have authority to negotiate with the Government for a sale of our lands, and especially for that portion pf them lying within the limits of Georgia. It would seem, from the inquiry, that the Secretary of War is impressed with a belief that our nation may be disposed to make a cession of our lands, and that we, as its representatives, may have been instructed accordingly. In order that the Secretary of War may have full information of the true sentiments and disposition of our nation, in' relation to our lands, we would refer him to the communication which we had the honor to address to the honorable John C. Calhoun, on the 11th February, 1824, in reply to certain propositions made by (he President, through him, to us, for our lands. We have full authority in saying that those sentiments remain the same, and are unchangeable. •	C. RESPECTED SIR:	WASHINGTON CITY, March 12, 1825. Be pleased to accept our congratulation for the great trust confided to your care, as President of the United States. The various tribes of Indians emphatically call the President father, and to him they, as children, look for protection and preservation. Therefore, we consider it a duty, as well as a privilege, to address you. A retrospective view of the history and true causes of the downfall, degradation, and extinction of certain tribes, exhibits a solemn and imposing lesson, which may be profitable in administering justice to those few who at this day breathe the vital air on the land of their fathers. The crisis seems to be at hand which must forever seal their doom; civilization and preservation, or dispersion and extinction await them, and this Government is the tribunal which must pass the sentence. We therefore solicit your attention to a few remarks, which we deem it to be our implicit duty to make, in relation to the Cherokee people, whom we represent. The arts of civilized life have been successfully introduced among them; they consider themselves permanently settled, and no inducement can ever prompt them to abandon their habitations for a distant, wild, and strange clime. They are well aware of the earnest solicitude of the State of Georgia for their removal; and also are apprized of the desire of the Government to gratify the wishes of Georgia, if their consent could be obtained. And whilst the Cherokees are ever ready to comply with the views and wishes of the Government, they cannot consent to yield another foot of land. Unceasing exertion has, from time to time, been used to purchase from the Cherokees their lands for Georgia; but we have never as yet witnessed a single attempt made on the part of the Government to bring the compact of 1802 with Georgia to a close, by compromise, or in any manner other than by trying to purchase our lands. For the peace and tranquillity of our nation, we do sincerely hope that measures may be adopted by the United States and the State of Georgia so as to close their compact without teasing the Cherokees any more for their lands. The Cherokees have repeatedly declared their sentiments respecting their lands to the Government; those sentiments have been matured in soberness, and expressed in sincerity. The idea of concentrating the various tribes of Indians, for the object of civilizing and preserving them, west of the Mississippi, is a subject of great magnitude, and may, perhaps, contribute to better the condition of those tribes who have been removed from their lands, and are now wandering over the wild and extended plains of the west. But if Indian civilization or preservation is sincerely desired, and is considered worthy the serious attention of the United States, never urge the removal of those tribes who are now successfully embracing the habits of civilized man within their own limits. A removal of the Cherokees can never be effected with their consent; consequently, if removed at all, it must be effected by such means as would engender irreconcilable prejudices; and their dispersion and ultimate extinction would inevitably follow. If the Cherokees were permitted to remain peaceably and quietly in the enjoyment of their rights, the day would arrive when a distinction between their race and the American family would be imperceptible; to such a change the nation can have no objection. Complexion is a subject not worthy consideration in the effectuation of this great object. For the sake of the civilization and preservation of existence, we. would willingly see the habits and customs of the aboriginal man extinguished. The sooner this takes place, the sooner the great stumbling-block prejudice will be removed. May the power of Heaven direct your steps for the good of all under your administration, is the sincere prayer of, sir, Your unworthy, but most obedient servants, JOHN ROSS, GEORGE LOWREY, ELIJAH HICKS. To Ilis Excellency JOHN Q. ADAMS, President of the United States. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, April 6, 1825. Your letter of the 24th ultimo, covering a correspondence between yourself and the Secretary of War, and other papers connected with the fulfilment of the stipulations of the articles of agreement and cession, was received yesterday. Accept niy thanks for your unremitted attention to the interest of the State; they are due from the people to you, and the rest of the delegation, for your generous and patriotic devotion to their rights, and for the firmness and dignity with which, on every occasion, you have supported them. On the opening of a new administration of the General Government, soon after one important concession had been made to our just demands, it is scarcely necessary to inform you how eagerly I sought repose from the painful altercation which it had been my imperious duty to wage with the constituted authorities of the Union, and with how much of hope and anxiety 1 looked forward to the future, trusting that, in better and improved relations, we would find a kindly and conciliatory spirit succeed to troubled feelings; the sense of wrong on either side consigned to forgetfulness; and the claims of Georgia recognised in all the extent which reason, justice, and good faith would warrant. I trust that, for these, more has not been asked—that less will not be received. It cannot be dissembled, however, that in the answer given by the Secretary of War to your communication of the 9th ultimo, presupposing the best disposition to do right, a course of policy is indicated which must infallibly terminate in wrong. It is of kindred spirit with that which for a time kept us in abeyance with the Creeks, and held the State suspended between the most fearful alternatives. On the 12th of March, the delegation of Cherokees at Washington laid before the President their customary annual protest against a cession of lands on any terms, now or hereafter. On the same day they are asked, by order of the Secretary of War, if they will sell lands; they answer, no! and this answer is echoed by the Secretary of War to you. I hupe it is not considered, as it purports to \>e, final. Should the proposition be renewed, another and very different character must be given to it. The Cherokees must be told, in plain language, that the lands they occupy belong to Georgia; that, sooner or later, the Georgians must have them; that every day, nay, every hour of postponement of the rights of Georgia, makes the more strongly for Georgia, and against both the United States and the Cherokees. Why conceal from this misguided race the destiny which is fixed, and unchangeable? Why conceal from them the fact, that every advance in the improvement of the country is to enure to the benefit of Georgia; that every fixture will pass with the soil into our hands, sooner or later, for which the United States must pay an equivalent, or not, to the Indians, according to their discretion. The United States are bound, in justice to themselves, instantly to arrest the progress of improvement in the Cherokee country; it is the reason constantly assigned by the Cherokees for their refusal to abandon the country. The force of the argument, therefore, if good now, increases with the progress of improvement; the progress of improvement will be accelerated by the irresistible force of the argument. Thus, by a double ratio of geometrical progression, known only to the logicians of modern times, Georgia will find herself in a predicament, in which, whatever may have been the aggravation of her wrongs, she never before stood—disseised of both the argument and the lands. Why not, therefore, in common honesty and plain dealing, say to the Indians, Remove now, or stay the hand of improvement forever; now we will give you the full value of improvements; hereafter we will give nothing, because we cannot afford to pay for improvements from which no benefit will result to us, which will belong to the Georgians, and which you were forewarned in good time not to make. Let them say, now is the appointed time; we offer you acre for acre, and we change your tenancy at will into a fee-simple, which will descend to your posterity forever. If you accept, well and good; if you refuse, we are not bound to make you the same offer again. Yon were once without a country; you sought refuge among the Creeks; they received you with open arms, and gave you the lands you now occupy. Take care that you are nut without a country again; you may find no more Creeks, no more lands. Is it to be conceived that such an argument would be wasted on the Cherokees? What motive would be left them to continue in a state so precarious, when, every incentive to human industry being destroyed, the barn, the dwelling, the out-houses, the fencing, falling into decay and ruin, the wretched Indian scatters upon an impoverished and exhausted soil the seed, from which it is even doubtful if he is permitted by the impatient white man to reap the scanty harvest? Is it forbidden to speak the language of truth and frankness? It may be that all will avail nothing. If all should, it will be because the Cherokees distrust the sincerity of the United States. That they have reason for distrust, even in the conduct of the United States towards themselves, is undoubted. When they were willing to cede lands, the United States would not take them. In the conduct of the United States towards the Creeks, they think they see abundant proof of the lukewarmness and indifference of'the General Government in carrying into practical effect, so far as concerns Georgia, the plans which they devised for the removal of the Indians. It is of no consequence that the Indians are deceived by appearances; the appearances would deceive anybody. They see the agent for the Creeks, well knowing the officially expressed will of the Government, opposing himself to that will, holding councils of the Indians for the very purpose of anticipating a Al forestalling the commissioners of the United States, by inconsiderate and violent resolves, the same as those of the Cherokees themselves. When the treaty is holden at Broken Arrow, the Cherokees are present, by their emissaries, under the eye of the agent, busied to defeat, by the most wily machinations and contrivances, the objects of the treaty. They witness the failure of the treaty, and by these means. Is such a case explicable before the Indians? The servant setting at naught the will of the master, and the master countenancing the servant in defying that will: the Government itself, when asked for the resolution of these mysterious things, resolves them into a misconception of duty. On the renewal of the treaty at the Indian Springs, the like scenes are presented both to whites and Indians. The agent, profess edly aiding the commissioners, secretly undermining them, dismissing in the dead of the night chiefs who had agreed to sign the treaty; protesting against the treaty, after having affixed his own signature to it as a witness, on the ground that these very same chiefs did not subscribe to it; announcing to his Government that the treaty was tn direct violation of its own instructions; insinuating very strongly that improper means had been adopted to procure it; and denouncing the hostility of the Indians in the event of its ratification. The poor Cherokees knew, as well as the most enlightened member of the cabinet, that if a foreign minister of the first grade had dared the one-half of this, he would have been dismissed with disgrace. Yet the agent, opposing himself to his Government, as it would seem, (certainly opposing himself to the commissioners appointed by that Government,) passing on to Washington for the avowed purpose of preventing the ratification of the treaty, meets a cordial greeting of his employers there; and when the President, discrediting every word of the agent, had submitted the treaty to the Senate—when the Senate, in like manner, trusting nothing to the agent, and reposing confidence in the declaration of the commissioners, had ratified it, he is permitted to depart for his agency, if not with new demonstrations of affection, without, so far as I know, the slightest reprehension or blame; and, what is worse than all, after having placed himself at the head of a party, adverse to that which is now dominant, and which had recently ceded the country to ns, he is appointed the guardian of the whole, to conduct to their new and distant home this hapless race; to command their destinies through untried and chequered scenes, and to make his distance from the controlling power an absolute security against all scrutiny and responsibility. The only apology attempted by the agent for any allegation of misconduct or aberration from duty, in these respects, has been—’twas not I, ’twas the sub-agent; ’twas not I, ’twas the interpreter. The United Slates might possibly be the voluntary dupe of such shallow pretences; certainly not the Cherokees or the Georgians. Ask the commissioners if, but for the interference of the agent, there would have been serious difficulty at Broken Arrow. Ask them if, at the Indian Springs, an almost unanimous concurrence of the chiefs might net have been commanded, but for the counterplots and underworkings of the agent. Ask any member of the cabinet, notwithstanding the farrago of resolves and protestations to the contrary, if he may not command a treaty on a given day, upon just and reasonable terms, for a cession of all the lands claimed by the Cherokees. Be pleased to present a copy of this note to the Secretary of War. Upon the general subject, everything has been heretofore said which it was proper or becoming to say; and I had resolved not to resume it, unless invited on the part of the Federal Government, or commanded by the Legislature of the State. The more recent events may not have been portrayed before the present cabinet in the same light in which you and myself cannot fail to regard them. The gentlemen who have recently come into it I know personally, and will be very much deceived if they are not deserving our highest confidence as intelligent, upright, and patriotic men. If they understand this matter correctly, they will see that it is not a question about some five or six millions of acres of land; it is one of principle and of character, connected with the honor of the Government, and therefore above all price. The people of the United States, content with their political institutions, ask nothing of their rulers but purity in the administration of their affairs; disinterestedness; singleness of purpose fur the public weal; sincerity and plain dealing on the part of all the functionaries, from the highest to the lowest; fidelity to every trust, and strict accountability in the fulfilment of every duty, to the exclusion of selfishness, intrigues, tricks, and devices of low cunning, to gratify party passions, and subserve sordid interests, hucksterings, and barterings, and all the rest, which they will cheerfully leave to the mountebanks and jugglers to whom they appropriately belong. With great consideration and respect, G. M. TROUP. The Hon. JOHN FORSYTH, Washington City. GOVERNOR’S MESSAGE TO THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA, AT THÉ OPENING OF THE ANNUAL SESSION, NOVEMBER 7, 1825, WITH THE DOCUMENTS ACCOMPANYING THE SAME. EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, November 8, 1825. Fellow-citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives:	' . The political year just dosed has not been without blessings or without trials. Abundant thankfulness is due for the former to the Giver of every good and perfect gift, not less for exemption from war, pestilence, and famine, than for the enjoyment of more than ordinary health, propitious seasons, and an ample harvest. For the latter, as they belong to mortals, it is our holy duty, in the spirit of Christian resignation, to bow with reverential submission, and to implore the Omnipotent, who orders all for the best, to convert them into blessings. The year has been rendered memorable, too, by the sojourn of the great and amiable Lafayette; the universal joy diffused by it; the display of all the charities and graces of life in the overflowings of grateful hearts, inseparable from his presence; and by the tears of millions, when, after giving to our country his last benediction, he re-embarked for his native land. The recapitulation of the events of the last two years, the results of our intercourse and correspondence with the Genera] Government, painful as it may be, is a duty too sacred to be omitted. In performing it, no apology is due for the prolix detail, so inconsistent with the analytical character of a state paper like this. The variety of topics, the multitude of facts, justify a departure from the ordinary usage. A tedious expose may be more acceptable than a superficial survey, as the contemplation of the whole.ground will enable you so to apply the resources of your wisdom and patriotism to the exigency, as, with the assistance of Divine Providence, to avert the mischiefs which threaten, make our own ways righteous in our own sight and in the sight of all others, and bring back to a sense of justice those who, in their aberrations from it, have done us wrong. I had for the first time come into office when a subject of peculiar delicacy presented itself, and, being intimately connected with the independence of the elective franchise, (without which it would be vain for Georgia to claim for herself the attributes of a sovereign State,) it was made known to the President, that, on the occasion of the election just then terminated, an officer in his employ, bearing a high and dignified commission, and being a citizen of another State, had abandoned his post to mingle in the strifes of that election; had espoused the cause of one of the parties to the prejudice of the other; and, by the weight and influence of his office, united with the most enthusiastic ardor, had rendered himself so signally conspicuous, that the Chief Magistrate could not conscientiously forbear, among his first acts, to complain to the Executive Government of the Union of this outrage upon the most sacred of all the rights of sovereignty. An occasion offered at the moment to give weight to the presentation, and it was embraced. The head of the missionary establishment in the Creek nation had been provoked by the ill usage and lawless conduct of the same officer to prefer certain charges against him, which, if supported by truth, coukl not fail, it was believed, to bring upon him the severest animadversion of his own Government; and it was hoped that the remonstrance of the Governor of Georgia thrown into the scale, would accomplish what seemed to him an important object—the removal front office of a man who, by his prejudices and passions, would present the most formidable obstacles to the satisfaction of the just claims of Georgia against the General Government, at least so long as a certain person filled the first office of that Slate. They failed of their intent, and, whatever sentence miu'ht have been passed on the memorial of the missionary, the remonstrance of the Governor of Georgia was unheeded. The inference was inevitable, that, in virtue either of positive instruction, or of implied consent, the agent of Indian affairs, being a citizen of another State, and resident in the nation, would at any time consult both duty and inclination in deserting his station to lend himself, with his insignia of office, to any party in the State, whose views it might be the interest of himself or of his Government to promote. The State of Georgia had claims upon the General Government of great magnitude; her territorial ones had been so long neglected, that time seemed to be running against them. The Indians were acquiring a permanency of foothold under the direct encouragement of the United States, which would rivet them, like their fixtures, to the soil forever; and it was seen that a day or an hour was of precious import to her whom an act of limitations might bar, upon the arbitrary edict uf a stronger power. When, therefore, in a temper not discreditable, it is hoped, to the author, those claims were pressed upon the General Government, it was answered that every thing had been done which in good faith could be done to satisfy the claims of Georgia; and that now untiling could be dnne, because the Indians had said nothing should be done. An answer so unkind, ungenerous, and faithless, left no alternative but to abandon or strenuously assert them. It was vain for the State of Georgia to prove to the United States that, regardless of her claims, they had acquired immense tracts of country, from time to time, for other States and for themselves; and that, in the celebrated treaty of 1814, if the United States had heen mindful of their engagements, they could as easily have acquired the whole country within our limits as a single acre. By the treaty of 1814, the Creeks were treated as a conquered people, whom Georgia had assisted with her arms to conquer; their boundaries were marked by the sword; but charity, which begins at home, more potent than any stipulations of the articles of 1802, acquired for the United States a very large extent of rich country within the limits of Alabama, whilst twenty millions of acres within the limits of Georgia were reserved and guarantied to the Indians; and this guaranty was subsequently produced against us to defeat our claim to the same territory. Georgia could not see in all this that scrupulous fidelity in the fulfilment of engagements asserted for the United States. When, at last, the way seemed opened to a further acquisition of territory, and commissioners were appointed to negotiate with the Creeks at Broken Arrow’, Georgia found the agents of the United States arrayed against her to defeat a treaty; so that it was difficult to understand whether the whole movement was a mockery, to sport with Georgia, or a perfidious betrayal by the agents of the trust reposed in'them. The treaty was defeated, and by their agency; the principal agent appeared to rise in the esteem and confidence of his Government; and thus terminated this most disgusting scene. The rehearsal of what happened immediately after, at the Indian Springs, would only revive recollections of the same odious practices of the same agent, not the less disgraceful because they were more covert and less successful. From this period are to be dated all the mischiefs, disorders, and heart-burnings which followed, produced chiefly by the conduct of the same officer. But, in justice to him, it should' be said, that, from this period, he is to be considered rather as an instrument than a principal; as his own Government, looking back upon the history of the past, bad seemed to approve his actings and doings in the gross, and had given every token of undiminished confidence in him; so that, from that day thenceforth, whatever was said, done, or written by him, seemed good in its sight. No evil report of him would be listened to; the word of no man taken against him; all testimony in his favor was eagerly received, all against him promptly discredited; the expressed will of the constituted authorities of the State, which denounced him as an enemy to its interest, disregarded by his Government, and contemned by himself; in short, his single declaration in the face of truth, was made by that Government the basis of the most offensive measures against this, even to the extreme one of threatening us with the sword, and actually drawing out a regular force for its execution. The history of the treaty of 1825, and the-character of the events which followed, will be best learned by the documents and evidence heretofore published, and those now laid before you. The epitome is, that the treaty was as untainted with fraud as most other Indian treaties; was made with an authority long since recognised by the United States as competent to make it; was acquiesced in nt first by the great body of the nation, and would have been cheerfully submitted to by the whole tribe, as the hostile chiefs in council indicated to Colonel Lamar, if the agent had not returned from his mission to Washington, and altered it. It was this ominous return from his defeat before the President and *Senate in which McIntosh foresaw the ruin which an infuriated man would bring upon him and his generation—“ We are not in any danger until he comes home and commences hostility, and urges it himself upon us,” says McIntosh. “ If ratified, (meaning the treaty,) it may produce a horrid state of things among those unfortunate Indians,” says the agent. What the penetrating sagacity of the one foretold, soon came to pass. McIntosh was no more; and thus the evil genius of the other, which predicted the coming of the whirlwind, which rode in it, and directed the storm, saw, in one fell swoop, the triumph of his machinations and the fulfilment of his prophecy. McIntosh and his chiefs had given their assent to the survey of the country, and this assent was seized by the agent to divert the public odium from himself, and to fasten it on the Chief Magistrate of Georgia, who had sought and obtained that assent. The naked declaration of the agent to this effect, unsupported by a tittle of prool, was sufficient to command the absolute credence of his Government, and, contrary to all opposing testimony of the most conclusive character, to warrant it in charging the calamities of the nation upon the same magistrate as the author of them all; to forbid the survey, and to embody a corps of regulars to prevent it; and to continue both its offensive orders and its offensive armament, even after another of its agents, by false testimony, had proven to its satisfaction that no such assent was ever given, and had announced to it, moreover, what was not the (act, but what, on his authority, it implicitly believed to be the fact, that the pacification of the Indians had been concluded, and, of course, order and tranquillity permanently restored; nevertheless, the offensive mandate is unrevoked, and the parade of bayonets maintained. The Indian right of occupancy is the only one acknowledged by the European Powers, from the beginning; the only one acknowledged by all the public instruments through which Georgia derived her title; the only one conceded to the Indians by Georgia, in all her treaties with them, from the first settlement of the country; and the only one recognised by the United States themselves. The Spaniards and the French, without respecting even this right, have forcibly appropriated to themselves entire countries, when and where it suited them. The English and Americans have so far respected it, as to make compensation for the relinquishment of claim or abandonment of use. It is true that, with regard to this right of use, the United States, in their own territory, might have given to it any latitude which pleased them, because the soil and jurisdiction belonged to them; but, with regard to the territory of Georgia, where the soil and jurisdiction are. indisputably hers, this right of use can only be construed to mean what in all the treaties it did mean—the right of use lor hunting. When, therefore, the United Suites, by changing the mode of life of the aboriginal upon the soil of Georgia, changed essentially this right, and caused her lands to be separately appropriated for the purpose of tillage, and gave every encouragement to fixed habits of agriculture, they violated the treaties in their letter and spirit, and did wrong to Georgia. It is not less strange than true, that, of all the various tribes of aborigines dispersed over the vast country within the limits of the United States, two of them, within the limits of Georgia, have been specially selected as most fit subjects for the operation of this great scheme of reclamation; and that the partial success of this scheme, (founded in wrong to Georgia, and continued in wrong,) should be held up to us now, as a mirror in which we are invited to see at once our own deformity and the moral beauty of its authors; and that this original and continued wrong should be set up in bar of our undoubted rights. The State of Georgia contends that the jurisdiction over the country in question is absolute in herself; she proves, by all the titles through which she derived her claim from the beginning; by the charters and proclamations of the mother country; by the repeated acknowledgments of the United States themselves; and by their solemnly expressed recognition in the first and second articles of the agreement and cession of 18Ü2. It was shown that, if Georgia had the jurisdiction, Georgia had never parted with it; and that, if she had it not, she can never have it in virtue of any authority, of any power, known to her. Yet Georgia has been denied the right of survey of her own soil, within her own jurisdiction; a right as inseparable from that jurisdiction, and as innocent as a right of way; and this, notwithstanding the consent to that survey, as is verily believed, freely given by every chief within the limits of the territory, who could, by any possibility, suffer harm or detriment from it; nay, more, it is confidently believed, that if the United States Government, or its agents, had not extorted from one portion of the Indians objections to the survey, there would not have been found a single individual who would have thought of entertaining any. And here it will not escape yon, that, at the council of Broken Arrow', where the commissioners of Georgia were present, the military officer of the United States, under his instructions, made known to the chiefs that his Government had resolved not to permit the survey; so that if a spirit, at any time, from any cause, had animated the Indians to hostility against Georgia, the savage would have availed himself of the survey as a pretext to fall upon our people, and with the more ferocity, because assured that he would be sustained by the arms of the United States. The, last pretext of the President for resistance to the survey is the obligation to execute the eighth article of the treaty, which guaranties protection to the friendly Indians. Under that guaranty, the United States passively suffer McIntosh and his friends to be murdered; in the hour of peril, no arm is lifted to save or to protect; the danger past, the chiefs massacred, their property destroyed or dispersed, the survivors in Georgia asking bread and protection of their lives, after abandoning to their enemies every thing valuable at home, the United States step forth with their armed power, to defend, under the eighth article of the treaty, these same Indians against all their enemies, and more particularly the Georgians, their only friends and protectors. McIntosh having fallen in the cause of the United States by the hand of treachery, the United States were bound, in honor, under the eighth article, to bring to punishment his murderers; to restore to his friends their rank, power, and property, lost in the same cause; and to have coerced the execution of the treaty: all which could easily have been accomplished. But the agents of the United States, indulging more of sympathy for the hostile than for the friendly Indians, prescribe to the latter the terms on which they shall make peace with their enemies; the blood of McIntosh unwashed from their hands, the plundered property unrestored, the agent unremeved, the hostile party are to be received into the bond of communion and fellowship, with a forgiveness of sins, as if these natives of the wilderness, at once the noble and fallen of their species, should, in the darkness of heathenism, do more than the philosophy of the heathen or the fortitude of the Christian ever did; the money stipulated to be paid to them exclusively, and by the commissioners of the United States ordered to be paid, in part, to their enemies, and by the hands of other agents than those appointed by the treaty. These wrongs done to the friends of McIntosh are adverted to merely because they cannot be overlooked in the catalogue of wrongs done to Georgia, and to show that the friendly Indians may have suffered for indulging friendly sentiments towards Georgia, and Georgia for indulging like sentiments towards the friendly Indians. The result of all which is, that, judging the motives and objects of human action by the results, the agents of the United States, whether commissioned for that purpose or not, must have been intent on vindicating the conduct of the agent for Indian affairs, and opening the way for the rupture of the treaty; for that conduct has been vindicated and approved by them, and all the materials, as it is understood, collected for that rupture, whilst the Indians remain unreconciled either to one another or to the treaty, and a large portion of them more embittered and exasperated against the authors of it than ever. The President having ultimately resolved to refer the treaty to Congress for re-consideration, because of alleged intrigue and treachery practised to obtain it, the resolution adopted by the Executive to prosecute the survey under the act of the Legislature of the 9th day of June last, was changed, and the change immediately communicated to the President. It would be uncandid, fellow-citizens, to disguise that, but for the proposed reference to Congress, the survey would have been commenced and prosecuted. So long as the controversy was confined to the Executive of the Union and the Executive of Georgia, there could be no hesitation as to the measures which it became the latter to pursue. Between States equally independent, it is not required of the weaker to yield to the stronger; because this would be settling controversies by the rule of force, and not by the rule of right; and, between sovereigns, the weaker is equally qualified as the stronger to pass upon its rights. The immediate survey of the country, required certainly by the interest and convenience of Georgia, was not of that vital importance which would justify offensive measures to execute it. But the abandonment of a right, not considered’doubtful by the only power competent to pronounce upon it, was another and very different matter. The concession of a right without an equivalent by a weaker to a stronger Power is never made without exposing the former to injurious imputation, and will always be followed by concession after concession to unjust demands, until nothing remains to be demanded on the one side, or conceded on the other. When, therefore, the President of the United States commanded the Governor of Georgia to forbear the survey, and when that command was followed by a distinct annunciation of the penalty which awaited the disobedience to it, the Executive of Georgia would not merely have surrendered a right, already declared to be so by the supreme power of the State, but would have made a dishonorable surrender to a stronger Power, with the sword suspended over his head. Whilst, therefore, the Governor would in this respect have treated the mandate of the President as unlawful, he did not hesitate, as soon as the contemplated reference of the treaty to Congress for alleged intrigue and treachery was officially known to him, to postpone the survey until the meeting of the Legislature; not because that reference was lawful, but that its legality or illegality was not so appropriately a question fur his decision as for that of the Legislature. So that, whilst the Government of Georgia denied the power of the Executive authority of the United States to pronounce upon her rights, it might not refuse sought by the friendly chiefs, was. refused. In compliance with the requisitions of the same resolutions, I transmitted, without delay, a copy of the memorial addressed by the Legislature to the President, exposing the conduct of the agent of Indian affairs, and requesting his removal from office. The President, in this, as in every other case in which the authorities of Georgia have complained of the conduct of his agents, has determined to refer the subject to the consideration of Congress; a decision as unexpected as unsatisfactory. It is the transfer of a matter by the President, who alone has the absolute control over it, to the Congress, which l»as no such control. The President has authority to dismiss, at pleasure, the offending officer, or, if a military one, to order a court for his trial; whilst the Congress of the United States has no such power. The utmost the Congress can do in an extreme case is, to impeach the officer, if impeachable; if not, repeal the law creating the office, and thus indirectly removing the incumbent, but without having any security that he would not immediately be appointed to another office, or restored to the same office if it should be re-established by law. Having submitted, in detail, a narrative of the events to which our relations with the United States have given rise, and exposed the motives and principles which have governed the conduct of the Executive throughout, it is left to your wisdom to decide upon the measures necessary and proper to sustain the honor and defend the rights and independence of the State. It is confidently believed that the constitution, the public law, or the usages of nations, will justify an abrogation of the treaty; and it is recommended to you, therefore, in any and every event, to consider, as heretofore, the Indian claims to the territory as effectually extinguished by it; and that, whether the survey be suspended or not, to order the occupation of it on the day stipulated in that instrument, in the same manner as you would have done if its validity had not been questioned. In the correspondence submitted to the Legislature at their late extraordinary session will be found the repeated Snd final resolution of the Cherokees never to abandon the territory they occupy within our limits. This resolution may he satisfactory to the Government of the United States; it cannot be so to you. Having taken theirs, it remains for you to take yours, and, in doing so, no time is to be Inst. Your better judgment will suggest and approve the remedy. Whatever it may be, I recommend to you to adopt early and energetic measures for the removal of all white persons and others (not Indians) inhabiting that territory, with the exception only of such as are necessarily employed in the service of the United States, under the power granted to Congress to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes. By the. second article of agreement and cession, you will find the following words inserted by our commissioners out of abundant caution: The United States “ cede to the State of Georgia whatever claim, right, or title they may have to the jurisdiction or soil of those lands.” Nothing remained to the Indians, therefore, but the right of temporary occupation for hunting. This right has been construed so 1'berally, that, in practice, a general usufructuary interest has been conceded to them. But this reservation of hunting grounds is confined to the Indians exclusively, and designed for their use and benefit only. The soil and jurisdiction being in I Georgia, it was no more lawful for the United States to introduce other persons there, than it would have been for them to have introduced within the settled limits of Georgia a colony of free persons of color, of Indians, or of white people. Tlte utmost allowable to the United States, in this respect, was the settlement within the territory of such of their own officers as were necessary to carry into effect their acknowledged power to regulate commerce with the Indians. The United States have, nevertheless, by permission, toleration, or encouragement, introduced - there, from time to time, white persons and others, who have made settlements, exercised ownership over the soil, and cultivated it in the same manner as if the United States, and not Georgia, possessed the right of soil and jurisdiction; and these very same persons, as it is confidently believed, have been chiefly instrumental in preventing the Indians from leaving the country. All such persons, therefore, are to be considered as trespassers and intruders upon the soil of Georgia, and treated accordingly. This is the theory and practice of the United States Government itself, with regard to its own lands. In every instance where the United States have claimed the soil and jurisdiction, whether the Indians be in the occupation or not, the Government has exercised the power to treat all such persons as trespassers and intruders, and an act of Congress authorizes the President to expel them at the point of the bayonet. It is equally competent to the Government of this State to adopt like measures for the removal of trespassers on her own soil; and fur this purpose, having made the necessary statutory provisions, it is recommended to you to extend the laws of Georgia over the country. You have seen our rights of sovereignty—those of the elective franchise, of territory, and jurisdiction—have been infringed; you will see the same rights violated in the independence, character, and dignity of the constituted authorities occupied in the management of our affairs. A special officer was commissioned by the President to inquire into the conduct of the agent of Indian affairs, who, on presenting himself here, was received in the most friendly temper, and with the assurance that every assistance would be rendered to promote the object of his mission; not doubting that the object, as he repeatedly professed, was justice to all the parties concerned—to the public, to his own Government, to Georgia, to the Indians, and to the officer implicated. Any deportment which might be construed into a disposition to bias or mislead him was studiously avoided; all information required promptly furnished; and not a suspicion admitted that he could have been actuated by other than honorable motives, until, in a conversation which a gentleman in the confidence of the Governor was instructed to hold with him, he betrayed very strong prepossessions in favor of the agent; so much so, and at so early a period, that, with an intention to apprize his Government of the fact, a letter was addressed to him, (marked B,) which, and his answer, (marked C,) are submitted. In the latter, you will find repeated professions of impartiality and disinterestedness; but you will soon perceive, in his after conduct and writings, the hollowness and insincerity of them. They, and the report of the State commissioners, show that the special agent came here, not to inquire into the conduct of the agent of Indian affairs, but as counsel or attorney, to advise with him, to lend him aid and countenance, to collect testimony for his vindication and acquittal, and, without giving ear to the testimony against him, to pronounce that acquittal as honorable for himself, and the prosecution as disgraceful to all the parties concerned in it; seeking, for this purpose, with great labor and assiduity, the evidence of the outcasts of society, wherever he could find it, and thus embodying for himself and his Government a volume of the impurest matter by which to justify that acquittal. His patience would not permit him to wait the closing of the testimony on either side, as you will see in his letter of the 21st June, addressed to the agent, and published by him. It was this letter, proving incontestably that the question had been prejudged at Washington, and that a farce had been playing only to amuse the authorities of Georgia, which decided the Executive to address to him the note of the 28th June, instructing him to hold no further correspondence with this Government. The letter of the 4th of July was subsequently addressed to this Department, in which, after justifying his offensive one of the 21st June, he insults the authorities of Georgia, by referring the prosecution of the agent to the most corrupt and reprehensible of motives; and, by the affected charity with which he excepted the Chief Magistrate from the change, gave poignancy to his denunciation, and to his sentence a semblance of a legal character, as if pronounced by a competent magistrate from the judgment-seat. It was not until after the return uf this officer to Washington that he caused to be published, under the eye of his Government, the declaration “ that he was informed by the acting agent of Indian affairs that the commissioners of Georgia had carried with them into the nation a large amount of money, say from four to six thousand dollars;” strongly insinuating, at the same time, that this money was carried there for the purposes of bribery and corruption. A charge against this branch of the Government, connected with the administration of the finances, so serious, proceeding from such a person, and made in a form so specific, deserves your attention; and the more, because the truth or falsehood of it can be easily established. Another special agent had been deputed to this Government, in a civil and military capacity, to investigate the causes of the disturbances in the Indian country, to remove the causes of discontent, and to reconcile the contending parties. He likewise was received with the most friendly disposition, and treated with all the respect due to his rank and character. He professed to be animated by the love of truth and justice, to be in the interest of no party, and, in the execution of his trust, to be governed by the dictates of duty only. Not doubting the sincerity of these professions, the aid and co-operation of the Executive of Georgia, in promoting the objects of his mission, were cheerfully tendered, and would undoubtedly have been afforded to any extent within the powers of the Department. The first manifestation given by this officer of dislike or aversion to the authorities of Georgia, which has come to the knowledge of the Executive, will be found in the representation of the commissioners, and in the letter of the other special agent, in which, speaking of his obnoxious letter of the 21st of June, he says, “the letter is approbated by a man who for wisdom stands inferior to few, and in honor to none.” If the inference was correct, that the person alluded to by the writer was the same agent whose conduct is the subject of this review, it is certain that even at that time be could not have entertained for the authorities of Georgia those respectful sentiments which he professed, and which in duty he was bound to entertain; for in that obnoxious letter those authorities were denounced for oppression, partiality, and injustice of the most flagrant kind, practised against the Indian agent. On the 10th day of July he wrote a letter to the Governor, enclosing a certificate of the Indian chief Marshall and a white man named Edwards, to disprove the fact of McIntosh and his council having given their assent to the survey. This officer could not have offered a greater insult to any independent Government. He had seen the public message, in which the assent of McIntosh and his chiefs had been announced to the Legislature, and the incontestable evidence on which the annunciation was founded. Disregarding the authority of both, and professing to rely on the testimony of such persons as Marshall and Edwards, known to him to be infamous, he informs the Governor that no such assent was ever given. In aggravation of this insult, before any notice was taken of it, he causes the same letter, with the certificate, to be published on his own authority; alleging, as his excuse, that falsehoods and calumnies (by whom or about what he did not inform us) were propagated; thus making his appeal to the public from the pretended rumor of the day, for the purpose of bringing the authorities of Georgia into disrepute with their own people, and separating the people from their Government. He was soon informed that he himself was the dupe of the certificate of Marshall, and that his own conduct was reprehensible, in relying on it to reproach the Government of Georgia with misrepresentation and falsehood; and of this, his Government and the public were soon after furnished with abundant proof. When this officer is rebuked for an indignity which could with no propriety pass without censure, he loses all self-command, and, forgetting his own station and that of the person to whom he addresses himself, writes letter after letter to the Chief Magistrate, couched in the most offensive language, and which, from their manner as well as matter, and the immediate publicity given to them through the gazettes, must have been intended as electioneering papers, to subserve the cause of one of the contending parties in the State, to the prejudice of the other; an inference deriving abundant confirmation from the fact that the same officer was in the practice, in the common intercourse of society, of applying to the Chief Magistrate, and others in authority, the most contumelious and abusive epithets. As no further intercourse could be held with him, without compromising the dignity of the State, it was, in the first instance, forbidden; and when, afterwards, he had proceeded to the greatest extremity, his recall, arrest, trial, and punishment were demanded of his Government. The Executive of the State would have been warranted by the public law and practice of nations, in a ease so flagrant, to have ordered him to leave the territory of Georgia, and to have enforced that order. It was unwilling to resort tu a measure of harshness or severity, however justifiable. The United States Government itself is not less tenacious of its Own dignity than others. It has, at least on one occasion, interdicted intercourse with a foreign minister of the first grade, representing a European Power of first rank, for merely contradicting it abruptly; and the equally merited treatment of another minister, representing a first rate Power, for appeals to the people from their Government, is well known to you. More recently, the gallant Porter has been punished by his Government for insulting the petty authorities of Foxardo, and for making an appeal from that Government, through the public prints, much less exceptionable than that made by this officer in the publication of his letter of the 10th of July. Whether the constituted authorities of Georgia are of more or less importance than those of Foxardo in the view of the General Government, will be seen in the answer of the President. The answer of the President to the demand of the Governor of Georgia for his recall and arrest is as little creditable to the functionary from which it comes as satisfactory to the one to whom it is addressed. The President is bound by every constitutional obligation to execute the laws. One of these laws declares that “any officer or soldier who shall use contemptuous or disrespectful words against the Chief Magistrate or Legislature of any of the States, if a commissioned officer, shall be cashiered.” The President acknowledges this officer to have used contemptuous and disrespectful words, for which his conduct is simply disapproved; and he is informed that, if the Governor of this State had not previously used towards him offensive language, the demand would have been complied with. So that, according to this construction of the President, his military-officers may conduct themselves as they please within the jurisdiction of the respective States, no matter how excoptionably, and the least reprehension or censure by the Chief Magistrate of a State is their sufficient warrant to retort in abusive and insulting language, and to gratify their resentments, even at the expense of the independence of the elective franchise: a construction which makes the law a nullity, because it privileges the military officer to do that which, but for the law, he might legally have done—insult a Chief Magistrate of a State as he would insult a private citizen, for any real or imaginary grievance; a privilege which the law was intended to prohibit to him. But the fact assumed by the President as true, is not true. Nothing offensive was written to this officer before he had three several limes offended the dignity of this Government, viz: by his approbation of the offensive terms of the letter of the other special agent, by his disrespectful treatment of the commissioners, and by his procurement and publication of the false statement of Marshall and Edwards. This exposition of the law by the Executive of the United States will satisfy yuu of the expediency of depending on your own measures for defence against the repetition of such outrages. The Governor of Georgia denies the right of the President to excuse or justify his officer in the violation of the law of the United States, which he is bound to execute, because of any act, or supposed act, of the Governor, which is in violation of no law. The President, by such excuse or justification, takes the place of the agent; and when in one of his authorized communications he says “ there is no part of his duty which the President more anxiously pursues than that of maintaining the most scrupulous decorum in his official intercourse with the State authorities—a. line of conduct from which no circumstances, however aggravated, have or will tempt him to depart,” he only means that what he does not chouse to do by himself, he will do by his agent. The published addresses of the different agents are submitted with the rest, only to show the unity of feeling, sentiment, and action which has signalized the deportment of United States officers of every grade, in their intercourse with the Government of Georgia. It can be submitted to no longer. The sovereignty, independence, and dignity of the State must be maintained, and, to support them, voo must depend on your own means. I advise you, therefore, to have recourse to those means: no matter whom you place in authority, all strangers most be compelled to respect, in their exterior demeanor at least, those authorities. The sacredness of the elective franchise can be protected by regarding every private person, not a citizen ol Georgia, who interferes with that freedom, as an alien and stranger, violating a right oi sovereignty, and exposing himself to punishment. If an officer of the United States, not. being a citizen of Georgia, he renders himself the more obnoxious, from the double capacity in which he offends that sovereignty; and if an officer representing his Government in a diplomatic character before this Government, be can be made amenable under the sanctions nfyour own laws, and the laws and usages of nations, fur offences committed against either; and to this end you have only to define the character of the offence, and to prescribe the punishment. In the exposé of the state of our relations with the General Government, other grievances, minor and secondary in importance, are adverted to, not for the purpose of accumulating wrongs into a formidable mass, and making an appeal the louder and deeper to the justice of that Government, but to satisfy our fellow-citizens that, if we have complained in vain, wc have not complained without cause, and that our cup of bitterness is almost full. The militia claims, fur services rendered thirty years ago, in defence of the State against Indian hostilities, by authority of the General Government, are yet unsatisfied, although constantly urged; whilst similar claims of other Stales, but of more doubtful justice, have been recognised. The. claims of our citizens against the Creek nation, admitted by the treaty of the Indian Springs of 1821 to the amount of $250,000, although rendered for a larger amount, have been curtailed, by arbitrary roles prescribed by the United States for the settlement of them, to 100,000 dollars; by which she places in her own treasury, in defiance of our repeated remonstrances, $150,000; thus depriving the claimants of a benefit to that amount, which, according to every rational construction of the instrument, was intended by all the parties to it to enure to them only, and which could not, by any construction, be carried to the credit of the United States. To our repeated remonstrances against this decision it has been answered, that the' decision was made and could not be reconsidered. The Government of Georgia had reason to expect that the United States would not refuse their concurrence and co-operation in the running of the line between this State and the State of Alabama, first, because they were proprietors of the soil on one side of it; and secondly, because Georgia was concerned that the presence and authority of the United States should be a secority to the Indians that their rights should be respected—a security which would save to Georgia the expense of a military force in the prosecution of the work; as the Indians, in the absence of that security, might be excited by evil-disposed persons to interrupt its execution. The President, in the first instance, signified no objection to a co-operation, but the one (founded on a mistake in fact) that Alabama had not given her assent; subsequently, however, the co-operation was declined, it being, as was said, a matter in which Georgia and Alabama were alone concerned, and with which the United States had nothing to do; more recently, as you arc informed, the State has been absolutely forbidden, at her peril, to enter her territory for the purpose of running a line, or making a survey of any description: the sum of all which is, that the United States claim for themselves the power to enter upon their territory wherever the soil and jurisdiction are in them; to settle there whom they please, and to expel whom they please, even at the point of the bayonet; but deny the same power to Georgia, where tile suil and jurisdiction are in her, and forbid her, under the pain of military chastisement, to run a line or make a survey there. The late correspondence with the Governor of Alabama will show that we may soon expect the concurrence of that Stale in our tesolulion to ron the line, and it is very desirable that no further obstacle should be suffered to prevent its execution. A request made to the Executive of the United States, under authority of a resolution of the Legislature, to cooperate with this State in running the dividing line between it and the Territory of Florida, was also refused, on the allegation that Congress had made no provision for such co-operation. A resolution of the Legislature, instructing the Governor to authorize the survey of the intermediate country, with a view of connecting by a canal or road, or both, the waters of the Gulf and Atlantic, (a work of not less importance to the Union than the connexion of the two seas by the isthmus of Panama, and of most easy execution,) has not been carried into effect. The opinion of the Executive on this subject has been made known to the Legislature. The authorities of Georgia cannot pass beyond their own limits into the territory of any other State, or of the United States, for any such objects, without committing trespass; and it is not understood that the most practicable line of communication between the two waters would fall wholly within the jurisdiction of Georgia. In truth, this is most appropriately a work for the United States, without any constitutional hindrance or impediment; a short cut through her own soil would accomplish it, and the whole Union would immediately partake the benefits. The attention of the President has been invited to this subject before, and, whilst lie. acknowledged the great importance of the work, it is not known that any measures have been taken in relation to it. His attention was called, at the same time, to the practicability of uniting the Eastern and Western walers by a canal, turning the base of the Appalachian mountains, at their southern extremity—an operation of more obvious utility, because of less doubtful practicability, than the contemplated one for connecting the Chesapeake and Ohio. A promise was given that this also should receive early consideration, but nothing more has been heard of it. Without bringing into question here the power of the General Government to make canals, at pleasure, within the jurisdiction of the States, it would, perhaps, be more advisable for the State Governments to depend for internal improvements on their own powers and resources; and I am happy to inform you that the State of Tennessee, having a common interest with ourselves, has given unequivocal indications of her willingness to co-operate with its in this undertaking. We have continued assurances that a civil engineer of competent qualifications may soon be commanded for the service of the State. To give you an outline of the views of the Executive’on the general subject, I have caused the instructions which, in the absence of the. Legislature, would have been given him, to be laid before you. And here permit me to suggest the policy of applying a portion of the fund set apart for internal improvement to the construction of roads, which shall so traverse the country as to make the communication between the different counties and the commercial towns more safe, easy, and expeditious. Considering climate and localities, it may be deemed expedient to invest the capital in a description of labor, which, under proper direction, would not only be efficient for the accomplishment of the work, but could be ultimately made to return to the treasury a large proportion of the amount invested. The annual reports of the several banks have been received, and are submitted. They al) continue to sustain the credit of their paper circulation, with the exception of the Bank of Darien, whose currency has depreciated and is depreciating; the causes of which, with the remedy, will claim your early and serious investigation. The public interest demands that the bank should immediately resume specie payments, and you can easily believe that the tender by the State of depreciated money to its citizens is not in conformity with right, and that to those of them who are so obliged to receive it a positive wrong is done. It is sincerely hoped that a revision of our militia system will no longer be delayed. You bear constant testimony to its numerous defects. The single fact, that, on a late occasion, it became necessary to force an organization by coercing, under military penally, private citizens to accept brevets, in cases where the companies had tailed to elect officers, and which, by the contagion of example, were so multiplying as to threaten a total disorganization, will be alone sufficient to command your serious attention to this revision. It is again recommended to you to establish a court of errors or of appeals, and upon the principles suggested in my late communication to the Legislature. The people seem more aod mure disposed to give to this necessary change in our judicial system the sanction of their approbation; and, indeed, it is one which, sooner or later, must be adopted, with the hearty concurrence of the great body of them, as a remedy for evils no longer tolerable. I transmit, as a matter of duty, two resolutions of the Legislatures of Connecticut and Illinois, received since the late extra session, recommending to the Congress and to the States the abolition of slavery. Nothing has transpired to change my sentiments on a subject to which, more than once, it has been made my duty to call your attention. It is my settled conviction, and the more confirmed than ever, that neither the other States nor the Congress have any right to bring that subject into question before them, in any form; and that every attempt to do so by either should be regarded in the same manner as an attempt to destroy yo;tr sovereignty, of which it is an essential part; and that you will have no security for this property, against the efforts which will be made, from time to time, to impair its value, and eventually destroy it, but in the equally settled conviction on the part of the assailants that you will defend it as you would defend your lives. Independently of any' precautionary measures which you may deem proper for the. permanent safety of this property, every proposition which may be addressed to you on the subject, either by the State or the United States authorities, being unconstitutional on the face of it, as it cannot be received otherwise than offensively, and consequently ought not to be received al all, should be returned to the authorities from which it emanated. The various resolutions of the Legislature to be carried into effect by the Executive power, are either already executed, or in a course of execution. It is gratifying to observe the multiplication of institutions for the instruction of youth in every quarter of the State, founded either by public or private contribution, and cherished by an ardent feeling in the cause of mental improvement, with which every class of the community seems to be animated. Franklin College, in an onward course of prosperity, with g well-organized but not numerous faculty, possessing the requisite capability, and giving to their usefulness the more extension by an harmonious concert of action, sees with pride her alumni already reflecting honor on her, from the various pursuits and occupations of life, from the learned professions, and the legislative hall, and can rest content that she will receive at all times, as she deserves, the patronage of the Legislature. The county academies increase in number and respectability, aod, sustained every where by the public favor, they cannot fail, with liberal endowments from the Legislature, to flourish universally. The poor school fund has been eagerly sought by all the counties; but whether beneficially applied in all, is doubtful. In reviewing this part of the system, you will do well to adopt such general regulations of a permanent character as can be accommodated under a good administration of them to the local circumstances of each county. The provision which requires the trustees who render service without compensation to give bond and security, will perhaps be found to tax public spirit too heavily, and may in some instances defeat the execution of the law. In our lamented differences with the United States, the constituted authorities of Georgia have been ungenerously reviled; sentiments and feelings have been adopted for them to which their hearts and understandings are strangers. The charge of hostility to the Union is indignantly repelled. Georgia is not behind the foremost of her sisters in devotion to the Union; she is laboring at this moment to cement and perpetuate that Union, by bringing it back to the principles of the constitution: we mean a Union of definite signification—a constitutional Union for all constitutional objects—a Union for safety, for security of life, liberty, and property—a Union to enforce the powers of the General Government, as well as to protect and defend the rights and powers of the States—a Union which means something, and which we love and cherish as a blessing. But the Union which is construed to mean any thing or every thing—a Union for absorption and consolidation, which would prescribe no limits to the powers of one Government but the general welfare, and which would reduce the powers of all the rest to a shadow of sovereignty—which claims supremacy and exacts obedience—which construes the constitution for itself, and issues its mandates to the States, backed by the purse and sword—which threatens to decide for us what is property and what is not property, and whether we shall hold any property of a certain kind or not—which sends its officers and agents to insult and defy the public functionaries of the States, as if they were subaltern in rank and consequence to themselves— such a Union is not the Union adopted by the States, and it is believed is not such a one as the States will support. The Chief Magistrate especially disclaims any ether motive as the governing one of his conduct than the sincerest attachment to the Union, without tincture of prejudice against the persons who compose the councils of the United States, but, on the contrary with the strongest predispositions to give every aid and support to those councils, to promote the peace, interest, and happiness of the country. It is asserted, without fear of contradiction, that, since Georgia was a party to the revolution, the confederacy, or the Union, she has fulfilled with sincerity and fidelity all her obligations and engagements; in peace and in war, under whatever administration, not merely answering with promptness to every requisition, but, according to her means, sustaining that Government with as much vigor and patriotism as any of her sisters; as little querulous as any of them; more complying than most of them; and never bringing into question the constitutionality of its ordinances or decrees, but when, from the honest impulses of her heart, and the strongest convictions of her judgment, she has believed them unconstitutional. If opposed to any particular administration, it has been an opposition of frankness and firmness; and if, with these characteristics, always honorable, she has at any time mixed a spice of indignation, it may well have been pardoned by the head and members of a family who cannot themselves claim exemption from the frailties of our nature, and who, when honor and principle were at stake, might have seen a color of virtue in a momentary departure from meekness, humility, and patience. But Georgia can still contend that, in respect to all questions of mere interest, to which her connexion with the Union may have given rise, she has discovered as little nf selfishness, and as much of generosity and of forgiveness, as could be expected from a sovereign and independent State claiming rights of property of great value, demanded by the wants of her citizens, and indispensable to the complete organization of her social system. Georgia has not demanded justice of the Federal Government in her day of tribulation, of difficulty, and of embarrassment; in war, or in the midst of divided councils; but at a moment when, with an ample treasury, at peace with all nations, and prosperous beyond example, she had her option to do us justice, or, refusing it, to present a military chest and armed men. If the United States choose to rely on these, and Georgia, taking counsel of her fears, shall make an inglorious surrender of her rights, what will remain of the fruit of her toil and blood and public virtue but a consolidated Government, in which the sovereignty and independence of the States being merged, nothing is left her hut the power of a municipal corporation to settle the strifes and contentions of individuals within the freedom of it. By encroachment on the one side, and acquiescence on the other, every day brings us nearer to this result; and if we cannot find safety in the first principles of the constitution, we can find it nowhere. ■	Your fellow-citizen, '	G. M. TROUP. A. REPORT ON CREEK INDIAN AFFAIRS. Copy of a letter from His Excellency George M. Troup to Joseph Vallence Bevan, Esq. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, GA., September 1, 1825. Appointed by the Legislature to search the archives of the State, with a view to unfold its history, you may, in this research, be able to furnish the public with useful documentary evidence connected with the present unhappy differences which subsist between the United States, the State of Georgia, and the Indians: making known to you the object for which they are sought, their relevancy or materiality will depend on your own judgment and discretion; only asking the favor of you to make the abstracts from such documentary evidence as little elaborate, and to give them in as condensed a form, as possible; accompanied by any remarks of your own which may be deemed apposite and useful. Very respectfully, J. V. BEVAN, Esq.	G. M. TROUP. Report of Mr. Bevan. SAVANNAH, October 22, 1825. In compliance with your excellency’s request, I have the honor of transmitting to you an abstract of such documentary evidence as is within my reach, touching “the unhappy differences which subsist between the United States, the State of Georgia, and the Indians;” always taking it for granted that you alltide particularly to the treaty concluded by Campbell aijd Merriwether. But, previously to so doing, it may be as well to premise something with respect to their unity as a people and to their character as a nation. The Muscogees or Creeks came frmn the West originally—at least so I was informed by Roily McIntosh and other friendly chiefs, in the course of a conference which I held with them during the last summer; and so Colonel Hawkins says, in his manuscripts now spread before me. They have a tradition among them that there are, in the fork of Red river, two mounds of earth; that, at this place, the Cowetas, the Cussetahs, and the Chickasaws found themselves; that, being distressed by wars with the red people, they passed the Mississippi, and, directing their course eastwardly, they crossed the falls of Tallapoosa, above Tuckaubatchee, and made their first settlement at Coweta, which is just below the falls of Chattahoochie; and afterwards spread out from thence to the Flint, the Ocmulgee, the Oconee, and the Savannah, down to the seacoast. The Cussetahs came with the Cowetas from the region beyond the Mississippi, and settled upon the eastern bank of the Chattahoochie, as the latter did upon the western; the Hitchetas and the Uchees were afterwards admitted among them. These four and their descendants compose what was formerly called the nation of the Lower Creeks, or are those Museogees who inhabit a part of the present State of Georgia. The Tuckaubatchees have a tradition that they sprang out of the ground. But the Cowetas and the Cussetahs maintain that they were not in the country when they themselves first came into it, and say that their acquaintance with the Alabama Indians was formed at a ball-play near a pond, and about midway between the Chattahoochie and the Tallapoosa rivers, when and where they agreed to become friends. The Seminole country is a Muscogee colony; the name imports that they are a wild people; are so called, because they left their old homes, and made irregular settlements in their new country, where they were invited by the plenty of game, the mildness of the climate, the richness of the soil, and the abundance of provender. They have been considered to be entirely independent of the Creeks, however; and even McGillivray did not assume any authority over them, though Bowles did. To conclude, then, upon this head, the Upper Creeks inhabit thirty-seven towns or townships, the principal of which is Tuckaubatchee; the Lower Creeks have twelve, the head of which is Coweta; and there are seven in the Seminole country. Having considered them as a people, I now proceed to consider them in their political relations; and I must premise that the nature of the organized government among these Indians is misunderstood; the common idea attaching itself to the consolidated form, whereas, in fact and in troth, it is of the federal or aggregate kind. They had neither national polity nor law until these were introduced by Colonel Hawkins, doubtless for the purpose of facilitating his own plans of civilization among them. This assertion is not only warranted by his manuscripts in my possession, but also by the declarations of Adair, who lived forty years among the southern Indians, during the period intervening between the first settlement of this State and the commencement of the revolutionary war, and who, in dedicating his book to Lachlan McGillivray and John Galphin, appealed to testimony whose correctness we all recognise. Before the time of Colonel Hawkins, the towns were held to be independent the one of the other, in a political point of view; and Governor Walton has left the assertion upon record that the Upper Creeks never laid claim to the right of hunting upon the grounds of the Lower Creeks, until about the year 1783, when the celebrated chieftain McGillivray began to acquire some ascendency among them. In support of this, I often find, in the old conferences, mention made of the people belonging to the three rivers, and to those of the four rivers, as if their only ties were those of necessity and neighborhood prompting them to assist each other in war, and in times of peace to mingle in the ball-play; but, from the manner in which they have been regulated by their white overseers, the distinction is, in latter times, becoming gradually more and more nominal. 2. Keeping in view this entire independence of the several towns the one on the other, I proceed, in the next place, to give you a general idea of their polity, according to the account given by Colonel Hawkins. To use an expression of his own, “ the towns separately have a government and customs which they derive from a high source;’’ and, in the control of these, their foreign and domestic concerns appear to be directed by those whom they indifferently call chiefs. In civil affairs, the principal is the micco of the Creeks, called by the white people king; in military matters, the great warrior, or tustunnuggee thlucco, is supreme; but the grades below both are regular and uniform. The micco superintends all public and domestic concerns; receives all public characters, hears their talks, lays these before the town, and, in return, delivers its talk. He is always chosen from some one family; as, for instance, the micco of Tuckaubatchee belongs to the Eagle tribe; and after he is chosen, and placed on his seat, he remains for life; is succeeded, on his death, by one of his nephews; or, if unfit for the office, by the next of kin—the descent being always in the female line. He is assisted by counsellors of beloved men, who are composed of two classes: the one comprising the miccugee, (there being several persons in every town called micco, from some custom now no longer known; as in the instance, again, of Tuckaubatchee, there is one called the ispocogee micco, frum the ancient name of the place;) the other class consists of warriors raised to the rank of chiefs, from time to time, by reason of their several merits; they are those who have been conspicuous as war leaders, and who, although of different grades, have become estimable through a long course of public service; and they are, in fact, the micco’s principal counsellors: in many points of view, they appear to have resembled the Executive Council of our State in former times. The personage next in consequence to the micco is their tustunnuggee thlucco, who is selected by the council: he has a strange extent of power, no less than that of determining upon war; and this exclusive right often causes great embarrassment; and should he persist, he sets up the war-whoop, which is repeated by all those disposed to follow him; and, in this way, they are sometimes for one or two nights marching off; for (as Colonel Hawkins expressly says) it is seldom that a town is unanimous, and the nation never is; nay, within the memory of the oldest man among them, it is not recollected that more than one-half of the nation have ever taken the war-talk at the same time. 3. So much for the individual relations of the towns. When Colonel Hawkins assumed the agency, he carried into effect the plan which had been attempted, without success, by McGillivray. In pursuance of his recommendation, the various chiefs assembled together at Tuckaubatchee, on the 27th of November, 1799, when and where they adopted the three following regulations, as the main principles of their fundamental law or constitution. Perhaps it will be best to give it in the exact words of its author. “The Creeks never had till this year (1799) a national government and law. Every thing of .a general tendency was left to the care and management of the public agents, who heretofore used temporary expedients only; and amongst the most powerful and persuasive were the pressure of fear from without and presents. The agent for Indian affairs convened the national council, and made a report on the state of the nation to them, accompanied with his opinion of the plan indispensably necessary to carry the laws of the nation into effect. The council, after mature deliberation, determined that the safety of the nation was at stake; that, having a firm reliance on the justice of the President of the United States, and the friendly attention of his agent fur Indian affairs, they would adopt his plan: 1st. To class the towns, and appoint a warrior over each class, denominated the warrior of the nation, to superintend the execution of the law. 2d. To declare as law that, when a man is punished by the law of the nation, and dies, it is the law that killed him; that it is the nation who killed him; and that no man or family is to be held accountable for this act of the nation. 3d. That all mischief-makers and thieves, of any country of white people, shall be under the government of the agent for Indian affairs; and that he may introduce the troops of the United States to any part of the Creek country to punish such persons; and that, when he calls in the troops of the United States, he is to call for such number of warriors as he may deem proper to accompany them, to be under pay. That, in apprehending or punishing any white person, if Indians should interpose, the red warriors are to order them to desist; and, if they refuse, the agent may order them to fire, at the same time ordering the troops of the United States to make common cause.”—[Colonel Hawkins’s A1SS.] 4. According to this mode, (the friendly Indians informed me,) the Creeks continued to manage matters until the breaking out of the late war. Whenever there was any occasion for a convention of the lower towns, particularly, Tustunnugge Hopoie, or the Little Prince, (probably so called from his diminutive size, but literally the Far Off Warrior,) as their oldest or most conspicuous chief, presided; and, in conference, acted as their mouth, tongue, or speaker. Tustunnugge Thlucco, (the proper, and not the official name of this Indian,) or the Big Warrior, stood in the same relation to the Upper Creeks. After the war, these two chiefs surrendered up to Tustun- nuaacc Hutkee, or the TF/tiVe IFcrrrior, (for so McIntosh was denominated,) the exclusive control of al) foreign business; and, among the Creeks, he was familiarly called their Secretary of War—a term which, by the by, shows that he was little less than a dictator among them; as that Department at Washington city is particularly charged with their interests, and exercises habitually little less than absolute power over every nation of Indians within tlve United States, lndeed.it may be broadly stated that no chieftain has ever bad any predominating influence over the nation, except as a demagogue, or else through the favor of his white friends. Accordingly, whenever the nation was convened upon any matter affecting its general interests, McIntosh presided; and, in such case, the council met at Thlcacotchuu, or the Broken Arrow, instead of Coweta or Tuckaubatchee, as heretofore; probably because of its proximity to Fort Mitchell, to which the agency was removed about this time. Since the period of their organization by Colonel Hawkins, the national council have passed a number of laws; and, at the instance of General David Brady Mitchell, they were embodied as a code by McIntosh, in the year 1817, who caused all old customs and ordinances to be discussed, and then revived or rejected. These, together with such others as have been passed from time to time since, were reduced by him to writing, and such only are regarded by the Indians as of any force or efficacy. The whole comprises about fifty or sixty regulations, which look, however, rather towards matters of criminal jurisprudence, and the perfection of a system of police, than to any' other object of municipal law. There were, however, two extraordinary anomalies in this system of government, which it would be as well that you should distinctly understand. For instance: among the Upper Creeks, the town of Hoithlcwaule (so called from hoithlc, war, and waule, to share out or divide) had formerly the right to declare war; which declaration was first sent to Tuckaubatchee, and thence throughout the. nation. And again, the Coweta towns have alone the right to sell the lands; a privilege which you will perceive is most distinctly' recognised in the conference between the Gun Merchant and Mr. Little, and of which you will find an abstract below. ***** Having now concluded my preliminary observations, I will next take up the main subject of your excellency’s communication; and, perhaps, your views would be better met by my submitting the remaining documentary evidence to you in a chronological order, or rather according to the several eras which distinguished the history of Georgia. [See documents marked from A to J, inclusive.'] I. Then, as to the colonial era. When Oglethorpe landed upon Yamacraw Bluff, in the year 1733, be found the present site of this city and its immediate vicinity occupied by a scanty tribe of Indians, under a micco caller! Toma Chaci, who made the white people welcome, rendered them every kind office, and permitted them to build the town of Savannah. Meanwhile, the founder of this colony, anxious to conciliate all the neighboring savages, entered into articles of friendship and commerce with them; and this singular record is in the form of a letter missive from the trustees to the chiefs. The first article contains a permission for traders to go into the Lower Creek’nation, which appears to have been the only consideration given for tho land. The third and fourth run in the words following: A. “ Thirdly, the trustees, when they find the hearts of you, the said headmen, and your people, are not good to the people they shall send among you, or that you or your people do not mind this paper, they will withdraw the English trade from the town so offending. And that you and your people may have this chain of friendship in your minds and fixed to your hearts, they' have made fast their seal to this treaty. “ Fourthly, we, the headmen of the Coweta and Cusseta towns, in behalf of all the Lower Creek nation, being firmly persuaded that He who lives in heaven, and is the occasion of all good things, has moved the hearts of the trustees to	send their beloved men among us, for	the good	of our wives and children,	and to instruct us and them in what is	straight, do therefore declare	that we	are glad	that their people are come here; and though this	land belongs to	us, (the Lower Creeks,) yet	we, that	we may	be instructed by them, do	consent and agree that	they shall make	use of and possess all these	lands, which our	nation hath not occasion to	use; and we make over	unto them, their successors and assigns, all such lands and territories as we shall have no occasion to use; provided, always, that they, upon settling every’ new town, shall set out, for the use of ourselves and the people of our nation, such lands as shall be agreed upon between their beloved men and the headmen of our nation, and that those lands shall remain to us forever.” In the year 1739, and just before his expedition to St. Augustine, Oglethorpe went to Coweta, and there held his first formal treaty with the Muscogees, as the following document (with some unimportant omissions of names) will show: the friendly chiefs told me that Coweta was at that time situated upon the Ocmolgee, near its confluence with the Pook-co-la-booikec, or Big Sandy creek, being the same whereon the Indian Springs and McIntosh’s reserve are situated; but they must be mistaken, for this tradition is altogether at variance with the information afforded by Colonel Hawkins. B. Proceedings of the assembled estates of all the Lower Creek nation, on Saturday, the 1UA day of August, 1739. “ By powers from His Most Sacred Majesty' George II., by the grace of God King of Great Britai.n, France, and Ireland, &c., General James Oglethorpe, being appointed commissioner, was present, in behalf of His Majesty, and opened the assembly by a speech. There were also present at the said assembly of estates, Micco, or chief king of the Coweta town Chickeley; Nenia Micco, of the said town; Malatchi Micco, son of Brim, late emperor of the Creek nation, and the chiefs and warriors of the Coweta town; and the micco or king of the Cussetas, and Schisbcligo Micco, next to tho king of the Cussetas; Iskegio, third chief man of the Cussetas; and the other chief men and warriors of the said town, &c. &e. “ The said estates being solemnly held in full convention by General James Oglethorpe, on behalf of the trustees, of the one part, and the kings, chiefs, and warriors aforesaid, on the, other part, according to the forms, religion, and customs transmitted down by their ancestors, the whole estates declared, by general consent, without one negative, that they adhered to their ancient love to the King of Great Britain, and to their agreement made in the year 1733, with the trustees, for establishing the colony of Georgia in America; a counterpart of which agreement was then delivered to each town, and the deputies of the several towns produced the same: and the said estates further declared, that all the dominions, territories, and lands, from the river Savannah to the river St.John’s, and all the lands between the said rivers, and trom the river St. John’s to the bay of Appalaehe, (within which are the Appalacbe Old Fields,) and from the said bay of Appalaehe to the mountains, do by ancient right belong to the Creek nation, who have maintained possession of said right against all opposers by war, and eAn show the heaps of bones of their enemies slain by them in defence of said lands: and they further declare, that the said Creek nation have, for ages, had the protection of the Kings and Queens of England, and have gone to war by commissions from the Governors appointed by the said Kings and Queens of England; and that the Spaniards nor any other nation have a right to any of the said lands; and that they will not .suffer them, or any other persons, (excepting the trustees for establishing the colony of Georgia in America,) to settle upon the said lands. And they do acknowledge the grant they have already made to the. trustees, establishing the colony of Georgia in-America, of the lands upon Savannah river, as far as the river Ogechee, and all the lands along the seacoast, as far as the river St. John’s, and as high as the tide flows, and all the islands, as far as the said river, particularly the islands of Frederica, (meaning St. Simon’s,) Cumberland, and Amelia, to which they have given the names of His Majesty King George’s family, out of gratitude to him. But they declare that they did, and do, reserve to the Creek nation the land from Pipemaker’s bluff to Savannah, and the islands of St. Catharine, Usaba, and Sapelo. And they further declare, that all the said lands are held by the Creek nation as tenants in common. “ The said commissioner doth declare that the English shall not enlarge or take any lands, except those granted as above by the Creek nation to the trustees, and doth promise and covenant that he will punish any person that shall intrude upon the lands which the corporation hath reserved as above.” It may be proper to remark, that this treaty was published first at Coweta, and afterwards at Cusseta. II. This brings us to the second era, when Georgia was placed as a province under royal control. A few years before the surrender of the charter by the trustees, a clergyman named Bosomworth married an Indian woman of the Tuckaubatchee town, who had acted as interpreter to Oglethorpe, and, through her means, he obtained from Malatchi, headman of the Cowetas, a grant of the islands of Hussoope, or Usaba, the Cowleygee, or St. Catharine’s, and Sapelo; which were expressly reserved by the Indians in the treaty of Coweta, in 1739. The colonial Government, thinking that the conveyance.was fraudulent, and a precedent altogether dangerous, despatched a special agent into the nation, with instructions to obtain the signatures of the chiefs of every town; and they all signed the grant of the trustees, with the exception of Malatchi and the other chiefs belonging to Coweta: in consequence of which, every thing fell to the ground, nor was all finally arranged until the accession of Mr. Ellis to the government. The following paper, drawn up during the time of his predecessor, will exhibit the whole question in its proper point of view; and it will be perceived that, although the Indians were unceasingly pressed to give answers favorable to the interests of the Crown, yet they as invariably recognised the Cowetas to be, in fact, the owners in fee-simple of the whole Muscogee country, and especially of that appropriated by the Luwer Creeks as their hunting grounds. C. Abstract of proceedings at a conference held at Augusta, in the Colony of Georgia, on Monday, the 15th day of December, 1755, between William Little, Esq., a commissioner on behalf of His Excellency John Reynolds, Esq., Captain General and Governor-in-chief of His Majesty's Colony of Georgia, and Vice-admiral of the same, and the headmen and deputies of the Upper and Lower Creek nations of Indians. The Gun Merchant, speaker in behalf of the Indians, declared that ho had seen General Oglethorpe, who had entered into treaties with the Coweta towns, as being the most corftiguous to the white people, without consulting them, (the Upper Creeks,) because they lived very remote from the white people’s settlements; but, notwithstanding they were not consulted in regard to such treaties, yet they agreed to every grant of lands made by them, because they looked on the Coweta towns as the head and most ancient; and for them to pretend to countermand or invalidate any grants of lands made by them to their friends, would be acting like children. Upon the conveyances said to be made to Patrick Graham, Esq., on behalf of the trustees, being produced, and the like question asked—if they allowed the validity of that deed?—the Gun Merchant replied: “ That they did sign the said deed; but before assent was given, he called all the headmen and warriors together, and made the strictest inquiry if any of them knew anything about the said islands therein mentioned; that they all declared that they knew nothing about them, or that they were possessed or claimed by any body; and, as they were down upon the seacoast, where none of them had been, and could not go but in canoes, when perhaps they might be drowned, he did consent to give them, as being of no value to them, a matter immaterial, and what they knew nothing about, &c.—[Copy of conference sent to Mr. Fenwick Bull, authenticated by Pownall, secretary of the Plantation Office.] At a further conference, on Wednesday, 17th December, 1755, the headmen were again called together, to make a more explicit declaration of their meaning in regard to Mrs. Bosomworth’s title. The Gun Merchant, speaker in behalf of the Indians, declared that in regard to Mrs. Bosomworth’s lands, (meaning the islands of St. Catharine, Sapelo, and Usaba,) and the lands from Pipemaker’s creek to Savannah, there was no occasion to make any long talk about them, as he had fully declared the resolutions of the Indians upon that head, viz: that they allowed the validity of Malatchi’s (the Coweta chief) prior title; that the lands belonged to Mrs. Bosomworth, and she might do what she pleased with them. The question was then put by the commissioner on the behalf of the Crown, whether Mrs. Bosomworth could sell the lands? Answer—That the lands were Mrs. Bosomworth’s; that she might cultivate them, sell them, or do what she pleased with them. The question was then put, What must become of the grant they had given to Patrick Graham, Esq.? Answer—That they looked upon it as worth nothing, as the lands were before given away.—[Copy of conference, authenticated by Pownall.] 2. The next event to which I propose to call your attention is the congress which was held at Augusta in 1763, between the four southern Governors and the five nations of southern Indians; that is to say, Fauquier, of Virginia; Dobbs, of North Carolina; Boone, of South Carolina; and Wright, of Georgia, held, towards the latter end of that year, at the place above mentioned, a conference with the Creeks, the Cherokees, the Chickasawsj the Choctaws, and the Catawbas. When the runner returned from the country of the Lower Creeks, however, (whither he had been sent to desire their attendance,) he brought an objection from them, and the following were assigned as the reasons: “ We have heard that the Governor of Charlestown intends to buy our lands from us as far as Ogechee, and as high up as Broad river; and that the Governor of Savannah intends to buy from us as far as the fork uf the Alata- maha; and the Governor'of North Carolina intends to buy as far as the Oconees.” In reply, their excellencies say to them:—“We have been informed of the evil news you have heard, that the. Governors intended to possess your lands. We take this opportunity to assure you, in the King’s name, that you have been misled by ignorant people, who do not know the great King’s intention, which has been communicated to us, his officers; and that no such intention is harbored in the breast of any of ns. The great King’s design in ordering all his Governors to act in concert as one man, and in inviting all the nations bordering on these colonics to hear his talk, was directly contrary to what you have heard; for we shall there declare that your lands will not be taken from you; and this is to be done before you all, and not in secret, that no nation of Indians may be ignorant of his gracious intentions, and of his fatherly care of the red as well as the white.” Accordingly, they complied with the invitation; and after’the congress had been already opened, “ the Upper Creeks having a desire to consult the Lower Creeks,” requested that the conference might be postponed for two days; which delay, (says the journal of the Governors,) however extraordinary, as they were only to hear, they were notwithstanding gratified in. And yet, after all, it ended in a treaty; by which thé settlements of the white people were extended beyond the former contracted limits, above Augusta, as far as Little river, and south of Darien, as far as the Alatamaha. In their letter to Lord Egre- mont the Governors say that “ the Creeks had been represented to be very ill-disposed; the murders they had committed were frequent; and even subsequent to the receipt of your lordship’s letter, and even since the holding of the congress, though amply supplied with provision, they have been accused of wantonly killing the people’s cattle; yet their talks have been more friendly than we expected: and their voluntary offer of an augmentation of boundary to Georgia, upon the King’s forgiveness of all past injuries being signified to them, supposing their professions sincere, and the chiefs of consequence enough to act for the whole nation, which they declare they do, is certainly as strong a proof as they can at present give of their good will. It will be necessary, however, to mention to your lordship that we have been privately cautioned by the leader of the Chickasaws against confiding in the Creek professions; he says he knows them; that nothing done here will be confirmed by the absent leaders, in comparison of whom the present chiefs are inconsiderable. The Cherokees, in’their intelligence, have gone still farther; but, as they seem on the point of war with the Creeks, their testimony is to be suspected.” It was probably to this treaty that the Little Prince alluded, when he told Colonel Campbell, not very long since, that one of them concluded at Augusta was not valid, because it had not the signature of a Coweta chief attached to it. But this was by no means the most surprising circumstance attending the transaction. Warrants were no sooner located upon these very lands, thus acquired, than a portion of them was claimed by the heirs of Sir William Barker, through a conveyance from the lords proprietors of Carolina, made before Georgia was settled or an Indian title extinguished! and, upon argument before the King in council, after solemn reference to the Board of Trade, these claims were sustained! 3. The next treaty was also held at Augusta, in 1773; it contains a provision for the payment of debts owing to the several Indian traders, and it is remarkable for having been the first that mentions the fact of any moneyed consideration being given for their lands. III. We now approach the era of the Revolution. At this period, Lachlan McGillivray, finding himself compelled to take sides, adhered to the royal cause; and, in the course of time, found himself the prominent British agent among the southern Indians, with his son Alexander as his deputy. His situation, long acquaintance, and address, enabled him to secure their interest, and to direct their almost undivided force against the whig portion of Georgia. On this account, all the family possessions within this State were confiscated, and an additional cession of land was demanded from the Creeks, by way of reparation for their ravages; it was granted by another treaty, held also in Augusta, during the year 1783, at which the Talesee King was most conspicuous as the headman of the friendly Indians; a chief, in fact, who appears to have resembled McIntosh very closely, whether in respect to character, the relation in which he was placed to the people of Georgia, or the ingratitude with which he was treated by those bound to protect him. McGillivray, who remained in the nation, and partook of the general amnesty, annoyed him very much concerning the part the other had taken in the treaty, as will appear from the following memorandum of the King’s proposals and complaints: “ The land, he says, was given up by him, and the headmen with him, as far as the main stream of the Oconee river; they could only give up their own right, and the right of the people of the towns they represented. Instead of the white people being contented with that very great tract of country he and his people had agreed to give them, he was sorry to find they had been marking land as far as the waters of the Ocmulgee river. The hill between those two rivers is very high; yet the white people had climbed over it, and he could not tell where they would stop. He thinks it very hard that they should be obliged to give up so great a tract of country, because some of their nation had been drawn into a war that, as far as he could hear, was one that had disturbed all nations, even the simple peaceable people called the Dutch. Yet, he had given to the Oconee, and was willing to establish it as far as he could in peace: but the land was not his; nor was it for him to say to a man of any town, who had not ceded his rights to that ground, you shall not cut a cane on that land to dry your meat, or you shall not kill a deer on that ground. The Great Master of breath made the ground for all, great as well as small; and it was hard for him and his friends, who had always held their faces towards Virginia in the darkest and worst of days, to bear the blame of giving away so great a part of their ground. What he would wish as a remedy for that is, that a few presents should be provided, and all the towns invited to a talk; and the gift of that ground should be confirmed by all the towns in the nation, and then he would nnt bear the blame; that after the beloved man comes up, and settles all matters respecting the lands with every town, then some of his headmen will corne down, and go with some white beloved men, and make a line clean from the head of the Oconee to the place where the Cherokees have given up.” The following is an account given of this extraordinary man, in 1799, by Colonel Hawkins: “These Indians (the Talesee) were very friendly to the United States during the revolutionary war, and their old chief, Hoboithle Mico, of the half-way house, (improperly called the Talesee King,) could not be prevailed on by any offers from the agents of Great Britain to take part with them. On the return of peace, and the establishment of friendly arrangements between the Indians and the citizens of the United States, this chief felt himself neglected by Mr. Seagrove, (then the superintendent;) which he resenting, he robbed and insulted that gentleman, compelled him to leave his house near Tuckaubatchee, and fly into a swamp. He has since then, as from a spirit of contradiction, formed a party in opposition to the will of the nation, which has given much trouble to the chiefs of the land; but he has had a solemn warning from the national councils, to respect the laws of the nation, or he should meet the punishment ordained by the law. This spirit of party or opposition prevailed not only here, but more or less in every town in the nation. The plainest proposition for ameliorating their condition is immediately opposed; and this opposition continues as long as there is a hope to obtain presents—the infallible mode heretofore in use to gain a point."—Hawkins's MSS. 'IV. lam arrived now at the fourth era in the history of Georgia, or that period which intervened between the acknowledgment of our independence as a sovereign State, and our adoption of the present federal constitution; and it is now, perhaps, that the real interest of this communication may be said to commence.	■ 1. In the year 1785, another treaty was concluded at Galphinton, by General Twiggs and the elder General Clark, whereby the boundary line was extended to the forks of the Ocmulgee and Oconee rivers. But the article as well worthy of observation as any other is the first, which provides for the incorporation of the Creeks among us, and which accordingly took away from the. “ Confederal G-overnment,” as it was then called, all pretension as to jurisdiction oyer them; it is in the words following: “The said Indians, for themselves and all the tribes and towns within their respective nations, within the limits of the State of Georgia, have been, and now are, members of the same, since the day and date of the constitution of the said State of Georgia.” 2. The following year, another was concluded near the mouth of Shoulderbone creek, a branch of the Oconee river; it was, however, but a mere confirmation of that made at Galphinton; to enforce all the provisions of which, the miccos of Coweta and Cussetah were demanded and delivered up as hostages. During the conference, the following interrogatories were propounded to, and the answers given by, the two linguists employed by the commissioners. D. Copy of depositions taken before the Board of Commissioners, October 20, 1786. The following questions were put to Mr. John Galphin by the commissioners; and his answers thereto: Question 1. How far do you think any treaty made with the commissioners by the Indians now present will be binding on the nation? Answer. I think they may answer for all the towns except the Tuckaubatchees and Hickory Grounds. Question 2. What number do you think those two towns contain? Answer. The Tuckaubatchees about two hundred, and the other about twenty gun-men. Question 3. How do you account fur the Indians, and particularly the Upper Creeks, not attending more generally? Answer. The reason I heard generally given was, that it was a wrong time of the year to call a treaty, and that the Indians were then mostly out a hunting, or had determined to go out immediately, as it was their hunting season. Question 4. Do you think that Mr. McGillivray was authorized by the Upper Creeks to write to the Governor and commissioners in the manner he lately did? Answer. I am certain that he was not. JOHN GALPHIN. Sworn to this 20th day of October, 1786, before the Board of Commissioners. JOHN HABERSHAM, Chairman and Justice of the Peace. The following questions were put to Mr. Philip Scott by the commissioners; and his answers thereto: Question 1. How far do you think any treaty made with the commissioners by the Indians now present will be binding on the nation? Answer. I think they may answer for all the towns except the Tuckaubatchees and Hickory Grounds; perhaps the Hillebees. Question 2. What number do you think those two towns contain? , Answer. The Tuckaubatchees better than two hundred, and the. Hickory Grounds about seventy or eighty. The strength of the Hillebees I do not know, but it is generally said to be a small town. Question 3. How do you account for the Indians, and particularly the Upper Creeks, not attending more generally?	, Answer. It is in consequence of talks given by McGillivray after I came away, as I have been informed. He told them he would settle all matters by writing, and that, if they came down, the white people would ask them for more land. McGillivray told me it was an improper time to hold a treaty, as the Indians were going out to hunt.	.	... Question 4. Do you think that McGillivray was authorized by the Upper Creeks to write to the Governor and commissioners in the manner he lately did? Answer. I think he was not; the land that was given up was always held by the Lower Creeks as their hunting grounds, and the Upoer Creeks never used it as such. PHILIP P. S. SCOTT, his X mark. The foregoing was sworn to this 20th day of October, before the Board of Commissioners. JOHN HABERSHAM, Chairman and Justice of the Peace. V. This brings me to the first point of time in our fifth era, when the federal constitution was adopted by Georgia. There was little in either of the two last treaties consonant to the views, feelings, or interests of McGil- ' livray; accordingly, in this state of things, that chieftain, always subtle and adroit, endeavored to lay hold on the inexperience of the new Government, by appealing to its sympathies in favor of a hapless Arcadian race, against (what he termed, as well as others of modern date) the profligacy and injustice of the people of Georgia; and, as was natural, he succeeded, for he was believed to the utmost extent of his wishes. But the President, acting up to every idea of hfs character as a great, a good, and a just man, determined to inquire into the whole truth, through a commission respectable as well for standing and talents as for the confidence entertained in them by every part of the country. Accordingly, he selected General Lincoln, who was commander of the southern army during the Revolution, and, towards the close of it, the Secretary of War; Cyrus Griffin, a President of the old Congress; and Colonel Humphries, an aid-de-camp to General Washington, I think, but at all events reputed to be a man of exquisite genius at the time, and who subsequently filled an embassy to Madrid. E. Copy of a letter from Messrs. Lincoln, Griffin, and Humphries, to the Governor of Georgia, dated SIR:	AUGUSTA, October 3, 1789. As a variety of reports have been circulated throughout the United States relative to the circumstances under which the treaties of Augusta, in 1783, at Galphinton, in 1785, and at Shoulderbone, in 1786, were formed, and as it is highly important that facts should be ascertained, we take the liberty of requesting your honor to assist us in obtaining the information necessary for that purpose. The principal points to which our attention has been attracted are—Whether the lands belonging to the Upper and Lower Creeks are the common property of the whole nation; or whether the lands stated to have been ceded to Georgia by the three treaties, or either of them, were acknowledged by the Upper Creeks to be the sole property of the Lower Creeks? Whether the acknowledged proprietors of the lands stated to have been ceded to Georgia were present, or fully represented at the said three treaties? Whether the Creeks present at the said treaties did act with a full understanding of the cessions they are stated to have made? And whether the said cessions and treaties were freely made on the part of the Creeks, uninfluenced by any threats or implication of force? It is also desirable that any other interesting circumstances connected with the objects of these inquiries should be made known to us: for example, whether the Indians did, for any considerable length of time, acquiesce quietly in the location and settlement of the lands in question; what value, in goods, has been given at the several treaties, as presents or compensations fur these cessions; and, in effect, whatever other matters may serve to place the conduct of the State of Georgia, on this subject, in its true point of light. After being possessed of the written and official documents, we wish to receive oral information from private characters who were present at the several transactions before alluded to.	'We have the honor to be, sir, with great respect, your most obedient servants, B. LINCOLN, C. GRIFFIN, D. HUMPHRIES. [The Governor’s reply I left with one of your secretaries at Milledgeville, and therefore I cannot now insert it in this communication; it would be but fair, however, to presume that it was satisfactory, if wc are allowed to form an opinion according to the spirit of the following statement from these distinguished gentlemen.] •	F. Extract from the report of the Commissioners for treating with the southern Indians. The commissioners are decidedly of opinion that the failure of a treaty at this time with the Creek nation can be attributed only to their principal chief, Mr. A. McGillivray. 1st. From the repeated declarations and apparent good disposition of all the kings, headmen, and warriors to establish a permanent peace with the United States. 2d. From the proposed boundary being offered to the great council of the nation only as the basis of amicable negotiation. 3d. From the deception and precipitate retreat of Mr. McGillivray, without stating his objections to the draught of a treaty, either verbally or in writing. 4th. From many inquiries concerning this man, and from Mr. McGillivray’s own declarations, “ that, without obtaining a full equivalent for the sacrifice, he would not renounce the close connexion which he had formed with the Spanish Government in the hour of distress—a connexion honorable and lucrative to himself, and advantageous to the Creek nation.” 5th. From his frequent intimations that no treaty could be furmed with the commissioners, unless a free and exclusive port should be granted to him on the banks of the Alatamaha or the river St. Mary’s. And 6th. From the most positive refusal to acknowledge the Creek nation to be within the limits, or under the protection of the United States, although in express contradiction to a former letter written by him on the 5th of September, 1785, to General Pickens. The commissioners beg leave further to report: That, after the must accurate investigation in their power to make, after consulting the best documents, and having recourse to credible depositions, they are unable to discover but that the treaty of Augusta, in the year 1783, the treaty of Galphinton, in the year 1785, and the treaty of Shoulderbone, in the year 1786, were all of them conducted with as full and as authorized representation, with as much substantial form and apparent good faith and understanding of the business, as Indian treaties have usually been conducted, or perhaps can be, where one of the contracting parties is destitute of the benefits of enlightened society; that the lands in question did of right belong to the Lower Creeks as their hunting grounds, have been ceded by them to the State of Georgia for a valuable consideration, and were possessed and cultivated for some years without any claim or molestation by any part of the Creek nation. As Mr. McGillivray, and all the other chiefs, headmen, and warriors, have given strong assurances in their talks, and by writing, that no further hostilities or depredations shall be committed on the part of their nation, and as the Governor of Georgia, by issuing proclamations and other effectual measures, will prevent the commission of hostilities and depredations upon the Creek nation on the part of Georgia, the commissioners, in the best of their judgment, report: That all animosities with the Creek nation should henceforth cease; that some person should be despatched to the said nation with the ultimate draught of a treaty to establish perpetual peace and amity; that when such a draught for a treaty shall be properly executed by the leading men of the nation, all the presents intended for the Indians, and now in the State of Georgia, should be distributed among them; that if the Indians, shall refuse to execute such draught for a treaty, the commissioners humbly submit that the arms of the Union should be called forth for the protection of the people of Georgia in the peaceable and just possession of their lands; and, in case the Creeks shall commit further hostilities and depredations upon the citizens of the United States, that the Creek nation ought to be deemed the enemies of the United States, and punished accordingly. B. LINCOLN, CYRUS GRIFFIN, D. HUMPHRIES. [One would naturally have supposed that, after such an exposition as that of the commissioners, every thing would have been reduced to order in the nation: but no such thing! On the contrary, General Knox (then Secretary of War) candidly admits that the relations of the Union with the northern Indians superinduced the necessity of a compromise with McGillivray. Thus, and at this early period in the history of the General Government, did the State of Georgia become a martyr to State rights!] G. Protest of the Legislature of the State of Georgia against the treaty of New York. IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FRIDAY, November 26, 1790. The House took up the report of the committee to whom was referred the message of his excellency tbe Governor, relative to the treaty of peace entered into between the United States and the Creek Indians; and the same being read, On motion, The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole on the same, Mr. Taliaferro in the chair. Mr. Speaker resumed the chair, and Mr. Taliaferro, from the Committee of the Whole House, reported that they had had the same under consideration, and made some amendments thereto. And the said report being read, as amended, is as follows: The committee to whom was referred that part of his excellency the Governor’s communication respecting the late treaty of peace with the Creek Indians, report: That, having maturely considered the said treaty, and the several articles thereof, and taken into view the various opinions entertained on the subject, they submit the following resolutions, as expedient for the House to enter into: 1st. Resolved, That the said treaty of peace, being concluded by the Department of the General Government, which, under the federal constitution, is fully and alone competent to the measure of making treaties, ought to be inviolate; and in consideration of the public faith being pledged, this House will support the Executive and Judiciary authority of the United States, and of this particular State, in rendering firm and permanent the said peace so concluded, and in improving the blessings thereof. 2d. Resolved, That, although any infraction or violation of the said treaty, while it shall remain the supreme law of the land, ought to be punished in an exemplary manner, yet, in the opinion of this House, the concessions made thereby to the adversaries of the Union are greater than they were entitled to, considering either the origin of the Union, the sufferings of the people of Georgia, (a member of the Union,) or the comparative strength of the said Indians with that of the United States. 3d. Resolved, That the third article of the said treaty, in particular, is liable to censure, in that it leaves the restitution of property taken and carried off by the said Indians during the war on a very precarious footing, allowing them full time to remove such property out of reach; but is still more liable to censure, in that it abandons American citizens, (chiefly women and children,) led away during the war, to a savage captivity of near ten months from the signing of the treaty, if the Indians shall think proper so to do; and even after the expiration of that term, there does not appear to be adequate provision made for the certain restoration of those unfortunate persons, of whom it is well known there are several in the nation. 4th. Resolved, That the fourth article of said treaty is also liable to censure, in that it relinquishes to the Indians the possession of a district of country, which, by two solemn treaties, conducted with as full and authorized representations, with as much substantial form and apparent good faith, as Indian treaties have usually been, or perhaps can be, where one of the contracting parties is destitute of the benefits of enlightened society, was absolutely, for a valuable consideration, ceded by the said Indians to the white inhabitants of Georgia, at a time when there was no federal compact against such cession by treaty. 5th. Resolved, That the fifth article of the said treaty is also liable to censure, in that, from the mode of expression therein used, (being new in such cases,) an inference may, by some, be drawn injurious to the rights of the State, amounting to an admission that the sovereignty over the lands at present allowed to the Indians for their hunting grounds, within the limits of Georgia, belongs to the United States in general, and not to the individual State of Georgia: whereas this House conceive, and assert, that the said sovereignty solely appertains to the State of Georgia; that the same has never been granted, or by any compact whatsoever conveyed away to or deposited with the Union; but, on the contrary, is, in all the instruments of the confederation, one of the rights understood to be reserved, and which the other States solemnly guaranty. They, therefore, although offering no pretensions to the immediate possession of those lands, claim the sovereignty and right of pre-emption exclusively over the same, according to the limits mentioned and described in the land acts of this State, passed in the year 1783, and the treaty of Beaufort, made between the commissioners of South Carolina and Georgia, in the year 1787, which was afterwards recognised by Congress. 6th. Resolved, That the seventh article of the said treaty is also liable to censure, in that the same is founded in a principle of inequality, and is moreover deficient in its provisions for preserving peace; for while it restrains the white people from hunting on the Creek lands, it does not prohibit the Indian parties from coming in upon the lands of the white people; a practice, this latter, which, during its continuance, will always be productive of loss of property to the citizens of Georgia, and, consequently, of quarrels between them and the Indians. H. Letter from the Honorable William Few (then a Senator from Georgia, but now of Sing Sing, in the State of New York) to His Excellency Edward Telfair. DEAR STR:	PHILADELPHIA, January 15, 1791. I wrote you a few days ago, and enclosed you some papers relative to the construction and operation of the Creek treaty, which will preclude the necessity of adding any thing on that subject now. The animadversions of the Assembly of Georgia on that treaty have been promulged here, and, I believe, are generally approved by disinterested reflecting people; many were apprehensive that the indignation of that State would have drawn them into measures more violent and less guarded. The Legislature has taken the only constitutional ground that was left to act on, and I think have discovered great moderation and coolness in their proceedings. Already we begin to perceive the collision of the Government of the United States with that of the individual States, and I am sorry to observe that there are to be found too many public characters that wish to augment and extend the powers of the former over the ruins of the latter. Some, indeed, have imbibed the idea that nothing but a consolidated Government will answer the purpose of general protection and safety, aod they pursue with avidity all such measures as tend to that object, notwithstanding they may be an obvious violation of the principles and genius of the constitution; they cover themselves under what is termed the sweeping clause, which they contend gives the United Slates all powers that they may think necessary to exercise for the general interest and safety. Although this doctrine cannot be admitted without annihilating the State powers and State Governments, yet it cannot be fully refuted; otherwise, there would be a deficiency in the powers of the United Government, that it might be necessary to use for the general safety. The inference then is, that the Government of the United States is vested with very extensive powers, and that the administration of these powers must necessarily fall into the hands of those who will feel the most powerful incentives to strengthen and extend them. This cause will tend to hasten the progress of our Federal Government towards monarchy and despotism; and the only means that can be used to check that ptogress are to be found in the State Governments. I therefore think the success of the General Government dependin a great measure, on the preservation of the rights of the State Governments in a certain degree. It is true there is no line can be drawn that will ascertain precisely the powers of the National Government. The great law of necessity will sometimes extend it—occasionally with propriety; but the lesser pretence of expediency is too often found operating in the same direction. Colonel Few appears to have understood the character of his quondam fellow-eitizens better than he seems to have apprehended the actual result. Elsewhere, feeling may be more firm, entire, and consistent; but it is no sooner under the influence of our southern sun, than it melts into fire; and equally so, whether it be lead, lava, or gold. Indeed, I do not know that forbearance and moderation were “ acclimatized" here, even during the halcyon days of Oglethorpe, Wesley, and Whitfield. Certain it is, that no sooner did old General Clark (who was not only a patriot of the Revolution, but as honest, daring, and intrepid a spirit as ever breathed) learn that General Knox had made a compromise with McGillivray, that the treaty he had himself assisted to conclude was set aside, and that the rights of that State, for which he had so often risked his life, sacrificed his competence, and surrendered his comforts, were bartered away to a half-breed, than he raised his banner and crossed the Oconee in force. He intrenched himself upon the land bought by himself, already possessed by some of our citizens, and yet under such circumstances surrendered by the Secretary of War to Alexander McGillivray; and here he continued until those in whom he had most confidence advised that it would be indecorous (the State being now sufficiently organized) to assume the privilege of asserting its rights upon himself. He accordingly desisted; surrendered himself to the civil authority; demanded his trial; was tried; and was acquitted upon the ground that the treaty of New York was an infringement upon State rights, therefore unconstitutional, and de facto void. But the feeling did not even then subside. The General Government took part so far with the Indians, that it refused to pay our troops when ordered out to repel their aggressions, or to prevent a recurrence of them; and this is still refused to this day, although it must be known that our defensive attitude was entirely caused by the compromise which General Knox made with McGillivray—a compromise ridiculous enough, to be sure, when it is recollected that thereby the rights of a State were infringed, in the face of day, without producing any of those results calculated upon by a wretched and untoward policy; for, when McGillivray returned, he found the Creek country revolutionized, and his empire merged into the Muscogee republic, under the direction of William A. Bowles, formerly a portrait painter in this place, but who, although a white man, soon acquired such influence among the Indians, that he was enabled to banish his rival among his friends in Florida, where he shortly after died, and with him the treaty of New York; which last was, however, revived at Coleraine in the year 1796. A gentleman who was in the Legislature of 1795, and to whom nothing in the shape of a reproach has ever been attached, excepting for his vote in favur of the Yazoo law, told me that the violation of our State rights by that treaty, and the denial of justice to our citizens by refusing to settle their militia claims, hastened the sale of our western territory; the friends of the measure, thinking that, through the means of companies and their ramifications in the other States, an interest would be created quite equal to the task of compassing the extinguishment of the whole Indian title: the correctness and sincerity of which remark are rendered probable by the vote which he gave for the highest proposal, are proven by the caption of the act itself, and are put beyond all manner of doubt by the developments which have taken place from time to time. Since that deplorable event, every matter affecting this State, every thing that transpires here, and every person connected with it, is now said to owe every adventitious consequence to corruption. CORRUPTION, forsooth! a reasonable man would be inclined to think, from the continual clamor on the subject, that this State ought to have rotted long ago; besides which, it is hardly susceptible of proof that any persons born or bred up in Georgia were any more than dupes in the fraud. Where then stood our own natural portion (so to speak) of talent and virtue? Where, in the eventful times of ’89 and ’95, stood Tattnall, Taliaferro, Milledge, Habersham, the three Jones, Gibbons, Stirk, Morrison, Irwin, and Mitchell? where,subsequently, Bryan, Jackson, and Early? and lastly, though not the least, where stood William H. Crawford, through whom our State has been so much insulted, vilified, and abused? He stood in the plain, modest, and unassuming character of a private citizen, speaking with a trumpet tongue, and holding up both his hands in protest against the whole Yazoo transaction. In fact, Georgia was invaded and overrun by a horde of speculators and other adventurers just after the close of the Revolution, and was as completely changed for a time, as to character, sentiment, or conduct, as ever was England after the Saxon or Norman invasion. Let, then, the enemies of our State seek for the principle of corruption elsewhere than in the germ of our institutions; there they will not find it, for we seared it with a red-hot iron long ago: if it still festers any where, (and some say that it does,) why, let them probe the system to its full extent; but, at all events, Georgia has no longer any concern with the subject, except as a matter of history. To return, however, from this digression. VII. We are now arrived at a most important era, or the period when Georgia ceded her western empire to the United States. So much has already been said by the public prints in reference to the convention of 1802, that I shall content myself with quoting the fourth article. I. “The United States shall, at their own expense, extinguish for the use of Georgia, as early as the same can be peaceably obtained on reasonable terms, the Indian title to the county of Talassee; to the lands left out by the line drawn by the Creeks in the year 1798, which had been previously granted by the State of Georgia, both of which tracts had formerly been yielded to the Indians; and to the lands within the forks of the Oconee and Ocmulgee rivers: for which several objects the President of the United States has directed that a treaty shall be immediately held with the Creeks, and that the United States shall, in the same manner, extinguish the Indian title to all the other lands within the State of Georgia.” The treaty alluded to in this article was concluded at Fort Wilkinson, on the Oconee, (and near the present site of Milledgeville,) in less than two months after the signing of the convention; but the President, regarding the acquisition as too trifling, directed a new commission to issue for the purpose of extending the line to the Ocmulgee. J. Copy of a letter from General Anderson, of South Carolina, one of the United States Commissioners, to General David Mcrriwether, of Georgia, dated AUGUST 18, 1803. IFc have not succeeded in our mission, which may be attributed to different causes. The warmth and irritation of the opposition chiefs, on account of the capture of their leader, Bowles, no doubt was one of the leading causes. The chiefs of the opposition anticipated and counteracted the object of our meeting by a kind of electioneering artifice. They held meetings before they met us at Ooseoochee, and agreed not only to refuse to part with land, but also to refuse to ratify the treaty made at Fort Wilkinson; to reject the payment to be made to them for the land; and to prevent the line from being marked agreeably to the treaty made at Fort Wilkinson, as aforesaid. They appointed a speaker for these purposes, and were joined by all the towns on this, Flint river, and the Semi- noies: the headman and speaker are of the Upper Creeks. On the 12th instant the commissioners delivered their talk in the square, in the presence of a very general assemblage of the chiefs, particularly those in the opposition, who were there to a man. The speaker of the nation, chiefs, and warriors of the Upper Creeks had not been consulted, nor had they any knowledge of the measures which were to be pursued by the opposition. When our talk was delivered in the square, by the interpreter, the speaker of the opposition immediately began to reply. The speaker and chiefs of the Upper Creeks seemed as much surprised as we were at the novelty of their proceedings. The opposition kept the government for two days; but the speaker of the nation and chiefs of the Upper Creeks came forward with spirit and firmness; and, although they behaved with great decency towards us and to each other, yet, in their debates upon several points, there appeared a greater degree of warmth than I had ever seen in any council of Indians. The third day the opposition chiefs took us by the hand for the first time, and gave us the ceremony of the black drink. The opposition persisted in refusing to receive the payment for their land, which was given us in the square by the speaker of the nation, who, with his people, the Upper Creeks, were ready to receive their part pay for the land; and requested notice when the line would be marked, and assured us and the opposition chiefs that they would attend and see it done. In short, the Upper Creeks seemed to take the lead after the two first days, which I think they will keep until things have got right in the nation. In 1805, however, (two years afterwards,) these sturdy fellows were ordered on to Washington city by General Dearborn, then Secretary of War, who found means that induced them to extend the line to the Ocmulgee. In 1814 two treaties were concluded, and it is well known that at Fort Jackson presented to the General Government a favorable opportunity for a full compliance with all the stipulations of its agreement with Georgia; but the United States (although under bond to ns) owed money to others, which consideration blending itself with other views of policy or expediency, (synonymous terms,) induced them to extinguish the Indian title to a very great quantity of rich land in Alabama, while Georgia was told that she must be content with a portion of pinebarren territory—a healthful retreat for her citizens, no doubt! who were also now allowed to rove among the pleasant woods and academic bowers of the Okcfinocau swamp, and to dispossess the children of the sun of Bartram’s Paradise, without even paying them the poor compliment of telling them, as General Jackson had already told the Creeks and Cherokees, that they must sign the treaty. Jesting aside, (if one could jest on such a subject,) the only valuable acquisition to us was the land acquired from the last; on which account, the Legislature of Georgia entered into solemn protests against the acts and proceedings of the Federal Government, as may he seen by reference to Prince's Digest from page 529 to 532, inclusive. I pass over, for the present, the treaty of 1821. ******** Having now concluded my abstract of the documentary evidence touching this Creek question, I will next call your attention to the particulars of a conference which I held with the friendly chiefs about five or six weeks since, in relation to the origin and subsequent causes of the party division which at present prevails between themselves and the Red Sticks; and this reminds me that 1 ought here to acknowledge the very great aid which I derived on that occasion from Captain William Bowen, who was assistant to the two agents immediately preceding the present incumbent. I must premise, however, that some white men long adopted amongst them refer it to a mutual prejudice subsisting between McIntosh and Colonel Crowell, before their relations were well commenced; the chieftain having been as ardently attached to General Mitchell, as the present agent was, upon his succession, known to be politically opposed to him; if not while the latter was yet a citizen of Georgia, at all events after his removal to Alabama. But the cause assigned by Roily McIntosh and the other friendly chiefs is mainly this: the prosecution of George Stinson, an Indian countryman, or a white man naturalized as a Muscogee. He had married the general’s sister, and kept, in connexion with Chilly, a store in the vicinity of the stand occupied by Thomas Crowell, a brother of the agent, and formerly his co-partner in trade at St. Stephen’s, in the State of Alabama. During the course of the last winter, this man was arrested for an alleged violation of the United States’ laws regulating trade with the Indians, and, as was natural, he fled to his brother-in-law for protection; on the other hand, the agent sent Harnbly to the Little Prince with this message: “ 1 call upon you, as the head of this nation, to have Stinson taken, and brought to me at all hazards. If six men are not enough, send six hundred; and take him by force, if you have to destroy McIntosh and his whole establishment to effect it.” Be pleased to refer to the agent’s letter among the documents (page 160) transmitted by you to the Legislature, at the opening of the extra session in May last. Finally, however, Stinson was tried before the district court held in this city in December last, but was acquitted. Shortly afterwards, the agent ordered the chieftain himself before the national council, and preferred charges against him; bût they did not break him, although he afforded them a pretence so to do, by abruptly quitting his seat, and leaving the assembly. There was also another cause. Somewhat before this period, McIntosh proposed in a council of the Cherokees that they (the Creeks, the Chickasaws, and Choctaws) should emigrate westward of the Mississippi; and there, that these four nations of southern Indians should form one consolidated government. It is needless to say that these propositions were rejected. This was not all: McIntosh (who had been constituted a Cherokee chief, in consequence of intermarriage with one of their women) was degraded, and denounced to his own countrymen as an enemy to the red people. These sentiments were speedily adopted by the Big Warrior, who assembled a few of the Upper Creek chiefs at the Polecat Springs, where, with the assistance of his son-in-law, (who was also sub-agent under Colonel Crowell,) those celebrated resolutions were passed which are now held to justify the murder of all those who signed the treaty. It was then that parties began really to be distinguished; the Upper Creeks, or Alabama Indians, inclining to the Cherokee talks; the Lower Creeks, or Georgia Indians, to those of McIntosh: and it was in this state of things that McIntosh came to the determination that he would conclude the treaty, (as he and the Little Prince had done but four years before,) without waiting for the consent of those towns situated on the waters of the Coosa and Tallapoosa. To this measure it appears that he was strongly influenced by three considerations: 1. That the Coweta towns, being the oldest in the nation, were at one time sole owners of the country, and, as such, by the custom of the nation, have absolute authority with regard to the disposition of land. 2. At all events, that each town, retaining its original rights with regard to territory inviolate, and having never surrendered them (such as they were) to the national council, had full authority to dispose of its own domain. 3. That the upper towns had forfeited their rights, if they ever had any, by their treason during the war; which had caused the cession or surrender of all the lands mentioned in the treaty at Fort Jackson. There are also three important facts belonging to the history of this transaction, which it would be as well to take along with you: 1. That the few friendly Indians among the Upper Creeks during the late war were either in the power or possession of the hostiles, until relieved by McIntosh and his Cowetas. 2. That neither the Big Warrior, the celebrated Hopoithle Yoholo, nor any uther chief of the Upper Creek nation, signed the treaty of 1821—a treaty whose validity has never been questioned. 3. That at the treaty held by Messrs. Campbell and Merriwether, the Cussetas had already taken the talk of the commissioners, before their departure over night; which being the In- 100 E dian mode of accepting a proposition, was held by McIntosh as sufficient to justify its forma) conclusion according to the mode of the white people, without obliging all his heathens to affix the signature of the cross. The relative numbers of the two parties it is now difficult to ascertain. McIntosh stated but a short time before his murder that ten thousand would emigrate; since that time, however, important changes have taken place. The common Indians have seen those chiefs murdered to whom they had before been accustomed to look up with deference, and their murderers sustained by officers of the General Government. They have seen the consideration money tendered equally to those who opposed the treaty and to those who favored it: not only so, but as well to him who relinquishes no improvements, as to him who leaves his wigwam to the white man. They are sagacious, and readily apprehend their interests; saying naturally to themselves, if one article of a treaty is violated, may not another be? and, under the circumstances, what additional security or recompense can be acquired for ourselves by adhering to it? The statement of General Gaines, that the parties are in the proportion of 50 to 1, is said to be incorrect; and it is still maintained by the friendly Indians that seven or eight thousand would yet emigrate, if all the articles of the treaty were fairly complied with, and no difficulties thrown in the way by agents of the General Government.	******* I cannot conclude this communication without offering for your consideration one or two suggestions that fell from a common friend—a gentleman whom everybody loves, honors, and respects, but (if I may with propriety say so) none more than yuur excellency. The cardinal and (it must be believed) the unintentional error of the President consisted in sending Major Andrews here, who was totally unfit for so delicate a commission; and next, in authorizing General Gaines (though an officer possessing a full measure of honor and respectability) to act as a mediator with arms in his hands; fnr military consequence is always to be apprehended in negotiations for peace. The Chief Magistrate of the United States never could have authorized them to investigate, or to aid in the investigation of the merits of this treaty, the power to make it, or the means by which it was obtained: a step, measure, and exercise of power, as novel, impolitic, and unjust, as it would be, most assuredly, entirely unprecedented, illegal, aud dangerous. He had no more authority to institute a commission to investigate the motives that induced the conclusion of a treaty already ratified, than those which led to the passing of the tariff bill, or (what Mr. Randolph might be disposed to consider as a more fit subject of comparison) the Yazoo compromise: all of which are equally laws of the land, which the President is bound by his oath of office to execute. Much less was he empowered to sustain a rebellious portion of the Creek nation, already painted with the blood of their treaty-making power, and uttering their wild yells of savage vengeance against all such as would dare to enforce its provisions. Indeed, Congress, as such, (including the House of Representatives,) have nothing to do with our own treaty-making power: though Congress may (as Congress did) repeal the French treaty of 1778, yet it is at last but an act of Congress, the policy of which the enemies ot Georgia may live to rue and sorely to repent; for the discussion of this question must bring before the nation (and especially before the friends of State rights, at last the only real friends of the constitution,) that as to the power which the General Government is really authorized to exert over Indian nations within the chartered or allowed limits of the several States: and if this should once be taken up with spirit, other questions of equal importance will naturally follow.	****** Looking, then, towards the issue, with my thoughts as calm and collected as volition can make them, “ hoping all things, yet fearing all things,” I feel perfectly willing, for one, that the justice of our cause should be tried and determined “ by God and our country;” though it would be certainly going by much too far to say that every Georgian would regard every citizen of every other State as altogether an unbiassed or impartial juror. I have the honor to subscribe myself vour excellency’s friend and well wisher, "	JOSEPH VALLENCE BEVAN. To His Excellency GEORGE MCINTOSH TROUP, Governor of the State of Georgia. Governor Troup to T. P. Andrews. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 8, 1825. I will thank you to inform me if, in a conversation held at my request with Colonel Lumpkin, you stated to him that the evidence submitted to you did not furnish even probable cause to suspect the Indian agent as guilty under the charges exhibited against him in my letter of the 31st ultimo. As I intend to communicate immediately with your Government on this subject, I wish you to be very.particu- lar in the answer you may think proper to give, that the possibility of mistake or misapprehension maybe avoided. Very respectfully, sir, r	G. M. TROUP. To T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent United States, Milledgeville. T. P. Andrews to Governor Troup. SIH:	MILLEDGEVILLE, GEORGIA, June 8, 1825. I am honored by the receipt of your note of this evening. Colonel Lumpkin has misapprehended my remarks greatly, (for I feel satisfied he is incapable of misrepresenting them,) if he supposes I had formed any opinion as to the guilt or innocence of the Indian agent, or would form one, until I was placed in possession, in an official manner, of all the evidence to be obtained from every quarter, and had thoroughly examined it. The conversation I had the honor of holding with the colonel, which it appears was at the request of your excellency, was long and desultory; I can only at this time recollect the result. On that, until I was furnished officially with the documents and evidence referred to in the latter part of your excellency’s letter of the 31st ultimo, I did not consider myself at liberty to form any opinion, not even as to the propriety of the suspension of the agent. I beg the attention of your excellency to my letter of the 31st of May, by which you will perceive I expected to be able, to furnish the agent, in case his suspension was decided on, with a copy of the charges and specifications made against him, immediately on his being suspended, that “ he might be enabled to defend himself before his Government with as little delay as possible;” and that his suspension would also depend on the present state of excitement among the Indians. This course your excellency will do me the justice to believe is in strict accordance with the instructions of my Government. I have delayed all proceedings, (even to a formal acknowledgment of the receipt of your letter of theSIst ultimo,) waiting to be furnished with the documents and evidence promised in it. So soon as I shall be honored by its receipt, (if General Gaines shall have arrived,) I will immediately proceed to execute the intentions of the President, as made known to your excellency. 1 bave the honor to be, with the highest respect and consideration, Your excellency’s most obedient servant, T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. To His Excellency GEORGE M. TROOP, Governor of Georgia, Milledgeville. CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE GOVERNOR OF GEORGIA, THE GENERAL GOVERNMENT, AND ITS AGENTS, IN REFERENCE T0 THE LATE TREATY. General Gaines to Governor Troup. SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, GA., June 13, 1825. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the correspondence referred to by your excellency in your verbal communication of this morning, representing the indications of hostility recently manifested by the Indians on the western frontier of this State, numbered 1 to 4, inclusively; together with your instructions to Captain Harrison, of the 10th of the present month. Of this paper (which 1 return herewith) I have to request the favor of a copy, with such information as that officer shall communicate, touching the execution of the important duty assigned to him. With the greatest respect, I have the bouor to be your excellency’s obedient servant, EDMUND P. GAINES, Major General Commanding. His Excellency Governor TROUP. Governor Troup to General Gaines. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 13, 1825. As you wished, the copy of my instructions to Captain Harrison is enclosed; and any information received from that officer will be communicated without delay. With great consideration and respect, G. M. TROUP. Major General EDMUND P. GAINES, Milledgeville. Governor Troup to Captain Harrison. SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, MILLEDGEVILLE, GA., June 10,1825. In carrying into effect the orders of Major General Wimberly, under my general orders of the 7th instant, you will be careful to act strictly on the defensive, until circumstances shall arise to justify an opposite conduct. If, therefore, upon your arrival at the frontiers, you find that the Indians have not proceeded to acts of violence or outrage, you will endeavor to pacify them by the assurance that your presence there is not for the purpose of making war upon them, but to protect our people, and others within our limits, in their persons and effects, against any assaults or inroads upon either, and to chastise those who shall be mad enough to attempt them. If, on the contrary, you shall discover they have already committed acts of hostility of unequivocal character, you will treat them in all respects as enemies; pursuing them, if necessary, into the country occupied by them, and punishing them there. Should they have merely committed depredations on the property of our people, whilst you take the proper measures to recover what has been taken, you will remember that our jurisdiction is established, and the criminal laws extended over the country, so that offenders can be seized and brought to justice in the ordinary manner. Indeed, for every purpose, but more especially considering that these deluded men are objects more of pity than of resentment, it is important that, finding them in the wrong, you will endeavor to keep them so. You will take the earliest occasion to inform yourself correctly of the actual state of things in that quarter, so that you may communicate with me immediately by express. If, in the mean time, further information shall be received, making it expedient to do so, three companies, or more, of infantry or riflemen, will be marched to your support. Money is advanced for the subsistence of your corps, which you are charged to expend to the best possible advantage for the public, taking the proper vouchers and receipts, both for our own satisfaction and to enable us to charge the General Government with the amount. If, on your arrival, you shall discover the frontiers tranquilized, you will immediately return; otherwise, you will co-operate to the best advantage with any force you may find embodied there. Very respectfully, To Captain JAMES HARRISON,	G. M. TROUP. Commanding Twigs County Cavalry. Governor Troup to General Gaines.	. DEAR SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 14, 1825. It may be important to you to know, before you communicate with your Government and proceed to meet the Indians in convention, that the laws of Georgia are already extended over the ceded country, and, of course, that it is my bounden duty to execute them there. The statutory provision on this subject will be found in the papers of the morning, and in the act entitled “ To dispose of and distribute the lands lately acquired,” &c. With great consideration and regard, I am, very sincerely, yours, Major General E. P. GAINES, Milledgeville, Georgia. Governor Troup to General Gaines. gIR.	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 13, 1825. In the course of the desultory and informal communication with you of to-day, my desire was intimated that the line between this State and Alabama should be run as early as possible, and I requested the favor of you to make known to your Government this desire, and without delay. A letter will be immediately despatched to the Governor of Alabama, to apprize him of the resolution of the Government of Georgia to run that line, and to ask bis concert and co-operation. If that concert and co-operation be refused, we will proceed to run the line without them, as we will also proceed in due time to make the survey of the lands within our limits, disregarding any obstacles which may oppose from any quarter. You will see, therefore, how highly important it is that, upon these points, the two Governments should understand each other immediately. With sreat respect and consideration, G. M. TROUP. Major General E. P. GAINES, Milledgeville. General Gaines to Governor Troup. SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, GA., June 14, 1825. In reply to your excellency’s letter of yesterday’s date, I have to observe, that, although it is not my purpose to enter into the discussion of any matter of controversy between the Government of Georgia and that of the United States, not immediately connected with duties confided to me, yet, perceiving as I do upon this occasion a direct collision between the views of your excellency and those embraced in my instructions from the Department of War— a collision that may tend to produce much embarrassment in our Indian relations, and which the interests of the General and State Governments equally require should be obviated—I deem it proper to address you upon this subject, in a manner less liable to misapprehension or misconstruction than what I have stated, verbally, in the interviews with which you have favored me. Your letter, which I shall without delay refer to the Department of War, announces your intention to cause the line to be run between this State and Alabama, and to survey the public land of the State within the late ceded territory. Upon the last mentioned subject, I am distinctly authorized to state to the Indians that the President of the United States has suggested to Governor Troop the necessity of his abstaining from entering into and surveying the ceded land, until the time prescribed by the treaty for their removal. There is, perhaps, no principle of national law better established, or more universally admitted, than that the contracting parties to a treaty possess the right, and, in a case like the one in question, the exclusive right, of expounding and carrying into effect such treaty. The decision of the President, in this case, must govern me in my intended conference with the Indians; and this conference must necessarily take place before the subject can be submitted to the President; nor is it probable that, if it were submitted, it would undergo any change. I cannot, therefore, but express a confident hope that your excellency may see the propriety of abstaining from the proposed survey, both of the boundary line and of the land within the late ceded territory, until the period arrives at which the removal of the Indians is required. In the expression of this hope, I am actuated by no other feeling than that of an ardent desire to devote my best efforts towards an amicable adjustment of the existing differences with the Indians, upon just principles; regarding the interests of the State as in all respects the same as the interests of the Union or General Government. They are in fact the same, as different parts of one great animated body, through which the vital principle of life must circulate with equal freedom, affording equal health and vigur to each, as essential to the preservation and efficiency of the whole body. With great respect and regard, I have the honor to be, EDMUND P. GAINES, Major General Commanding. His Excellency GEO. M. TROUP. Governor Troup to General Gaines. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 15, 1825. I have this moment had the honor to receive your communication of the 14th instant, on the subjects of the survey of the ceded country and the running of the dividing line between Alabama and Georgia, and in which you request that, in conformity with the expressed will of your Government, both the survey and the running of the line may be forborne “ until the period arrives at which the removal of the Indians is required.” It would give me great pleasure to be able to comply with any request made by yourself or your Government. You would make none that did not, to your apprehensions, seem reasonable and proper. As, however, there exist two independent parties to the question, each is permitted to decide for itself; and, with all due deference to yours, I must be permitted to say that my apprehension of the right and of the wrong leads me to the opposite conclusion—the conclusion to which the Legislature of Georgia, upon mature reflection, recently arrived, by an almost unanimous voice, and which was made the foundation of my late communication to the Secretary of War, and my more recent one to you upon the same subject. I would deeply lament if any act proceeding from myself should caiise the least embarrassment to yourself or your Government, especially considering the critical relations in which the United States stand to the Indians, and the great interest which the Government of Georgia feels in their early and satisfactory adjustment; but it cannot be expected by your Government that important interests are to be surrendered, and rights deemed unquestionable abandoned by Georgia, because of any embarrassment which may arise in the intercourse and negotiations between the United States and the Indians. I set too just a value on your high character to believe that you would willingly create them. I am equally persuaded that none will be suffered to exist which can with propriety be removed; and I know you will pardon me when I take the liberty of saying, that those to which you refer ought not to exist for a single moment. Upon every principle and practice of diplomacy, the particular instruction of your Government which lias given rise to these embarrassments ought, at this moment, to be taken and held as no instruction at all: for it is now known to you that what purports to be an instruction was given upon information which was believed to be true, but which has turned out to be false; and the presumption is irresistible, that, the state of things being changed, your Government, so far from desiring to press the execution, would gladly withdraw the instruction; and that, without any the least responsibility, you are at perfect liberty to consider it withdrawn. It is not for me to instruct, but to derive instruction from you, in every thing connected with the military art; and you know as well as I that no principle is better settled than the one which justifies disobedience to positive orders under a change of circumstances. I say that the instruction had its origin singly in a falsehood, imposed upon your Government by its own agent, and that, but for that falsehood, the instruction would not have been given. You have the proof in common sense, and in the documents and evidence connected with the late disturbances. If you want more proof, look into the gazettes of yesterday, where you find a council of hostile Indians, assembled by the agent, proclaiming by acclamation his innocence of the death of McIntosh, because that death followed, not from the survey, but the law of the nation. Your Government is informed by the agent that the hostile Indians are in array against us, because the Government of Georgia interfered to procure the consent to the survey. The same Indians testify to the falsehood of the declaration; and the dilemma is, that, if the agent is to be believed in the one case, the Indians cannot in the other. You see, therefore, sir, plainly the result: the Government of the United States, identifying itself in all things with the agent, assumes for granted what is false, and issues, in consequence thereof, a peremptory order to this Government to forbear an act which it feels it is its right, and its duty and interest to perform. The falsity is made known to the officer instructed to carry that order into effect; the officer feels it to be his duty to proceed in the execution of the order, notwithstanding the change of circumstances which produced it. On the part of the Government of Georgia, the will of its highest constituted authority has been declared, upon the most solemn deliberation, that the line shall be run and the survey executed. It is for you, therefore, to bring it to the issue; it is for me only to repeat that, cost what it will, the line will be run and the survey effected. The Government of Georgia will not retire from the position it occupies to gratify the agent or the hostile Indians; nor will it do so, I trust, because it knows that, in consequence of disobedience to an unlawful mandate, it may very soon be recorded that “Georgia was.” Suffer me to say, also, that your Government has acted very precipitately and unadvisedly in this affair. After receiving notice of my intention to make the survey, it interposed no objection, though it had time to do so. A considerable interval elapsed, and it receives false information from the agent, upon which it issued its peremptory order. Soon after, it receives further false information from the same agent; upon which it issues other orders confirmatory of the first, and which you seem to consider final. But for my direct and active interference, hostilities would have immediately followed the death of McIntosh, and of a character so inveterate as to put at defiance any interference whatever, even on your part. Your power, not your influence, might have been availing, to be sure; but your power was not here; and for preserving this peace you know what a respectful testimonial I have of the thanks of your Government, couched in most delicate and complimentary terms. The suggestions you make in derogation of our claim to participate in the construction or execution of the treaty, giving to that suggestion its utmost force, is merely that we are not nominally parties to the treaty; whilst the answer to it is, that we are party in interest deeper tenfold than they who appear upon the paper; and that the paper, in virtue of another paper to which we are parties, both nominally and in interest, passed a vested right of soil and of jurisdiction to Georgia, which none but the great Jehovah can divest. You will be pleased to understand that there is no inclination here to urge hastily either the survey or the running of the line, so as to interfere in the least with the measures to be taken to pacify and tranquillize the Indians. On the contrary, all the facilities we can give for this object will be readily afforded; but it is believed that, in reasonable time, this happy result can, with wise and prudent measures, of which your special agent was advised yesterday, be easily accomplished; but never to be accomplished, if the condition of that accomplishment be the abandonment of the survey and running of the line. What, in our verbal conferences, had been promised, is now repeated—that the military requisitions, which, in compliance with your instructions, you may think proper to make upon the Government of Georgia, will be promptly attended to, and the force placed under your command with the least possible delay. The implicit reliance in your high sentiments of honor is my sufficient security that that force, if it could, will in no event be employed against us. With great consideration and regard, G. M. TROUP. Major General EDMUND P. GAINES, Commanding, fyc. General Gaines to Governor Troup. SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, GA., June 16, 1825. In acknowledging the receipt of your excellency’s letter of yesterday evening, I hasten to assure you that, in whatever I have said, verbally or in writing, as to the prospect of evil consequences, or the impolicy of entering upon the late ceded land, and of the survey in question, before the Indians can be required to depart therefrom, I have not permitted myself to be influenced by any statements from Colonel Crowell, the agent, though by no means prepared to condemn that officer without a hearing: on the contrary, my impressions were the result of many years of attentive observation and experience, in official and unofficial intercourse, with the southern and western Indians, added to a knowledge of the construction which the treaty had received from the President of the United States. These impressions lead me to the conclusion that the proposed surveys, with the consequent influx of white men, strangers to the Indians, during the existence of the feuds among them, would not fail to fan the flame of discord that has already produced so much mischief amongst them. I cannot but regret the difference of opinion between us upon this subject; and that it should have called forth any feeling or expression of controversy is still more to be regretted. Having no doubt that you will, in due time, hear from the proper Department of the General Government, fully and satisfactorily, upon the subject of your letter generally, I take this occasion to tender to you my acknowledgments for the promptitude and frankness with which you have furnished me with the information you had obtained in respect to the late disturbances on the frontier, and with which you have given me assurance of your readiness to co-operate with me in the discharge of the important duties to which my attention is called. Although there is much reason to hope that the spirit of hostility among the Indians may be restrained, and that peace may be restored between the contending parties; and, moreover, that the frontier may be rendered secure, without a resort to further bloodshed; yet, as the desired objects may be facilitated, and more effectually secured, by preparatory measures for coercion, I have to request that your excellency will be pleased to order a detail from the militia or volunteers of Georgia, to consist of two complete regiments, one of cavalry and one of infantry, to be held ready to assemble at a moment’s warning. Arms, ammunition, and subsistence will be provided>at the agency, or at some other suitable point upon the frontier, where it may become necessary to assemble the forces; of which due notice will be previously given. With great regard and consideration, I have the honor to be, EDMUND P. GAINES, Maj. Gen. Commanding. P. S. Pardon my scrawl; I am in haste, and have no officer to make a fair copy. E. P. G. His Excellency Governor TROUP. General Gaines to Governor Troup. TUESDAY MORNING, June 16, 1825. *#* General Gaines will take an early occasion to advise Governor Troup of the result of the intended conferences with the Indians. General Gaines salutes Governor Troup with esteem and respect. Governor Troup to General Gaines. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 16, 1825. In compliance with your requisition of this morning, I have issued orders to huld in readiness two regiments for your service; and have taken measures, as 1 promised, to furnish as large a proportion of volunteers, infantry and cavalry, as can be conveniently assembled. Captain Harrison’s troop of cavalry is placed under your orders. With great consideration, G. M. TROUP. Major General EDMUND P. GAINES, Commanding, Sfc. Governor Troup to General Gaines. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 18, 1825. The commissioners appointed, under the authority of the Legislature, to examine into the causes of the recent disturbances in the Creek nation, and more particularly into the conduct of the agent, as connected with them, will make you acquainted with my instructions. Having, like yourself, no other object than the development of truth, no doubt is entertained that they will receive your confidence, and that, by concert and co-operation, such aids and facilities may be afforded as would be desirable .to you. They are particularly charged not to interfere in any deliberations or negotiations which the United States may hold with the Indians for other objects, unless solicited so to do by yourself. From what has occurred, it is highly important that this Government should be represented at the council to be held at Broken Arrow on the 25th. The many inconsistencies in the conduct of the Indians to be explained and reconciled, and their recent convocation by the agent, for the purpose of repelling charges made against him by the Governor of this State, at the instance of the Government of the United States, make it indispensable for the attainment of truth and justice that the commissioners should be present there. If for this purpose it should be thought advisable to take with them some of the friendly chiefs, who are deeply interested in vindicating their character against reiterated attacks upon it by the hostile party, it is hoped that this likewise will meet your concurrence, and that they will be placed under your safeguard and protection. With great consideration and respect,	• G. M. TROUP. To EDMUND P. GAINES, Major General Commanding. General Gaines to Governor Troup. I SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, INDIAN SPRINGS, June 22, 1825. I have to acknowledge the honor of your excellency’s letter of the 18th of the present month, in reference to commissioners appointed under the authority of the Legislature of the State of Georgia, to examine into the causes of the recent disturbances in the Creek nation, and more particularly ieto the conduct of the agent connected with them. In reply, I have to observe, that, however much I might be aided by the experience, talents, integrity, and honor of the commissioners referred to, on the part of the State of Georgia, I do not feel myself authorized, without new instructions from the Department of War, to comply with the demand contained in their letter of yesterday’s date, “ to be admitted to a full and free participation of the council of Indians.” The council will be assembled for the purpose of enabling me to discharge important duties confided to me by the Government of the United States, and of which your excellency has been apprized. The Indians appear disposed to yield to the just and pacific views of the President; but they are still laboring under some delusion and excitement. This wuuld be increased, rather than diminished, by adding to the number of individuals by whom they are to be addressed, or by any addition or multiplication of the matters of controversy to which their attention may be called. I arn fully authorized and instructed by the Government of the United States to protect the friendly Indians; to mitigate their calamitous condition; and, in the event of hostilities having ceased on the part of the opposite party, to restore harmony between them. Hostilities have indeed ceased, and I have received satisfactory assurance of an earnest desire on the part of the chiefs of both parties to remain at peace with each other, as well as with the United States. It becomes my duty, therefore, to make peace upon iust principles, and, consequently, to avoid an Indian war. My impression of the high responsibility of the high trust reposed in me suggests clearly the propriety of my having the entire control of every individual white, man allowed to address the council; and that I should, moreover, have the control of every expression uttered to the council by any citizen ur officer of the United States. Without such control, our council, on both sides, might be involved in confusion; and the benevolent objects of the Government intrusted to me mitrht, by my improper acceptance of the proposed participation, be defeated. To avert an evil so pregnant with mischievous consequences to the Creek nation, to the peace and honor of my country, and to my own reputation, I must decline the demand of the Georgia commissioners. Should I be instructed by (hé proper authority to recognise the proposed co-operation of the Georgia commissioners, I shall take great pleasure in serving with them. My whole duty as a public officer is comprised in one single word, which suggests the propriety of the course pursued by me upon this occasion, and that word is obedience—obedience to the laws and authorities placed over me. I renew to ynur excellency assurances of mv respectful consideration. EDMUND PENDLETON GAINES, Maj. Gen. U. S. Army Commanding. His Excellency GEORGE M. TROOP, Governor of Georgia.	z ' General Gaines to Governor Troup. SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, CREEK NATION, July I, 1825. I had promised myself the pleasure of sending you a detailed account of my conference with the Indian council at this place by this day’s mail; but the mail is on the point of closing, and my account is not ready. I have therefore only to say, that the council here promised to be peaceable, and to settle their differences with the friends and followers of General McIntosh upon just principles. They protest against the treaty. They refuse to receive any part of the consideration money, or to give any other evidence of their acquiescence in the treaty. But they have, in the strongest terms, deliberately declared that they will not raise an arm against the United States, even should an army come to take from them the whole of their country; that they will make no sort of resistance, but will sit down quietly, and be put to death where the bones of their ancestors are deposited; that the world shall know the Muscogee nation so loved their country that they were willing to die in it rather than sell it or leave it. This was their mode of expression, as interpreted in presence of Benjamin Hawkins, and several other interpreters, who were instructed to state whether or not the public interpreter did his duty. The council, fully attended, has thus appealed to our magnanimity; an appeal which never can be unavailing when addressed to citizens of the United States.	• With great respect, I have the honor to be, EDMUND P. GAINES, Maj. Gen. Commanding. To Governor TROUP. Governor Troup to General Gaines. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, July 4, 1825. I bad the honor to receive your letter of the 1st instant this morning, for which be pleased to accept my thanks. How does the obstinate refusal to remove consist with the universal consent given at one time to the treaty at the Springs, with the exception of the Tuckaubatchees; or with the report made by Hambly to Colonel Williamson, that he had the yea or nay in the matter, and by the authority of these same people; or with the placid content and good feeling for McIntosh, manifested in their talk to Colonel Lamarî <fcc. I much fear that this ardent love of country is of recent origin; we can scarcely believe that the amor patrice is all upon the one side, and that side the hostile one. Will you not be able to discover, in the course of your investigation, that every thing has been said and done by white men to prejudice them against their new home? It is, indeed, a pity that these unfortunate men should be the dupes of the most depraved of nur own color, and so far the dupçs as to be made to act in direct repugnance to their own best interests; it is more to be lamented that the impostors and knaves cannot be dragged from their hiding-places and punished. Presupposing these unhappy people to continue blind and obdurate, the utmost which your Government can do, in the spirit of magnanimity and forbearance, will be to relinquish the benefit which would result to it from the execution of the treaty, and guaranty to them, for their permanent home, the lands west of the Georgia line. If the Cherokees continue to conduct themselves in like temper, the like provision may be made for them. But how will this accord with the recent policy adopted by the United States, or with the substantial and lasting interests of the Indians? In every estimate of humanity, it would be better that this deceitful charm, by which they are bound, should be broken and dispelled; that, after adjustment and reconciliation of differences, the entire body should move without sorrow to the country allotted to them. I am persuaded that no efforts of yours will be unessayed to accomplish this most desirable and holy end—holy I say, because it is the only one that can consist with their peace, safety, and happiness. Pardon me for throwing out these hasty and desultory reflections; they have, no doubt, already presented themselves to your own mind. Presuming that the followers of McIntosh, who almost exclusively occupy the Georgia lands, will remove; and that, in their present unsettled condition, it would be very desirable to them to do so, whilst it would save to the United States the expense of their maintenance and support here, I would feel myself obliged if, consistently with your duty, you would give every encouragement to such dispositions. With great consideration and regard, EDMUND P. GAINES, Maj. Gen. Commanding, Fort Mitchell. General Gaines to Governor Troup. SJR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, FLINT RIVER, July 10, 1825. The excessive heat of the weather, added to the many inconveniences and interruptions which I have daily encountered in the course of my visit to the Creek nation, has deprived me of the pleasure of writing to your excellency as often, or as fully, as I have been desirous of doing. I have now the honor, without entering into details that could afford but little interest, to communicate to you the result of my conferences with the Creek Indians. After meeting in this State the chiefs of the McIntosh party, and hearing their respective statements, with the evidence for and against each party, I have urged them to an adjustment of differences; to which they have mutually assented. The McIntosh party demanded retaliation for their fallen chiefs, with the immediate restoration of property taken or destroyed. Their demands were founded upon the eighth article of the treaty of February last, which promises, on our part, protection “to the emigrating party” against the whites and all others; which party they (the followers of General McIntosh) assume themselves exclusively to be. Whether this provision of the treaty was, or was not, intended to protect the Creek Indians against themselves, or to protect a comparatively small part of them against the main body of the nation, were questions which I was happily not called upon to decide; as, in the event of hostilities having subsided, my instructions simply required me to make peace upon just principles, and to require the complainants, as well as the opposing party, to abstain from acts of retaliation or violence. The reputed hostile party consists of all the principal chiefs, and of nearly forty-nine fiftieths of the whole of the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the nation; among whom I recognise many who were in our service during the late war, and who, to my certain knowledge, have been for twenty years past (and I think they have been at all times) as friendly to the United States as any of our Indian neighbors could have been known to be. I met them at Broken Arrow, the usual place of holding the great council of the nation; I could not, therefore, but view the supposed hostile party as in fact and in truth the Creek nation, and altogether free of the spirit of hostility ascribed to them. I have received from them, in council assembled, the most deliberate assurance of their determination to be peaceable and friendly towards their absent people, as well as towards the United States. They regretted the necessity which, they contend, existed for the strong measures they adopted against General McIntosh and others, who, they affirm, forfeited and lost their lives by having violated a well-known law of the nation. They have engaged to restore all property taken, and to pay for all that has been destroyed contrary to law; and they have promised a reasonable time to those who have borrowed and run off with money out of their national treasury to reimburse the same. The council strongly and unanimously objected to the late treaty, as the offspring of fraud, entered into contrary to the known law and determined will of the nation, and by persons not authorized to treat. They refuse to receive any part of the consideration money due under the treaty, or to give any other evidence of their acquiescence in it. In conclusion, they expressed the hope that their white friends would pity their deplorable condition, and would do them the justice to reconsider and “undo that which has been wrongfully done.” I have, pursuant to my instructions from the Department of War, endeavored to convince the council, but without success, of the fallacy of their objections to the treaty, and to dissipate their delusive hopes that it can ever be annulled. I have assured them that, in all our treaties with the Powers of Europe, as well as with near fifty Indian nations, there has not been one instance, to my knowledge, of a treaty having been revoked or annulled, after being duly ratified, except by the free consent of all the parties to it, or by war. I yesterday met in council, near Joseph Marshall’s ferry, the chiefs of the McIntosh party, and communicated to them the proposition of the council at Broken Arrow; to which they have assented. The chiefs of both parties have solemnly and distinctly assured me that they will remain at peace with each other, and that they will in no case raise an arm against the citizens of the United States. Under these circumstances, it is my duty to notify your excellency that there will be no occasion for calling into service any part of the militia or volunteers of the State over which you preside. The certificate, of which I enclose herewith a copy, (marked A,) added to the declarations of the chiefs in council, of whom Joseph Marshall was principal and interpreter, proves that your excellency has been greatly deceived in supposing that the McIntosh party ever consented to the survey of the ceded territory being commenced before the time set forth in the treaty for their removal. This fact, giving altogether a new aspect to the subject of the proposed survey of the land, added to a strong conviction on my mind that the attempt to make the survey would be a positive violation of the treaty, and will, under existing causes of excitement, be certain to produce acts of violence upon the persons or property of unoffending Indians, whom we are bound to protect, it becomes my duty to remonstrate against the surveys being commenced until the Indians shall have removed, agreeably to the treaty. I cannot doubt that the facts disclosed by the accompanying certificate, with the concurrent testimony of the chiefs in council, to which I have adverted, will induce your excellency, without hesitation, to abandon the project of surveying the land before the month of September, 1826.	. . This would be particularly gratifying to me, as it would relieve me of the painful duty of acting not in concert with the venerated authorities of an enlightened and patriotic member of the United States, to whom I stand pledged by every principle of honor, under the solemnity of an oath, to serve them honestly and faithfully. With great consideration and regard, I have the honor to be your obedient servant, EDMUND P. GAINES, Major General United States Army, Commanding. His Excellency GEO. M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia. A. Certificate enclosed in the preceding letter. We certify that we accompanied the express from Governor Troup to General McIntosh, conveying the request that he would allow the survey of the land acquired by the treaty at the Indian Springs to be immediately com menced. General McIntosh replied that he could not grant the request, but would call the chiefs together, and lay it before them; which was never done. WILLIAM EDWARDS, JOSEPH MARSHALL. AT PORTESS, UPSON COUNTY, July 9, 1825. I certify that this is a correct copy of the original certificate, signed in mv presence. E. G. W. BUTLER, Aid-de-Camp. Governor Troup to General Gaines. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, July 16, 1825. I have only a moment left to say one word in answer to that part of your letter I had the honor to receive yesterday which relates to the assent given by McIntosh to the survey of the country. The certificate of Marshall, no matter how procured, is one of the most daring efforts that ever was attempted by malignant villany to palm a falsehood upon credulity. Now, sir, that you may be at once undeceived with regard to this trick which has been played off by somebody, I have to assure you that, independently of the assent three times given by McIntosh, under his own hand, which I have in my possession, this same man (Marshall) has repeatedly declared to me that there was not a dissentient voice from the survey among the friendly chiefs. All the chiefs I have seen have uniformly declared the same; and so they have declared to others, both in and out of council; and for this you have my word of honor, and may have my oath.	I very well know, from the late events	which have transpired	under the eyes of the commissioners, that the oath	even of a Governor of Georgia may	be	permitted to pass for nothing, and that any vagabond of the Indian country may be put in requisition to discredit him; but I assure you, sir, if that oath should not weigh one feather with your	Government, it will weigh with the	people of this State, who,	so far as I have a knowledge of their history, have	never refused credence to the word	of	their Chief Magistrate,	and I believe will not to the present one, unworthy as he may be. Permit me to say, in frankness, that I do not like the complexion of things at all as disclosed by the commissioners on the part of the State, and sincerely hope that you may never have cause to regret the part you have taken in them. Every prepossession here was in your favor, and it would have given me great pleasure to cherish it in behalf of an officer who had rendered signal service to his country through many a perilous and trying scene. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, G. M. TROUP. EDMUND P. GAINES, Maj. Gen. Commanding, Indian Springs. .	General Gaines to Governor Troup. HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, SIR:	INDIAN SPRINGS, July 28, 1825. I have to acknowledge the honor of your excellency’s letter of the I6th of this month, by which it appears that you had “ only a moment left to say one word” in answer to mine of the 10th. Your one word, comprehending, however, two pretty closely written pages, coming as it does from the Chief Magistrate of an enlightened and patriotic member of the United States, demands my attention. Not being disposed, however, to follow your example as to time, I have permitted your letter to lie on my table for a week past, in the expectation that a little reflection would suggest to you the propriety of correcting some expressions, apparently hasty, and calculated to call forth an answer partaking of the climate and heated atmosphere in which I find myself; against which it has been my constant purpose to guard: but your letter having made its appearance in a newspaper just now handed to me by a friend, I can no longer see the propriety of withholding a reply. You say, “ The certificate of Marshall, no matter how procured, is one of the most daring efforts that ever was attempted by malignant villany to palm a falsehood upon credulity.” “ No matter how procured!" I will first state to you the manner in which that frightful certificate was “ procured,” and then proceed to show that its “ daring” character consists in its truth, and its direct tendency to expose, in part, the “ malignant villany" which has been extensively practised on the credulity of many of the good citizens of Georgia and other States, in reference to the Indians and the treaty. The facts contained in the certificate in question were voluntarily, and to me unexpectedly, communicated by Mr. William Edwards and Joseph Marshal], whose signatures it bears. Of the character of William Edwards, who is a citizen of this State, I have had no means of knowing much personally. He has been represented to me by Colonel Brodnax of Pike, and by Colonel Phillips of this county, as a man of truth—poor, but honest and upright; a description of character applicable to a large class of the inhabitants of this and other parts of our western border, in whom I have usually found as much devotion to truth as in any other class of American citizens. Joseph Marshall is personally better known to me. He is a Creek half-breed, and is deemed to be a good interpreter; and however deficient, as I know he is, in education and refined moral sentiments, such as have obtained the sanction of civilized society, I have no doubt that he is one of the most upright chiefs that ever belonged to the little treaty-making party. Neither of these men, Edwards or Marshall, appeared to me at all qualified for what you denounce their certificate to be—“ the most daring effort that ever was attempted by malignant villany.” Their statements were simple, and apparently unprejudiced and unimpassioned; they were macle after the principal business of the council had been brought to a close, and in the presence of many of the respectable citizens of Pike county. Convinced of the propriety of all my duties with the Indians being performed in open day, and in the presence of as many as would attend of all States and of all colors, I took care that the certificate should be taken and explained in presence of the council, and of all others who had seen fit to attend. I had no secret project to promote, nor any “ secret griefs" to remedy, or secret hopes to gratify; and, consequently, had no occasion for separating the chiefs, or for secret examination. The certificate was written as it was dictated (as I believe, word for word) by my aid-de-camp, E. George Washington Butler, a young officer of accomplished military education and talents, with unbending integrity and spotless honor; and who is as incapable of giving countenance to a triek or misrepresentation as was the beloved Father of his Country, with whose name he is honored, and whose patriotism and virtue he constantly scrupulously imitates. Having thus explained to you the means employed to obtain the certificate in question, for which I hold myself responsible, I have now to remark, that, although I have never entertained a doubt that you were deceived into a belief that General McIntosh had consulted the few chiefs of his party, and had obtained their assent in council to the immediate survey of the ceded land, yet I have found no satisfactory evidence of such council, consisting of the chiefs of the ceded territory, having ever acted at all upon the subject. And it is apparent from McIntosh’s letters, “ no matter how procured,” (I will offer no apology for making use of your excellency’s pregnant phrase,) or bv whom written, that he himself considered the permission to survey as merely conditional. But I contend that neither General McIntosh nor his vassal chiefs had any right to give such permission; for the treaty, “ no matter how procured,” had become a law of the land; its provisions could not, therefore, be changed or rendered inoperative by any correspondence, or any subsequent agreement, between your excellency and any part or the whole of the individuals of one of the contracting parties, without the consent of the other. The treaty makes it our duty to protect the Indians against the whites and all others. To protect them from the whites, it is necessary and proper that we should maintain the usual line, of demarcation between them and the whites. I am charged with their protection. To accomplish this important duty, my first object has been to take effectual measures to prevent all intercourse between them and the whites, excepting only such as is sanctioned by the laws of the United States. You say, “ I very well know, from the late events which have transpired under the eyes of the commissioners of Georgia, that the oath of a Governor of Georgia may be permitted to pass for nothing, and that any vagabond of the Indian country may be put in requisition to discredit him; but I assure you, sir, if that oath should not weigh a single feather with your Government, it will weigh with the people of this State, who, so far as I have a knowledge of their history, have never yet refused credence .to the word of their Chief Magistrate.” To this apparently very serious, but certainly very vague charge, I cannot undertake to reply, until you do me the favor to give me some specifications of the matters-of-fact to which you have, referred. I will, however, take this occasion to remark, that, whatever statements you may have received in support of the insinuation apparently contained in your letter, that I have called in question, or even put any person in requisition to call in question, the oath or the word of a Governor of Georgia, during bis continuance in office, are wholly destitute of truth. I have, indeed, believed, and have expressed to you my belief, that you have been greatly deceived by persons in whose honor you have placed reliance, but who were unworthy of your confidence. But I am by no means disposed to yield my tacit assent to the high-toned rule of English law which your remarks just now quoted call to mind, that “the King can do no wrong.” Truth is a divine attribute, and the foundation of every virtue. “Truth is the basis of all excellence.” This inestimable moral treasure, truth, is to be found in the cottage as well as in the palace, at the plough as well as at the official bureau of state. Many of the unfortunate wanderers of the wilderness and its borders are as firm votaries of truth as any men I have ever known. Some of them, who have been unfortunate in business, and whose regard to truth and honesty induced them to give up the last dollar justly due tu their creditors, had they regarded money a little more, and truth a little less, might havo failed full-handed; and now, instead of being reduced to the condition of despised poverty, would wanton in the luxuries of plundered wealth. It is no longer possible in America to make freemen believe that the “ King (or he who governs) can do no wrong.” The enlightened citizens of the republic have long since found it to he fruitless to look for angels in the form of men to govern them, and know full well how to discriminate between the high office and the man who fills it. Your excellency will, I doubt not, always receive a degree of respect, proportioned at least to that which you are wont to bestow on other men in office: more than this could not be expected; less than this would not be just. That a great number of the citizens of Georgia are magnanimous, just, generous, and chivalric, I well know; and that they are disposed to do justice to their Chief Magistrate, I aoi equally convinced; nor can I doubt that they will do equal justice to their United States as well as their State officers.	■ I rely upon the wisdom, justice, and patriotism of at least nine-tenths of those with whom I have the pleasure of an acquaintance, many of whom are cultivators of the land; to which class, in this and every other State in the republic, I look up with confident pleasure and pride, as they form the adamantine pillars of the Union; against which the angry vaporing paper squibs of the little and the great demagogues of all countries may continue to be hurled for hundreds of centuries, without endangering the noble edifice. This beloved monument of American wisdom, and valor, and virtue will stand unshaken, when the disturbers of its infantile repose will be remembered to be pitied or execrated. The good people of Georgia, I am well aware, are anxious to obtain possession of the land upon their western border; but they would abhor the idea of fraudulent or lawless means being resorted to, to treat for, or, after treating, to obtain possession of it, before the time authorized by treaty. And I am well convinced that the President of the United States is as sincerely desirous as any upright citizen of Georgia can be, that the Indian claims to the lands within her limits should be speedily extinguished, and that the Indians should remove therefrom as soon as they can justly be required to remove; but he owes them protection and justice, and both will be extended to them. It is not to be denied that there is in Georgia, as well as every other State, a small class of men, who, like the “Holy Alliance," profess to employ themselves in the laudable work of enlightening and governing all other classes of the community, but whose labors consist of the vain and “daring efforts” to prove that the light of truth is to be found only with the party to which themselves respectively belong, and that all others go wrong. If you will take the trouble to read the newspaper essays with which the presses have been teeming for some years past, you will find that many of the essayists have had the hardihood to “ refuse credence to the word of their Chief Magistrate,” and yet we have no reason to despair of the republic. You say, “ I.do not like the complexion of things at all, as disclosed by the commissioners on the part of the State, and sincerely hope (you add) that you may never have cause to regret the part you have taken in them.” Permit me then, sir, to conclude with a sincere hope that the commissioners, with whose report I am thus menaced, may prove by their conduct that they belong not to the aforementioned one-sided enlightening class; should their report be found to contain truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, your excellency may dismiss your apprehensions felt on my account, as I have nothing to apprehend. But if their report be not true, I can say only that the tongue and the pen of calumny can never move me from the path of duty, nor ever make me regret the course pursued by me, in respect to the Indians or the commissioners, the State or the United States. In tendering to your excellency my acknowledgments for the prepossession in my favor of which you speak, and which you say would have given you “ pleasure to cherish in behalf of an officer who had rendered signal services to his country,” permit me to observe, that the approbation of my countrymen is more dear to me than any earthly treasure they could bestow, save that of an assured devotion to the republic: if, indeed, it be in my power to win that approbation by a faithful discharge of my duty as a public officer and as an honest man, I have long endeavored thus to win it. My best efforts are constantly exerted to ascertain the direct and proper course of duty prescribed • by law, and justice, and honor; and to pursue that course without any regard to consequences. But I have seen, of late, with regret, that it is scarcely possible for an officer of the General Government to differ with you in opiniotf without incurring your uncourteons animadversion or your acrimonious censure, neither of which shall ever induce me to forget what is due to myself, or the venerated station you fill, and the relation in which you stand to the General Government, in whose service I have the honor to be placed. Wishing you health and respect, I have the honor to be, EDMUND P. GAINES, Maj. Gen. Commanding. To His Excellency GEORGE M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia. Governor Troup to General Gaines. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, August 6, 1825. A letter purporting to be yours, which appeared in the last Georgia Journal, and having every characteristic of an official one, could nut fail to attract my attention. Immediately, therefore, on my return to this place, inquiry was made at the Department for the original, and I learned, with surprise, that none such had been received. The proper means were then resorted to, to ascertain the authenticity of the published letter; and, having been satisfied that the same was in your proper handwriting, I have lost no time to direct you to forbear further intercourse with this Government. Having thought proper tu make representations of your conduct to the President, I have ordered you to be furnished with a copy of every letter written on your subject, and which will reach you in due time. Any communication proceeding from the officer next in command in this military department will be received and attended to. G. M. TROUP. E. P. GAINES, Major General Commanding, Indian Springs. Governor Troup to T. P. Andrews. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 14, 1825. In the conversations held with yourself and General Gaines, in relation to the objects of your mission, you were pleased to express a desire to receive from myself any views or suggestions which might usefully contribute to the results which were most desirable. These, in passing, have been hitherto frankly given. As it is determined that one. or both of you will proceed to attend the convention of the Indians about to be holden at Broken Arrow and the Indian Springs, it becomes my duty tu disclose to you, in a special manner, the opinions entertained of this first and most important movement, so that, if miscarriage follow, the councils of Georgia will share in no degree the responsibility of that miscarriage. It is known to be one of your objects to elicit from the convention the truths connected with the late and present disorders in the nation—a development which the councils of Georgia cannot fail to regard with very deep concern; it has been more than once asked of you, therefore, if, preparatory to this movement, it did [not] seem to you as indispensable to suspend the agent from his functions under the authority vested in you by your Government. The answers given have been received with pain and regret, because they indicated an intention to forbear the exercise of the power, at least for the present; whilst it is plainly foreseen that the present is the only moment at which the exercise of it would be of any value to you, or to us, in the fulfilment of the objects of your mission, and for this very obvious reason: the agent, in virtue of his official power, exercising a controlling influence over one portion of the nation, has already assembled that portion; and you see in the morning’s paper by what a formidable and imposing array of chiefs he stands exculpated and acquitted. Now, sir, I appeal to your good sense to inform me of what avail will be the contemplated convocation and catechising of the Indians, the agent holding tu his commission and wielding his accustomed powers? Is it to be believed that, under like circumstances, they will reconsider their minutes and alter their verdict? Not so. In matters even of this kind, they have sagacity and shrewdness, and a decent regard fur the opinions of the world. Not doubting that your object is the ascertainment of truth, it is hoped that you will suffer no obstacles to impede your course to it; the most formidable of all stands directly in your way. It is impossible that the faintest ray of light can reach you, when it is known that, in despite of all that has transpired of crimination, of investigation, of evidence, and of exposure, the agent is present to the Indians in his robes of ermine, yet sustained by the Government of the United States as if his purity were spotless and his name unsullied; the same in authority as he always has been; the same whom they behold in prospect to be their leader ihrough new trials, their counsellor in evil times, and the supreme director of their destinies in all times. Can it be presumed that, under such circumstances, the Indians will speak to you without restraint? The documents of incontestable authority prove to you that they will not. No, sir; the way to the accomplishment of the ends of your mission is open—suspend the agent; make atonement to the friends of McIntosh for the blood shed by the guilty instruments of white men; restore the friendly chiefs to their political rank and power; and, my word for it, you will find truth, (and enough of it for every purpose,) peace, reconciliation, and union. With great respect and esteem, G. M. TROUP. T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent.	» Governor Troup to T. P. Andrews. Stn:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, Jujie 13, 1825. In compliance with a resolution of the Legislature of the State of Georgia, I place you in possession of the report of a committee, the resolutions which follow, and the evidence which supports them, in the case of the agent for Indian affairs, whose conduct in connexion with the late disturbances in the Creek nation has been recently a subject of investigation before that Legislature. Very respectfully, T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent U. S., Milledgeville, Georgia. T. P. Andrews to Governor Troup. SIR;	CREEK AGENCY, FLINT RIVER, June 18, 1825. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your excellency’s letter of the 13th instant, accompanied by a copy of the evidence against the Indian agent, taken before the committee of the Legislature. I have not yet received an official copy of the documents promised in your letter of the 31st May. I take the liberty of urging your excellency to furnish me with them as early as possible. I avail myself of this opportunity to call the attention of your excellency, in an especial manner, to the necessity of furnishing the agent of the General Government, as speedily as possible, with any additional testimony which you wish to offer against the Indian agent. I hope to get through the examination of the evidence offered, and to be offered, by the agent, to rebut that with which I have already been furnished, in about three weeks. The urgency, indeed necessity, of having any additional testimony which may be offered against him by that time, or as soon thereafter as possible, will be apparent; as a fair examination must form the wish of your excellency, as it does that of the President and of the Secretary of War. I have also to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the I4th instant, which was handed to me at the moment of my departure for this place from Milledgeville. I am, perhaps, unfortunate in entertaining different opinions of the matters to which it relates, and particularly as to the importance, the justice, or necessity of suspending the agent, under present circumstances. After an attentive examination of the testimony taken by the committee, and some already shown to me by the agent, and as no specifications have been presented, I did not think that the suspension was demanded on the grounds contemplated in my letter of the 31st of May, and by the Government. I did think, the determination of the General Government and of its agents being, as your excellency has very justly remarked, “the ascertainment of truth,” that the presence or absence of the. Indian agent at any place, or under any circumstances, would be immaterial in the fulfilment of that determination. I had a hope, also, that, as your excellency is seen to speak in doubting language of all guilt of that officer in your message of the 3d instant, being after the date of your charges against him; that, as he has been acquitted generally of one of the charges by the adopted report of the Legislature; having still the appalling influence and power of the executive and legislative branches of one Government against him, and that, too, on testimony avowedly exporte, he would not have to complain, during his trial, of any acts on the part of another which might appear to partake of oppression. Your fixed opinion as to the necessity of his suspension, and the manner in which that opinion is communicated, will compel me to that course, in courtesy, and to convince your excellency and the people of Georgia that the General Government is determined not to suffer even a supposed difficulty to be in the way, and to leave no course untried which may elicit the free and unbiassed testimony of all persons: this, even towards a man who has not been, so far as the investigation has been pursued by the authorities of Georgia, “ informed of the nature and causes of the accusation,” or “ confronted with the witnesses against him,” or had “ compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor,” as required by the sacred instrument which guards the rights of all. I observed, before leaving Milledgeville, that parts of the testimony taken before the committee of the Legislature had been published in the newspapers, and it was currently reported the balance was to be shortly made public. The Indian agent being an officer of the General Government, I presume (and from expressions adopted by the Legislature) that the main object of the examination was to place the General Government in possession of the evidence. If such is the fact, your excellency will not, I feel assured, think it improper in me, as the agent of the General Government, to remark, that I trust you will consider it as due in courtesy to the General Government, and injustice to the party accused, that the evidence taken by the committee, and now in the official charge of yom excellency, avowedly exparte, should not be spread before the puhlic, and public opinion thereby forestalled, before the agent has had an opportunity of defending himself, or the General Government an opportunity of examining the evidence adduced by either party. The frankness which your excellency has uniformly invited, emboldens me to make the suggestion for your consideration. With the highest respect and consideration, I remain your excellency’s most obedient servant, T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. To His Excellency GEO. M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia, Milledgeville. Governor Troup to T. P. Andrews. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 20, 1825. I have this moment received your letter of the 18th instant, dated at the Creek agency. The printing of the documents and evidence having relation to the disorders in the nation, and to the charges exhibited by this Government, will be completed, it is understood, in the course of the day; so that a copy will be forwarded for your use in the course of to-morrow. The commission authorized by the Legislature to take further testimony, will, for that purpose, proceed forthwith to the nation, and under orders to make all possible despatch. You have widely mistaken me if you believe that any disposition exists here to withhold from the agent the most ample means of justifying himself to his Government, much less any desire for the performance of an act on your part that would savor of oppression; on the contrary, this Government desires that the fairest opportunity shall be afforded the accused of profiting of every description of testimony which may be available for his complete vindication, free from any obstacles or embarrassments which it might have the power to interpose. It was in this spirit that my instructions to the commissioners were draughted; and although it was known'that the agent had disclaimed the authority of the Government of Georgia to interfere, and that, therefore, there was little probability of his seeking the benefit of a particular instruction, nevertheless an instruction has been given, which will admit him at his pleasure to be present at the investigation on our part, and to exercise the right of cross-examination freely. Moreover, I can add, with great sincerity, that it will give me pleasure at any time to contribute aids and facilities to his defence; for, whatever I may believe of the guilt or innocence of the agent, 1 trust that one and all of us, for the honor of our own human nature, would gladly see him vindicated and justified against such charges as have been preferred by this Government. Whilst, however, this assurance is given, it is nevertheless true that you have very much misconceived the sentence of my message, which, according to your construction of it, implies doubt of the guilt ot the agent. No such doubt exists. It was not said that the agent had committed crimes, because it was not intended to say so; it was enough that the agent had been charged with the commission of them: and, having exhibited the charges, I presume you would not have been insensible to the indelicacy of the accuser passing sentence upon the accused. But whilst this was purposely avoided there, I can very freely make known to you here, that if, instead of passing upon the guilt or innocence of the accused, I had been stating my belief from the evidence even now disclosed, and ex parte as it may be, I would have said, without hesitation, that, with respect to the one charge, I believed him guilty of that beyond the possibility of refutation; and that, with regard to the other, he was so far innocent only as he was not present at the time and place, inflicting the blows with his own hands. Taking very opposite views of the subject, you seem to have yielded a reluctant and ungracious assent to the suspension of the agent, and indeed to indulge a little in the language of complaint, lest injury might, by possibility, result from it to the accused. Be persuaded, sir, that this act of suspension is in no respect personally gratifying to me; nor were feelings of any kind connected with my suggestion of the propriety of it, but those which yourself must have indulged for the successful fulfilment of the objects of your mission. I repeat what was before alleged in support of that suggestion, that it could not be conceived how it would be possible for you to make any the least advance to the attainment of truth, or to the pacification of the Indians, without it as a first and indispensable measure. The friendly chiefs had already given your Government to understand that they would never consent to commit themselves again to the protection of the agent; and you were almost present to witness that, by the power and influence of his office, the hostile chiefs had been convoked, and a declaration of the innocence of the agent either extorted or otherwise obtained; and this, too, jusC before the period had arrived at which General Gaines and yourself were to convene the same Indians, for the purpose of obtaining from them, fairly and honestly, the truth; a fact well known to the agent, but which fact did not prevent him from thus forestalling and anticipating you. When you permit yourself to say that the agent “has not, so far as the investigation has been pursued by the authorities of Georgia, been informed of the nature and cause of the accusation,” you will suffer me to answer that this has been no omission of ours, but of yours. It was part of your duty to have notified the agent, so soon ns the charges were received, of the existence of those charges; and with regard to specifications, I assure you that unless for some very useful purpose to the interest of Georgia, I would not take the trouble to sit down to paper to make them. The agent is charged with instigating the Indians to the commission of the crime of murder, and with predetermined resolution to prevent the Indians from making cession of the lands, so long as a certain person was at the head of the Governmènt of Georgia; and these, in all reason, are specifications enough. We are not exhibiting charges against the agent as offending the martial law, to which a long detail of specifications, according to custom, must be subjoined. If your Government wants further specification, it must seek it elsewhere; and this, sir, is obviously the mistaken bias under which you and your Government labor. You are willing to resolve every thing into prejudice against the agent, for his protection; whereas it is notorious that the prejudice of your Government has been so far advantageous to him, that it is very difficult to subdue it by any kind of evidence. With respect to “ the right of confrontation with the witnesses against him,” there is abundant time for that when, after finding a true bill, he shall be arraigned at the bar of justice; and with regard to his “not having compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, as required by the sacred instrument which guards the rights of all,” I pledge you my word of honor that, whenever I shall hear of such gross injustice being done him by any competent and authorized tribunal before which he may be cited, I will consider it as an injury done to myself; and if done by a tribunal within our jurisdiction, and of course punishable for offences committed under our constitution and laws, so far as depends on me, the utmost efforts will be.made to bring to punishment all or any public agents concerned in so offending. The documents are in a course of publication, by order of the Legislature. Having been previously made public by that body itself, in the most formal manner, it is not seen that any further publication of them can operate injuriously to the agent; for it would seem to be better, even on his own account, that, after so much had been made known of their contents, all should be known, and that nothing should be left for inference or conjecture; especially, too, as the public, understanding the character of the evidence to be ex parte, will be able to estimate it at what it may be worth. It may be proper to add, that, by a special and positive resolution, the Governor is directed to cause them to be distributed through all the counties as soon as they are printed, and you are already informed that the printing will be complete in the course of to-day. With great respect and consideration, G. M. TROUP. To Major T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent, Creek Agency. T. P. Andrews to Governor Troup. SIR:	CREEK AGENCY, FLINT RIVER, June 23, 1825. I do myself the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 20th instant, this day received from your aid-de-camp, Colonel Jones, from whom I have also received a copy of the documents which accompanied your excellency’s message of the 23d of May to the Legislature. Your excellency appears to entertain an impression that I had expressed a belief, in my letter of the 18th instant, that a disposition exists on the part of the authorities of Georgia to withhold from the agent the means of justifying himself to his Government, and that you had also shown a wish that I should, by complying with your repeated and urgent request, both verbally and in writing, tu suspend the agent, enter into proceedings against him before his trial, which might savor of oppression. At the same time that I take advantage of the first possible moment to,disclaim, in the fullest manner, entertaining for a moment a belief as to any such disposition or intention, yet your excellency will excuse me for remarking that, although I could not for an instant entertain a belief that such intentions actuated the authorities of Georgia, yet their acts must inevitably have that unjust and oppressive operation on the agent. It is impossible that authorities so exalted could wish to act oppressively or unjustly towards an humble individual under trial; but it is equally impossible for an unprejudiced person to withhold the belief that their proceedings (in the absence of any but the fairest intentions) have had their effects on the interests and feelings of the'individual referred to. You remark “ that, by the power and influence of his office, the hostile chiefs had been convoked, and a declaration of the innocence of the agent either extorted or otherwise obtained; and this, too, just before the period had arrived at which General Gaines and myself were to convene the same Indians, for the purpose of obtaining from them, fairly and honestly, the truth; a fact wellknown to the agent, but which fact did not prevent him from thus forestalling and anticipating us.” I am satisfied it is only necessary (to induce you to do him justice in your good opinion in relation to that particular transaction) to remind your excellency that those documents were.procured by the agent from the Indians before it was possible for the agent to know that General Gaines or an agent of the Government was ordered here. I arrived at Milledgeville on the 31st of May, and General Gaines on the 12th or 13th of June; and the documents referred to as procured by the agent from the Indians are dated on the 14th of May. Indeed, they were procured from the Indians six days before General Gaines’s orders were issped at Washington, and the same number of days before I was appointed special agent for the Government. They were shown to me the day 1 reached Milledgeville. In your remark, that it was part of my duty to'have notified the agent, so soon as the charges were received, of the existence of those charges, your excellency inadvertently overlooks the fact, that, in my letter of the 31st of May, it was made known tu you that it was expressly contemplated by my Government that specifications and evidence should accompany the charges, as an act of justice to the accused, to enable him “ to defend himself before his Government with as little delay as possible.” It was so contemplated by the General Government, because of the intention of having a fair, and, consequently, a “ speedy trial."The utter impossibility of replying to charges of crimes not dated or located, referred to in general terms only, and the consequent injustice to the accused, is certainly also inadvertently overlooked by your excellency. Your excellency is pleased to remark, in substance, that when, “ after the finding of a true bill, the agent should be arraigned at the bar of justice, there is abundant time for confronting him with the witnesses against him.” Yun remark, alsu, with regard to his not having “ compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor,” as required by the sacred instrument which guards the rights of all, that whenever “ you shall hear of such gross injustice done him, by any competent and authorized tribunal before which he may be cited, you will “ bring to punishment all or any public agent concerned in so offending.” The multiplicity and importance of your high duties have caused your excellency to forget that, before even the “ finding of the bill,” and consequently before the trial, the punishment has been loudly demanded of the court— the dismissal.of the agent, in the report and resolutions adopted by the Legislature. I did not, as your excellency seems to suppose, allude to the publication of the evidence in the form of a document or pamphlet. I was aware that the Legislature had so ordered its publication, and should have considered it highly indecorous and improper to have asked the violation of its injunctions. I alluded sulely,- as my letter will show, to the publication (depending on the will of your excellency) of the evidence, admitted by all to be ex parte, in the newspapers. The suggestion, however, was merely submitted for your consideration. With a respectful protest against the supposed prejudices ascribed to the General Government and to its agent, and with a free acknowledgment of the high-minded resolutions and sentiments of an opposite tenor interspersed through your excellency’s letter, the latter of which only do justice to your great talents and high character, 1 remain, with the highest respect and consideration, vour excellency’s most obedient servant, T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. To His Excellency G. M. TROUP, Governor if Georgia, Milledgeville. Governor Troup to T. P. Andrews. Sin:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 27, 1825. I have this moment received your letter of the 23d instanti It gives me great pleasure to correct, without delay, an error into which I had fallen, in consequence of not adverting particularly to the date of the certificate obtained from the Indians by the agent, as published as part of his defence in one of the last papers. From a comparison of dates, it does appear that that certificate was obtained before the agent knew that yourself and General Gaines would proceed to Broken Arrow to convene a council or institute an inquiry. Whilst this correction, therefore, is most cheerfully made, you cannot but admit the utter immateriality of it to the agent fur any objects or interests of his; for the fact still turns out to be, that, whilst the agent, in procuring that certificate, did not intend to forestall, in particular, General Gaines and yourself in making a certain examination, he did well know that it would forestall General Gaines or yourself, or any others whom your Government might at any time depute to make an examination there; and this is the fact, and the only fact of any consequence to the argument. . On the subject of specifications, to which you have again called my attention, I have only to remark, that, if your Government pleases to forbear further inquiry or investigation into the conduct of the agent, either because it derives no specifications from me, or because those specifications are not precisely such, in manner and form, as are agreeable to itself, it has the power to do so. But if your Government has not found matter enough for specifications (if, indeed, they be at all important) in the published accredited documents, or, finding it there, in abundance, shall not choose to trame them lor itself, I assure you, sir, 1 would not know where to proceed to look for it, even if I believed it (as I do not) to be my duty to furnish those specifications. When time shall have disclosed that I was mistaken in attributing prejudice to your Government in behalf of its agent, although that belief has not been assumed upon light ground, and is so far sustained by the occurrences of every day, 1 assure you, sir, I shall proceed without delay to render to it the fullest measure of justice which injured honor could require from a deceived accuser. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent.	'	G. M. TROUP. Governor Troup to T. P. Andrews. Sin:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 18, 1825. From the course recently pursued by the agent in procuring from the chiefs of the hostile Indians, under the influence of his office, and from the missionaries, their attestation to his innocence, the commissioners appointed under the authority of the Legislature are directed to proceed to Broken Arrow, to participate in the councils to be holden there on the 25th instant, so far as they have for their objects the collection of facts and development of truths, as connected with the late disturbances in the nation, and the charges exhibited by this Government against the agent of the United States for Indian affairs. They are instructed specially to avoid any interference, unless solicited, with the political arrangements or negotiations between the United States and the Indians, which appertain exclusively to the relations and interests subsisting between them, and to which the State of Georgia is no party. It is hoped and expected that this measure will meet your concurrence and approbation. .	With great respect, &c. Major T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. Governor Troup to T. P. Andrews. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 28, 1825. I call your attention to a letter purporting to be yours, and addressed to the agent, in extenuation of your conduct for the act of suspension, and published in a paper here of this morning, called the Patriot. If this letter be authentic, you will consider all intercourse between yourself and this Government suspended from the moment of the receipt of this. G. M. TROUP. T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent U. S., Creek Agency.	. [The following letter having been written after the act of suspension was made known to the special agent, was received as unofficial, and the publication authorized as tiny unofficial paper would be, to subserve the purposes of the writer.] T. P. Andrews to Governor Troup. SIR:	PRINCETON, INDIAN NATION, July 4, 1825. I take advantage of the first possible moment from incessant and arduous duties to do myself the honor of receipting to your excellency your three last letters.	'Your letter of the 18th of Jone was received from the commissioners of Georgia on the 25th ultimo. It was my determination to afford the commissioners of Georgia (of whose appointment I had been previously apprized) all the attention which my duty to the General Government, and my respect for an important member of the Union, justified and demanded. I have done so, so far as my sense of duty permitted me; but regret to inform you that I have not had the pleasure of agreeing with the commissioners on several points of procedure. You may readily imagine that my impressions of your great personal honor were not at all weakened by the receipt of the note of yoor excellency, dated the 27th ultimo, in which you so frankly “correct, without delay, an error into which you had fallen” on one particular point relating to the Indian agent; and regret exceedingly that a sense of justice will not permit me to make the admission which you appear, in the same letter, to expect from me. Yoor excellency may rest assured that I did not intend to call on yoo again for specifications, after you had expressed in your letter of the 20th June your determination not to furnish them. In my answer of the 23d instant, to your letter last referred to, I adverted to the circumstance merely with a view to show why I had, previously to the receipt of your letter, thought I had a right to expect them. Yuur declining to present specifications, which was a matter which you alone could determine on, settled the question; and I should have been wantingin the high respect which it is my doty to entertain, and which I sincèrely entertain, for yoor pers'onal character, as well as for yoor exalted station in society, if I had again requested them of you. I acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 28th, which has given me pain as a man, but which causes no uneasiness on ray part as an agent or officer of the General Government. It has given me pain as a gentleman, because I think I can perceive that you feel compelled (I presume, from a sense of public duty) to transfer the pursuit by the authorities of Georgia from the Indian agent io the special agent of the United States Government. It causes no uneasiness on my part as an officer or agent of the Government, because I cannot suppose, for a moment, that my Government will censure me for doing an act of sacred duty to the Indian agent, at the same time that I performed, in suspending him from his functions, an act of courtesy to yourself and Government, which you thought necessary to the ascertainment of unbiassed testimony. Had I entered into feelings of denunciation against the Indian agent before his trial, or suspended him without doing him present justice by a frank expression of the reasons which actuated me in doing so, I should indeed have apprehended the disapprobation of my Government, (to which alone I look in the discharge of my duties,) because that Government is administered by men prominent for temperate and reasonable counsels, and whô could not be induced, by any considerations, to violate the rights guarantied to every citizen, however humble, by its constitution, and by the immutable principles of justice. Your excellency calls on me to avow or disavow the letter to the Indian agent, of which you appear to complain. With the exception of a few typographical errors, I avow it as my letter; I send you a corrected copy. It is such a letter as my sense of justice imperiously called on me to address him in performing a harsh act towards him; was approved of by my best judgment, such as it is; is approbated by a man who, for wisdom, stands inferior to few, and in honor to none; and such a one as, I confidently trust, will receive the approbation of my Government. It is such a letter as, from my letters of the 31st May, 8th, 18th, and 23d of June, to yourself, and our frequent verbal communications, as well as those verbal and written to your aid-de-camp and friend, Colonel Lumpkin, you ought, in my opinion, to have anticipated; and such a one as I was convinced, “for the honor of human nature,” (to use your own eloquent expression,) you expected. Your excellency informs me that “if the letter be authentic,” I am to consider all intercourse between your Government and myself as “suspended.” Be it so. I know of no intercourse between your Government and myself, which is at all necessary, which is not on your part perfectly voluntary and agreeable. Being an officer of the General Government, I can go on to discharge my duties fearlessly, according to the dictates of my conscience, and to the best of my judgment; and, if I am to be added to the list of the proscribed, for interposing the shield of my Government to prevent the destruction of a man doomed to be condemned without a hearing or trial. I wish that suspension not only continued, bnt made absolute and permanent. As your excellency has thought it your duty to address me your letter of the 28th June, I have felt it my right to replj’ to it, and to inform you that I can now sec, so far as the examinations have progressed, (and they have been both numerous and important,) no cause for the accusations against the agent, unless in his inflexible integrity and firmness in stemming a torrent of corruption, disgraceful, in roy opinion, to the national character. A sense of duty compels me to say that, in using this expression, I have no allusion to your excellency; fur I sincerely believe that the same persons who have caused the outcry against the Indian agent have abused that confidence which your excellencj' was compelled to repose, in consequence of your official station. With high respect and consideration, I remain yoor excellency’s most obedient servant, T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. To His Excellency GEORGE M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia, Milledgeville. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War. SIR;	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 15,1825. I transmit, for the further information of the President, the gazettes of yesterday, and the affidavits of a respectable man who has an intimate knowledge of the Creeks and their affairs. Very respectfully, G. M. TROUP. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War, Washington City. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 15, 1825. Suffer me to call your attention to the manifest contradiction between the agent’s official exposé to you, and the defence set up by himself through the hostile chiefs, whom he assembled for the purpose, as published in the Recorder forwarded to-day. Very respectfully, G. M. TROUP. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War, Washington City. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 28, 1825. A paper of this morning, published at this place, containing a letter purporting to be addressed by your special agent to the agent for Indian affairs, in extenuation of his conduct in suspending him from his functions under your instructions, is forwarded for the information of the President. If, in writing such a letter, the special agent has so acted as to find himself within the letter or spirit of those instructions, it is obvious that the question which he was charged to investigate had been prejudged at Washington before his departure from that city; and that, consequently, the Government of Georgia can no longer, consistently with its dignity, hold intercourse with that officer, of which, as you will see by the enclosed letter, he has had due notice. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, G. M. TROUP. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War, Washington City. Governor Troup to the President of the United States. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 13, 1825. In compliance with the request of the Legislature of this State, I forward a report and sundry resolutions adopted by them, with the evidence which supports them, and having relation to the conduct of the agent for Indian affairs, as connected with the late disturbances in the Creek nation. I have the honor to be, with great respect and consideration, G. M. TROUP. The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, Washington City. C. Vandeventer to Governor Troup. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 25, 1825. The President of the United States directs me to inform you that he has received your letter of the 13tlt instant, enclosing a report of a committee and sundry resolutions of the Legislature of Georgia, relating to the conduct of the United States agent to the Creek nation of Indians in the late disturbances of that nation, and will give to them all the consideration which, coming from so high a source, they may merit. I have the honor to be your obedient servant, C. VANDEVENTER. His Excellency GEORGE M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia. C. Vandeventer to Governor Troup. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 25, 1825. Your letter of the 3d instant to the Secretary of War has been received, and submitted to the President of tho United States, who directs me, in the absence of the Secretary of War, to say, in reply, that if the Government of Georgia should undertake the project of surveying the lands ceded to the United States by the Creek nation of Indians, at the treaty of Indian Springs, before the expiration of the time specified by the eighth article of the treaty for the removal of the Indians, it will be wholly upon its responsibility; and that the Government of the United States will.not in any manner be responsible for any consequences which may result from that measure. I have the honor to be vour obedient servant, C. VANDEVENTER, Chief Clerk. His Excellency G. M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia. Governor Troop to C. Vandeventer. Sin:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 25, 1825. I received this morning the note which, in the absence of the Secretary of War, the President of the United States directed you to address to me, and in which I am informed that the project of surveying “ the lands ceded to the (Jnited States by the Creek nation of Indians, at the treaty of the Indian Springs, before the expiration of the time specified by the eighth article of the treaty for the removal of the Indians, will be wholly upon its (the Government of Georgia’s) responsibility, and that the Government (viz: the Government of the United States) will not in any manner be responsible for any consequences which may result from that measure.” A very friendly admonition,.truly. So that whilst you referred yonr resistance of the survey to the evils already produced by the mere effort on the part of this Government to obtain permission to make the survey, and when the fact of that cause producing those effects is disproven, and it is made known to you that nobody here, either whites or Indians, ever conceived such a thing as possible before you bad assumed it upon the representation of the agent as undoubtedly true; and that your own agent, to suit his own purposes, had fabricated it, to deceive and mislead you; nevertheless you continue to issue order after order forbidding the survey, as if you had predetermined from the beginning that, under no circumstances, should we proceed to the survey without your express permission first had and obtained. Nay, more: you repeat this order to General Gaines, who is charged to promulgate it to the hostile Indians; so that, whether there be any thing obnoxious in the survey or not, they may seize it as a pretence, under the authority and with the support of the United States, to scalp and tomahawk our people as soon as we shall attempt that survey; and that, in fact, you adopt for the Indians gratuitously an imaginary wrong done to them; persuade them, even against their will, that it is a real one; and then leave them to indulge in unbridled fury the most tempestuous ' passions: and this, I presume, is the meaning, in part, of the responsibilities which we are to incur if we disregard the mandate of the Government of the United States. You will, therefore, in the absence of the Secretary of War, make known to the President that the Legislature, having, in concurrence with the expressed opinion of the Executive, come to the almost unanimous conclusion that, by the treaty, the jurisdiction, together with the soil, passed to Georgia, and, in consequence thereof, authorized the Governor to cause the line to be run and the survey to be made, it becomes me, in candor, to state to the President that the survey will be made, and in due time, and of which Major General Gaines has already had sufficient notice. Whilst, in the execution of the decrees of onr own constituted authorities, the Government of the United States will find nothing but frankness and magnanimity on our part, we may reasonably claim the observance, in like degree, of these noble qualities on theirs. When, therefore, certain, responsibilities are spoken of in the communication of the President, we can rightfully inquire what responsibilities? Georgia, in the maintenance of her undoubted rights, fears no responsibilities; yet it is well for Georgia to know them, so far as they are menaced by the United States. If it is intended that the Government of the United States will iifterpose its power to prevent the survey, the Government of Georgia cannot have too early or too distinct notice; for how highly dishonorable would it be for the stronger party to avail itself of that power to surprise the weaker. If the Government only means that, omitting its constitutional duty, it will not pacify the Indians and make safe the frontier, while the officers of Georgia are in peaceful fulfilment of their instructions connected with the survey, it is important to the Government of Georgia to know it; that, depending on itself for safety, it shall not depend in vain. But if the Government of the United States mean (what is not even yet to be believed) that, assuming, like their agent upon another not dissimilar occasion, an attitude of neutrality feigned and insincere, it will, like that agent, harrow up the Indians to the commission of hostile and bloody deeds, then indeed the Government of Georgia should also know it, that it may guard and fence itself against the. perfidy and treachery of false friends. In either event, however, the President of the United States may rest contented that the Government of Georgia cares for no responsibilities, in the exercise of its right and the execution of its trust, but those which belong to conscience and to God, who, thanks to Him, is equally our God as the God of the United States. Verv respectfully, your obedient servant, .	G. M. TROUP. To C. VANDEVENTER, Chief Clerk, War Department, Washington City. The Secretary of War to Governor Troup. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OP WAR, July 21, 1825. Your letter of the 25th of June, addressed to Major Vandeventer, has been received; the answer to which has been intentionally delayed till the result of General Gaines’s interview with the Indians at Broken Arrow should be received, as the President had anxiously hoped, in the acquiescence of the Indians to the treaty, to have found the necessity of replying to your inquiries entirely obviated. But as,the communications frôm General Gaines recently received here have entirely destroyed that hope, a reply has become necessary. The Indians, to the number of eighteen hundred and ninety, including a large majority of their chiefs and headmen of the tribe, have denounced the treaty as tainted alike with intrigue and treachery, and as the act of a very small portion of the tribe against the express determination of a very large majority; a determination known to the commissioners. They urge that to enforce a compliance with an instrument thus obtained would ill become either the justice or the magnanimityof the United States, under which they claim to take shelter. These are allegations presenting a question beyond the cognizance of the Executive, and necessarily refers itself to Congress, whose attention will be called to it at an early day after the next annual meeting. Meanwhile the President, acting on the treaty as though its validity had not been impeached, finds, by reference to the eighth article of the treaty, the faith of the United States solemnly pledged to protect the Creek Indians from any encroachment, till their removal in September, 1826; he therefore decided that the entering upon and surveying the lands before that period would be an infraction of the treaty, whose interpretation and exeeution, should it remain uncancelled, are alike confided to him. I am, therefore, directed by the President to state distinctly to your excellency, that, for the present, he will not permit such entry or survey to be made. The pain the President has felt in coming to this decision is diminished by the recollectinn that it interferes with no duty imposed on your excellency by the laws of Georgia, as a discretion is given you, by the late Jaw o. the Legislature, in prescribing the time when the lands embraced by the treaty shall be surveyed. Under all the circumstances, the President permits himself to hope that you will acquiesce in his decision. 102 E As General Gaines has been in communication with you on this sub ject, and as it is the wish of the President you should be in possession of every measure he may find himself constrained to take thereon, I am directed to enclose to your excellency a copy of General Gaines’s instructions of this date. I have the honor to he your obedient servant, JAMES BARBOUR. His Excellency GEORGE M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia, Milledgeville. The Secretary of War to General Gaines. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OP WAR, July 21, 1825. Yours of the 5th instant has been duly received, with the accompanying documents. I am directed by the President to express his regret at the failure of yuur efforts to reconcile the Creeks to an acquiescence in the treaty made at the Indian Springs, as it was his sincere desire to have seen it carried into effect. But the determined opposition of the Indians to the treaty itself, on the alleged grounds of intrigue and treachery on the part of the portion of the tribe negotiating the treaty, as well as the smallness of their numbers, from which they argue its invalidity, and their solemn appeal to the justice and magnanimity of the United States, create such an obligation, that we should at least pause before we proceed, or permit others to do so, until these allegations can be thoroughly investigated, and their effect decided by the proper authority; the more especially as the eighth article of the treaty gives till September of the next year before the treaty is to be carried into effect, and guaranties them from encroachments till that time. It is in this posture of affairs that Governor Troup insists he will survey the land. A collision, by overt acts, between the Executive of the Union and that of a State, is so against the theory of the constitution, and so repugnant to the feelings of the President, that he would determine only under a solemn sense of duty to do an act by which so serious a result would be produced.	- If Governor Troup should, however, persevere in his declared purpose of surveying the land, against the repeated remonstrances of this Department, it will present one of the most unfortunate events which have yet occurred in our history.	. Its possible occurrence has induced the President to weigh it with the deliberate circumspection made necessary as well by its serious consequences as its high responsibility. His decision thereon has been made and transmitted to Governor Troup, in a letter of this date, a copy of which I enclose for your information, and by which you will learn the line of conduct the President has prescribed to himself. It is still devoutly to be hoped that Governor Troup will abstain from any act that may make it necessary to have recourse to the steps suggested; yet, should he persevere in sending persons to survey the lands embraced within the treaty, you are hereby authorized to employ the military, to prevent their entrance on the Indian territory; or, if they should succeed in entering the country, to cause them to be arrested, and turn them over to the judicial authority, to be dealt with as the law directs. I have only to add, that I have transmitted to Governor Troup a copy of this communication. I have the honor to be, &c. JAMES BARBOUR. To Major General E. P. GAINES. I certify the foregoing to be a correct copy from the record of this office. C. VANDEVENTER, Chief Clerk. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, August 15, 1825. I have received your letter of the 21st ultimo, giving the desired explanation of the former one of the 15th day of June last, in which you wrote of undefined responsibilities which this Government must incur if it attempted the survey of the lands acquired from the Creeks, and which results in the employment of the bayonet on your part, and of the tomahawk and scalping-knife on the part of the Indians, if the survey be attempted. I thank you for this explanation; for, whether your intent were good or evil, it equally became you to make it. You make known, at the same time, the resolution of the President to refer the treaty to Congress, on the allegation that intrigue and treachery have been employed to procure it. This at once puts a stop to the survey, and you will inform the President that, until the will of the Legislature of Georgia is expressed, no measures will be taken to execute the survey. The Executive of Georgia has no authority in the civil war with which the State is menaced to strike the first blow, nor has it the inclination to provoke it; this is left for those who have both the inclination and authority, and who profess to love the Union best. The Legislature will, on their first meeting, decide what, in this respect, the rights and the interests of the State demand. In the mean time, the right to make the survey is asserted, and the reference uf the treaty to Congress for revision protested against without any qualification. It is true, sir, that, according to my own opinion, if there he fraud and corruption in the procurement of the treaty, it ought to be set aside by the indignant expression of the nation’s will; the taint of such corruption, according to that opinion, would suffice to render void an instrument of any kind purporting to pass a right of any kind. But of what avail is this opinion against your own established maxims and precedents? You would decry it as the visionary speculations of a wild enthusiastic, because you would refer me to all your Indian treaties. You would present to me in full relief the decision of your Supreme Court in the case of Fletcher and Peck, where, a feigned issue being made to settle the principle, the principle was settled, that the Legislature of Georgia having, by bribery and corruption, sold the inheritance of the people for a mess of pottage, the grant passed a vested right which could by no possibility be divested; and, therefore, that the Congress had no alternative but to surrender the territory of Alabama and Mississippi, or compromise the claims. They chose the latter, and gave five millions of dollars to the claimants, of which we paid our full proportion. Whilst, therefore, I present my own opinion on the one hand, you have, on the other, my public and official protestation, in strict accordance and unison with your and all your constituted authorities’ decisions, and which place the treaty upon such high ground, that, no matter by what execrable baseness it may havq been elevated there, even the Congress of the United States cannot reach it. It may be otherwise, but I do sincerely believe that no Indian treaty has ever been negotiated and concluded in better faith than the one which is the subject of this letter. If it be otherwise, having been concluded by your own officers, against your instructions, without any participation of the authorities of Georgia, I sincerely hope that those officers may,\o far as you have power, be brought to trial and punishment; but yet, according to your own doctrines, this does not impair the validity of the treaty. The Legislature of Georgia will, therefore, on its first meeting [be advised] to resist any effort which may be made to wrest from the State the territory acquired by that treaty, and no matter by what authority that effort be made. The hostile Indians having resolved that they will never surrender it but with their lives; and you having passively acquiesced in this resolution, because of the appeal made to your magnanimity and generosity; and it being obvious that our right, if not asserted now, is lost to us forever; if the Legislature shall fail to vindicate that right, the responsibility will be theirs—not mine. With great respect, G. M. TROUP. Hon. JAMES BARDOUR, Secretary of War, Washington City. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 22, 1825. The enclosed memorandum of testimony which Colonel White of Florida, Delegate from that Territory, may be able to furnish, is forwarded, that you may avail yourself of it by his presence there. The well known character of Colonel White, if he can give you this testimony, will render any further trouble on this part of the subject unnecessary. If he should have left Washington, be pleased to request him to forward to you his affidavit, and permit me to ask the favor of you to transmit a copy of it to this Department. With great consideration and respect, G. M. TROUP. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War, Washington City. Governor Troup to the President of the United States. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, July 26, 1825. In communicating the report of the commissioners of the State appointed under certain resolutions of the Legislature to take testimony in the case of the agent for Indian affairs, and to investigate the causes of the late disturbances in the Creek nation, it might be more satisfactory to you to receive it without comment. The report may, indeed, be said to carry with it its own commentary; nevertheless, a few remarks elucidatory of certain parts of it, not easily understood by persons removed from the scene of action, may not be deemed objectionable. I think, from the context of the report, but one impression will be made upon every fair and unbiassed mind— that, whatever may have been the motives which governed the conduct of the agents on the part of the United States in making the late investigations in the nation, the results of those investigations have been such as to warrant a belief that, if the motives had been the suppression, and not the development of truth, no other results could have followed. The refusal of the missionaries (after much paltering and prevarication) to verify their statements by oath or affirmation is the more remarkable, for it is believed that these same missionaries, some eighteen or twenty months ago, .were quite willing to subscribe a paper containing a long string of charges against the agent, which ought to have been sufficient to remove him from office, and which they would have substantiated by their oaths. Now that they are in danger of being ousted of their livings, if the treaty is carried into effect, they make common cause with the agent to rupture the treaty, and will swear or affirm to nothing against him. The terror of Lewis, induced by the menaces of the friends of the agent, and which determined him to withhold his testimony, and his eventual flight to avoid giving it after measures had been taken to coerce him, will be sufficient, perhaps, to satisfy you how very inauspicious to the views of the commissioners was the state of things prevailing in the nation; the same hope of breaking the treaty, and of maintaining their footing there, united one and all of them—the red man and the white man, the Christian and the heathen—in a common bond of interest and a common course of action. The examination of Hambly, the interpreter and confidential friend of the agent, formerly reported to you by your own commissioners as a base and unworthy fellow, was distinguished for its irregularity. The object of that examination was to lay a broad foundation for the rupture of the treaty, by showing it to be the offspring of bribery and corruption, and the most enormously wicked contrivances, and to traduce the characters and discredit the testimony of some of the most respectable men among us. How bad must that cause be which would employ such an instrument to accomplish such a purpose! When Yoholo, a principal chief in the council, made a talk detailing circumstances connected with .the late negotiations at the Indian Springs, Colonel Williamson, one of the commissioners, who was present, and who had also been a close observer of occurrences at the Springs, said to General Gaines that he knew, of his own knowledge, the statements of Yoholo to be false; the general answered, that he would not believe the congregated world if it were to say so. Now you will have an opportunity of seeing that the statements of the Indian chief are in direct contradiction to the statements of the commissioners of the United States and their secretary, of Colonel Williamson himself, of all the friendly chiefs, and of every respectable white man who was present at the Indian Springs. The refusal of General Gaines to permit a separate examination of the chiefs in his presence, as the only mode of extracting the truth, and after having more than once' promised it, is as unaccountable as it was unexpected. It is understood that the Indians could produce no law authorizing the execution of McIntosh; yet General Gaines must have taken for granted the existence of such a law, for he passes by the murder as justifiable homicide. The whole body of evidence, as you will see, completely disproves the existence of the law. The refusal of General Gaines to admit the commissioners of Georgia, as such, to a participation of the Indian councils, in all matters touching the interests of Georgia, was a wrong done to the State, and an indignity offered to its constituted authorities. The interdict put upon our commissioners by General Gaines, to announce to the Indians, according to their instructions, the resolution of this Government to make the survey, and to represent to them the harmlessness and innocency of the act, whilst the general announced the resolution of his own Government to prevent it, was a further wrong done to the State, and a disrespect manifested of the authority which gave that instruction. A gentleman of clear intellect, pure morals, honorable character, and great prudence, is selected by the Governor to hold a talk with the Indians; he performs that duty; makes his report, and that report is at once discredited on the naked word of the Indians. General McIntosh writes three several letters to the Governor, subscribed by his own proper hand, giving his assent to the survey of the country; the friendly chiefs, Marshall included, repeatedly assure the Governor that they, one and all, consent to the survey; a certificate is obtained from this same Marshall and a white man to prove that General McIntosh refused his assent; General Gaines immediately comes to the conclusion that this assent-was never given. The admission of free communication with the Indians to every other description of persons, and the denial of it to the Georgia commissioners, was a further wrong done to Georgia. Indeed, sir, it would appear, from the reports of the commissioners, that all or any description of testimony would be willingly received on the one side, and particularly that description of it which would exculpate the agent, excuse the hostile Indians, prevent the survey of the lands, or effect the abrogation of the treaty; and that, on the other side, every thing was to be discredited; or received, at best, with many grains of allowance; and every act or proceeding of the commissioners of the United States, or of the constituted authorities of the State, resolved into corruption and depravity. When General Gaines states, in one of his letters to the Governor, that the hostile party outnumber the friendly in the proportion of something like fifty to one, it is not easy to understand him. If it be true, as the general seems to believe, that he has pacified and reconciled the two parties, there is no longer any McIntosh party; but if the general means there was any such disproportion between the strength of the two parties whilst McIntosh lived, he is widely mistaken. If McIntosh had survived to this moment, the probability is bis party would have been the strongest. Suffer me to add a few particulars, which make the condition of the friendly party most pitiable. Independently of no atonement being offered for the blood of McIntosh, the money, according to the construction of the treaty, is taken from the pockets of the wives, children, brothers, and friends of McIntosh, and paid over to the hostile chiefs who murdered him, contrary to every principle of justice and stipulation of treaty, as if you intended it as the reward of gallant and meritorious acts commanded by yourselves; and this the friendly chiefs cannot but fee) most deeply. Nobody acquainted with the Indian character can ever believe that General Gaines will ever make either a safe or permanent pacification, until the offering of blood for blood has fulfilled the law and the usage of the country. An ephemeral peace may be patched up by force or menace; but ephemeral it will be, making, in the end, the catastrophe the more bloody. I had written you of a certain personage of South Carolina having intermeddled in this matter, according to information communicated to me and submitted to you. There is a strong chain of corroborative circumstances, as you will see, to establish the facts there alleged, and running through the entire mass of evidence. The object undoubtedly was the annulment of the treaty. Whatever knavery or folly may suggest, with a view to disannul the treaty, will of course be unheeded at Washington. But indeed, sir, I very much doubt, unless you have looked with a scrutinizing eye to the history of this matter, whether some of the self-interested oppugners of the treaty may not lead you into error. The idea that the entire Creek nation is alone competent to make a treaty, is the most fallacious that could be entertained; it is so far from true in the general, that, unless by merest accident, it never happens to be true in any particular. You have only to turn to the notes of Colonel Hawkins, whose authority you cannot dispute, to be satisfied that, according to the laws and usages of the nation, the most important public affairs, involving vital interests, are determined, not by a majority, but by a minority, and frequently a very small minority, of the nation. In the whole course of his long residence among them, he never knew the most popular war concurred in by a majority; and all authorities and all custom will prove to you that, with regard to the most important of their national acts, having relation either to peace or war, Coweta must take the lead. If a treaty be signed by the chiefs of Coweta, it is considered good; if not signed by them, good for nothing. Georgia was settled in 1732: in 1733 or 1734, the first treaty with the Creeks was held; then, I think, in 1736, and again in 1739. The Cowetas are always foremost; their councils are invariably holden on the Coweta ground, and General Oglethorpe paid them his first visit there. Hence it is stated in the evidence that McIntosh had the power to sell the whole country, and hence the great efforts made to prevail on the old Coweta chief (Etome Tustunnuggee) not to sell the country—efforts which succeeded at Broken Arrow; but this old and ill-fated chieftain came to me afterwards, as yon read in the documents, to say he had been deceived by bad white men, and was opposed to the sale at Broken Arrow, but then his eyes were opened, and he would follow the advice of his father the President, and sell the lands. Having madb this recapitulation and commentary, permit me to subjoin, that, for the gratification of a few mercenary and sordid characters in the Indian country, you threaten the most flagrant injustice to Georgia. In the country to be surveyed within the limits of Georgia, none, or very few, of the hostile party reside; and every one of the opposite party seeks the survey as a measure of convenience and interest. The survey will, in the first instance, extend no farther west than the Chattahoochie, the act of the Legislature leaving it discretionary with the Governor to run to that river before the boundary line between Georgia and Alabama shall have been ascertained. Having corresponded with the Governor of Alabama upon this subject, and received his assurance that the Legislature of that State will immediately, on its first meeting in November, cordially co-operate with Georgia in running the line, and there being difficulty in ascertaining the precise point at which that line will commence, the running is postponed to meet the wishes and expectations of the State of Alabama. The evidence which remains to be taken by the commissioners will be forwarded as soon as received. Very respectfully, G. M. TROUP. The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, Washington City. Governor Troup to the President of the United States. ®1R:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, August 7, 1825. 7''le letter of the Secretary of War of the 18th May, introducing to this Government Major General Gaines ïi°r Andrews, as agents of the United States to inquire into the causes of the late disturbances, to adjust the differences subsisting between the Indians, and to inquire into the conduct of the agent of Indian affair^, recom mended them as officers distinguished for ability, prudence, and discretion. They were received and treated accordingly. With the conduct of the one, you have been already made acquainted; with that of the other, it remains for me to place you in possession. In the several conferences held with General Gaines, on his first arrival, I received repeated assurances from him of friendly dispositions; of upright intentions; of freedom from all kinds of bias or prejudice which could mislead his judgment or influence his decisions on any of the topics which, in the execution of his trust, might present themselves for discussion. Relying implicitly on the sincerity of these declarations, I began with regarding General Gaines as an honorable and disinterested arbiter between the United States, Georgia, and the Indians, and so continued to regard him until a short time before his insulting letter of the 10th ultimo was received at this Department. It was impossible for this Government not to repel that insult with indignation. The Chief Magistrate, in his official message to the Legislature, had stated explicitly that McIntosh and his chiefs had given their consent to the survey; and, in support of this statement, the letters of McIntosh were exhibited, with his name subscribed in his own hand, of which General Gaines had full information: nevertheless, the certificate of an Indian chief, whû had deserted from the McIntosh party, and of a white man, of whom General Gaines himself does not pretend to know any thing, is procured to discredit the statement of the Governor, and to exhibit him before the public as the dupe of the vilest and shallowest imposture; and in his solicitude to accomplish this, he forgets that it is the consent given by McIntosh and his chiefs to the survey, which, on the information of the agent, you have taken for granted to be the sole cause of all the disturbances in the nation, and upon which you have recently issued the most offensive orders to this Government connected with that survey, and, in your last, even denounced military vengeance against those who shall attempt to carry it into execution. When General Gaines is rebuked, in the mildest language which the unprovoked insult would admit of, he presents himself again before the public in a letter, indulging in the most intemperate abuse of all the constituted authorities of a sovereign State and the great body of its people, and which he causes to be published almost a week before it was received at this Department. With regard to the first letter of General Gaines, to which I have called your attention, he dues not seem to have been content with addressing a letter so exceptionable to the head of this Government; he assumes the authority to order its publication on the allegation of some pretended and undefined malicious falsehoods in circulation, and which he makes the foundation of an appeal to the public—an appeal more censurable than that for which the gallant and meritorious Porter is now answering before a court-martial assembled by your order, inasmuch as the latter only defends himself against the inculpatory charges made by his own Government; whilst the former, who was bound by equal respect to this Government, does not pretend that any charges of any kind had been preferred by it against him. It is in this letter, too, that General Gaines has fallen into the shocking extravagance of asserting (what nobody can believe) that the McIntosh party, which made the treaty, constituted but a fiftieth part of the nation; and it was in the same letter he made known, officially, to this Government, that he had happily concluded a pacification of the Indians, when at that moment he was as remote from the pacification as he ever had been; of which fact I have even within the passing hour received the most incontestable evidence. With regard to the second letter, of the 2Sth ult., which, now that I am writing, has for the first time been put into my hands, and almost a week after its publication, I have to remark, that the history of diplomacy will not furnish a parallel so marked with indiscretion, intemperance, disrespect, and the outrage of all decency. General Gaines forgets as well what he owes to his own Government as to this. His duty to you required him to show respect to this Government in all his intercourse with it. If in that intercourse he had found himself wronged or aggrieved by the authorities here, it was not allowed him to take the redress into his own hands. Upon representation to you, you were competent to decide the nature and the extent of the injury he had received, and of the redress most suitable to it. He would not confide the exercise of this privilege to you, (no doubt questioning your fitness or discretion fur such matters,) but chose to rely on his own dexterity and prowess. He writes, among other things, of the “ malignant villany” which has been extensively practised on the credulity of the good citizens of Georgia and other States, in reference to the Indians and the treaty.” A charge so vague cannot be easily understood, much less distinctly answered. Presupposing it to be directed against the authorities of this State, and to be in all respects true, who made General Gaines the judge to pass this condemnatory seotence on the conduct of those authorities? It has been understood that [you] had reserved to yourself this power, and that General Gaines was here only as your agent to collect the evidence upon which that power was to be exercised. He proceeds to make another reference to the certificate of the Indian chief and the white man, reiterates the expression of unlimited confidence in the veracity of Marshall, eulogizes him as among the most worthy of the “ little treaty-making party,” and comes again to the conclusion that the Chief Magistrate of Georgia and others are not to be credited against the certificate of such respectable personages. Within this hour I have received the testimony of the chiefs of the friendly party, voluntarily given, “ that the statement of Joe Marshall to General Gaines is false;” and I enclose you the certificate of my express, a man of fairest character and undoubted veracity, to satisfy you that Marshall has added falsehood to treachery. In this part of his letter he takes occasion to manifest his resentment towards the friends of McIntosh: he calls them “the little treaty-making party;” then, again, “ the vassal chiefs of McIntosh;” and questions their right to give permission to make the survey. What a dispassionate and impartial umpire is this General Gaines! One would have supposed that, consulting the magnanimity of a soldier, if he had departed from the line of neutrality at all, he would be found at the head of the weaker, the innocent, and injured party. But the general, consulting the better part of valor, and counting the odds against him as fifty to one, throws himself into the ranks of the stronger party, and thus commends himself again to you for that discretion which you had given to him in advance. The general is correct in one of his positions; and, being in the right himself, he puts you in the wrong; and so conspicuously, that you stand on the insulated eminence an almost solitary advocate for making and breaking treaties at pleasure. General Gaines says, “ the treaty, no matter how procured, had become a law of the land,” &c. &c. He had said to the hostile Indians, at Broken Arrow, “that the treaty could not be annulled, and must be carried into effect,” &c. &c. This is good sense. The day before yesterday I received your letter, in which you say, General Gaines having informed you that the treaty had been obtained by intrigue and treachery, it will be referred to Congress for reconsideration. General Gaines tells the Indians that no treaty has ever yet been annulled. You say this treaty shall be made an exception to all others, and upon the information received from General Gaines. General Gaines^proceeds to manifest his respect and complaisance for the Chief Magistrate of a sovereign State, by informing him that “ he has been greatly deceived by persons in whom he placed reliance, but who were unworthy of his confidence;” thus taking upon himself the responsibility to decide for the Chief Magistrate one of the most delicate of al) questions connected with government and sovereigoty, viz: the question who are worthy of trust, and who among the public servants are or are not entitled to his confidence. In a little time, sir, with your countenance and encouragement, Genera] Gaines would have, dictated the appointments to office in this State; and, it may be, the least hesitation or repugnance to comply with such dictation would be subdued by a parade of United States troops.	_ After quoting a maxim, that “ the King can do no wrong,” and expatiating on the moral excellence of truth, and her indiscriminate habitation at the palace and the cottage, the plough and the bureau of state, with the wanderers of the wilderness and the honest but unfortunate debtors”—of all which I cannot, for the life of me, understand the application, much less the farrago which follows, about somebody regarding money a little more and truth a little less—condition of despised poverty and luxuries of plundered wealth, <fcc. &c., and which is equally unintelligible; General Gaines is scarcely more distinct and intelligible when, in passing a meagre compliment to a portion of the citizens of Georgia, he professes to “ rely on the wisdom, justice, and patriotism of at least nine-tenths of those with whom he has the pleasure of an acquaintance, many of whom are cultivators of the land;” and then, again, that the “ cultivators are the adamantine pillars of the Union, against which the angry vaporing paper squibs of the little and the great demagogues of all countries may continue to be hurled for hundreds of centuries without endangering the noble edifice,” &c. &.C.; all of which may be intended to convey some meaning, and'admit of ready explanation by General Gaines, but which, I assure you, sir, is altogether above my comprehension. The general soon becomes a little more explicit, when he says there is in Georgia a small class of men, who, like the “Holy Alliance, profess to employ themselves in the laudable work, of enlightening and governing all other classes of the community, but whose labors consist of vain and daring efforts to prove that the light of truth is to be found only with the party to which themselves respectively belong, and that all others go wrong.” Party! Sir, an agent representing the Government of the United States before the Government of Georgia, addressing to the Chief Magistrate of the State an official paper, in which, descanting on the state of parties, the writer places himself by the side of the one party, and fulminates a denunciation against the other! Pray, sir, suffer me to ask if Major General Gaines received special instructions at your hands so to deport himself; to pry into the state of parties, to find out the relative strength of them; to place himself on the side of the strongest, giving it aid, countenance, and co-operation; and from this stronghold to issue insolent anathemas against the other, through the Governor of the State; thus directly intermeddling in our local politics, and availing himself of our unhappy divisions to make the exasperations of party yet more bitter? General Gaines will not permit us to mistake him; he proceeds to call the particular party to which he is opposed the “ one-sided enlightening class';” in another place, he calls them “ the small class.” The opportunities of General Gaines to inform himself of the state of parties in Georgia have been, no doubt, much better than mine, which have indeed been very limited; but I have more generally heard, from men better informed, that the relative strength of parties was somewhat different from the general’s estimate of it. He seems to have adopted the same role of enumeration, under the same optica] delusion, as in measuring the strength of the Indian parties, and to have arrived at the very gratifying conclusion that the numerical strength was in the proportion of fifty to one; undoubtedly a very incorrect conclusion. This officer took umbrage at my request to permit the commissioners on the part of the State to act in friendly concert with him in making his investigation for the discovery of truth. Why he did so, I cannot conjecture. This, however, was passed by without notice, as was his subsequent refusal to admit them to a participation of the councils in matters involving interests of Georgia. His indiscretion in declaring, before the council at Broken Arrow, that if the congregated world were to contradict the chief Yoholo he would not believe it, has been already noticed in the letter which I last had the honor to address to you. It is upon the authority of this chief, of Hambly, represented to be one of the most infamous of men, and of the agent of Indian affairs, that yon have come to the conclusion to return the treaty to Congress for revision, it having been procured by intrigue and treachery. General Gaines is reported to me to have said, in the presence of one of the commissioners on the part of the State, that if twenty-three States out of the twenty-four were to pronounce the agent guilty, he would not believe them. General Gaines has been guilty of the childish indiscretion of threatening to cut off the head or ears of citizens of Georgia who happened to offend him, as if you had given him his sword for this special service. But indeed, sir, it is high time to dismiss the subject of this officer. In maintaining correspondence with the Government of the United States, I have not permitted any false considerations of dignity, or any false estimates of forms and ceremonies, which usually govern diplomatic intercourse uetween States, to interpose the least difficulty; so far from it, I have cheerfully descended to the level of every thing which it pleased you at any time to employ as your representative or organ, from the clerks of your bureaus up to your major generals by brevet, and have acted and treated with them as equals. In the deportment of some of these I have experienced arrogance, self-sufficiency, a haughty and contemptuous carriage, and a most insulting interference with our local politics; and these characteristics not exhibited to one, but to all of the constituted authorities of the State. Now, sir, suffer me, in conclusion, to ask if these things have been done in virtue of your own instructions, express or implied; or by authority of any warranteront you whatsoever; and, if not so done, whether you will sanction or adopt them as your own, and thus hold yourself responsible to the Government of Georgia? Be persuaded, sir, that whenever hereafter you shall think proper, not deceiving yourself or us, to send gentlemen to represent you before this Government of the character given to those by the letter of the Secretary of War of the 18th May, they will be received and respected as officers of the General Government would be by the most friendly States of the Union. With great consideration, G. M. TROUP. The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, Washington City. The Secretary of War to Governor Troup. WAR DEPARTMENT, August 30, 1825. I am directed by the President of the United States to acknowledge the receipt of your letters to him of the 7th and 26th of July, and of the 7th instant, with their respective enclosures; also, of an enclosure containing newspapers of the 2d and 9th of August. Deeply regretting the different views of the treaty concluded last February at the Indian Springs, which you have entertained, from those which he has found himself, upon the most deliberate consideration, and under the most solemn of responsibilities, compelled to take, he is anxiously desirous to avoid any thing which, dictated by no absolute necessity, might have a tendency to render wider differences, in his belief, otherwise easily reconcileable. He has felt it, therefore, his duty to decline entering open any discussion with you which can be forborne; and he perceives nothing in your letters which the interests of the people of Georgia or of the rest of the Union require to be discussed with you. The Government of the United States is fully aware of its duties to the people of Georgia, among which is that of paying doe respect to the station of their Chief Magistrate; a duty, if possible, still more indispensable, is that of a constant and faithful attention to their interests, and an earnest solicitude to fulfil all the obligations of the Union to them. There are duties, also, not only of justice, but of humanity; not only of natural equity, but of positive stipulation, which the Government of the United States is bound to fulfil towards the unfortunate aboriginal inhabitants of this country. That they have not been violated, in the conclusion of the treaty at the Indian Springs, the President would yet willingly hope. That they would be violated by the attempt to survey the territory secured till September, 1826, to the Indians, he has no doubt.' He has heard, therefore, with the most lively satisfaction, the determination of your excellency to proceed no further in the survey till the Congress of the United States and the Legislature of Georgia shall have had an opportunity of acting upon the subject, as, in their respective judgments, the rights, duties, and obligations of all the parties concerned may require. The alarm naturally occasioned by the catastrophe of McIntosh, and which threatened an immediate bloody and desolating war, has now subsided; the internal peace of the tribe has been restored; all appearance of hostilities against the inhabitants of Georgia has vanished. To confirm this state of tranquillity, and to renew peaceable and reasonable efforts to reconcile the Indians to the measure of removing from the territory, appear to the President to be his duty, in which he will not abandon the hope of being seconded by the Governor and authorities of Georgia. The subject, in all its aspects, will be submitted io the consideration of Congress at their approaching session; and all the instructions to the officers of the United States, as well as their conduct under them, will be subject to the animadversion of that body upon them for approbation or censure, as they may appear to have deserved. Respectfully, your obedient servant, JAMES BARBOUR. His Excellency G. M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia. Governor Troup to the President of the United States. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, August 31, 1825. In the enclosed gazette you will find another insolent letter, dated the 16th instant, addressed by your agent, Brevet Major Creneral Gaines, to the Chief Magistrate of this State. Having been betrayed by his passions into the most violent excesses, he is presented before you at this moment as your commissioned officer and authorized agent, with a corps of regulars at his heels, attempting to dragoon and overawe the constituted authorities of an independent State, and, on the eve of a great election, amid the distractions of party, taking side with the one political party against the other, and addressing electioneering papers almost weekly to the Chief Magistrate, through the public prints, couched in language of contumely and insult and defiance, and for which, were 1 to send him to you in chains, I would transgress nothing of the public law. The same moderation and forbearance with which I have endeavored heretofore to deport myself in my intercourse with you, and from which I trust there has, in no instance, been a departure, but on the highest necessity, have restrained me from resorting to harsh and offensive measures against him. You will see, however, if this officer has been thus acting by yoor authority or countenance, you have an awful atonement to make both to your contemporaries and to posterity. But if, contrary to either, he has assumed the responsibility, it is expected that your indignant reprobation of his conduct will be marked by the most exemplary punishment w hich the laws will enable you to inflict. I demand, therefore, as Chief Magistrate of Georgia, his immediate recall, and his arrest, trial, and punishment, under the rules and articles of war. You will find, in the same paper, sundry affidavits proving the falsity of the certificate given by Marshall and Edwards to General Gaines, and further proving that General Gaines most have obtained it to wield as an instrument in the pending contest on the side of une party against the other. As I write this, another gazette has been put into my hands, containing another letter of subsequent date and similar character, which is also enclosed for your information.	Very respectfully, G. M. TROUP. The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, Washington City. The Secretary of War to Governor Troup. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, September 19, 1825. Your letter of the 31st of August, to the President of the United States, has been received and referred to this Department to be answered. The President has decided that he cannot, consistently with his view of the subject, accede to your demand to have General Gaines arrested. He perceives no sufficient necessity to depart from the course he had determined to pursue before the receipt of yoor letter, and which I communicated to you fully in the last paragraph of mine of the 30th of August, in which you are informed that “ the subject, in all its aspects, will be submitted to the consideration of Congress at their approaching session; and all the instructions to the officers of the United States, as well as their conduct under them, will be subject to the animadversion of that body upon them for approbation or censure, as they may appear to have deserved.” 1 enclose you a copy of my letter to General Gaines; and, in so doing, I give you a new proof of the frankness by which the Executive has been guided in his intercourse with you, and furnish you with the means of learning its sentiments on the unpleasant occurrence referred to in your letter. I have the honor to be vour obedient servant, JAMES BARBOUR. His Excellency G. M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia, Milledgeville. The Secretary of War to General Gaines. GENERAL:	WAR DEPARTMENT, September 19, 1825. I enclose you a copy of a letter from Governor Troup, in which you will see he has demanded your arrest for having violated the articles of war, by your several letters of the 10th and 28th of July, and 16th and 29th of August last, addressed to him, and which you caused to be published. The President has decided that he will not accede to this demand. I enclose you my reply of this date to. Governor Troup. There is no part of his duty which the President more anxiously pursues than that of maintaining the most scrupulous decorum in his official intercourse with the State authorities—a line of conduct from which no circuml stances, however aggravated, have or will tempt him to depart; and he feels it incumbent on him to cause every officer of the Government to pursue a similar course. He has, therefore, seen with regret that, in the letters published, (which, though not transmitted to the Department, he presumes are authentic,) purporting to be from you to Governor Troup, you have permitted yourself to indulge a tone whose effect will be to destroy that harmony which the President is so much disposed to cherish, and the publication of what is calculated to inflame those differences which moderation and forbearance could not fail to allay. In communicating to you the disapprobation of the President, as well for writing as publishing those letters, and his injunction that, in your official intercourse with Governor Troup, in future, you abstain from every thing that may be deemed offensive, I am directed to add, as an act of justice to you, that the President sees in the serious charges made against you by Governor Troup, and the publicity given to them, and which the letters complained of were iotended to repel, circumstances which go far, in his opinion, to palliate your conduct, and without which palliation the President would have found it his duty to have yielded to the demand of Governor Troup. I have the hunor to be your obedient servant, JAMES BARBOUR. Major General E. P. GAINES. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War. SIR:	, EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GA., MILLEDGEVILLE, October 1, 1825. The evidence accompanying this will close the testimony on the part of the State against the Creek agent, with the exception of that which it is supposed Colonel White of Florida may furnish. Respectfully, &c. '	G. M. TROUP. The SECRETARY OF WAR, Washington City. Governor Troup to the Secretary of War. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GA., MILLEDGEVILLE, October 15, 1825. Notwithstanding the resolution of the President, repeated in your letter of the 19th ultimo, to refer the complaints of this Government against the officers of yours who have given it offence to the consideration of Congress—a resolution considered here of most extraordinary character, inasmuch as it is the transfer of a subject over which the President, by the constitution, has exclusive jurisdiction, to a power which has no jurisdiction of it at all— I cannot forbear calling his attention to a statement contained in your letter to General Gaines, which, assumed to be true, although not true, is made the justification of the President in resisting the demand of the Governor of Georgia, and in extenuating the conduct of his officer. The paragraph in your letter embracing the statement reads as follows: “ I am directed to add, as an act of justice to you, that the President sees in the serious charges made against you by Governor Troup, and the publicity given to them, and which the letters complained of were intended to repel, circumstances which go far, in his opinion, to palliate your conduct.” Now, sir, su far from this being true, the opposite is true. Nothing offensive or exceptionable was ever written to that officer before he had sanctioned, by his approbation, an offensive letter written by your special agent on the. 21st of June, and addressed to the agent for Indian affairs, in which the authorities of Georgia are wantonly abused for injustice, oppression, and tyranny practised against that agent; or before he had obtained a false certificate from two base and unworthy men to traduce and vilify the character of the Chief Magistrate of Georgia, which he ordered to be published of his mere volition, on pretence that false rumors were in circulation, (of what or about whom he does not say;) and this, too, done, as was afterwards made manifest, for the purpose of influencing the general election in this State in behalf of his favorite candidate. That you may entertain no doubt of the correctness of this statement, and the incorrectness of the statement of the President, you have only to compare the dates of the various letters and of their publication. It will be seen that, before General Gaines could have received my letter of the 16th July, of which he complained, he had already ordered the publication of his of the 10th of July, to which it was an answer. You will be furnished in due time with additional testimony to show the very reprehensible conduct of the same officer in his deportment towards the authorities of Georgia, not with any the least expectation that justice will be rendered by the President to those authorities, but in discharge of duties which they owe themselves. ■	I have the honor to be your obedient servant, G. M. TROUP. The Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War. Warren Jourdan, Seaborn Jones, W. IT. Williamson, and W. H. Torrance, to Governor Troup. FORT MITCHELL, June 26, 1825. Mr. Ball arrived here to-day about 11 o’clock. We thought proper to detain him until we could furnish you with a copy of uur correspondence thus far with General Gaines and Major Andrews. A perusal of these papers will furnish you with all the information that we yet have upon the subject of our mission. The Indians have not yet been in council with General Gaines, but will convene to-morrow. The copies you have herewith enclosed. Should any matter of importance occur by Tuesday’s mail, we will inform you. The agent is suspended. Respectfully, sir, your obedient servants, WARREN JOURDAN, SEABORN JONES, W. W. WILLIAMSON, His Excellency GEORGE M. TROUP.	W. H. TORRANCE. N. B. General Gaines requests that his papers and letters may be forwarded to this place. Please order it to be done. Governor Troup to Messrs. Jourdan, Jones, Torrance, and Williamson. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 18, 1825. You are requested to proceed to the Indian Springs, to attend a council of the friendly Indians to be holdcn there on the 20th instant. As it is presumed that every concert tendered on the part of this Government to assure a full development of the facts connected with the late disturbances in the Creek nation, and also such as may more particularly affect the guilt or innocence of the agent, under the charges exhibited against him by the Gov- vernor of this State, will be gratifying to Major General Gaines, you are hereby authorized and empowered, under the authority vested in you by the Legislature, to employ all lawful means for the furthering of the objects aforesaid, avoiding, at the same time, any interference whatever with that council in matters disconnected with the objects of your mission, and which appertain exclusively to interests and relations purely political subsisting between the General Government and the Indians. From the Indian Springs you will proceed to attend the other council of Indians, to be holden at Broken Arrow on the 25th instant. Your presence there will be of more importance, because more immediately connected with the investigation of the conduct of the agent, as arraigned by the Governor, at the instance of the President of the United States, and by the Legislature of the State. You will, no doubt, be admitted to a free participation of that council, and will be suffered to take with you, under sufficient safeguard, any of the friendly chiefs whose presence there you may consider necessary to the accomplishment of the objects which the United States and this Government have in view. There can be the less doubt of this, because, the charges having been already made both by the executive and legislative authority of Georgia against the agent, and the agent having so far thought proper to have recourse to the missionaries and hostile Indians in the nation for his defence, and that defence being already before the public at the instance of the agent, in which it would seem that, both being under the control and influence of his office, any direction most suitable to his views may be given to their opinions and feelings, it is only an exercise I of strict right on the part of the Government of Georgia that it be heard before that council by its commissioners, who are instructed to give and receive explanations for the purpose, in common with the agents of the United States, of arriving at truth, and doing justice to all parties. Should such participation be denied you, you will enter your formal protest against that denial, and proceed to avail yourselves, within the jurisdiction of Georgia, of all the testimony you can obtain. Yours, respectfully,	G. M. TROUP. Messrs. JOURDAN, JONES, TORRANCE, and WILLIAMSON, Commissioners, Spc. Georgia Commissioners to Governor Troup. SIR:	FORT MITCHELL, June 28, 1825. By the return of your express, we advised you of our movements up to that date. Finding ourselves completely forestalled in every operation here, by the directions of General Gaines and the agent, we determined in council that a part of the mission should proceed forthwith to Alabama, believing the testimony to be obtained in that quarter more important than any we could collect here. In furtherance of these views, Colonels Jones and Torrance left here yesterday evening, and will return with all possible despatch to join us. The other two members of the mission continue to occupy their situation. The Indians will probably go into council to-morrow. As yet we know nothing of the import of their deliberations, and as yet we can say nothing favorable of the object of our mission. We are, àiç, your excellency’s most obedient, humble servants, His Excellency GEORGE M. TROUP. Governor Troup to Seaborn Jones. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 23, 1825. Believing the enclosed may be important to you, I send it by express. You will be pleased to make known to the commissioners that no obstruction will be offered to the survey or running of the line, inasmuch as it is resolved to carry these objects into effect. Very respectfully, Colonel SEABORN JONES, Broken Arrow.	G. M. TROUP. Governor Troup to the Georgia Commissioners. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 23, 1825. The enclosed memorandum of testimony, which, it is said, will be furnished by Colonel White, the Delegate of East and West Florida, has been forwarded to the Secretary of War, with a request that he will avail himself of the presence of Colonel White to obtain his affidavit to the truth of the fact. The memorandum is taken from a statement made by Mr. John Williams, at whose house Colonel White staid. Very respectfully, The GEORGIA COMMISSIONERS, at Broken Arrow.	G. M. TROUP. •	103 E Governor Troup to the Georgia Commissioners. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, July 1, 1825. Perceiving, by your peculiar situation in the nation, that more of efficiency and despatch may be given to your proceedings by enabling you to detach members of your board whenever it shall be deemed necessary, you are hereby further instructed to make such detachment, at discretion, provided that not less than two shall be competent to proceed to business at any particular place, whose report shall, in all cases, be made to the board for its adoption or rejection; and that no such proceeding shall be considered final and conclusive until it has received the sanction and approbation of the board. Very respectfully, The GEORGIA COMMISSIONERS, at Broken Arrow.	G. M. TROUP. Warren Jourdan and W. W. Williamson to Governor Troup. SIR:	CRABTREE’S, CREEK NATION, July 2, 1825. We have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your several enclosures per express. In conformity with your wishes, a talk was immediately draughted expressive of your views in relation to the survey of the country forthwith accruing to Georgia by the late treaty concluded at the Indian Springs. As Genera) Gaines had, from the beginning to end, disclaimed the authority of Georgia to an interference with the “ delicate and important trust confided to him,” we deemed it respectful to submit it to his examination and decision before we proposed it to the council. We had the mortification to receive, in this, as well as in every other application which was calculated to facilitate ths objects of our mission and to elicit truth, the continued and reiterated declaration, “ it will conflict with our instructions; it is therefore inadmissible.” We have accomplished but .little; our way has been obstructed and hedged in on all sides. We have been engaged indefatigably to promote the well-being of the State we have the honor to represent on this occasion. Our labors have been unsuccessful and mortifying to an extent unknown in the history of diplomacy. You shall hear from us in detail at a proper time. Your excellency’s most obliged and humble servants, WARREN JOURDAN, W. W. WILLIAMSON, His Excellency GEORGE M. TROUP, Milledgeville.	Commissioners. Governor Troup to the Georgia Commissioners. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 28, 1825. It would be desirable, if you have an opportunity to do so, to impress upon the Indians the innocence of the intention as well as the innocence of tho act of survey, on our part, as their rights or interests of any kind can in no manner be affected by it. The measures of the United States will undoubtedly have a tendency to excite them against us; and if the United States should not take part with them in resisting the survey, humanity would dictate the propriety of forewarning them of the consequences, after placing them in possession of the facts and principles which govern our conduct. Very respectfully, The GEORGIA COMMISSIONERS, at Broken Arrow.	G. M. TROUP. Governor Troup to the Georgia Commissioners. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 28,1825. You will perceive by the enclosed copy of a letter addressed to Major Andrews, of this date, that further intercourse between himself and this Government is forbidden, and for the reasons contained in that letter; it being now obvious that the question which you are engaged in investigating had been prejudged at Washington, even before the departure of Major Andrews from that city. The dignity of the Government of Georgia requires that it no longer continue to recognise him in his official character of special agent. With great consideration and respect, G. M. TROUP. The GEORGIA COMMISSIONERS, o.t Broken Arroio, Creek Nation. Warren Jourdan and W. W. Williamson to Governor Troup. Sut:	CRABTREE’S, CREEK NATION, June 30,1825. Difficulties and obstructions having been thrown in the way of the early fulfilment of the objects which called us to this place, wo have to request of you to detain any witness or witnesses who may attend at Milledgeville for examination, until our arrival. The hostile part of the nation have, for some time past, been deluded with the expectation, nay, almost certainty, of the abrogation of the treaty. We have great pleasure in informing your excellency that General Gaines took occasion yesterday, while in council, to state, distinctly, such a hope was illusive; that such an occurrence was unknown in the history of diplomacy; and earnestly urged them to become reconciled to the treaty, and the policy of the General Government. We take occasion to assure your excellency of our high consideration and respect. WARREN JOURDAN, WM. W. WILLIAMSON, His Excellency GEORGE M. TROUP, Milledgeville.	Commissioners. Governor Troup to Messrs. Jourdan, Jones, Torrance, and Williamson. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 15, 1825. You will see, from the broad and comprehensive terms of the resolution subjoined to the report of the committee, a copy of which is enclosed, that you are authorized to examine into the conduct of the agent, generally, during his continuance in office, and that you are not confined to the charges exhibited against him by the Governor of this State. Very respectfully, G. M. TROUP. Messrs. JOURDAN, JONES, TORRANCE, and WILLIAMSON, Commissioners, fyc. Governor Troup to General Shorter. SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 10, 1825. Knowing that, in conformity with general orders, you have taken all the measures in your power to make safe the frontiers upon the line of your division, I forward to you supplies of arms and ammunition, which you wiH order to be placed in safe custody, under a responsible officer, at or near the Indian Springs, the present theatre of alarm. You will soon hear that similar supplies are forwarded for General Ware, to whom you will give instructions accordingly. Every thing must be kept safely, so that the public suffer no detriment, and whether they be used or not. Very respectfully, G. M. TROUP. Major General R. C. SHORTER, Monticello, Georgia. Governor Troup to General Ware. SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, MILLEDGEVILLE, June II, 1825. You will receive for the public service one hundred and sixty muskets, five thousand two hundred and eighty cartridges, two hundred and fifty flints, one hundred pounds of buck shot, and one hundred and sixty cartridge boxes; all of which you will be pleased to take the best possible care of. Very respectfully, G. M. TROUP. Brigadier General A. WARE, Fayette County, Georgia. General Ware to Governor Troup. SIR:	FAYETTE COUNTY, FORT TROUP, July 11, 1825. I have received information (which I conceive it my duty to communicate to you) that the citizens are intruding and trespassing on the Indians, by taking and conveying off the cum and other property of General William McIntosh, together with other friendly Indians. From a letter 1 this day received from Colonel Wagnor, of De Kalb county, and from the information of others of respectability, I am informed that the whites, citizens of this State, are committing depredations, and, in fact, stealing and taking off the property of the Indians on the head of Tallapoosa. From my situation, I have thought it the most advisable to communicate the above facts to your excellency, and elicit your opinion as to the most advisable plan for me to pursue against those intruders, as, in my opinion, I deem it necessary that something ought to be done to put a stop to these plundering whites, divested of every principle of right and justice. I have sent on this by a friend of mine, Mr. Jones, who was going to Milledgeville, and who will hand you this; and permit me to solicit your excellency to send me an answer by the bearer. With sentiments of esteem, your excellencv’s obedient servant, ALEXANDER WARE. - To His Excellency G. M. TROUP. Governor Troup to General Ware. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, July 14, 1825. I have received your letter of the 11th instant by Mr. Jones, notifying me of the depredations committed by our citizens on the property of the friendly chiefs and bthers. As the criminal laws of Georgia have been extended over that section of country, I wish you to turn over to the solicito rgeneral of your circuit for prosecution the names of all persons who, in this respect, have been violating the laws. Be pleased to give this information to Colonel Wagnor also. The magistrates ought to be vigilant and active in repressing these disorders, as they are required by my proclamation; and you can give them to understand that, whenever a military force shall become necessary in aid of the execution of the law's, you will furnish it promptly; and to this effect you had better give orders to your frontier officers. , Very respectfully, your friend and servant, G. M. TROUP. Brigadier General ALEXANDER WARE, Fayetteville, Georgia. REPORT OF THE GEORGIA COMMISSIONERS IN THE CASE OF THE INDIAN AGENT, DATED JULY 16, 1825. Governor Troup to the Georgia Commissioners. GENTLEMEN:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, June 11, 1825. Under the authority of a resolution passed the 11th instant, of which an official copy is herewith furnished, you are appointed to receive and examine testimony in the case referred to. As the party concerned disclaims the authority of the. State to interfere, it is not to be presumed that application will be made to you for leave to cross- examine: should, however, such application be made, you will not hesitate to grant it, giving timely notice of the person to be examined, and the time and place of such examination. You can hold your sessions at the place or places most convenient to you. Any three of you will be competent to proceed to business. Respectfully, G. M. TROUP. To W. JOURDAN, WM. W. WILLIAMSON, S. JONES,'and WM. II. TORRANCE, Commissioners. The Georgia Commissioners to Governor Troup. SIR:	MILLEDGEVILLE, July 16, 1825. On the 26th of June we had the honor to enclose to your excellency copies of the correspondence held at the Indian Springs with General Gaines. Your excellency will perceive that the commissioners of Georgia were inhibited by him from any participation in that council; and, in obedience to their instructions, they entered a protest, and without delay set forward for Fort Mitchell, near Broken Arrow. After our arrival at that place, we again addressed a note (No. 6) to General Gaines, renewing our request and explaining to him our motives and intentions in wishing to attend the council. This did not appear satisfactory to the general, and he adhered to his previous determination to exclude us from the council as commissioners, while we were left at liberty to attend as other individuals, (see No. 7.) We deemed it unnecessary to enter our protest against this refusal; and determined not to do so, from a sincere and anxious desire to give no cause of complaint to the general, and to attend the council as individuals, that we might avail ourselves of every means within our power of accomplishing the object of our appointment. After we had prepared our letter to General Gaines, (No. 6,) and before it had been handed to him, we were invited by the general to attend a talk about to be held between him and the Little Prince; (a copy of this talk is marked No. 8.) From the anxiety of the special agent, Major Andrews, to satisfy the mind of the Little Prince as to the suspension of the agent, (Colonel Crowell,) we felt anxious forebodings that we need not expect to find in him a man who sought only to extend impartial justice to the accused. In the afternoon of the same day, (the 25th of June,) we rode to the Asbury Mission, (the Methodist missionary establishment,) to see the Rev. Isaac Smith, (whom we proposed to examine as a witness,) to apprize him of that fact, and to ascertain what time would be most convenient to him. When we arrived, we found Colonel Crowell, Major Rockwell, his counsel, and Major Andrews, the special agent, already there. Being introduced to Mr. Smith, after a short time we informed him of our wish and intention to swear and examine him as a witness, and wished to know what time would suit him. His answer was, that any time would be convenient to him. We then proposed to make the examination on the Monday morning thereafter, and inquired of Colonel Crowell (to whom we had written the letter marked No. 5) whether that time would suit him; to which he assented. At this time we were asked by Major Andrews whether we and Colonel Crowell had made any arrangements as to the taking of testimony; to which it was replied, that we bad informed each other that each should have the opportunity of cross-examining the witnesses examined by the other, and that no other arrangement had been made. While these conversations were passing, the gentleman came into the room whom we understood to be the Rev. Lee Compere, (the Baptist missionary, and author of the letter to the Southern Intelligencer;) he was informed that the commissioners would examine him also. Mr. Compere made some objections to being sworn, and he was distinctly informed that the law had provided that the affirmation would be equally obligatory with an oath, when any person had conscientious scruples about taking an oath. He would not say he had any conscientious scruples about taking an oath, generally, but that he had conscientious scruples about taking an unnecessary oath; that he conceived one unnecessary in this case; that he would give a statement, and that was all he presumed Mr. Smith would do; he at last declared he would not swear or affirm to his statement, as he presumed his statement would he sufficient with the President, without an oath or affirmation; but if Major Andrews said it was necessary to swear to it, he would do so. Major Andrews was then informed by one of the commissioners that he knew the object of their taking the testimony, and if he would say, in writing, that the statement, without oath or affirmation, would be sufficient, the commissioners would be satisfied. To this he replied, that he did not know the object for which they were taking testimony; that it was a matter between the commissioners and Mr. Compere; and that he must decline saying any thing. He was referred to your letters to him as explanatory of our object. He said he did not think those letters did explain it. He did not know whether we intended to lay the testimony before the President, the Legislature, or Executive of Georgia, or before a judicial tribunal. He was informed that he must know that it could not be intended for a judicial tribunal. Major Andrews persisting in bis refusal tn give an opinion, and believing the controversy worse than useless, we took our leave. Immediately on returning to Fort Mitchell, we wrote Major Andrews the letter No. 9, which remained nnanswered till two of the commissioners (Jones and Torrance) left that place for Alabama. To persons not present, and particularly those unacquainted with all the circumstances, this letter may appear harsh, and the insinuations unwarranted; but we can assure your excellency that nothing but the most positive conviction could have induced us to take this step. Should circumstances have transpired to satisfy us we were wrong, we should most cheerfully have retracted; but we are sorry, for the interest of Georgia and of truth, we were compelled to declare that subsequent events have only confirmed ns in the correctness of that opinion. In the evening of that day, (the 25th,) two of the commissioners, walking along the public rnad, met and held a casual conversation with Josiah Gray, (a half-breed Indian, and one of the chiefs who had signed the treaty.) The next morning we received information that William Harnbly, the national interpreter, had told Gray that General Gaines was displeased with him and us for holding conversations together, and that he must do so no more. From Gray’s statement, (No. 24,) you will see what was said to him by the Indians. On the morning of the 26th two of the commissioners walked out, and with them a white man by the name of Richards, (a man who had lived in the nation, and had been interpreter to the Seminole Indians,) who had a claim against the Creek nation, and who attended at Broken Arrow to have, it settled. After he returned from the walk, he went into the commissioners’ room to show his papers relative to his claim to one of them. After dinner ot that day, standing near one of the commissioners, he was asked by him what was the name of an Indian who passed by at the time. Upon replying that he did nut know, he was requested to ask it. He asked an Indian who stood by, and informed the commissioners the Indian lived beluw. He was then told that the name of the Indian, and not his place of residence, was inquired alter. Richards then stated that he was willing to give the commissioners any information and assistance in his power, and to oblige them in any way he was able, but that he had received an order not to have any intercourse with the commissioners, or to interpret between them and the Indians for any purpose. He was then asked who gave the order! Was it given by General Gaines? To this he answered, the order was not given by General Gaines, but that he had received an order, and begged that no more questions might be asked him. About this time Colonel Williamson joined us, and upon consultation determined to ask an interview' with General Gaines, from whom we had just received his letter of the 26th, (No. 7,) to assure him of the confidence of the Governor of Georgia and of the commissioners in his exertion ’and determination to quiet the disturbances in the nation and reconcile their differences; to state to him the difficulties attending us from the interdict which was placed on our communications with the Indian countrymen, (white men living in the nation,) and with the Indians themselves; to detail to him the abuve circumstances relative to Gray and Richards; and to assure him that we would have no intercourse whatever with the Indians until his business was closed, to prevent any misconstruction of our motives and cunduct, if he (General Gaines) would promise, on his part, that he would keep the Indian chiefs there after he was done with them, and give us an opportunity of examining them separately and apart from each other, before him. He then stated that Major Andrews would wish to examine them in council, after he was done, and that he (Major Andrews) suggested the propriety of our drawing up our interrogatories, and submitting them to him for his examination, before they were put to the witnesses. He was immediately told by one of our mission that we could not submit to such a requisition from Major Andrews; that if he identified himself with Colonel Crowell as his counsel, and proposed such an arrangement as reciprocal, we would consider of it; but that he, as acting impartially between us, and as a judge, had no right to ask or demand any such thing, and that we would not accede to it. We further told him that we were well satisfied, and we had no doubt, from his knowledge of the Indian character, that he must be satisfied of the inutility of examining them in council; that they would repeat the same story, whether true or false; indeed, that the talk would be delivered by one man, and that we could only hope to obtain the truth front them by a separate examination; that we wished it in his presence, and that we would put our questions in writing. The general then assured us that he would, with pleasure, give ns all the facilities in his power; that he had the power to detain the chiefs as long as he pleased, and that he would do so; that he would let us know when he was done with them, and we should then have the opportunity of examining them as we wished. We then took our leave, resting with full confidence in the assurances of aid and assistance which we had received. How well our expectations were fulfilled, and how justly our confidence was reposed, will be seen by your excellency in the report of Colonels Jourdan and Williamson. On Monday the 27th, in the morning, we repaired to the Asbury mission-house, to submit interrogatories to Mr. L. Compere. When we arrived, we again found Colonel Crowell, Major Rockwell, and Major Andrews already there; the two latter in a private room, the door of which was carefully closed and fastened on onr entrance’into the house. In a short time Mr. Smith came into the room where we sat, and handed us the letter No. 23, signed by himself, Mr. Compere, and Mr. Hill; the last of whom seems to have enlisted himself as a volunteer, as he had not been asked by us, nor had we intended to examine him. By this letter, you will perceive they had come to a positive determination not to swear or affirm to any statement they might give. Without entering into any discussion as to the propriety of that determination, we submitted some interrogatories to Mr. Compere. To these we could not then receive any answers; we were informed they would be prepared in the course of the day, and handed to us in the evening, as the council was expected to meet that morning. The commissioners declined submitting any questions to Mr. Smith at that time, and departed, leaving the rest of the company together, no doubt to consult and determine on the answers proper to'be given to the questions. When we called in the evening, the answers were already made out to the questions before propounded, and answers made to additional questions then submitted. We are unable to give you a proper idea of this examination. Suffice it to say, we became well satisfied that any attempt on our part to obtain the truth from men living in the Indian nation, (whether white or red,) and under the influence and power of the agent, into whose conduct we were then examining, must be fruitless. For what could we expect from others, who pretended to have no regard for the sacred obligations of religion, when we found a minister of the gospel, an ambassador of Christ, covering himself with the sanctity of his mantle to protect himself from the consequences of perjury; when we found him prevaricating and equivocating in the statement which his conscience would not permit him to verify by an oath or affirmation? Under this conviction, and to prevent them from preparing the other witnesses as they had done those about Fort Mitchell, it was determined that two of our mission should immediately proceed to Alabama, to take testimony on the road, and at Line creek and Montgomery in that State. Messrs. Jones and Torrance were selected for that business. They left Fort Mitchell, and proceeded as far as Crabtree’s that evening, (a distance of four miles.) In pursuance of the instructions we had received from your excellency, Colonel Crowell was served with a notice on the 28th, early in the morning, that we would take the testimony of Kendal Lewis and James Moss, at the house of Kendal Lewis, about twenty-five or twenty-six miles distant from Fort Mitchell, at 11 o’clock that day. You will perceive from Colonel Crowell’s letter of that date, (No. 10,) that he complains of the time as too short to afford him an opportunity of cross-examination. While we admit the time was short, we deny it was too limited for him to reach there. We intended to give only time enough to enable him or his counsel to get there, and to allow them no time to tamper with and prepare the witness either to answer as they wished, or not to answer at all. As proof of the sufficiency of the time, we would refer your excellency to the report of Messrs. Jones and Torrance, marked A. The report of Messrs. Jourdan and Williamson, marked B, will show their proceedings, and the difficulties they encountered during the absence of Messrs. Jones and Torrance. You will have seen by a former part of this report, that two of the members of the mission (Messrs. Jones and Torrance) departed from Fort Mitchell on the evening of the 27th for Lewis’s, Line creek, and Montgomery, for the purpose of procuring the testimony of certain witnesses at those places. They having accomplished that object, so far as they were enabled to do, returned and joined the commissioners at Crabtree’s, on Sunday the 3d instant. Having been informed, on that morning, that Mr. Kendal Lewis, to whom we had propounded certain interrogate- ries the day before, in writing, (and who had at his request been allowed a short time to draught his answers,) had refused to answer them at all, and had also left the neighborhood for his residence, we determined to inform General Gaines of the same, and request of him an order whereby Mr. Lewis might again be brought to Fort Mitchell to testify. This was done on the 4th instant, (see No. 21.) In that communication you will observe that we cautiously avoided the use of any language the least calculated to interrupt the very friendly feeling manifested towards the Government of Georgia and her commissioners by General Gaines shortly after their arrival at Fort Mitchell. We sought only to correct what we considered a mistake made by the general through his aid—doubtless unintentional—to request the order for Lewis, and a copy or copies of the talks to and from the Indians.	. How far that communication authorized the reply we received, forbidding further correspondence with the United States’ mission then in the Creek nation, touching the objects of the disturbances therein, your excellency will readily determine. Whether the special agent was included in that mission we know not, but suppose that he was, and that our correspondence may have been closed under a feeling produced by your excellency’s note to one of its members, (Major Andrews,) bearing date, the 2Sth ultimo. On the morning of the 3d, we were notified that the counsel for Colonel Crowell would proceed on the next morning, at about the hour of 9 o’clock, to take the examination of William Hambly, the interpreter. In pursuance of the notice, we attended at the time and place designated. When we arrived, we were informed that they were not ready, but would be in a short time. After we had been there about an hour, we were informed that they were ready to close the examination of Mr. Hambly. To our surprise, we found that the whole of the testimony of'the interpreter had been committed to paper by Colonel Crowell’s counsel before we were called in. It was read to him by the counsellor of the agent, who stated to the witness before he began, that he would read over his testimony again, slowly and distinctly. He did so, and then said: “Mr. Hambly, I have read over the testimony, slowly and distinctly; indeed, not once, but two or three times; and you can say if any thing is wrong.” The witness said all was right, and then swore to the statements that he had heard read as true. Such a course we considered very unlike what is termed an examination. Having heard the testimony of Mr. Hambly, we determined at once not to cross-interrogate him; his evidence being mainly confined to points affecting the means whereby the late treaty was obtained, and attempting, by a selection of statements that we believed to be wholly false and unworthy of credit, to defame the fair character of the United States’ commissioners, and every person connected with them in their duties as such. Such testimony, if from respectable characters for truth, might be considered important, if the Government of the United States were prosecuting an inquiry, by her special agents, whether or not a fraud' had been committed upon that Government by her commissioners. Such an opinion we could not for a moment entertain. A perusal of the testimony of Mr. Hambly would convince you in a moment of the correctness of the opinion we had in relation to his veracity. He furnished abundant matter for the remark. Yon will see from Colonel Crowell’s letter of the 28th ultimo, (No. 10,) to two of the commissioners, that he complains of unfairness in our conduct, for having given him notice that we should proceed to take testimony at some distance from Broken Arrow, during the sitting of the Indian council, because, says he, “ it was of much importance that I should be present at the council.” The commissioners were not allowed to be present at that council; and wherefore it could have been of “ much importance” for an officer of the General Government to be present, who was then suspended from the functions of his office, it is for him to explain. We had distinctly heard, in public, from General Gaines, that it was his wish that no white man should hold “ any talk” with the Indians until he was done with them. From the course pursued by the agent at that council, and his permission to do so, (for the omission to prohibit him was permission,) his suspension was purely nominal—it was a mere mockery. We have no doubt but that his free admission into the Indian councils, aided and assisted by his former sub-agent, Mr. Walker, gave him quite as much influence over the minds of the Indians as he ever exercised in the days of his utmost prosperity and authority. How well the Indians adhered to the instructions of General Gaines, in not receiving talks from white men, you can determine when you examine the written reply made by them to him as official. In that document you will observe that they speak of the “ usages of the United States”—“ of her constitution”—and “ the principles by which she is governed.” Truly, a savage production. Upon the subject of a law which the hostile party allege that McIntosh violated, and which led to his death, you are referred to the report of Messrs. Jourdan and Williamson. We have no doubt, from the very many contradictory stories that we had heard in the nation, touching the origin and enactment of such a law, that no such law was ever known among the Creeks. We are confirmed ih this opinion by the reply of General Gaines to the friendly chiefs, at the Indian Springs, on the 20th ultimo. If we are correctly informed upon that point, he there stated that he had read their laws, and was gratified to find none su sanguinary as that alleged by their enemies to exist, under color of which it had been stated that the murder of McIntosh was perpetrated. The chiefs in cooncil did not pretend that they had any such law reduced to record; a white man, who informed one of the commissioners that he had resided in the nation twenty or thirty years, stated that he knew of no such law. The very manner in which these unfortunate men were put to death proves that the Indians did not execute him for having violated any law. We believe that, when it becomes necessary to enforce such sanguinary edicts upon any of that tribe, the culprit is arrested and conducted to some town or public square in the nation, and there undergoes a species of trial; sentence of death is then pronounced; the accused is thereupon publicly put to death by shooting.	'	• How unlike such a procedure was the foul murder of McIntosh and his friends. His house was surrounded at the dead hour of night, and set fire to by a band of lawless assassins; and there, encircled by the scorching flames produced by the conflagration of his own mansion, was he inhumanly and most unlawfully put to death. When witnesses are called on in the nation, whom it is supposed knew something of Indian laws and Indian policy, they account for these murders by saying it was for violation of their law; which law, answers a church missionary, “ was seen by nobody." When asked what law condemned to death a distinguished man among them, who was of the party slain, but who did not sign the treaty, the answer is gravely given by a reverend clergyman, “ the law of nations!" (See Mr. Smith’s testimony.) It would have been well if this dignitary had informed us when the Indians adopted the principles of Vattel, Martens, and Brynkershoek! •	• The gross inconsistencies in the statements of the Indians and white men resident among them, to establish the existence of such a law, fix indelibly on the minds of the commissioners that no such law is, or ever was. The argument in support of such a law proves too moch; the agent himself did not rely on it at the commencement of these Indian disturbances. As an instance of the determination of those gentlemen resident in the nation, who have assumed the robes of sanctity to avoid any thing like plain truth, whenever it was to operate against the agent or hostile chiefs, we call the attention of yonr excellency to our tenth interrogatory to the reverend Isaac Smith. You will observe that he has thought proper to take the liberty to alter that interrogatory to read in such manner as would, according to his notions, give him the opportunity of an answer. It is under the words that he has interpolated into that interrogatory, and without our authority, that he has furnished us with his national answer. We shall not here express an opinion on this conduct of Air. Smith, nor shall we say what ought to be the consequences to hint, if he had done this within the acknowledged jurisdictional limits of Georgia. How far the whole of the testimony, taken in support of the charges against the Indian agent, sustains those charges, is not for us officially to determine; nor do we desire to express an opinion of an official character upon the subject. There is a subject, not directly within the objects of our appointment, but is inseparably connected with the treaty and its consequences, upon which we beg leave to offer a remark. It is upon the subject of the contemplated survey of the territory lately ceded. During tho stay of the commissioners at the Indian Springs, three of them were informed, by several of the leading chiefs of the friendly party, that they were willing, and even desirous, that the survey should be made during the ensuing fall, and assigned as a reason that the surveyors, and their people, being amongst them at that period, would afford them an opportunity of disposing of much of their products that they could not transport with them to the westward; that they intended removing beyond the Mississippi before another crop was made, if the General Government would pay them the money according to the terms of the treaty. Connected with this, sir, we remark that it is somewhat strange that the chiefs who reside beyond the limits of the territory ceded to the United States for the benefit of Georgia, are the only chiefs, with a few exceptions, so far as we are informed, who are opposed to the survey. The fact is notorious, we believe, that the chiefs and their leaders, who oppose this measure, are resident near Tallapoosa river and Alabama. What injury, then, can they sustain by the survey? Herewith we transmit to your excellency copies of our correspondence with General Gaines and Major Andrews, connected with the subject, numbered from 1 to 23 inclusive; also, the testimony received in the execution of the duties assigned to us. The testimony of several other witnesses will be received: an opportunity for their examination has not yet offered. We shall proceed to close the several examinations as early as practicable, and forthwith report to you the same. With considerations of high respect, we have the honor to be, sir, your excellency’s obedient servants, WARREN JOURDAN, W. W. WILLIAMSON, SEABORN JONES, WM. H. TORRANCE. To His Excellency G. M. TROUP. A. Messrs. Jones and Torrance to Messrs. Jourdan and Williamson. GENTLEMEN:	MILLEDGEVILLE, July 13, 1825. We arrived at Kendal Lewis’s about ten o’clock on the morning of the 28th of June. After waiting some time, we entered into conversation with Kendal Lewis, and were informed by/him that he was present when the observations were made by Colonel John Crowell, the agent, which were proven by Jesse Cox, that he had seen Cox’s statement in the newspaper, and that Cox had sworn to the truth, and had not told any more than was said. We informed Mr. Lewis we had come on to take his testimony: to which he objected, saying he did not know any thing but what he had heard. We told him we wished to examine him as to what he heard Crowell say. This, he said, could be proved by others as well as himself; that Jesse Cox, Drury Spain, and others were present, and that Cox had sworn to it, and that was sufficient. We told him that Cox had sworn, but that we understood the Crowells said Cox had stated a lie. He said Cox had sworn to the truth, but that he could not give his testimony. We then told him we would apply to General Gaines for an order to compel him to appear before him to give his testimony, which we had not a doubt he would give; but, if he refused, we would make a statement of the facts to the Governor of Georgia, and he would apply for an order to the Secretary of War or the President. He said he would not give his testimony; but if General Gaines issued an order, he would not disobey his order. We then wrote a letter to Colonels Jourdan and Williamson, informing them of these facts, and requesting them to apply to General Gaines for an order to require Lewis’s attendance. While urging Air. Lewis to be sworn, we inquired into the cause of his refusal. He declared he was afraid all his property would be taken away from him if he testified. He told us that it was generally understood among the Indian countrymen, (white men in the nation,) that if they all adhered to the agent, and he was not displaced, the treaty would be broken, and they would get their land back; but if they testified against him, and he was discharged, the treaty would be good, and they would have to give up their lands; and they were all afraid they should lose all their property if they swore any thing against the agent. About two o’clock we took the testimony of James Moss; and about three o’clock left Lewis’s, and reached Cornell’s house, twenty miles off, that evening. We proceeded to Montgomery, Alabama, and took the depositions of John A. Peck, Henry Finch, and John Al. Bach: being unable to find Captain Anthony, we returned to Crabtree’s on Sunday, the 3d of July, and joined the other commissiooers. SEABORN JONES, To the GEORGIA COMMISSIONERS.	W. H. TORRANCE. B. Messrs. Jourdan and Williamson to Messrs. Jones and Torrance. GENTLEMEN:	MILLEDGEVILLE, July 13, 1825. On Thursday, the 28th ultimo, we proceeded to the duties assigned to us in relation to preparing and arranging interrogatories to be propounded to several of the head chiefs of the nation, and also to some of the-white men resident there, which we proposed to have answered immediately after General Gaines had announced to us that he had concluded his business with the council. In a conversation shortly afterwards with General Gaines on this subject, one of the commissioners frankly stated to him that we had no reliance on aid being afforded to us from any other quarter; he stated, in confirmation of his former assurance to us, that he had the power, through the agent for Indian affairs, to assemble the chiefs and Indian countrymen at any time and place he thought proper, and that our wishes in that particular should be attended to. From this twofold assurance we felt confident no obstacle would be interposed. A list of witnesses we were desirous of examining was made out and handed to General Gaines. Interrogatories corresponding were made out, which consumed two or three days in the preparation and arrangement. From an examination of the correspondence herewith submitted to you, you will perceive that an objection was interposed, as coming from the chiefs, to the transaction of any business with the Georgia commissioners, unless in full council, and the insulting and indecorous language in which they were indulged in communicating that objection to us. You will also be informed that the objection was sustained.	• Our feelings will not permit us to comment on this transaction in a becoming manner, because it would necessarily involve the integrity of character which all should sustain, holding high offices under, and possessing the confidence of, the General Government. When it suited General Gaines’s purposes and convenience, we were denied a “ participation” in the council, for reasons stated. When it comported with the views of the chiefs to enable them to evade truth, we were invited to the council. When white men attended for examination, who it was believed had honesty enough to swear to the truth, and through fear for their safety evaded it, the exercise of power which could coerce their attendance was denied. You will not need the spirit of inspiration to enable you to understand and properly appreciate (as we believe) the motives which influenced such conduct, when you are informed that General Gaines declared in our presence and hearing that the statements of Hopoithle Yoholo made in council were true, and that it was impossible to resist the conviction; that he (General Gaines) would believe his statements against the congregated world. During this conversation, we stated to General Gaines that if Hopoithle Yoholo’s statement was understood by us, it was generally untrue; and that if he (General Gaines) would permit us to examine the chiefs separately, under any and every restriction he might impose, we pledged ourselves to prove to his satisfaction that Hopoithle Yoholo had lied. General Gaines replied it was impossible, and said he never knew an Indian to tell a lie in council. The commissioners then asked him if he had not the same confidence in the friendly Indians; to which General Gaines assented. We assured him that if Hopoithle Yoholo’s statement was submitted to them, they would give it the lie, and that their statements would be confirmed by the commissioners on the part of the United States, and every person attached to the mission. To which General Gaines replied, he would submit our proposition to the council the next day. From such unqualified declarations, (to say the least of them,) very insulting to the character and dignity of the State, with the testimony of the United States commissioners, and the testimony of many other respectable witnesses confirming their statements in relation to one of the charges (his opposition to the treaty) staring him in the face, we are constrained to believe, and to declare to the world our opinion, that this case has been prejudged. And we are the more confirmed in this view of the subject, when we take in connexion the views of the special agent, couched in his letter to Colonel Crowell, lately published in the Patriot, and which letter, from a subsequent letter, seems to have been approved of by General Gaines before publication. The suspension of the agent, with the accompanying explanation, so far from having the effect to “ elicit unbiassed testimony,” produced the opposite result. It was a very general belief entertained by both white and red men, that his removal from office was certain. When, therefore, the fact was publicly announced at Broken Arrow that he was suspended temporarily, and that too from mere courtesy io the Governor of Georgia, the effect produced was obvious and extensive. The conviction could not be resisted—his reinstatement in office was no longer doubted. We shall still feel the influence of his authority and power. This was remarkably exemplified in many cases, a few of which will be cited. The case of Kendal Lewis, of which you are informed, who eloped secretly without testifying. The case of a respectable gentleman resident in Florida, who, for having casually conversed with one of the commissioners, was ordered (as he stated) not to hold any conversation with, or interpret any conversation held between, the commissioners and the Indians; who was grossly insulted publicly by General Gaines, and his head threatened to be cut off. The case of Josiah Gray, (one of the chiefs who- signed the late treaty,) who Lad a like conversation with two of the commissioners, was told by Hambly, as he (Gray) informed us, that General Gaines was much offended with him and us. The case of an Indian, whom we hired as a pilot, to facilitate an examination of the river, with a view to ascertain where the line of Georgia would leave the Chattahoochie: on his being spoken to by some persons unknown to us, he immediately returned the money given him for the trip, and said he could not accompany us, as he had been much abused for consenting to go. The case of Mr. Martin, a gentleman who had been selected by the friendly chiefs to write their talk: for this little manifestation of friendship, he was much insulted and abused, and threatened with decapitation. During the development of these untoward occurrences, an express was received from his excellency the Governor, notifying ns of his wish that the Indians should be made acquainted with the intentions of our Government in relation to the contemplated survey, and the innocency of the measure. In obedience thereto, a short talk was prepared. We attended the council for the purpose of communicating it; General Gaines peremptorily forbade the communication, and added, that he was instructed to say the survey would be prevented. The circumstances and incidents just detailed, trifling and unimportant as some of them may appear to distant observers, had a most powerful influence in directing every thing in a given channel. We have detailed some of the causes which operated the non-fulfilment of the principal object of our instructions, and which came more immediately under our observation. The following consideration suggests itself on this branch of the. subject: that the declaration of General Gaines to the Indians, to hold no talks with white men, operated wholly to our exclusion; and that all conversation about matters then the subject of investigation and negotiation was wholly interdicted to us. The most free and unrestrained conversation and communication was kept up and permitted with the Indians by all other persons present, even with the notorious sub-agent Walker. We feel it a duty we owe to the State and to humanity to offer a few brief remarks in relation to the sanguinary law which has been offered as a full justification and extenuation of the cruel and unjustifiable murders lately committed in the Indian nation, and to enforce which the meek, charitable, and unbounded philanthropy of the followers of the Savior of the world has been called into requisition. If murders, rapine, plunder, and devastation are the doctrines best to inculcate in the system adopted by these missionaries, instead of peace and good-will to men, and charily and love as extensive as creation itself, then all Christendom have to learn what a few missionaries have discovered by a short residence in a particularly appropriate situation for the exercise of the finer feelings of oui nature. The inconsistent and contradictory statements of those whose interest it is to establish the law confirm the opinion that no such law existed until the Tuckaubatchee and Polecat proceedings. Some contend that it was passed at Fort Hawkins; there are others who refer to a time for its passage immediately after the treaty at Fort Jackson; some others contend for Broken Arrow; while others contend that it was promulgated last year, at or near tITe missionary establishment, at a ball-play, and solemnly proclaimed from “ a cart on the Lord’s day.” The latter is the declaration of the Rev. Isaac Smith. The interpreter, Hambly, from his long residence in the nation, must have known the time and place of its enact ment, if such a law was in existence. In his testimony he swears (and from his character we should suspect him of a willingness to swear any thing) such a law was passed several years ago, and re-enacted in all the towns. He conceals the truth, and evades detection by not adverting to the time or place of its passage. This is the celebrated law not to be found in the national code, and which has never been seen by any person; (so says the Rev. Isaac Smith in his examination;) which has been conjured op by white men, and pot into the months of the Indians, to suit their own purposes, and the pretext for the murder of McIntosh and his friends. If such a law has ever existed, made and enacted in full council, as contended for, with such severe penalties annexed, is it reasonable to suppose that so much uncertainty would exist as to the time and place of its enactment? Is it not irrational to suppose that, if such a lav/ was passed with so much solemnity as is apparently urged, the nation would not have inflicted its penalties upon those who ceded away lands in “ ’18 or ’19,” and upon those who subsequently ceded away the lands between the Ocmulgee and Flint rivers in 1821, when, by referring to the latter treaty, it will be found but two Alabama chiefs signed it? Why did their law sleep on these several occasions, so important, and calling so imperiously for its execution? Wherefore have not its terms and its penalties been heretofore proclaimed to deter delinquents from its repeated violation? So much for this imaginary law. We shall proceed concisely to notice two other facts connected with these transactions, and close this report. It seems to have passed unnoticed that the chiefs whu gave the order fur the death of McIntosh and his followers, as well as those who executed that order, were from those towns who were excluded in the late treaty, who ceded no land, and who sustained no injury; and that the same chiefs governed and directed in the late council at Broken Arrow; with what propriety or justice let those answer whose duty it is to make suitable atonement and repair the wrong.	v It should also be recollected by those who have to weigh the merits and demerits of the injured party, and whose duty it is to judge of the extent of the double obligation imposed by important services rendered, and the most inviolable attachment and fidelity manifested on the most trying occasions, that, during the late war, the Creek nation experienced a civil disunion: those resident principally beyond the geographical limits of Georgia identified themselves with the enemies of the United States, and fought in their service, (the present interpreter amongst the number;) those resident on the Georgia side united themselves with the forces of the United States, and fought bravely in our defence. The latter, in the fortuitous and fortunate course of events, became the conquerors; they held the country, not by the slight and uncertain tenure of possession only, but by right of conquest; a principle recognised by civilized nations, and acknowledged by the Government of the United States, and confirmed by their subsequent acts. It was in pursuance of this incontestable right and well-established principle, that the McIntosh party have held, and at their good pleasure have ceded away, at various times, their rightful domain. If in any instance they enacted such a law as before referred to, their subsequent acts must have abrogated it. The Red Stick party were conquered; they forfeited their lands to the United States as the. price of their defection, and to compensate the Government for the expenses of the war and losses sustained. By this act they were disseised of that common and general interest in the country which rightfully belonged to them previous to the war. They became tributary to the dominion of McIntosh and his followers. The United States exercised the right and the power claimed in the treaty at Fort Jackson. They recognised the same power as belonging tu those who fought and bled in her cause by a public act so long ago as 1817. The United States are bound, by the universal principles of justice, by humanity, and gratitude for important services rendered, for attachment and fidelity unequalled, by the solemn and imposing stipulations of a treaty, to do ample justice to the sufferers, when their sufferings, ruin, and distress have been the consequence of their devotiun to the General Government. In calling to our recollection the events alluded to, we find among those signing the late treaty the distinguished chiefs (living) who acted as officers in the late war. It only remains to be seen whether or not the General Government will stand by as a disinterested spectator of such tragic scenes, with folded arms, and see her faithful ally and friend murdered, and his family and friends ingulphed in inextricable misery and ruin; whether the plunderers shall revel in their unholy gain with wanton impunity; whether the cries of innocence, the widow’s weeping wail, shall be mocked at and pass unnoticed; in fine, whether the General Government will solemnly promise protection, and refuse it when most needed. WARREN JOURDAN, To the COMMISSIONERS OF GEORGIA.	W. W. WILLIAMSON. CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES’ AGENTS AND THE GEORGIA COMMISSIONERS. No. 1. Copy of a letter from the Commissioners appointed by the Governor of Georgia to take testimony relative to the conduct of the Agent of Indian Affairs, to Major General E. P. Gaines. SIR:	INDIAN SPRINGS, June 20, 1825. Enclosed you will receive a copy of a letter of instructions from his excellency the Governor of Georgia to us, as commissioners in behalf of the State, for the purposes therein mentioned. It is important to the commissioners that your answer to the application of his excellency the Governor, to admit the commissioners to a full and free participation of the council of the Indians, should be received as early as practicable. Very respectfully, sir, we are vour obedient servants,	WARREN JOURDAN, W. W. WILLIAMSON, W. H. TORRANCE, Major General E. P. GAINES.	Commissioners. 104 E No. 2. Copy of a letter received by the Commissioners from Major General E. P. Gaines. HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, GENTLEMEN:	INDIAN SPRINGS, June 21, 1825. 1 have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of yesterday’s date, announcing the objects of your mission.	• In reply, I have, to observe, that, however much I might be aided by the lights of your experience, I do not feel myself authorized, without new instructions from the Department of War, to comply with your demand to be admitted “to a full and free participation of the council of the Indians.” The council is assembled for the purpose of enabling me to discharge duties of a very delicate and important nature confided to me by the General Government. I deem it proper, therefore, that I should exercise the entire control of every subject to be acted on, and of every expression uttered to the council by any officer or citizen permitted to address it, whether of the United States or of any individual State or Territory. Without such control, our cuuncils would be involved in confusion, and they would be wholly useless, if not worse than useless. I offer you, gentlemen, assurances of my consideration and respect. EDMUND P. GAINES, Major General U. S. Army, Commanding. Col. WARREN JOURDAN, Col. WM. WILLIAMSON, WM. H. TORRANCE, Esq. No. 3. Copy of a letter from the Commissioners to Major General E. P. Gaines. SIR:	INDIAN SPRINGS, June 21, 1825. Your note of the present date we have had the honor to receive. We are free to express, sir, that its contents have surprised us. Your note furnishes us with the information that your duties are of a very delicate and important nature. We have no doubt of their importance. The occasion calls for important measures. The chiefs of a once powerful nation have, to be re-established in their usurped honors, power, and fortunes, in and amongst a people over whom you arc deputed for the time being to preside. Your measures fix their destiny, and that of their posterity: high responsibility—delicate trust. Your Government has informed you of the existing relations between that nation and the State of Georgia. We are the representatives of that State, in connexion with certain matters touching the disturbances therein. The Government of the State of Georgia has vested in us certain powers, the execution of which was, and is, believed to be closely identified with the objects of your present mission. On our arrival at this place, we deemed it prudent to lay before you a copy of our instructions from his excellency the Governor of Georgia, by which you were informed that we were expressly instructed not to interfere in any matter disconnected with the objects of our appointment; but, at the same time, clearly expressing the opinion that we would be admitted to a full and free participation of the Indian councils. This opinion was the more readily advanced by our Government, because it was known that your object in convening a council of the Indians was inseparably connected with the duties assigned to us; therefore, the State of Georgia considered that she might make the request that has been made, with much confidence that it would be readily granted; relying upon the strongest assurances which it was believed could be made by you, as the agent of the General Government, to receive the aid, and assistance, and co-operation of Georgia in carrying fully into effect the views of your Government. We are instructed to say that our Government disclaims, in the strongest terms, any wish or intention in anywise to embarrass your movements as connected with any matter growing out of the present unfortunate and peculiar situatiun of the Creek nation of Indians. The Government of Georgia has created the commission under which we have the honor to act for no other purpose than to inquire into the facts as connected with the conduct of an officer of your Government, the conduct of which officer has been arraigned by the Government of Georgia, at the instance of the President of the United States. In the investigation of the conduct of that officer, the State of Georgia has great interest. It is of the highest importance to her that there should be a full and clear development of the facts; which if had, it is bcl’eved, will fully establish the several charges as preferred. To arrive at the certainty of all these facts, in the most imposing and official manner, it was considered by our Government necessary to constitute the present mission. It was further determined by the same Government to be of the first consequence that the members of that mission should present themselves clothed in their official character in the council of the Indians to be convened by you; believing that in the councils information might be elicited material to the points in issue between the State of Georgia and the agent for Indian affairs. For this purpose, and no other, we have been directed by our Government to repair to this place, and to inform you of the same, and to respectfully ask your permission for admittance therein. We have done so by request only; we have not demanded it: that permission has been denied to us. We, therefore, in pursuance to our instructions, as also a proper sense of duty towards our Government, do hereby enter our formal protest against such denial; believing that, in consequence of being debarred a participation in those councils, the State of Georgia will unquestionably be deprived of that which is to her of vital interest and great magnitude. Respectfully, sir, we are vour obedient servants, W. W. WILLIAMSON, WARREN JOURDAN, .	WM. H. TORRANCE, Major General E. P. GAINES.	Commissioners. No. 4. Copy of a letter received from John Crowell, Agent, fyc. by the Commissioners. GENTLEMEN:	Creek AgencY) june 20, 1825. I have understood that you have been appointed by the Governor of Georgia to superintend, in the Creek nation, the investigation of the accusation which he has deemed it expedient to make against me. Although I have not had the privilege extended to me by the Legislature and Governor of Georgia which is guarantied by the constitution of our country, even to the culprit on his trial; although it is apparent, from the course pursued, (in publishing the en parte evidence, collected professedly for the adjudication of another and different tribunal,) that the prejudice of the community is sought to be excited against me, which, like the sword of Brennus, is to be cast into the scale against me, to make up for all deficiencies in the weight of the testimony; and although this course of proceeding is properly appreciated; yet, being desirous of affording my accusers the full benefit of a cross-examination of the witnesses to be adduced in my behalf, desiring a fair and impartial investigation, and conscious of the correctness of my official conduct, I herewith invite you to attend the examination of my witnesses in the nation, for the purpose of putting to them such questions in reference to my deportment as you may think proper. Of the time and place of examination you will be notified. In giving you this invitation, I wish you distinctly to understand that it is not given under the impression that it is your right, since I have not been confronted with the witnesses against me; but it is given under a full conviction of being able fully to establish my innocence, by witnesses who shrink not from the ordeal of cross-examination, and to show you that my defence rests not, like the accusations against me, upon the flimsy foundation of garbled evidence, arbitrarily taken and improperly reported. I am, respectfully, your obedient servant, JOHN CROWELL. No. 5. Copy of a letter from the Commissioners to Colonel John Crowell. SIR:	FORT MITCHELL, June 25, 1825. Your letter under date of the 20th instant has been duly received, and we should be happy to avail ourselves of the opportunity to cross-examine any witnesses you may deem necessary. On our part we, would observe, that the Government of Georgia feels no disposition to deprive you of any and every means of justifying yourself. We have no doubt that you would have beeo permitted to be present and cross-examine the witnesses before the committee of the Legislature, had a request been made by you; and we have been particularly instructed by his excellency the Governor to afford you that privilege. You shall be duly notified of the time and place of examination. We are, sir, yours respectfully,	WARREN JOURDAN, SEABORN JONES, W. H. TORRANCE, Colonel JOHN CROWELL.	Commissioners. No. 6. Copy of a letter from the Commissioners to Major General E. P. Gaines. SIR:	FORT MITCHELL, June 25, 1825. Since our arrival at this place, we have been joined by Colonel Jones, who is associated with us in the commission by the Governor of Georgia. In obedience to our instructions, with a copy of which you have been furnished, we beg leave again to call your attention to that part of those instructions by which it was contemplated by the Governor that we would be admitted to a free participation of the council of the Indians to be convened at Broken Arrow, as well as of that lately held at the Indian Springs; and we would repeat the request, on our part, that we may be admitted to that council. In your letter of the 21st instant, in answer to a similar request made at that place, you say, “ I deem it proper, therefore, that I should exercise the entire control of every subject to be acted on, and of every expression uttered to the council by any officer or citizen permitted to address it, whether of the United States or of any individual State or Territory. Without such control, our councils would be involved in confusion, and they would be wholly useless, if not worse than useless.” We call your attention to this part of your letter for the purpose of correcting a mistake under which you have fallen, with regard to our motives, and the course of conduct we might pursue, in attending the council. We have been particularly instructed “ not to interfere with the council in matters disconnected with the object of our mission, and which appertain exclusively to interests and relations purely political subsisting between the General Government and the Indians.” Permit us to assure you, sir, that we shall strictly adhere to those instructions, and carefully avoid any interference; and that we shall expect only to make soggestions to yourself in the council, and through you to obtain all the information which can be acquired. The information thus obtained will be of an official character, and will perhaps be more satisfactory than any derived from any other source. From Mr. Kenan, our secretary, you will receive a copy of the message of the Governor to the Legislature, with the accompanying documents, and other papers. And we have the honor to subscribe ourselves, with high consideration, your obedient servants, WARREN JOURDAN, SEABORN JONES, W. H. TORRANCE, Major General E. P. GAINES.	Commissioners. No. 7. Copy of a letter received by the Commissioners from Major General E. P. Gaines. HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, GENTLEMEN:	CREEK AGENCY, June 26,1825. I have received your communication of yesterday’s date, requesting to be admitted to the council to be convened at Broken Arrow. I am under no such mistake as that you ascribe to me, and which you are pleased to attempt to correct. In your letter of the 20th, you claim “a full and free participation of the council of the Indians.” Whatever may have been your meaning, the manifest import of the expressions employed by you could be nothing less than a demand to exercise, without control, certain privileges before the council. The force of this construction is rather strengthened than diminished by your instructions from his excellency the Governor of Georgia, to which you refer. You say “ We have been particularly instructed not to interfere with the council in matters disconnected with the objects of our mission, and which appertain exclusively to interests and relations purely political subsisting between the General Government and the Indians.” You are consequently instructed tu interfere with the council in matters connected with the objects of your mission; or, in other words, to do what you are instructed to do, and nothin" more. But your instructions exhibit an attempt to discriminate between the duties assigned to you, on the part of the State of Georgia, and subjects appertaining “ exclusively to interests and relations purely political subsisting between the General Government and the Indians.” I cannot perceive or admit the existence of any such distinction. The General Government can have no interests or relations " purely political," either with the Indians, or with any other people or nation, in which the State of Georgia is not concerned. But his excellency the Governor of Georgia deemed it proper that the State should be represented at the council at Broken Arrow, and you have been appointed for that purpose. I have advised you that the President has seen fit to confide to me the exclusive mission to this nation on the part of the United States. I have now to add, that the duties assigned to me are substantially the same as those with which you are charged, with the exception of taking testimony as to the conduct of the agent. Thus have I the honor to represent Georgia, with each other member of the United States, in the Indian council at Broken Arrow. With due deference and respect for the authorities of the State, who have had the kindness to appoint a mission to afford me aid, which the General Government appears not to have been aware that I stood in need of, I cannot permit myself to recognise that mission without the authority of the President. It would afford me great satisfaction to possess the confidence of the State authorities. I can hope to win it only by a faithful discharge of my duty; but if I fail thus to win it, I feel convinced that I shall not fail to retain what will be equally gratifying to me—the conscious persuasion that I merit that confidence. In the subsequent part of your letter, you assure me that you will strictly adhere to your instructions, and carefully avoid any interference; and that you should expect only to make suggestions to tne in the council, and through me to obtain the information which can be acquired. It is to be regretted that you did not sooner favor me with this moderate definition of your wishes, as, in that case, no objection would have been offered by me to your request, individually and unofficially. You are entirely at liberty to attend, as any other gentlemen would be. I reserve to myself, however, the right to control every subject to be acted upon, and every expression to be uttered to the council. It affords me pleasure to profit by the suggestions of my fellow-citizens; but those suggestions, to be acceptable to me, must be free of any thing like official power or control. In tendering to you my thanks for the polite offer contained in your note of this afternoon, I have to observe, that I shall not have occasion tu send despatches before the departure of the regular mail. I renew to you, gentlemen, assurances of my respectful consideration. EDMUND P. GAINES, Maj. Gen. Commanding. Messrs. JOURDAN, JONES, and TORRANCE, Commissioners. No. S. Occurrences at Fort Mitchell. FORT MITCHELL, Saturday, June 25, 1825. The commissioners on the part of the State of Georgia, (Jourdan, Jones, and Torrance,) were waited on by the aid of General Gaines, and informed that he was about to hold some conversation with the Little Prince; that, if we wished to hear it, we would attend in the piazza. They repaired there accordingly. Present, General Gaines and aid, the commissioners above named, the special agent, Major Andrews, Little Prince, Thomas Triplett, acting agent—all. General Gaines stated that he was about to hold a talk with the Little Prince, and that he had informed us of his intention to do so, that we might hear what was said. He stated to the Little Prince that be must tell his chiefs and warriors that they must not go to the white settlements until all their difficulties and disturbances were settled; that they must be kind and friendly to all travellers and white people in and through the nation; that he had been sent here by the President of the United States o have their difficulties settled; that it was deemed necessary to suspend the Indian agent, charges having been preferred against him; that he must remain suspended until the charges could be inquired into; that the agent was only suspended for a time, until the charges preferred against him could be inquired into; that he should take Hambly, who was the national interpreter, as his interpreter, though statements had been made against him, but the Government yet had confidence in him, and that he had such confidence in him as to use him as such; but, to prevent any imposition, he had brought with him Benjamin Hawkins, as a check, who was recommended by the other part of the nation as being a good interpreter; and that he had instructed Mr. Hawkins, if Hambly did not interpret correctly, to let him (General Gaines) know it; that the Little Prince must tell his chiefs and warriors to hold no talks with any white person at all about their present difficulties, except himself; that they must receive no talk but from his own lips. Major Andrews, the special agent, stated that he did not think General Gaines had been sufficiently explicit, and requested him to say to the Little Prince that the agent was suspended merely through courtesy to the Governor of Georgia, having been frequently urged to do it. Major Andrews also urged General Gaines to say to the Little Prince that his confidence in Hambly as an interpreter was nut the result of investigation, as he had made none; but that he had seen nothing to make him doubt him. He was asked by Colonel Jourdan if he bad not seen Colonel Williamson’s testimony; he said he had, but that, taken with other things which had been shown him, he did not deem sufficient. ! General Gaines then stated to the Little Prince that it was considered necessary to suspend the agent, charges having been made against him, and that he could not act as agent until the President of the United States had determined upon them. No. 9. ’ Copy of a letter from the. Commissioners to Major T. P. Andrews, Special Agent, fyc. *^1R:	FORT MITCHELL, June 25, 1825. We were not a little surprised to hear from yourself this evening that you were unacquainted with the objects for which we were taking testimony. We were then of the opinion (and, upon examination, have become confirmed in that opinion) that the papers which have been submitted are sufficiently explicit. By a reference to the letter of the Governor of Georgia to you of the 20th instant, you will find he says, “ The commissioners authorized by the Legislature to take further testimony will for that purpose proceed forthwith to the nation, anil under orders to make all possible despatch.” By a reference to the printed documents delivered tn you at the agency on the Flint river, yon will see a copy of the resolution referred to. To those we can add nothing which will convey in stronger terms the objects of taking the testimony, unless, perhaps, it may be necessary to remind you of the charges preferred by the Governor of Georgia. While you se.em to be ignorant of the object nf our appointment, we presume that does not extend to the appointment itself. To avoid, however, any possible mistake, we wmild beg leave to refer to the conversation which took place between you and Colonel Jones, at the agency, in which yon inquired if any mutual arrangement had been made between Colonel Crowell and the. commissioners; whether we would re-examine the witnesses sworn before the committee, to enable Colonel Crowell to cross-examine them; and whether we would assist him to compel witnesses to testify who might refuse. We would also remind you of the inquiry you again made this evening, whether we and Colonel Crowell had made any arrangement, &,c. We regret we have been compelled to be thus minute, and fee) more regret to remark that our object can be recognised when it is necessary to make inquiries for the benefit of Colonel Crowell, lest injustice may be done him; and when inquiries are made of you to facilitate the business and quiet conscientious scruples, you should decline to give any answer, and thereby (we hope unintentionally) throw difficulties in the way, already sufficiently obstructed. We would beg leave further to remark, that while the testimony which has been taken against Colonel Crowell has been made public, and he has had every opportunity of seeing and disproving it, (if in his power;) and while our instructions are positive to permit him to be present and cross-examine the witnesses, and complaint has been made by you “ of the appalling influence and power of the executive and legislative branches of the Government of Georgia,” yon have not thought proper to apprize either the Governor or ourselves of the testimony which “has been already shown you by the agent” in his own favor, or that to which you referred to-day, which had been shown you in favor of Hambly, the interpreter. As we could not doubt the ascertainment of truth to be the object of your mission, we could not be insensible to this difference; and we hope a second reading of the papers wc have reference to will satisfy you fully of the object of our appointment. And have the honor to be, with consideration and respect, WARREN JOURDAN, SEABORN JONES, WM. H. TORRANCE, Major T. P. ANDREWS.	Commissioners. No. 10. Copy of a letter from Colonel John Crowell to the Commissioners. GENTLEMEN:	.	PRINCETON, June 28, 1825. Your letter of this date was received a few minutes before seven o’clock, announcing your intention to proceed to take the testimony of James Moss and Kendal Lewis at eleven o’clock this day, at a distance of twenty-six miles from this place. Understanding that two of your body set out in the’direction of Lewis’s yesterday afternoon; believing that you were apprized that Mr. Moss was in the vicinity of this place on the morning of yesterday; and knowing that my counsel, Major Rockwell, apprized Mr. Torrance, in your presence and hearing, that it was our intention this day, at the breaking up of the council, to take the testimony of several witnesses, to which arrangement there was no objection—under all the circumstances, I must be permitted to remark, that it seems, while you are willing to make a parade of fairness in the. manner of procuring testimony against me; while you have, in a formal communication to me, offered me the privilege of cross-examining those witnesses to be found in the Creek nation, you take such measures as effectually put it out of my power to avail myself of the offer; “holding the word of promise to my ear, and breaking it to my sense.” Considering the manner in which that offer was made, being incidentally drawn from you by my invitation to you to cross-examine my witnesses, I am constrained to believe that you never sincerely intended that I should enjoy the advantage of a cross-examination, and that your offer was merely a hollow pretext to answer some hidden purpose. When you wrote your note this morning, to which this is an answer, you were doubtless well apprized that the council would meet to-day; that preparations were making for the reception of General Gaines by the chiefs; and that it was of much importance that I should be present. From what fell from some of you at Mr. Smith’s, and what took place between you and the general, I expected that you deemed it of importance that you should attend the council also. With what propriety, then, could you communicate your intention to me of taking testimony at Lewis’s, Line creek, and Montgomery, in Alabama, if you were sincere in your invitation to me to be present and cross-examine those witnesses'? I had hoped that the spirit of persecution and oppression, by which your Governor is actuated towards me, would not have influenced his representatives; but the course you have pursued satisfies me that that hope is illusive. I am, respectfully, vour obedient servant, JOHN CROWELL. No. II. Copy of a letter from the Commissioners to Colonel John Crowell. SIR:	PRINCETON, June 28, 1825. You letter of this day’s date, in answer to ours of the same, has been received. In justice to ourselves, we must be permitted to deny, most unequivocally, that your “ counsel, Major Rockwell, did, in our presence or hearing, notify Mr. Torrance of his intentions this day to take the testimony of several witnesses after the breaking up of the council of Indians.” We heard no such declaration ourselves, and we were not apprized of any such intention on your part by Mr. Torrance, except as it relates to the testimony of Mr. Smith, whosé evidence was believed unimportant; and, as he was resident in the vicinity, it could be dispensed with fur the present, without injury to either party. Permit us to assure you that we have been positively instructed by his excellency to give you every benefit of cross-examination, and that it was in obedience to those instructions, and in perfect accordance with our feelings, to withhold no opportunity from you which might enable you to prove your innocence to the world, if practicable. How justly, therefore, can we complain of gross injustice and illiberality manifested towards us in the whole of your communication! We have no hidden purposes to accomplish—no secret motives to influence us. To subserve the best interests of the State, to protect and shield virtue, intelligence, and disinterested patriotism in our Chief Magistrate, from the wily assaults of selfish and interested individuals from within and without, have been the objects of our most anxious solicitude and care. From the fact of your suspension, we could not perceive the importance you seem to attach to your being present at the council. You must have heard or been informed of the public declaration made by General Gaines, that our attendance at the council would be in the character of private individuals; it could, consequently, be of no avail to us in the accomplishment of the important object of our mission.	.	.. Objects of curiosity and novelty might have influenced us to attend. The intermediate time between the commencement and termination of the council we believed might be usefully employed in obtaining the testimony of persons in the direction of Alabama. We had just reason to believe, from threats and undue influence exercised over them, that they would not attend here. In coming to this conclusion, we were insensible to any act of oppression on our part towards you, incidental or intentional; we believed, and do still believe, that no important interest, right, or privilege, which you are entitled to, would be jeopardized by the absence for a few days of yourself and counsel; and we are the more confirmed in this opinion from the declarations of the special agent, that the collecting of testimony in your favor would by him be submitted to the acting agent for Indian affairs. From this view of the subject, we are free to declare that the charge of insincerity and oppression, reiterated again and again by you, falls unsupported and unsustained by a single reason or argument other than inflammatory and idle declamation. The notice of our intentions was handed you this morning, in time, we believe, for yon to have reached Lewis’s; and we were instructed, if required, to say reasonable time would be given for your arrival. The remaining members of the mission did not intend taking any measure for the procurement of testimony until the return of the absentees; and this course we would now greatly prefer, on account of mistake or misapprehension somewhere, and to enable you to proceed and have the benefit of cross-examination, if desirable.	. You cannot be unapprized of the great delicacy of our situation, (under present circumstances,) of attending the examination of witnesses in your private apartments. We propose, whenever General Gaines disposes of the trust confided to him by the General Government, to proceed to the examination of a number of witnesses. Our object in this is not to embarrass or interfere in any manner, the most retnote, with his duties. We ask of you to pursue the like course, when all our objects can be obtained without inconvenience to any person. Permit us to assure you, sir, that respect for ourselves and the authority under which we have the jtonor to act will not permit us to acknowledge the receipt of any further communication couched in the language and dictated in the spirit of illiberality and accusation. We are, respectfully, your obedient servants,	WARREN JOURDAN, W. W. WILLIAMSON, Colonel CROWELL.	Commissioners. No. 12. Copy of a letter received from Major T. P. Andrews, Special Agent. GENTLEMEN:	PRINCETON, (NEAR BROKEN ARROW,) June 27, 1825. ‘ I received your letter dated the 25th last evening, and was not a little surprised at the misapprehension, on your part, which appears to have rendered such a letter necessary. You remark, you were surprised to hear me remark on the 25th, in reply to an observation of Colonel Jones, that “ I was unacquainted with the object for which you were taking testimony.” I must deny in the most positive manner having made any such remark which would fairly justify such a construction. In your conversation with the Reverend Mr. Compere, which took place accidentally in my presence, he remarked that he had conscientious scruples against taking an oath, unless in cases of absolute necessity. He then added, if I would say that I viewed his giving you his oath as such a case of necessity, he would give it. My reply was, that it was a matter entirely between yourselves, which I did not wish to interfere in, and that I must decline giving an opinion as to the absolute necessity of an affidavit, being incapable of forming a judgment on it, as 1 was unacquainted with the objects or uses to which the testimony collected by yourselves was to be applied. You expressed some surprise at the remark; I took occasion to add, that I did not know whether your testimony was to be laid before the Executive or the Legislature of Georgia; the General Government, or its agent; or to be used before a court ofjustice. I did not make my being unacquainted with those objects or uses a matter of complaint, because (as the authorities of Georgia had not thought proper to make me acquainted with their particular intentions as to the use to be made of the testimony collected by yourselves) I did not consider it a matter on which I bad a right to ask information. As it has now become a subject of question, and, in a measure, of discussion, I beg leave to ask you distinctly to what objects or uses the testimony you collect will be applied: whether it is to be submitted to the agent of the General Government, or to the United States Government direct? or whether it is only intended to produce a conviction of guilt in the Indian agent before the Legislature, the Executive, the people, or the courts ofjustice of Georgia? I am more particularly induced to ask these questions to convince you that, although I have re-examined all the letters and sources of information you refer me to, as well as your letter now before me, I am still totally unacquainted with the objects or uses to which the testimony to be collected by you is to be applied. At the same time, I disclaim all right on my part to receive answers, unless perfectly agreeable; and state distinctly, that, since my interview with Colonel Jones, on the Flint river, I could not entertain a doubt that one object of your appointment was to criminate, if possible, the Indian agent. You will certainly excuse me for declining what you appear to wish me to attempt—to “ quiet the conscientious scruples” of the Rev. Mr. Compere, or any other person on any subject.	. I told that reverend gentleman, immediately on your leaving us, as he can testify, that I would.greatly prefer his giving you an affidavit, if consistent, on reflection, with his principles; but that, in saying so, I did not wish to be considered, as stating my belief as to its absolute necessity, not having been made acquainted with that necessity, and having also informed him, as well as the other clergymen in the nation, that (respecting their characters and their religious scruples) I should view a conscientious statement from them, without their making oath to it, as allsufficient, so far as their testimony was to be applied to the objects of my mission. I recollect the inquiries you refer to, as made of Colonel Jones, on the Flint river; and take this opportunity of remarking, that I have, as yet, received no answers to them, particularly as to the intention of the commissioners to summon the witnesses already examined by the committee, to afford an opportunity of cross-examination. I do not see the light in which the commissioners wish the first part of the third paragraph of their letter received. If no insinuation was intended by it, it appears to me that their expression was uncalled for and unnecessary. If, on the other hand, it is intended to convey an insinuation of a disposition on my part to act in an unfair or partial manner, I feel called on to say that such an insinuation is not warranted by any acts or intentions, or truth, and that a repetition must put a stop to all official correspondence between ns; as I am determined to avoid all official correspondence, (which I am at liberty to avoid,) that is not conducted in a proper spirit of courtesy and justice. In reply to the latter part of the same paragraph, I would remark, that I am not in official possession of the evidence you refer to, relating to the agent, having returned it tu him for the present. I am, however, informed by the agent that in due time you will have an opportunity of cross-examining his Witnesses, and, consequently, of seeing that testimony. The course pursued by General Gaines, in relation to the United States interpreter, is one which is conceived to be entirely between himself and bis Government; and as it regards the statement which I have made to him, in reply to his demand for it, of my present impressions in relation to the interpreter, it is between the general and myself, and our Government. It will readily occur to you, that you will receive a great amount of information, (if you have not already,) not immediately connected with the particular object of investigation, but proper to be submitted to your Government. Whether such is the fact in relation to yourselves, or not, 1 take this occasion to inform you that I should be wanting in respect to the Government which I have the honor, on a particular point, to represent, if I should offer to others the first knowledge of a great deal of information which may incidentally come before me. Such is the ease in reference to the United States interpreter, who is not under trial. The President has, so far, thought proper to disregard the impressions of others which have been laid before him, and to continue the interpreter in office. The commissioners of the late treaty, notwithstanding their impressions against him, continued to avail themselves of his services whilst in want of an interpreter. His capacity renders his services necessary to facilitate business. It was only in regard to the propriety of his being employed or not as an interpreter on the present occasion, that I have given an opinion to the general; and I understood your body (in the presence of General Gaines on Saturday evening) to approve of his employment, with the precautions which the general has taken on the occasion. With consideration and respect, I remain, gentlemen, your most obedient servant, T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. WARREN JOURDAN, WM. WILLIAMSON, and WM. H. TORRANCE, Esqrs. Commissioners, S,-c. No. 13. Copy of a letter from the Commissioners to Major General E. P. Gaines. DEAR GENERAL:	CRABTREE’S, CREEK NATION, June 30, 1825. Should the acting agent for Indian affairs decline taking the necessary steps to have Kendal Lewis at Princeton, on Saturday next, by 12 o’clock, we trust that you will issue an order, directed to John S. Thomas, who is the acting marshal to the mission from Georgia, and who will execute with promptness and fidelity any order coming through you or the agent. With high respect and consideration, we remain your obedient servants, WARREN JOURDAN, WM. W. WILLIAMSON, Commissioners. To the foregoing communication General Gaines made a verbal reply, through me, stating that he had taken the necessary measures, and addressed a letter to the agent, who would use his endeavors to have the witness present. M. J. KENAN, Secretary to the Mission. No. 14. Copy of a letter from the Commissioners to Major General E. P. Gaines. > DEAR GENERAL:	CRABTREE’S, July 1, 1825. We shall attend to-day, at the hour of 2 o’clock, P. M., to take the testimony of the Little Prince, Opo- ithle-Yoholo, Sandy Greason, John Riley, and Benjamin Hawkins; of which you will please inform Colonel Crowell. It is not our intention to have this examination in the square, because it will be very lengthy, and there will be no convenience fur our clerk to take down the answers. We shall object to Colonel Hambly as an interpreter. We shall select Hawkins. We wish Colonel Crowell to select another. You will please invite the above witnesses to your quarters, where, by your permission, the examination will take place. Very respectfully, yours, &c. &c.	WARREN JOURDAN, W. W. WILLIAMSON, Commissioners. No. 15. Copy of a letter from Major T. P. Andrews, Special Agent, fyc. to the Commissioners. GENTLEMEN:	PRINCETON, INDIAN NATION, July 1, 1825. Your letter of this date to General Gaines has been referred to me, as well as the subject to which it relates. Colonel Williamson was present in the square when the chiefs positively refused to have a conversation with you, or suffer any examination, except in public, in the open square or council, and made no objections, or was not understood as making any. I have, therefore, to remind you that you shall have for your clerk all the facilities which have been enjoyed by the general and myself in our written intercourse with them, which has been-considerable. Both the general and myself will take pleasure in affording you all desirable and possible facilities; but all questions put to the Indians must be in writing, that they may not be subject to be misapprehended. This is a course which the officers of the General Government have felt themselves bound to pursue, and one which, it is thought, is due in fairness to the Indians. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. To Cols. WARREN JOURDAN and WM. W. WILLIAMSON, at Crabtree's. No. 16. Copy of a Utter from the Commissioners to Major T. P. Andrews, Special Agent, fyc. gHt:	PRINCETON, INDIAN NATION, July 1, 1825. Your communication of this morning, in reply to ours of the same date, has been received. We cannot see the analogy between the cases cited. Your and the general’s correspondence with the Indians, we presume, from your note, has been conducted in writing. You have had time and leisure in your rooms to make your communications; the Indians, on the other hand, have had reasonable time allowed them to respond. Your objects have been national; ours relate to the elucidation of a few facts, and to correct erroneous opinions in relation to a few incidents connected with the late disturbances. We respectfully, and in great deference to the opinions of you and the general, ask, as a right due to Georgia, to examine a few chiefs in General Gaines’s room, or in Major Rockwell’s, the counsel for Colonel Crowell. We ask it from the following considerations: First, that the examination and cross-examination would, in all probability, consume a day. Secondly, that we always intended, and have always so expressed ourselves, that it should be under the immediate observation and control of General Gaines and yourself, and under the observation of Colonel Crowell and his counsel. Under such an arrangement, we cannot withhold the expression of our opinion, that, if any advantage existed, it would certainly be on the side of the agent. Thirdly, it does not seem reasonable to us, in the compliance of an unreasonable request by the Indians, that they will hold no converse or communication with the Georgia commissioners, unless in the open square, that we should be subjected to all the inconveniences of the most inclement season, when no possible injury could result to themselves or the agent in pursuing the course we propose. Fourthly, from the facility of communication with themselves by signs, as well as in a language we do not understand, we are firmly of the opinion that no possible good could result in the examination we propose, if their proposition be adopted; no possible injnry could result to any person from the adoption of the course we propose, under the restrictions and safeguards we accede to. Fifthly, if we have not been misinformed, the agent has had all the benefits and indulgences extended to him that we ask for or claim. We would respectfully suggest to General Gaines to recall to his recollection the distinct and positive understanding on this subject in his room, between the Georgia commissioners and himself. The interrogatories we propose exhibiting are reduced to writing, and we had no wish to submit them in any other form. It belongs to you gentlemen, exclusively, to say whether the like indulgence will be afforded us. •Yours, &c. &c. WARREN JOURDAN, WM. W. WILLIAMSON, Major T. P. ANDREWS.	Commissioners. No. 17. Copy of a letter from Major T. P. Andrews, Special Agent, to the Georgia Commissioners. GENTLEMEN:	PRINCETON, INDIAN NATION, July 1, 1825. Your communication, in reply to my letter of this morning, was handed to me whilst General Gaines and myself were engaged in council with the Indians at Broken Arrow. I immediately handed it to the general, who stated your request to the chiefs in council, and urged them to accede to it. I am requested by General Gaines to say that he has no objections to the chiefs meeting you at any place; but that the objection is made by the chiefs themselves, and that he is not disposed to insist on their doing so against their own determination. My objection relates solely to any questions being put to them that are not in writing, and by that means placed on record, and out of danger of being misapprehended. My objection was elicited in consequence of having understood from General Gaines that Colonel Jones, of your board, refused to put them in writing. You will permit me to remark, that, on the score of tinte, neither General Gaines nor myself can but think that you have iiad at least as much time in which to make your examination as any other person or persons whatever; indeed, from the number of your board, it is thought that you enjoy, in that respect, very great advantages. The only questions put to the Indians, in relation to the Indian agent, were propounded to them, and answered in the course of an hour or so, without leaving the council, and not as supposed in your communication. As it regards the exposure of the commissioners of Georgia to the inclemency of the wealhcr, I cannot but remind you that it is an exposure which the general and myself would have taken pleasure to share with yoo, although we have already been exposed to that weather for some time without intermission. I take this opportunity of assuring you that you have been misinformed in supposing that the agent has had the “ benefits and indulgences which yon ask for.”	. The genera] directs me to sa}’ that he does not consider himself as having had any understanding which militates in the smallest degree with his present determination of not compelling the Indians by force (if he had a force near him, which you know is not the case,) to attend the examination in the particular manner you request of him. He has not only requested them, but urged them, so far as he could do so with propriety, to accede to your request, which they have replied to with great fixedness, as you will perceive from their reply, which he requests me to say will be handed to you so soon as it can be made out and copied.	(With high consideration and respect, your obedient servant, .	T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. To Cols. WARREN JOURDAN and W. W. WILLIAMSON, Commissioners. No. 18. Copy of a letter received from Major E. G. IF. Butler. HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, GENTLEMEN:	CREEK AGENCY, July 1, 1825. Major General Gaines yesterday communicated to the Indian council, in presence of Colonel Williamson, the wish of the Georgia commissioners to examine a few of the chiefs, and remarked that it would not be necessary for them to remain in council after to-day, as the commissioners were desirous of taking their testimony out of council.	■ Hopoi(hle-\ oholo, speaker of the Creek nation, answered that the council would remain in session, if the general wished it, but that he would transact no business in private with the Georgia commissioners. Having received your request this day, the general accordingly notified the council. Hopoithie-Yoholo replied, that the plan pursued by the Georgians, of taking them out of their square, had caused all their troubles, and imposed on the general the necessity of coming here. He repeated their determination not to meet you privately, and remarked that private meetings, where persons do not adhere to truth, make difficulties, and have brought General Gaines here. He observed, moreover, that he did not know what further to say to you, as you had learned their difficulties through Mr. Compere, and that he thought their business was with General Gaines, as the President required information; that the Indians were involved in their present difficulties by the Georgians; and, as the general was about to succeed in settling them, they thought it best to refrain from an interview, Test it should prevent his success, and put him to the inconvenience of returning again; that Georgia intrigues had brought them from their crops, which were necessary to feed their little children; and that the Muscogee nation and Georgia were like two children that quarrel, and if one is stronger than the other, he tells lies on him, puts him in the wrong, and then gets him whipped for it. General Gaines here remarked, that there were good people in Georgia as in all other States; to which Ho- poithle Yoholo assented. He concluded his remarks by saying that he supposed the Master of breath had decreed that the Muscogee nation should be reduced and imposed upon; that the time had now arrived, and he presumed it must happen. I have the honor to enclose the above remarks, literally, as they were taken down by me, for your satisfaction and information. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, E. G. W. BUTLER, Aid-de-camp, and Secretary to the Mission. To Colonels WARREN JOURDAN and W. W. WILLIAMSON, Commissioners. We certify that we were present during the above remarks, and that they arc correct; as reported by Lieutenant Butler. WILLIAM HAMBLY, United States Interpreter. BENJAMIN HAWKINS, Interpreter for the McIntosh party. No. 19. Copy of a letter from M. J. Kenan, Secretary, Syc., to Major E. G. W. Butler. SIR:	CRABTREE’S, CREEK NATION, July 3, 1825. I am directed by the commissioners on the part of Georgia to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 1st instant, detailing at great length the reasons assigned by Hopoithle Yoholo and other chiefs for declining the proposition of the Georgia commissioners to be “ examined in private.” No such requisition as this, sir, has as yet been made, nor was it ever intended. The wish and request of the commissioners was, that he, together with other chiefs, should be examined separately and apart, and under every restriction and safeguard which the general, the special agent, and the counsel for the agent, might suggest. In replying further, I have been directed to say to you, that the commissioners believe the statements attributed to Hopoithle Yoholo to have been interpreted to you in the manner related; but that, if the recording angel were to make such a statement as coming from Hopoithle Yoholo, they should still be incredulous and of little faith. In making this declaration, they wish not to be understood as intending any insinuation the most remote against the majesty of Him who sits enthroned in justice, wisdom, and truth, and who they believe is at this moment taking special cognizance of the transactions of men, but to convey to you in the strongest terms the utter and unavailable attempt to impose such statements on the representatives of Georgia as the unadvised effusions of the speaker of the council of the Creek nation of Indians. They must conscientiously believe that every person who possesses an acquaintance with their situation and capacities, and who would be governed in their opinions and belief by the dictates of truth and impartiality, would irresistibly conclude that this is not the language of an untutored savage. No, sir; they believe it to be the work of that “wily and perfidious individual whose life and character have been too much diversified and too strongly marked to make him a fit officer of public trust;” of him who, if half that is said be true, is the most corrupt and unprincipled being that disgraces and dishonors even Indian society; of him who, it is said, was the faithful pilot to Pakenham’s army in their advance upon New Orleans; who, it is also said, was the commander of a large detachment of Seminole Indians in the late war, and afterwards commanded a negro fort on the Appalachicola at the close of the war; and who, to cap the climax, is at this time the trustworthy and confidential interpreter of your Government. And this, sir, is the immaculate individual whose vices and whose crimes are proverbial; who, under the specious pretext of an Indian talk, is licensed to abuse indiscriminately the Government of Georgia, its public functionaries, and its citizens. From such an administration, and such agents, may we speedily obtain a happy and constitutional deliverance. It is doc to the commissioners and to the legitimate authorities of Georgia to say thus much, and not from any respect to the individual who is the subject of it; for if be alone had been concerned, a moment’s reflection would not have been bestowed on him. You will no doubt thiuk the remarks concerning Mr. Hambly to be acrimonious: they nevertheless arc deemed just, and necessary to a vindication of their conduct, and the respectable citizens of our much beloved State, upon whom, of late, copious showers of slander and abuse have been gratuitously and wantonly poured. An allusion has been made to the Rev. L. Compere—a passing remark will suffice on that subject. The commissioners think him a fit associate and companion of the interpreter of your Government, and they are confirmed in the opinion from the reflection that he has, with the most unblushing effrontery, made public a statement relative to the late disturbances in the Creek nation, which he refuses to confirm by affirmation or oath; a statement with which truth has no connexion. And they are justified in the conclusion that, when gentlemen of his cloth turn hypocrites and degrade the dignity of their office, they become the most mercenary and deceitful revilers of truth, regardless alike of every moral principle and every sentiment which bind, govern, or influence the conduct of pious and honest men. They ask pardon of the reverend gentleman for not assigning him an honorary rank and membership in the dishonorable purpose of misrepresentation, defamation, and falsehood. In conclusion, permit me to remark, that no offence is intended you in this reply. They wholly disclaim any such wish or intention. Your deportment has been marked with more courtesy and respect than any other public functionary belonging to your mission, with whom they have transacted business. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, M. J. KENAN, Secretary to Mission. Major BUTLER, Princeton, 105 E No. 20. Copy of a letter from Major Butler to the Commissioners. HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, GENTLEMEN:	CREEK AGENCY, July 3, 1825. Your communication of this date is now before me. The remarks which I submitted to you yesterday were, as I then informed you, “ for your information and satisfaction;” and I owe it to Georgia and to myself to say that delicacy would have prevented me from furnishing those remarks, had you not urged the separate examination of certain chiefs, after they had positively declined, in presence of Colonel Williamson, to meet you out of council. If, in using the expression “ examined in private,” in contradistinction to examined in council, I did not convey your meaning, I hope you will pardon me. In replying to your remarks concerning the incapacity of Hopoithle Yoholo, I cannot but express to you, gentlemen, the pride and satisfaction I experience in being afforded an opportunity of offering my feeble testimony to the independence, frankness, and astonishing natural abilities which so eminently distinguish this noble warrior. There can exist no reasonable doubt of the extraordinary powers of his comprehensive mind. I have seen them elicited on various occasions, through the medium of four different interpreters, and witnessed by men of talents and integrity. So far as relates to Mr. Hambly, United States interpreter, I beg you will forgive me for not concurring with you in your opinion. I have no reason to doubt his integrity; and when I say he possesses the confidence of Andrew Jackson, with whom he served on trying occasions, I offer you the highest evidence I can afford of his integrity; at least so far as he was concerned with the Seminole Indians and at New Orleans. Of the correctness of his interpretations before the council, I will merely remark, that it is confirmed by the testimony of four interpreters, one of whom belongs to the McIntosh party, and had been selected by the Georgia commissioners. The importance of my official duties prevents me from replying more fully to your communication; but while I tender you my most respectful acknowledgments for the complimentary manner in which you mention my deportment, I spurn your insinuations against the General Government, under which I have the honor to hold a commission.	, Very respectfully, your obedient servant, E. G. W. BUTLER, Aid-de-camp, and Secretary to the Mission. To Colonels W. JOURDAN and W. W. WILLIAMSON, Georgia Commissioners. No. 21. Copy of a letter from the Commissioners to Major General E. P. Gaines. SIR:	UCHEE BRIDGE, July 3, 1825. We have this evening received a letter from Major Butler, as aid-de-camp and secretary to the mission, in which we find he has made a mistake. We notice it that it may be corrected. Major Butler states, that “ of the correctness of his (Hambly’s) interpretations before the council, I will merely remark, that it is confirmed by jhe testimony of four interpreters, one of whom belongs to the McIntosh party, and had been selected by the Georgia commissioners.” In the employment of Benjamin Hawkins (for we presume he is the one alluded to) as an interpreter, we most positively disclaim any agency—even a recommendation; and the first intimation we had of it was your declaration at the time you were about entering into the conversation with the Little Prince, (and at which you had invited us to attend,) that you had brought him with you as a check upon the other interpreter. We then expressed ourselves satisfied with the arrangement you had made. Instead of answers to the interrogatories submitted by us to Kendal Lewis, we this morning received the interrogatories themselves, with information that he had absented himself. We are therefore under the necessity of requesting you to issue an order that he may be brought before us for examination. We would be glad to have copies of the talks which have passed between yourself and the Indian council, either in writing or which were taken down by Major Butler, that we may be able to lay them before the Governor of Georgia. As Major Butler may be very much engaged, our secretary (Mr. Kenan) will take great pleasure in making the transcript, and he will only have to subjoin his certificate after he has examined them. With considerations of high respect, we are, sir, your obedient servants, SEABORN JONES, WARREN JOURDAN, W. W. WILLIAMSON, .	WM. H. TORRANCE, Major General E. P. GAINES.	Commissioners. No. 22. Major Butler to the Commissioners. HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, GENTLEMEN:	CREEK AGENCY, July 4, 1825. I am instructed by Major General Gaines to reply to your communication of the 3d instant. You say that 1 was mistaken in my remarks that one of the interpreters (meaning Hawkins) “ had been selected by the Georgia commissioners.” You acknowledge that you expressed your satisfaction with General Gaines’s arrangement of using Hawkins as a check upon the United States’ interpreter; and in your communication to General Gaines of the 1st instant, you remark, 11 we shall object to Colonel Hambly as an interpreter; we shall select Hawkins.” The general further instructs me to say to you that Kendal Lewis declared to him that he knew nothing but from report, and, if he has refused to give his testimony, he has not the power to compel him; that the authenticity of the Indian talks having been denied by the commissioners, he deems it proper to retain them until they can be officially promulgated; and finally, that his courtesy having been impeached by the commissioners, notwithstanding his efforts to meet their wishes, so far as was consistent with his official duties, he thinks it proper that your correspondence should cease. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, E. G. W. BUTLER, Aid-de-camp and Secretary to the Mission. To Colonels S. JONES, W. JOURDAN, W. W. WILLIAMSON, and W. H. TORRANCE, Georgia Commissioners. No’. 23. Copy of a letter from Messrs. Smith, Compere, and Hill. GENTLEMEN:	ASBURY, June 27, 1825. Since our interview with you on Saturday last, we have considered your request, and therefore beg leave to assure you, that, while for your individual persons we entertain sentiments of the highest respect, and feel no desire to infringe on you in your official capacity, we are compelled, from a sense of propriety, t8 decline answering any questions either upon oath or affirmation. But as we have no disinclination to afford what information may be in our power, we are willing to answer questions you may propose to us, provided such inquiries are made in writing, and our answers may be given in the same way. We beg leave further to state, that, if our communication should be demeed important, if the United States should require us to give it the validity of an oath, we shall be willing to accede to it. With sentiments of respect, we remain yours, ISAAC SMITH, LEE COMPERE, To Messrs. JONES, TORRANCE, and JOURDAN.	W. C. HILL. No. 24. Testimony of James Moss. CREEK NATION, (at Kendal Lewis's:) By virtue of a commission from his excellency the Governor of the State of Georgia, to us directed, to receive and examine testimony in relation to the conduct of Colonel John Crowell, agent for Indian affairs for the Creek nation of Indians, we have caused James Moss to come before us, who, being duly sworn, saith: That, shortly after the time that the Rev. William Capers made application to the council of Indian chiefs for liberty for missionaries to preach, (where they had been solicited,) he was present at conversations of the agent, Colonel Crowell, at the house of Thomas Crowell, at Fort Mitchell, in the Creek nation, and at other places, where the agent stated that Mr. Capers, in his application to the chiefs for leave io preach in the nation, referred to the laws of the United States, and urged the right to preach wherever the United States [had] authority; but that the chiefs refused him; that, to get them to refuse, he (the agent) before the chiefs went into council went to the tent of the Big Warrior, and gave him a talk not to let the missionaries preach in the nation. Deponent further states, that, some time since, (he believes in the year 1822,) in a conversation that the agent had with him, the agent told the deponent that himself and Thomas Crowell, his brother, had failed for a large amount, (he believes between the sums of thirteen thousand and seventeen thousand dollars;) that he had placed his brother, Thomas Crowell, at Fort Mitchell, to make what money he could to pay off the debts of the firm; that, at that time, Thomas Crowell had a considerable stock of goods in the nation at Fort Mitchell. That, while David B. Mitchell was agent, Drury Spain, a white man residing in the nation, sold to the Cussetali Indians about twenty hundred or twenty-five hundred dollars worth of goods, for which several of the Cussetah chiefs gave him an obligation to pay the same; that the same was not paid until the present agent came into office; that Mr. Spain applied to the agent to aid and assist him in getting the amount, but that the agent refused, and said that he would not render Mr. Spain any assistance, to get the same; that, after the lapse of more than a year, Mr. Spain sold the obligation to the agent’s brother Thomas and another person, at a reduction of five hundred dollars, or thereabouts: the agent said that he would see that Mr. Spain was paid for a flat (a ferry-boat) that he built; that, after the transfer of the obligation above named, the deponent was keeper of a toll-bridge in the nation, which belonged to the Cussetah Indians; that he received orders to pay over the money he received as toll to the holders of the obligation, and did SQ while he kept the bridge; that he also saw credits on the same obligation on account of payments made by money received from the Flint river ferry, at the agency; that the deponent settled in the Creek nation in the summer of 1821, within about forty miles of the agency. After the foregoing statements were made, Mr. Moss was asked by the commissioners whether or not he believed (and, if so, the reasons of that belief) that the agent was friendly or unfriendly to the late treaty. He stated that he heard the agent say, a few days before the death of General McIntosh, that he had brought fruit-trees from New York, and planted them at the agency, and fixed himself well, and that McIntosh had then sold him out; and that, from a variety of circumstances, he verily does believe that the agent was decidedly opposed to the treaty; that he heard one of the Cussetah chiefs who went to the Indian Springs to attend the treaty say that the agent told Paddy Carr, who had acted as interpreter for individuals, to state to some Indians that, if they remained at the Springs that night, they would be compelled to sign the treaty next morning. JAMES MOSS. Sworn to and subscribed before us, this 28th day of June, 1825. WM. H. TORRANCE, SEABORN JONES, Commissioners. Interrogatories to be exhibited to the Reverend L. Compere. 1st. Were you present when the Indians killed McIntosh and Etome Tustunnuggee? 2d. What was the cause which induced the Indians to kill McIntosh and Etome Tustunnuggee? Was it for the violation of any law? What law was it, and when was it passed? Was it signed by General McIntosh, or made in council held at Broken Arrow? 3d. After McIntosh had received a shot, was he taken out of his house by any chief? If yea, by whom? and what did he say to McIntosh, and what was McIntosh’s reply? 4th. Do you know any thing, of your own knowledge, of the circumstances attending the murder of McIntosh and others; or is not all your knowledge derived from the information of others?	, 5th. Was not Colonel Crowell opposed to a cession of the land by the Indians to the United States, and did he not use his influence to prevent one? 6th. Was Colonel Crowell friendly to a cession of land, and did he use his influence to get them to cede it? 7th. Do you not know or believe (and state the reasons of your belief) that Colonel Crowell instigated Walker to oppose the cession of land, or that Walker was acting agreeably to Colonel Crowell’s wishes and directions in doing so? 8th. Did you not write a letter to the editors of the Southern Intelligencer relative to the disturbances in the nation, and the murder of Mclntush and Etoine Tustunnuggee? For what purpose did you write that letter? Was it for the purpose of publication? Are the editors of that paper related to you, and in what degree? Do you know the statements in that letter to be true? Have you written any letter to South Carolina about it, and when, and to whom? Relate all you know, as if particularly interrogated thereto, concerning the charges against Colonel Crowell, the Indian agent, of having exercised bis influence to prevent the late treaty, and also the charge of his being the instigator of, or privv t«, the murder of McIntosh. Are you and the agent, or not, upon friendly terms? '	W. H. TORRANCE, SEABORN JONES, Commissioners of the State of Georgia. Air. Compere's ansiver. GENTLEMEN:	ASBURY, June 27, 1825. In answer to your interrogatories, I have to state that, with respect to your inquiry “ if I was present when McIntosh and Etome Tustunnuggee were killed?” I say I was not. 2d. Your inquiry relating to the cause of their death, &c. My belief is, that the cause of their death was the signing a treaty which ceded away part of their land to the United States, in violation of their own laws. My understanding is, that the particular law was one made some years ago, which had been renewed at Broken Arrow, and afterwards at the Polecat Springs. This impression I received from a conversation had with the Big Warrior soon after the breaking up of the meeting held between the United States’ commissioners and the.Cherokees, and from several conversations with different chiefs after the Indians met al Polecat Springs. With regard to the signing of such a law by McIntosh, I know nothing about it. 3d. After McIntosh was shot, I have been frequently informed he was taken out of the house by a chief whose name I do not now remember. With respect to a conversation passing between him and the chief at that time: at first I did understand such a circumstance did take place, but I have now some reason to believe that my information with respect to that was circumstantially incorrect. For the substance of that conversation, 1 refer you to a paragraph in my letter published in the Southern Intelligencer, to the editor of which paper I have subsequently forwarded a notice to inform him in what respect it is incorrect. 4t!i. As to what I know of these matters, you will perceive from my answer to your second interrogatory that it is all derived from other persons. 5th and 6th. As it respects Colonel Crowell’s opposition and agency with regard to a cession of land, I know nothing at all, except that I understood from some of the chiefs, after the meeting at Broken Arrow, that he was altogether neutral. 7th. On your last inquiry I am as unable to give you any information as in some others: for whether Colonel Crowell and Captain Walker bave opposed the treaty in conjunction or separately I know not; and that I should not know any thing cannot be wondered at, when it is known that our communications with each other have not been instigated by our friendship for each other. Yours, with due respect, L. COMPERE. To Messrs. JONES, TORRANCE, and JOURDAN. P. S. In connexion with what I have stated in answer to the 7th inquiry, as I do not know any thing on the subject, I therefore cannot believe any thing about it.	L. C. The first time I heard of the killing of McIntosh was on the day the chiefs arrived at Tuckaubatchee with the information to that effect. That morning I had intended to go to the Ufauley town, on business relative to our mission, but was informed by our boys that the Indians were gone up the river to kill McIntosh; and, ou further inquiry, was told that this was known among our boys about five days. On being asked why they did not tell me, was answered, because we thought you would tell somebody else. I have, written to the editor of the Intelligencer in reference to this subject. ]t has been published with my name, and it was done so to give information which, with the exception of a part of a paragraph, (the circumstances of which paragraph I have already explained,) I believe to be correct, from the information I have received from different chiefs and other Indians in the nation. Some part of the interrogatories I can say nothing about, as I know nothing about them. As it respects Colonel Crowell being the instigator of the murder of McIntosh, I can only state that I do not believe it, for two reasons: 1st. The principal chiefs in my neighborhood deny it in the most uneqnivucating terms. 2d. The agent met the Indians and informed them that the treaty was,ratified. Some of the Indians called at our place, and declared that the agent and they had not been friendly all the meeting, for that the chiefs had quarrelled with him all the time. With regard to any further inquiries about the letter,' I cannot answer them, as it is before the public. L. COMPERE. Mr. Compere being requested by the commissioners to swear or affirm to the foregoing facts and belief, as stated by himself, refused to do so; and slated that if the United States required it he would do so. WARREN JOURDAN, '	■	W. H. TORRANCE, SEABORN JONES, Commissioners. Statement of Josiah Gray, an Indian half-breed. .	CRABTREE’S, CREEK NATION, July 3, 1825. Josiah Gray says that, during the council at Broken Arrow, (that is, on the third day,) he received orders from the Little Prince to take the track back home; that he had no business at the council; and that, if he did not obey the orders in four hours, they would think further about it—meaning, as I supposed, they would do me some injury; that I was talking with the Georgia commissioners, which they did not like; and that they had given orders to their people to hold no talk with the Georgia commissioners. This order was given to me by the chiefs from the Oso- chee and Uchee towns: they said they received orders from the Little Prince, as above stated. The names of the chiefs are Tholoe Tustunnuggee, Thlewaley Tustumiuggee, and The-lis-ligah, from the lichees. JOSIAH GRAY, his 4-.mark. ' Done in the presence of W. JOURDAN, W. W. WILLIAMSON, HAYNES CRABTREE. Testimony of John M. Bach. STATE OF ALABAMA, Montgomery County: By virtue of a commission from his excellency the Governor of the State of Georgia, to us directed, to receive and examine testimony in relation to the conduct of Colonel John Crowell, agent for Indian affairs for the Creek nation of Indians, we have caused John M. Bach to come before us, who, being duly sworn, saith: That, during the time that the late Indian treaty was held at the Indian Springs, in Georgia, in February last, lie was in a conversation with Colonel Crowell, the agent, concerning the Indian affairs, during which time he mentioned to the agent the death of the Big Warrior; when the agent replied, that it was good he was dead; that he svas a damned coward, and ought to have died ten years ago; that if he had cut McIntosh’s throat ten years ago, the Indian lands would not have been sold. After the foregoing conversation had passed, the Tuckaubatchee chiefs passed the agent’s office, returning from the room where the United States’ commissioners were holding the treaty; they were stopped by Paddy, (a lad of about sixteen or seventeen years old, from appearance a half-breed,) who was standing before the agent’s office, who addressed them in a short talk: though the deponent doesnot understand much of the Indian tongue, yet he believes, from what he saw and heard, (the agent being near them,) that the lad Paddy spoke to the chiefs above named to oppose the treaty, and that what he said came from the agent. From the foregoing circumstances, connected with many others, he has no doubt but the agent was opposed to the treaty. The deponent believes that Paddy was in the employ of the Crowells. He has seen him in the store of Thomas Crowell at Fort Mitchell, and at the agent’s office at the Springs. JOHN M. BACH. Sworn to and subscribed before us, this 30th day of June, 1825. WM. H. TORRANCE, SEABORN JONES, Commissioners. Henry Finch's testimony. STATE OF ALABAMA, Montgomery County: By virtue of a commission to us directed, to take testimony relative to the conduct of Colonel John Crowell, agent of Indian affairs, we have cause'd Henry Finch to come before us at the house of Benjamin Williamson, in the town of Montgomery, who made the following statement, and was duly sworn to the same: That, in the month of October, in the year 1821, he applied to Colonel John Crowell, agent for Indian affairs, for a license to trade with the Indians, and to know of him the terms on which it would be granted; that Colonel Crowell told him that he would grant him one on his producing a certificate from some respectable person that he was a man of fair and respectable character, and giving a bond with good security in $1,000 that he would violate no regulations relative tu the Indian trade; that he inquired of Colonel John Crowell if hé was acquainted with James S. Frierson, Esq., and if his certificate would answer as to his (Finch’s) character, and the sufficiency of a man by the name of Stone, whom he proposed to get as his security. To this Colonel Crowell replied, that he was well acquainted with Mr. Frierson, and that his certificate would be sufficient; that he (Finch) then proceeded to Georgia, and saw Mr. Frierson, who told him he would write the agent a letter on the subject; that he then proceeded and purchased a load of goods for the Indian market; and having the letter from Mr. Frierson, and the bond (which the agent had given him) executed by himself, and Stone as his security, he came into the nation, and applied for a license to the agent, and was positively refused; that he told the agent of his promise, of his having laid out his money in consequence of it, for goods suited only for the Indian market, and of the loss he would sustain; that the agent told him Spain would buy his goods; he replied, Spain had no money, and if he sold on a credit, he would lose the tools he had to work with; that the agent then told him Tom Crowell (agent’s brother) would buy them: and to this he gave no reply. Next morning the agent told him he had concluded to give him a license to sell out that wagon load of goods, and asked him if he could do it in thirty days, to which he answered yes; upon which the agent gave him a license for one month. He then asked the agent if there was no possible way by which be could get a license to trade when that was out; to which the agent replied there was none. He then left him and sold his goods. After the month was ended, on his way from the Alabama to Georgia, he had a conversation with Thomas Crowell, at Fort Mitchell, or Princeton, and, talking about the profits of his late adventure, a partnership was proposed bv him (Finch) between himself and Thomas Crowell, if he could get a license from the agent. Thomas Crowell said he would write to his brother (the agent) his views on the subject, if he (Finch) would remain till next day; next day (which he thinks was about the 4th of February, 1822,) Thomas Crowell gave him a letter for the agent, and he (Finch) proposed that they should talk over the terms of the co-partnership; to which Thomas Crowell replied that it was not necessary, as his brother (the agent) could arrange the terms with him if a license were granted.	. He-then proceeded to the agency on Flint river, and handed the letter to the agent. After the agent had read the letter, they commenced a conversation about the co-partnership, the terms, <fcc., when the agent drew up the articles between them, by which 500 dollars were to be advanced by each, to constitute a trading capital to be managed by him, (Finch,) in the name of him, (Finch,) for the benefit of him and Thomas Crowell. The profits were to be equally divided, after deducting all expenses, including reasonable wages for him, (Finch,) and the partnership to continue during their mutual pleasure. That John Crowell, agent, then signed Thomas Crowell’s name to the articles, and advanced $400 of t to him, (Finch;) the other $100 was never advanced by any one; that he never saw the contents of the I ten hy Thomas Crowell to the agent, and that his second license was dated about the 6th of February, 1822; that he traded among the Indians for nearly three years, and settled with Thomas Crowell when he closed, and gave him up the articles which had been so signed by John and himself, and took his receipt for upwards of $1,300 in full for the stock and profits; that while the partnership continued, he and Thomas Crowell bought from Drury Spain an account he had against the Cussetah Indians for about $2,500 or $2,600, and gave him for the same $2,000—one- half to be taken in goods, $600 to be paid down, and the other $400 to be paid in a few months after. The reason why Spain sold the account, as he then understood, was because the agent refused to give Spain any assistance in getting his money from the Indians, and refused to pay him out of the money which came through the agent’s hands, for annuities, ferriages, &c.; that after he and Thomas Crowell purchased the account, they had no difficulty in getting the money paid over to them, as it came into the agent’s hands, such as annuities, ferriages, and so forth; that a considerable part of the account had been paid, part by the agent out of the annuity, and part by him from the ferry, where the agent resided, at Flint river. When he settled with Tom Crowell, about the first or last of January, Crowell took the balance of the Spain debt as so much of his share. This deponent further states, that when the partnership was entered into, there was a verbal restriction imposed on him not to trade within ten miles of Fort Mitchell, (Thomas Crowell’s stand,) except in passing. This deponent knows that there has been a store kept at Walker’s, the late sub-agent’s, since the fall of 1822, which was always understood to belong to him; that he (Walker) purchased and supplied it with goods, and acted in all respects towards it as owners of stores usually do; that it was on the main trading Federal road from Line creek to Fort Mitchell, and must have [been] seen and known by the agent. This deponent saith, in explanation of that part of his testimony which relates to the annuity, that he received a part of the annuity of 1823, the balance remaining after paying the account due Thomas Crowell; but that he received none of the annuity of 1824, there being so small a balance remaining, after paying Thomas Crowell’s account, (made after the payment of the previous annuity,) that it was not worth attending to. HENRY FINCH. The foregoing five and part of sixth pages [MS.] were read over by the witness, and corrected by his directions, and sworn to and signed by him, in our presence, this 30th of June, 1825. SEABORN JONES, WM. H. TORRANCE, Commissioners. Testimony of Stephen Hawkins. GEORGIA, Baldwin County: By virtue of a commission from his excellency the Governor of Georgia, to us directed, to receive and examine testimony in relation to the charges lately preferred by the Governor aforesaid against John Crowell, agent for Indian affairs in the Creek nation of Indians, we have taken the examination of Stephen Hawkins, a white man resident in said nation, who, being duly sworn, deposeth and saith: That he has resided in the Creek nation thirty-eight years, or thereabouts; that, on the second day of May last, he was on his way from Fort Jackson to his residence at Chelokonojah, in the nation; he was stopped by eight or ten Indians, who belonged to the hostile party; they seemed to be headed by John Riley, a half-breed; Riley told him they were sent by Hopoithle Yoholo, a Tnckaubatchee chief, to take all the property belonging to the Hawkins’ and McIntosh, and carry it to Tuckaubatchee; they took what property they [he] had with him, except two horses, (one of which he was riding, and the other rode by his wife,) which they afterwards took, and carried away; the property to be had on the road was two negro boys and a thousand yards of homespun, two sacks of salt, besides a number of other articles; he told them that they ought not to take his property; that he had nothing to do with the treaty: Riley replied to him, that Hopuithle Yoholo had ordered him to do so, and that the agent (Colonel Crowell) had ordered Hopoithle Yoholo to have it done. Some of the same party met at his house and took what he had there, being some other negroes and other property. That, in consequence of the conduct of the hostile party, he left the nation, apprehending that they would kill him; they did kill his son, Samuel Hawkins; all his family had to leave the nation, through fear; he now lives near Fort Jackson, in Alabama. STEPHEN HAWKINS, his + mark. Sworn to and subscribed before us, this 21st day of June, 1825. WARREN JOURDAN, W. W. WILLIAMSON, W. H. TORRANCE, Commissioners. Testimony of John IF. Freeman. GEORGIA, Baldwin County: John W. Freeman was this day brought before us, as two of the commissioners appointed by the Governor of the State aforesaid, to take testimony in relation to the conduct of John Crowell, agent for Indian affairs for the Creek nation of Indians, in obedience of an order issued by us for that purpose; and being duly sworn to state all the facts and circumstances which came to his knowledge, and also what he had heard, upon which his opinions were founded, deposeth as follows: That, on or about the 3d day of May last, he arrived at the house of Haynes Crabtree, in the Indian nation, four miles from Fort Mitchell, at night, when information was given that four painted Indians had been seen near there, inquiring if that was not Crabtree’s house. From this circumstance, and the fact that Carr (a mixed blooded man) had run away from their house, a considerable alarm was excited, and apprehensions entertained that the Indians intended some other great violence, in addition to the murder of McIntosh, which had just then taken place. Having m^' family with me, we set forward the next morning on our way to Georgia. When we arrived at Sukey Randal’s, on Little Uchee, she said that the Indians were going to kill Crowell, and that she told them, if they did, they would play hell. We then proceeded, and arrived at Fort Mitchell: we there saw Culonel John Crowell, (the agent,) who informed me that a runner had come to him from a town thirty miles off, who informed him the night before that the Indians were going to kill him that night, (Tuesday night;) that he had collected a guard to protect him, and had about one hundred to guard him; 1 saw his house (in which he staid) had been barricaded by bales of blankets. General Bernard, and the others who were exploring the road route, were at Fort Mitchell that night. I saw many of the Indians, who were painted, and Colonel Crowell said that he could raise three or four hundred to guard him by night, and that they were not necessary in the day, as the Indians did not attack in the day. I suggested to Colonel Crowell the propriety of calling on the Governors of Georgia and Alabama for assistance; that I thought they were bound by the constitution to render him aid. He said he differed with me; that he had not a doubt that the Governor of Alabama would render him all the aid in his power; that, as to Georgia, be had nothing to say—he had rather be damned, o’r go to hell, (I do not recollect which,) than ask assistance of Governor Troup. He told me he would send for the Little Prince, (and did send while I was present,) to ask his opinion whether he had better leave the nation; and if he concluded to go, when he saw the Little Prince, that he would accompany me; but that he thought it his duty to stay there at all hazards. 1 left him at the river. I met a number of Indians going to Fort Mitchell. When I arrived at Moss’s I learned that Hambly’s wife and family had left their house and taken to the woods, which is usually done when the Indians go to war. Colonel Crowell said he was not surprised at the “damned fuss,” nor ought the Government to be, as he had apprized it that a similar excitement would take place if the treaty was ratified. When I arrived at the agency, I saw Henry Crowell, and informed him of his brother’s situation, at the request of his brother, (John Crowell.) He said that when he was at the talk, the Monday before the death of McIntosh, he saw the devil was in them, (the Indians;) that he advised his brother, Tom Crowell, to move his goods away from Fort Mitchell, and offered him his (Henry Crowell’s) own wagon and team to take them off. With regard to what took place at the house of Kendal Lewis, in the nation, I must decline to give any testimony, until it be ascertained whether he can be compelled to give his testimony; and, in case of his continued refusal to do so, I will then have no objection to state it in full. J.	W. FREEMAN. Examined, sworn to, and subscribed before us, this 8th day of Julv, 1825. WM. H. TORRANCE, SEABORN JONES, Commissioners. Deposition of Haynes Crabtree. ,	CREEK NATION, UCHEE BRIDGE, July 4, 1825. By virtue of a commission from his excellency the Governor of the State of Georgia, to us directed, to receive and examine testimony, in relation to the conduct of John Crowell, agent for Indian affairs in the Creek nation, we have caused Haynes Crabtree to come before us, who, being duly sworn, saith: That he is well acquainted with William Lott, a witness who has been examined in behalf of the Indian agent, Colonel Crowell; that he has known him since the year 1812; that the said William Lott has resided in the Creek nation since that period; that he is well acquainted with the general character of said Lott; that the said Lott is, from his general character for ten or twelve years past, as the deponent verily believes, wholly unworthy of credit, on oath or otherwise. HAYNES CRABTREE. Sworn to and subscribed before us, this 4th day of July, 1825. WILLIAM H. TORRANCE, .	SEABORN JONES, Commissioners. Interrogatories to John A. Peck. STATE OF ALABAMA, Montgomery County: By virtue of a commission to us directed, by his excellency the Governor of Georgia, to examine testimony in relation to the conduct of Colonel John Crowell, the agent for Indian affairs in the Creek nation, we have caused John A. Peck to come before us, at the house of Benjamin Williamson, in the town of Montgomery, who answered the following inquiries, and was duly sworn to the truth of the same. 1st. Have you not lately resided in the Creek nation, at the Creek agency? If yea, how long did you live there—whether on the Flint river or Chattahoochie river; and in what capacity did you act? When did you go there to live, and when did you leave there? 2d. Where was the distributing post office kept in the Creek nation when you first went there to live, and hy whom? Was it removed, and to what place? How long was the distribution really made at the place to which it was removed? and were not packages for a long time addressed to the Creek agency, when they were really distributed at Fort Mitchell, or Princeton, on the Chattahoochie? and who was postmaster when it was done? 3d. Were you present at Broken Arrow when the treaty was attempted to be made in December last, by Colonel Campbell and Major Merriwether, United States commissioners, with the Creek Indians? 4th. Did you not act as clerk to the Indians in their council to draw up their talks, and do such other writings as you were directed by them? 5th. Do you not know or believe (and state the reasons for your belief) that Colonel John Crowell was opposed to a treaty and cession of lands, and that he exercised his influence with the Indians to prevent one? 6th. Did not Colonel Crowell and William Walker, late and then sub-agent, or Walker, with the knowledge, consent, and approbation of Colonel Crowell, assist the Indians, by advice and counsel, and other ways, (and in what ways,) in drawing their talk or talks in answer to the commissioners, and refusing to sell any land? 7th. When the United States commissioners called on Colonel Crowell for certain papers, (some of which were in your possession,),did not Colonel Crowell advise you not to give them up, and were they not withheld? 8th. Do you know of any act or conversation of Colonel Crowell which goes to show that he opposed the treaty at Fort Mitchell or Broken Arrow? If yea, state thé same. 9th. Were you present at the treaty at the Indian Springs? 10th. Do you know of any act or conversation of Colonel Crowell which goes to show that he did not sincerely and earnestly endeavor to influence the Indians to a cession of land at the Indian Springs? If yea, state the same at large.	, 11th. Have you seen the testimony of Jesse Cox, as published in the newspapers of Milledgeville, Georgia! 12th. Were you not at Fort Mitchell or Princeton when that conversation which he testifies to look place? If yea, state whether you did not hear it, or one substantially the same, at that place and time; and whether you have not at other times heard similar observations made by the agent, Colonel Crowell, and when and where? 13th. Were not the Indians unfriendly to the treaty, and McIntosh, or many of the chiefs and headmen, about that time assembled at Broken Arrow, and holding secret councils? If yea, what was the general [report] of the business they were on? Did not the agent know or hear that general report? and did he really and earnestly take any measures to prevent their violent counsels, or soothe and conciliate their angry feelings? 14th. Was it not known by many persons, and have you not reasons to believe that Colonel Crowell knew, that some of the chiefs at that time had determined to kill McIntosh? If yea, state those reasons, and whether Colonel Crowell gave any information of it, or attempted to prevent it. Anstoers of John A. Peck to the interrogatories put to him by the Commissioners appointed by the Governor of Georgia. To the 1st. That he removed to the agency on Flint river about the 5th of February, 1822, and resided there till about the 12th March, 1824, when he removed to Fort Mitchell, where he resided till near the last of April, 1825, when he removed to this place, (Montgomery.) About a month after he came to the agency he attended to a store for Thomas Crowell, and acted as assistant postmaster; after a short time he quit the store and attended only to the post office, and did such writing for the agent as he called on him to do; and when he resided at Fort Mitchell, he was assistant postmaster. To the 2d. The distributing post office was kept at Fort Mitchell, (called Cowetah,) now Princeton, by John ■ Porter; it was removed to the agency on Flint river; for some time the distribution was done at the agency; and, from the inconvenience of opening the mail in the daytime, the unhealthiness of the agent, and other reasons, I spoke to Colonel Crowell to apply for its removal to Fort Mitchell. Upon receiving a letter from the postmaster authorizing it to be done, the distributing post office was removed to Princeton, and the business done there; the packages were addressed to the agency, as must be the case on every removal for some time. Colonel Crowell was the postmaster, and I was his assistant. To the 3d and 4th. I was present, and acted as clerk to the council, though I did not attend the council every day; and I drew up their talks, and did such writing as they requested me to do. To the 5th. I do not know, nor do I believe, that Colonel Crowell was* opposed to a treaty for the cession of lands, from any reasons that I have; nor do I know of his exercising any influence to prevent the cession. To the 6th. I do not know that he did. To the 7th. When the call was made, Colonel Crowell came and applied to me, and asked if I had any papers which had been called for; I told him I had some papers which had been given to me by the Little Prince in council; he then requested me to give them up; to which I replied, I would not give them up, except to the chiefs, and I was ready to do so at any time; Colonel Crowell did not advise me not to give them up, but requested me, if they were not very important, to give them up, as the commissioners were already jealous of him. To the 8th. I know of none; on the contrary, he was quite reserved with me on that point. To the 9th. I was not.	• To the 10th. I do not. To the 11th and 12th. I was living at that place at that time, and have no recollection of seeing Mr. Jesse Cox there at that time, and, of course, I have no recollection of any conversation held in his presence. I have heard the agent say the Big Warrior was dead, and he expected he was gone to hell, where he expected many more of us would go. This was in jovial conversation, at table. I have also heard it stated (but whether from the agent 1 cannot now recollect) that the Indians were damned fools if they did not enforce their Jaw and kill McIntosh. And 1 have heard it said that jie said, if they did not kill McIntosh, he would never do any thing for them as long, as he lived; but I never heard him say so. To the 13th. I know of one council that was held there in April last, which was for the payment of their annuity; that the agent then told them they must put up with the bargain; that he had been to Washington, and had been able to do this much for them—that the money was to be divided among them all, as well those who did not as those who did sign the treaty. They asked him if he signed the treaty; he told them he did, but only as a witness; he then left the square. After a few hours, Big Warrior’s son, Hopoithle Yoholo, and a few others came to interpreter’s quarters, and abused the agent for having sold their land. The interpreter (Hambly) then sent for the agent; when he came, the Indians abused him, and said that he was a land-seller; he endeavored to explain to them the difference between his signing as a witness and as a party, but they were not satisfied, and left him abruptly. While the Indians were abusing Hambly, it was done in Indian, and they appeared to be in a passion; Tuskenehau (Big Warrior’s son) appeared very much so. I asked Hambly what he said: as soon as they ceased, and were talking together, Hambly told me Hopoithle Yoholo and others abused him for selling the land, and that he (Hambly) had replied, Yes, that he had done so, and, if they did not behave themselves, he would sell the balance, and them with it. After this I saw Tuskenau, (Big Warrior’s son,) Hopoithle Yoholo, Little Prince, and Yaha Haijo, Yohulo Micco, and another, go out in (he woods, and hold a secret and private council, but I do not know what it was for. [NOTE.—The Indian name was first written in this answer wrong, when, at witness’s request, it was stricken out, and written Tuskenau, who is Big Warrior’s son.]	. To the 14th. I suspected that the secret council was for that purpose, and named it to Captain Triplett, who laughed at me, and said they dared not. I told [him] I had a great mind to tell the agent my suspicions: he replied, he will only laugh at you; and I then said no more about it. I do not know whether the agent knew or suspected it. When I first came to the agency, I did beliçve Colonel Crowell was interested in the store, and remained of that opinion till he came from Washington in 1822, and I have sometimes thought so since. When 1 was first spoken to to come out, it was by Colonel Crowell, though he then told me he was not interested in the store; that it was his brother. While I was acting as a clerk in the store, he was particular in looking over and telling me how things ought to be done, though this may have been from his interest for his brother’s doing well. JOHN A. PECK. The facts in the foregoing seven [MS.] pages were read over and corrected by the witness, and then sworn to, and subscribed by us, this 30th day of June, 1825. •	W. H. TORRANCE, SEABORN JONES, Commissioners. Memorandum of testimony which, it is said, will be furnished by Colonel White, of Florida. In Milledgeville, Colonel White heard Hawkins ask Crowell about the death of his brother, saying that he had heard that Crowell had said that he (Hawkins) was killed in conformity with the law of the nation. Crowell said he did not know they had such a law. Hiwkins replied that he (Crowell) knew very well there was no such law, and, if there was such a law, it was his duty to have known it. Testimony of Angus Colquhoun. GEORGIA, Baldwin County: Personally appeared before me Angus Colquhoun, who, being duly sworn, saith: That on the last day of March past he stopped for the night at the Creek agency, being on bis way from Louisiana. The Creek agency was then the. residence of Henry Crowell, the brother of the Indian agent. At the supper table that night a conversation was held between said Crowell and deponent concerning the Indian chief General McIntosh, in which Crowell stated that McIntosh was a damned tory and traitor to his country. The deponent stated to him that he thought not; that he believed McIntosh was the best friend, both to the Creeks and the United States, that was among the Indians; and asked Crowell if he considered that the nation was the ally of Great Britain during the war. He said not, but that a majority of the Creeks were in favor of Great Britain; that McIntosh only remained friendly to the United States through fear, and for money, if his principles could be known. Deponent stated to him that actions spoke louder than words. On the next morning the conversation in relation to McIntosh was resumed, when deponent stated to Crowell that he supposed that a treaty had been effected, [which] would fulfil the compact of the United States with Georgia in relation to the Indian lands. He replied, yes, that damned tory McIntosh had sold his country and himself along with it; but that the. measure of his days was nearly full, and he would be damned if thev (using the expression we) did not see to it. Here the conversation ceased. ANGUS COLQUHOUN. Sworn and subscribed before me, this 10th day of September, 1825. H. ALLEN, J. I. C. Testimony of Samuel Howard Fay. SAVANNAH, July 1, 1825. I certify that I stopped at Mr. Henry Crowell’s house, on my return from Alabama, on the 8th of May last, and, in speaking of the probability of Governor Troup’s punishing the Indians for the murder of McIntosh, I heard Mr. Crowell make a declaration similar to the following: “ That if Governor Troup were to attempt to punish the Indians, he (Crowell) would leave his wife, family, and property, and go over to the Indians, head them, and go his death with them.” I believe these were the precise words of Mr. Crowell, as near as I can recollect. It is the substance of his declaration. SAMUEL HOWARD FAY. Sworn to before me this 1st July, 1825. W. C. DANIEL, Mayor. Testimony of Philip Scoggin. This will certify that I have been acquainted with William Edwards for the last five or six years. He came to this State from Tennessee, on foot, with a Tennessee wagoner, and resided some time in Jasper county, where he employed himself sometimes in distilling spirits, sometimes in drinking and dissipating, gambling, and idleness. He left the settlement, and afterwards went off to the Creek nation, (by report) very much indebted. It was commonly believed and reported that he went to the nation to avoid paying his just debts. Although 1 know nothing of an infamous or criminal nature against him, yet he was considered as a man of bad habits and of a dissipated character, and not esteemed as a good or respectable citizen. Given from under my hand, the 6th of September, 1825. PHILIP SCOGGIN. Testimony of David C. Wallic. MONROE COUNTY, September 14, 1825. I have been acquainted with William Edwards for upwards of twelve months, and know him to be a low, trifling man. His habits have been of a very reprehensible kind; drunkenness, idleness, and gambling were his principal pursuits since he went to Joseph Marshall’s. After he had lived with Joseph Marshall for some time, Marshall turned him oft'from his employ, and told me he had done so because he had good reason to believe Edwards had cheated him out of a thousand dollars, by giving away his goods to Indian squaws, and making no account of them. Edwards has given goods to Indian squaws, and then charged them to me, so that Marshall might not detect him; but I discovered it, and exposed him to Marshall. I would not believe William Edwards on his oath; for, after he returned from McIntosh’s, with Joseph Marshall, in April last, he (Edwards) informed me that an Indian talk would be held there shortly. He has since sworn that no talk or meeting of the chiefs did take place to give consent to survey the land; and I know, or have good reason to believe, that Edwards did not return to McIntosh’s at the time the Indian chiefs were to have assembled; and I cannot conceive how he could positively assert they did not meet, except he had been there himself, which I am confident was not the fact. Witness—JOHN P. DENNER.	DAVID C. WALLIC. Testimony of William Barnard. GEORGIA, CHATHAM COUNTY, City of Savannah: Personally appeared before me, William C. Daniel, mayor of the above-named city, William Barnard, of the State and county aforesaid, who, being dulv sworn, deposeth and saith: 106 E That he was at the house of Colonel John Crowell, Creek agent, at the agency, in company with Michee Barnard and Timpochee Barnard, half-breed Creek Indians, about three weeks after the failure of the negotiations at Broken Arrow. This failure became the subject of conversation between Colonel Crowell and the half-breeds present, and the former remarked that it had been publicly attributed to him; that, for his part, if he was continued the agent, he would be willing to remove with them west of the Mississippi, where game would be more abundant, and which he thought a better country than that at present occupied by the Creeks. He further informed Michee and Timpochee Barnard that another treaty would be held at the Indian Springs, and that he believed McIntosh would sell the lands; upon which Michee Barnard, showing much irritation, said that, if the lands were sold, McIntosh would be killed. Colonel Crowell then observed that, if McIntosh was to be killed, it should be done before the lands were sold. Upon the same or the following day, Michee Barnard said to this deponent, that when he returned home he would despatch runners to the chiefs of the Creek nation, proposing the breaking of McIntosh before the contemplated treaty at the Indian Springs, for the purpose of defeating it. r	WILLIAM BARNARD. Sworn to before me, in the citv of Savannah, this 10th day of June, 1825. "	. W. C. DANIEL, Mayor. Interrogatories to be exhibited to Brigadier General Alexander Ware. 1st. Do you know Joseph Marshall, an Indian chief of the Creek nation? 2d. Were you at an Indian council in April last, in the Creek nation, at or near the residence of the late General McIntosh? If so, state, if you know, whether that council gave its consent to the Governor of Georgia to survey the territory lately ceded by the Creeks to the United States for Georgia, or so much thereof as lies within the boundaries of Georgia. State al] you know in relation to that consent, if given, and how. 3d. If you have ever heard said Marshall say any thing upon the subject of his consent to make that survey, please state how, and when, and where he gave it. F	W. H. TORRANCE, WM. W. WILLIAMSON, Georgia Commissioners. GEORGIA, Fayette County:	< Alexander Ware, being duly sworn true answers to make to interrogatories hereunto annexed, answers as follows: To the first interrogatory, he answers: I have known Joseph Marshall since Floyd’s campaign in the Creek nation, but have had no conversation with him respecting the permission to survey the lately acquired territory. To the second, he answers: About the 10th or 15th of last April I was at the house of General William McIntosh, at which place were most of the principal chiefs of my acquaintance belonging to the friendly party. They met in council, and I learned from McIntosh and others that they unanimously agreed,to let the Governor survey the land as soon as he pleased, and, also, that he might publish in the papers that any person who wished to purchase claims might be permitted to do so, by coming and enrolling their names. McIntosh asked me if I should have an opportunity of sending a letter to the Governor, and, on my replying that I would send it on immediately, he (McIntosh) gave me the letter containing their consent to the survey, and requested me to send it as soon as I could; and I conversed with several of the chiefs, both before and after the council, and they seemed anxious that the survey should be made, assigning as a reason that it would bring money into the nation. To the third: Answered in the first. ALEXANDER WARE. Sworn to and subscribed this 1st day of September, 1825. WILLIAM TEGG. J. I. C. Testimony of Samuel Dorsey. GEORGIA, Monroe County: Personally came before me, C. M. Coody, one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, Samuel Dorsey, who, being duly sworn on the holy Evangelists of Almighty God, deposeth and saith: That he was at or near one of the plantations of the late Samuel Hawkins, in the month of April last, when a party of Indians, under the command of Hopoithle Yoholo, of Tuckaubatchee, burnt his house, and destroyed and took off a great quantity of his property. The party afterwards assembled and remained a'few days at old Mr. Hawkins’s, the father of Samuel: while there, this deponent was also there, and had frequent conversations with Hopoithle Yoholo, who informed this deponent several times that it was Crowell, the agent, who had ordered to be done what was done; that McIntosh and the principal chiefs who signed the treaty must be killed, and their property destroyed or taken from them. This deponent was with this party when they were at Mrs. Eliza McIntosh’s, on the Tallapoosa, a short distance from Samuel Hawkins’s place, when they took and carried away a great deal or all of the property there that was not destroyed. Mrs. McIntosh asked the chiefs who had ordered them to do so; and Hopoithle Yoholo, in the presence and hearing of this deponent and Alexander Reid, stated that it was Crowell’s orders that they must kill McIntosh and the chiefs who signed the treaty, and take away or destroy their property. This deponent understood what he said in Indian in reply to Mrs. McIntosh, and as soon as he had finished speaking Mrs. McIntosh interpreted it to this deponent and Mr. Reid, and it was the same as this deponent had understood it himself, and as above stated. SAMUEL DORSEY. Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 12th day of September, 1825. *	C. M. COODY, J. P. Copy of the interrogatories exhibited to the Rev. Isaac Smith, with his answers. Interrogatory 1. Did yoo not have a conversation with Colonel John Crowell before you wrote the letter which he published in the Georgia Journal? Answer. Yes, many. Int. 2. Were you not requested by Colonel John Crowell to write it to him; and did he not know, previous to its being written, what would be the contents of it? Ans. No. Int. 3. Were you in the council, and did you hear and understand the talks between the chiefs, when McIntosh regained their confidence! Ans. Yes, I understood what was interpreted. Int.'4. Who was the white man who informed you that there were five hundred Indians that night to kill McIntosh for offering to sell their land? AnJ. Mr. Hardrige.	X Int. 5. Do you not believe that Colonel Crowell knew that the Indians were going to kill McIntosh before they did it; and that, too, in time to have warned him of his danger?	* Ans. No. Int. 6. Do you believe or know that Colonel Crowell made any attempt to prevent the Indians from killing McIntosh? Ans. No. Int. 7. What law of the nation was existing to require the killing of McIntosh for its enforcement? Did yon ever see it? V^hen was it passed, and where? And was McIntosh present when such law was made? Ans. A law which McIntosh proclaimed at ball-play, seen by nobody. Int. 8. Is any law obligatory upon the nation, unless made in the council at Broken Arrow? Ans. The commissioners said so'at Broken Arrow. I do not know if it was true. Int. 9. Which of the Indians who were murdered had signed the law of which you speak in your letter? Ans. I do not believe any were murdered. Int. 10. As Hawkins neither signed the treaty as a witness or chief, [“or accessary”—this written by Mr. Smith,] what law did he break which required his death? Ans. The law of nations. Int. 11. Do you know any thing about any such law but from the statements of others, and who are they? Ans. I do not; I was told of it by Chilly McIntosh last summer. Int. 12. Is not your statement of your belief made from what you have heard Colonel Crowell say, and also what you heard the Little Prince and others say, since the murder of McIntosh? Ans. I do not believe he was murdered. Int. 13. Were you not present at the council when Colonel Henry G. Lamar, aid-de-camp to Governor Troup, gave the Indians a talk? and did not the Little Prince assure him they intended no harm to those who had signed the treaty? and did he not tell him to inform them that they must come home and attend to their business? Aos. I was present, but the interpreter spoke so low I did not hear all he said. Int. 14. Do you not know or believe that Colonel Crowell was unfriendly to a cession of land, and did what he could to prevent the Indians from making any? And state your reasons for your belief. Ans. I have no reason to believe so. Int. 15. Have you seen 'and conversed with Chilly McIntosh since the death of his father? If yea, please state When and where, and what was the subject of your conversation. Ans. I have not.	ISAAC SMITH. The above and foregoing are true copies of the interrogatories propounded to, and the answers given by, the 'above-named Isaac Smith. MICHAEL JOHNSON KENAN, Secretary to the Georgia Commissioners. REPORT OF THE GEORGIA COMMISSIONERS, DATED AUGUST 23, 1825. Elisha Wood, Secretary, to James Barbour, Secretary of War. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, August 29, 1825. By direction of his excellency Governor Troup, I enclose you herewith a further report of the Georgia commissioners, with documents numbered from 1 to 9, inclusive, containing testimony connected with the Indian affairs. And have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant, ELISHA WOOD, Secretary. Hon. JAMES BARBOUR, Secretary of War. William H. Torrance and William W. Williamson to Governor Troup. SIR:	MILLEDGEVILLE, August 23, 1825. Herewith,, we transmit to your excellency documents numbered from 1 to 9, inclusive, containing further testimony connected with the Indian affairs. From the testimony now adduced you will discover, among other facts, that the Rev. Isaac Smith, one of the missionaries in t'he Creek nation, located near Broken Arrow, has stated that he was present at that place when a council was held to deliver a talk to Colonel H. G. Lamar, at which time and place the Little Prince, who then acted as speaker, requested Colonel Lamar to tell the Indians then in Georgia to return to their homes, and that they should not be injured. In the course of the collecting of testimony by the agent, Colonel Crowell, we were present when Mr. Hambly, the national interpreter, (a witness for the agent,) stated on oath that the fifth article of the treaty was not read to the chiefs in council. We were much surprised to hear evidence of that character, because it involved directly and most essentially the purity of the character of the commissioners of the General Government. In the testimony we have received, you will find in documents Nos. 1, 2, and 8, that, so far from that being true, the matter contained in the fifth article was cause of particular observation by persons present at the reading and interpretation of the treaty, and grew out of the apparent effect that it had upon the agent, Colonel Crowell, who was present. Gentlemen of great worth, pure morals, and unblemished integrity, testify that they were present when the whole treaty was read; and one of them, that he has a most distinct recollection of the reading of the fifth article, from the circumstance of noticing at the time a very considerable change in the countenance of the agent, Colonel Crowell; which circumstance was observed by others present, and was the subject of after-conversation. This you will find is corroborated by other testimony. The article, it appears, was inserted reluctantly by the commissioners, and entirely at the instance of the chiefs. It must be obvious why such testimony was taken by the agent; but the object has been overreached—he proved too much. This Mr. Hambly is a sworn officer of the Government of the United States; he, as well as the United States agent, has given sanction to a treaty by his official attestation, which treaty they now come forward and attempt to prove was obtained by foul and fraudulent means. In fact, sir, the omission referred to. in the agent’s testimony is criminal in its character, and that, too, charged directly against the commissioners of the United States—two gentlemen of high standing and approved integrity, who could have had no other interest than their country’s good to promote so desirable an end as the one they have, after much labor and difficulty, attained. There is a rule of moral law which forbids an individual to destroy by secret and covert means the effect of doctrines which he has promulgated. A similar principle is applied in civil and municipal law. He who gives currency and authority to a written instrument by his solemn attestation, is not allowed to invalidate that instrument. The attempt to do so loads him with reproach and odium. His testimony, if received at all, is received with manygrains of allowance, the more especially when he alleges, in support of its annulment, that a fraud—yea, a stupendous fraud—has been imposed. Can it be believed that this Mr. Hambly and the agent would have given official sanction to a treaty which bore on its face nothing unfair, when they knew that every means other’than fair means was pursued to obtain it? No; the weak and the credulous cannot give faith to such averments. It would attach a foul stigma upon their official character to say so. What did they do? What effect had their attestations? Do they not to all intents and purposes say to the Government of the United States, “ There, we present you a treaty duly and properly obtained?” The same evidence furnishes the proof that, after the treaty had been fully read through, signed, and sealed, the agent and the interpreter were called on to attest the same; which they severally did, without any objection whatever. We understand that it is alleged by the agent, as one ground of objection to the treaty, that the fifth article was not read in council; and, also, as another ground of objection, that the chiefs who made the treaty were not competent to do so. Either branch of the argument is an unfortunate one for him whereon to build an opposition. In the first case, it is presuming too far to say that the agent would witness a treaty in his official character without knowing its contents; and in the second case, it is imputed to him an absolute abandonment of his trust to suppose that he would stand by a careless spectator and witness of the mere forms of a treaty, when he knew that one of the parties to that treaty could not legitimately enter into any of its stipulations, without making known the same, which it appears he did not. The deduction from either position is most obvious, though not our province to announce. Upon the subject of the consent given by the friendly chiefs in council to make the survey, the rudest skeptic can no longer have cause for a shadow of doubt. Contained are the documents Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7, and 9. You have testimony in relation to that particular. Your excellency will discover that, of the existence of such a council, and its consent so given, General Gaines received information before the last of the past month. At the same time he was informed that Marshall had given his consent; also, he was then informed of the true character of Edwards. 'The fact of the consent so given by the chiefs to make the survey having been announced to General Gaines nearly a month ago, and before his letter addressed to yon of the 28th ultimo, and his failure to correct the erroneous representations of that matter founded upon the false certificate of Marshall and Edwards, surely furnishes cause of remark. From the information we have received, it is evident that there were present at the council a number of citizens of Georgia, (General Ware, of Fayette county, among the number;) several of whom we have seen, and who have testified to the fact. That there was such a council; that the consent to make the survey was given; also, that Marshall fully gave his; and that General Gaines has been long since informed of the same, there is evidence abundant. Respectfully, vour excellency’s obedient servants, WM. H. TORRANCE, WM. W. WILLIAMSON, His Excellency Governor TROUP.	Commissioners. No. 1. Interrogatories to be exhibited to Duncan G. Campbell and William F. Hay, Esqrs., in the case of the Indian agent, Colonel John Crowell. 1st. To Duncan G. Campbell: Were you one of the United States commissioners who held the late treaty at the Indian Springs with the Creek Indians? And to Hay: Were you the secretary to such commissioners? 2d. Was not the treaty read to the chiefs, (who signed the same,) before they were called on to sign it? If so, state by whom, who interpreted, and who were present? 3d. Were the commissioners particular, or not, in having the whole treaty read to the chiefs? And was it, or not, distinctly interpreted to them (the chiefs) by the interpreter? Who was the interpreter? Did the commissioners omit to read any article of that treaty to the chiefs? Are you certain that the fifth article of the treaty was plainly and distinctly read? and was it understood? Was the agent present when that treaty was read? and did he, or not, particularly note the terms of the fifth article? Did not the interpreter explain it to the chiefs? Were not the head chiefs of that treaty capable of reading and writing, and capable of understanding ordinarymanuscript? Did the agent or interpreter make any objection to witnessing that treaty, when asked to do so? . Relate all that each of you know concerning the execution of that treaty, touching the reading thereof, and the interpretation of the same, and by whom, and what was said and done by the agent at or about that period connected with it? WM. H. TORRANCE, WARREN JOURDAN, JULY, 1825.	Commissioners of the State of Georgia. .	Answers of D. G. Campbell. GEORGIA, Wilkes County: The annexed interrogatories being exhibited to us by the commissioners on [the] part of the State, we have this day appeared before the officer attesting these our answers, and, being sworn, answered as follows: 1st. D. G. Campbell saith: That at the late treaty concluded with the Creek Indians, be was one of the commissioners on the part of the United States. 2d. A council was convened on Saturday evening, 12th of February last, for the purpose of submitting a treaty which had been previously prepared. The council was composed of all the chiefs and warriors who were upon the ground, as far as I know or believe; I did not discover that any were absent who had attended the previous meetings, except those who bad absented themselves the night before, in the night. There were also present the two commissioners, William F. Hay. secretary, Dr. William Merriwether, Colonel Crowell, (the agent,) William Hambly, (the interpreter,) Thomas T. Triplett, and several white men, residents of the nation. The reading of the treaty was preceded by some remarks from one of the commissioners, in reference to the movements of the over night. The council were told that a step of this sort, let it be produced by what cause it might, was not to defeat the objects of the Government; that all chiefs of the nation had been notified and invited to attend; that we had been in council for several days, and that it had been ascertained who were and who were not in favor of a treaty; that we considered the nation as still fully represented, and should proceed accordingly. These remarks were made by myself, and were in substance as I have stated.	. The treaty was then produced, and the council informed that it would be read and interpreted to them distinctly, and that as many as chose to sign it might do so, and those who thought proper to decline eould do so. The reading commenced and progressed, article by article, sometimes dividing an article (when it was too long) for easy interpretation. Hambly acted as interpreter; he sat close by me, and was requested to speak loud enough for all to hear. At the close of each article, assent was expressed by the council by a sort of exclamation, after the manner of Indians. No article of the treaty was omitted in the reading; I do not believe that a single word was omitted. There was nothing in it which we wished to suppress or conceal. When the reading and interpretation were over, a pause ensued. No man, white or red, objected to the number or grade of those who composed the council. No opposition was intimated from any quarter. The commissioners signed, and were immediately followed by the chiefs. After one or two of them had signed, Hopoithle Yoholo, of the Tuckaubatchee delegation, made the observations ascribed to him in the commissioners’ journal, as I understood from Major Merriwether, who received the interpretation more distinctly than I did. The remarks of this chief were received most heartily by the other chiefs, as evinced by their loud exclamation of assent. Himself and his followers (about six or seven in all) then shook hands with the commissioners and some of the chiefs, and retired. I recollect no other occurrence which took place during the execution of the instrument, except that, when one of its signers was about to make his mark, the agent asked McIntosh if that was a chief? The answer was, “ he's chief." Our journal states that the treaty “ was signed by all the chiefs present, except the delegation from Tuckaubatchee, and one chief from Talladega.” It may be so that all chiefs present had signed; but it is further the fact, that many others, chiefs or warriors, were present, and proposed signing; but this was declined, as it was getting late, and the signatures already affixed were deemed sufficient. The document was then handed to Colonel Crowell, who had been present the whole time, and he attested it | officially, without hesitation or remark, as I recollect. Our secretary, Doctor Merriwether, and the interpreter, then attested the instrument also; and the council were requested to convene again on Monday morning. Before we left the Springs, (I think on Sunday, the 13th,) the agent requested a copy of the treaty, and we directed it furnished. D. G. CAMPBELL. .	William F. Hay's answers. Having been required to answer the interrogatories hereto qnnexed; to the first part I say, that I was present, and acted as secretary to the commissioners in the late negotiation with the Creek Indians. In answer to the remainder of the interrogatories, I say, that I have carefully examined and perused the foregoing statements and answers of D. G. Campbell, and, as far forth as they represent who were present at the execution of the treaty, the manner of reading and interpreting the same, the ceremony of signing and witnessing, and the occurrences of the meeting generally, when the treaty was signed, are in correspondence with my own recollection; and I adopt the same as my answers to the interrogatories exhibited to us. I state further, that a copy of the treaty was furnished to the agent, and copied in his own room, on the 13th of February, the day after the treaty was signed. WILLIAM F. HAY. GEORGIA, Wilkes County: Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 25th day of July, 1825. ARCHIBALD S. WINGFIELD, J. P. No. 2. William Merriwether's affidavit. GEORGIA, Clark County: Personally came before me, William Manley, one of the judges of the inferior court for said county, William Merriwether, who, being duly sworn, saith: That he attended the negotiations held with the Creek Indians at Broken Arrow in December, and at the Indian Springs in February last; that he occupied the same apartments with, and enjoyed the full confidence of. the commissioners; and this deponent knows that the leading features of the treaty, as entered into at the Indian Springs in February, were well understood by all the Indians who took any interest in the subject, inasmuch as the same propositions, in substance, were made to them and fully explained at Broken Arrow, in December preceding. This deponent attended the treaty at the Cherokee agency in 1817, and also at the Indian Springs in 1821, at which last he acted as secretary, and the proceedings at each were in substance as follows: After the principal articles which were to be inserted in the treaty were agreed upon in private conversations with the principal chiefs, various rough-draughts of the treaty were made; some of the chiefs attending, from time to time, and suggesting such alterations as they wished; after it was completed and ready for signature, the whole of the Indians were convened, the treaty read over and interpreted to them, paragraph by paragraph, and the ceremony of signing and sealing gone through. This course was pursued at the late treaty with the Creeks at the Indian Springs, and every article had been fully explained, and was well understood by most of the principal chiefs who signed the treaty, prior to their convention for executing the instrument. After the treaty was drawn up, and the Indians convened, each and evert' article thereof was distinctly read, paragraph at a time, and interpreted to the Indians by Mr. Hambly, the United States interpreter. There were present, at the same time, besides the United States commissioners and the interpreter, Captain Hay, the secretary, Colonel Ctowell, the agent, Captain Triplett, the present sub-agent, and this deponent, besides several white men, residents of the nation. This deponent has a most distinct recollection o'f the reading of the fifth article, or that which relates to the disbursement of the $200,000 to be paid immediately after the ratification of the treaty, from the circumstance of noticing, at the time the article was read, a very considerable change take place in the countenance of Colonel Crowell, the agent; which circumstance was observed by others present, and was the subject of after-conversation. This article of the treaty was reluctantly inserted by the commissioners, and entirely at the instance of the chiefs. After the whole treaty had been gone through and explained, it was signed and sealed by the parties. There was no objection whatever made by Colonel Crowell, or the interpreter, when called upon to witness the treaty; nor did this deponent ever hear from Colonel Crowell the slightest suggestion that (he chiefs present were not competent to make a treaty, nor does he believe that any such suggestion was made. WM. MERRIWETHER. Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 29th of July, 1825. WM. MANLEY, J. I. C. No. 3. Interrogatories to be exhibited to the Rev. Samuel iv. Hodges, in the' case of the Indian Agent, Colonel Crowell. 1st. Are you acquainted with the Rev. Isaac Smith, now resident at the Methodist missionary, in the Creek nation of Indians?_	.	s	_ . . 2d. Have you ever heard him say any thing about the talk delivered by the chiefs in council at Broken Arrow, in that nation, to Colonel Henry G. Lamar, as connected with the late disturbances in that nation? -If yea, please state fully and particularly what he said about that matter. .	3d. Did Mr. Smith inform you that he was present at the council? If yea, did he inform you what the Little Prince said to Colonel Lamar at that time, and what he (the Little Prince) wished Colonel Lamar to inform the friendly chiefs in Georgia? If so, what was it? Please relate all that vou may know about that matter, as fully as if particularly interrogated thereto. W. H. TORRANCE, •	WARREN JOURDAN, JULY, 1825.	Commissioners of the State of Georgia. Cross-interrogatories to be exhibited to the Rev. Samuel K. Hodges. 1st. Please state whether you are acquainted with the character of the Rev. Isaac Smith? If yea, please state whether, from your knowledge of that gentleman, you would, or would not, believe any statement which he should , make to he true, without or with the sanction of an oath? 2d. Please state whether Mr. Smith belongs to the same church with yourself; and does not Mr. Smith possess a character for purity and integrity, which forbids any idea of his making, under any circumstance, an erroneous statement? Please answer these' cross-interrogatories fully, and at large, at the same time that you answer the annexed direct ones. SAMUEL ROCKWELL, ' JULY 21, 1825.	Counsel for John Crowell, Creek Agent. ' Answers to thé direct interrogatories. GEORGIA, Putnam County: This day personally appeared'before me the Rev. Samuel K. Hodges, who, after being duly sworn true answers to make to certain direct and cross-interrogatories hereto annexed, in the case of the Indian agent, Colonel Crowell, answereth and saith as follows, to wit: To the first direct interrogatory. I am. To the second. I have; when at the mission in May last, in conversing on the subject of the late disturbances in the nation, the impression they had on the school, and various other matters connected with the objects of that establishment, he (the Rev. Isaac Smith) observed that he was present at the council at Broken Arrow, when Colonel H. G. Lamar had a talk with the council, and that the Little Prince, as speaker, requested Colonel Lamar to tell the Indians in Georgia to come home and go to work’; they should not be hurt. To the third. This is fully answered in the last above, so far as my recollection serves me. I know nothing further in reference to the matter. Answers to cross-interrogatories. To the first. I am; his word has ever been received by me as being entitled to my utmost confidence, when speaking of matters that came under his own observation. To the second. He does; and has long sustained a high character for both purity and integrity. I am far from believing him capable of making a statement, either on oath or otherwise, which he knows to be false. Erroneous statements are, however, often made from forgetfulness or misguided judgment. That it was an error, after professing a willingness to answer any question proposed to him, to give a direct question embracing matter with which be was so lately familiar an indirect answer, not touching that matter, must be obvious to all. This unhappy course has placed me under the painful necessity of answering the direct interrogatories accompanying the cross-inquiries. •	SAMUEL K. HODGES. Answered, subscribed, and sworn to, this 28th of Julv, 1825, before me, ELI S. SHORTER, Judge Superior Court, Flint Circuit. No. 4. Interrogatories to be exhibited to Lewis IFynn. 1st. Are you acquainted with Joseph Marshall, an Indian chief! if so, have you ever heard him say any thing about having given his consent to the survey of the land lately ceded by the Creek Indians! State what you have heard him say upon that subject, and when, and where! W. H. TORRANCE, W. W. WILLIAMSON, Georgia Commissioners. Answers of Lewis Wynn to the foregoing interrogatories. GEORGIA, Monroe County: He says that he is acquainted with Joseph Marshall, a Creek chief. He says that he has heard said Marshall say that he had given his consent to make the survey. Witness says that said Marshall informed him that he thought it best that the survey should be made this year, for, if done, the Indians might be enabled to sell their possessions for the term the treaty allowed them to remain. This conversation was in April last, a few days after the council had met at McIntosh’s, for the purpose of determining whether the consent should be given to make the survey or not. The witness states that of his own knowledge he cannot say that there was to be a council; he was so informed by Marshall. Witness says that Marshall informed him that he authorized Genera) McIntosh to use his name, touching the consent for the survey, as he might think best;, that he (Marshall) and McIntosh both thought that it was best to permit the survey to be made. LEWIS WYNN. Examined, sworn to, and subscribed before us, this 16th day of August, 1825. WM. H. TORRANCE, WM. W. WILLIAMSON, Georgia Commissioners. No. 5. Interrogatories to be exhibited to Bolin Smith, Hugh IF. Ector, and. George Stinson. 1st. Were you, or either of you, at any Indian council in April last, at or near the residence of General McIntosh! If so, state if you know whether that council gave its consent to the Governor of Georgia to survey the territory lately ceded lying within the limits of Georgia! Who were present at that council, citizens of Georgia! 2d. Have yon, or either of you, ever heard Joseph Marshall (the Indian chief of that name) say any thing upon the subject of that council, and about his consent to make the survey; if so, when and where, and what said he! State it fully. WM. H. TORRANCE, WM. W. WILLIAMSON, Georgia Commissioners. The separate answers of Bolin Smith to the foregoing interrogatories. GEORGIA, Monroe County:	, To the 1st interrogatory, he says: That about the 9th or 10th of April last, he was at the residence of General McIntosh, and there was at that time a meeting of a considerable number of Indians; they assembled in council; and I learned from the general (McIntosh) and others that they had agreed for the Governor to have the land surveyed as soon as he pleased. At that council there were present from Georgia, Major Bailey, of JMonroe couniy; General Ware, of Fayette county; William Bowen, of .Milledgeville; Saunders Walker, of. Monticello; Mark and William Hudspeth, of De Kalb; Major Vaughan, and some others, from Fayette and De Kalb counties, tljeir names not recollected. To the 2d interrogatory, the witness says: That on or about the 6th of April last, he saw Joseph Marshall at John and A. Rooker’s, on Flint river, when he said he was just from General McIntosh’s; said Marshall then informed witness that there was a council to be held at McIntosh’s to determine whether or not the consent of the Indians should be given to the Governor of Georgia to survey the land lately ceded, lying within the limits of Georgia. Marshall then informed witness that he could nnt go back to the council; that he had authorized General McIntosh to sign for him; that he was willing to have the.land surveyed. Witness does not recollect of any other person being present at the conversaiion. BOLIN SMITH. Examined, subscribed, and sworn to, before us, this 16th day of August, 1825. WM. H. TORRANCE, W. W. WILLIAMSON, Georgia Commissioners. No. 6. The answers of Hugh IF. Eetor to the interrogatories annexed. GEORGIA, Monroe County: 1st interrogatory. The witness says that he was notât the council. 2d interrogatory. He says that he was at Marshall’s Stand, (in the nation,) and in conversation with him, when a runner arrived and informed him (Marshall) of the murder of McIntosh, and that he must make his escape. During that conversation, the witness states that he inquired of Marshall if he was not at the council held at General McIntosh’s concerning the survey. Marshall informed witness that he was there a short time previous; that General McIntosh then insisted on his remaining until the council assembled, but that he (Marshall) stated that he did not wish to be absent from home so long; and further stated that he had authorized General McIntosh to sign for and act in the case fully for him, as he had no objection on his part to the survey being made; and that he had not only authorized McIntosh to act in that case for him, but to sign his name for him in all cases where his attendance was necessary, having reference to his duties as a chief, without calling upon him to attend in person— or words to that effect. In the course of the conversation held between witness and said Marshall, Marshall expressed an entire willingness to the survey, and assigned as one reason that it would be of interest to the Indians on the territory; that they would have an opportunity of selling some of their produce, which they otherwise might not dispose of so advantage- °“sly'	HUGH W. ECTOR. Examined, sworn to, and subscribed, before ns, this 16th day of August, 1825. WM. H. TORRANCE, W. W. WILLIAMSON, Georgia Commissioners. No. 7. The answers of George Stinson to the interrogatories annexed. GEORGIA, Monroe County: Tu the 1st interrogatory: The witness saith that he was at General McIntosh’s, in April last, when a council was held by the friendly chiefs to take into consideration the application of Governor Troup to survey the land lying within the boundaries of the State, lately ceded to the United States by the Creek Indians, for the benefit of Georgia. The witness says that the council did then and there give its consent to the Governor to make the survey. Witness says that General Ware, of Fayette county, Major Bailey, of Monroe county, Saunders Walker, of Monticelln, Wm. Bowen, of Milledgeville, Bolin Smith, of Monroe county, a Mr. Vaughan, and some others, (their names not recollected,) were at that council. To the 2d interrogatory: The witness says, that on or about the first week in April, he was at the house of General McIntosh, in the Creek natiun, when he saw the chief Joseph Marshall, as referred to; the witness had, before that time, understood that the chiefs were to go into council upon the subject of the Governor’s application to make the survey, and asked Marshall if he did not intend to attend the council; Marshall stated to witness that he wished to go home, and that it was unnecessary for him to be there, as he had authorized General McIntosh to sign his name for him, (Marshall,) giving his consent to the survey. GEO. STINSON. Examined, sworn to, and subscribed, before us, this 16th of August, 1825. WM. H. TORRANCE, W. W. WJLL1AMS0N, Georgia Commissioners. Further interrogatories to be exhibited to George Stinson in the case of the Indian Agent, Colonel Crowell. 1st. Were you at the Indian Springs, in Februarj' last, when a treaty was concluded between the United States and the Creek Indians; if so, were you present when the treaty was read to the chiefs? Was that treaty distinctly and slowly read over to them? Was it interpreted to them, and by whom? Do you understand the Indian tongue; if so, did you attend to the interpretation? Was the fifth article of that treaty read and interpreted by the interpreter to the chiefs? Was the agent present during that time? Did the agent particularly notice that treaty, and particularly the terms of the fifth article? Did he not say something concerning that article when it was read to the Indians; and was it, or not, because it deprived him of the distribution of the money arising from the cession of land? 2d. Relate all you know about this matter, and the agent’s opposition to the treaty; also, what you know or believe about his knowledge of the murder of McIntosh; whether he knew any thing aboutit before tthe occurrence, and your reason for that belief. WM. H. TORRANCE, WARREN JOURDAN, Commissioners of the State of Georgia. JULY, 1825. No. 8. The answers of George Stinson to the foregoing interrogatories. GEORGIA, Monroe County: To the first interrogatory, he says that he was present at the treaty, from the commencement to the conclusion. He says that he was present when the treaty was read to the chiefs. He says that the treaty was distinctly read to them; it was read twice; it was interpreted by William Hambly. He says that he understands the Indian tongue imperfectly; cannot say how the same was interpreted. He says that he is certain that every article of the treaty was distinctly and audibly read; and one of the United States commissioners tuld the interpreter to interpret so that all who were present could bear him: the interpreter spoke sufficiently loud to be heard over the room where they were convened. He says that the Indian agent, Colonel Crowell, was present during that time. He does not recollect that the agent said any thing about the fifth article: he heard him say to the chiefs that some bad white men had said that he was opposed to the sale of their land, but that he had never told them to sell or not to sell; that, if they thought proper to cede their lands, he would go with them to their new country. He says that the agent said nothing about the distribution of the money. The witness says that when the fifth article was read he was standing in company with Mr. Samuel Scrells, who observed to witness (and attracted his attention by a touch of his elbow) to look at him, (alluding to the agent;) that it would kill him, or words to that effect. As to the last interrogatory, the wiiness says that his information upon the subjects therein embraced is derived from the Indians principally, and, therefore, he considers that it is unnecessary to state it. .	GEORGE STINSON. Examined, sworn to, and subscribed, before us, this 16th of Aueust, 1825- •	“	W. H. TORRANCE, W. W. WILLIAMSON, Georgia Commissioners. No. 9. Interrogatories to be exhibited to Joel Bailey concerning the Indian affairs. 1st. Were you at any Indian council in April last, at or near the residence of General McIntosh in the Creek nation? If so, was it held concerning the contemplated survey of the lately ceded territory by the Creeks? Do you know whether or not that council gave its consent to the survey? Who of the citizens of Georgia were there? 2d. Have you ever heard Joseph Marshall (the Indian chief of that name) say any thing about that subject? If so, when and where, who was present, and what did he say? 3d. Have you, at any time, held any conversation with General Gaines upon the subject of that survey—of Marshall and Edwards’s certificate about that matter? If so, state the time, and what was said. Did you, or not, at the same time, or before the conversation commenced, hand to General Gaines a newspaper containing a letter from Governor Troup to the general, bearing date the 16th of July, last? Be particular, and state that conversation at full. 4th. Did you inform him any thing about the character of Mr. Edwards before alluded to, and, if so, what was it? 5th. Have you not been examined by Major T. P. Andrews, touching the treaty lately made at this place (Indian Springs) and the council at Broken Arrow in December last; also, concerning the reputed law under which the hostile Indians allege they executed General McIntosh? If so, did you or not inform him that, as to any particular affecting the negotiations of the late treaty at this plage, you knew nothing? Did you not inform him, and so state in your testimony that you gave him, that McIntosh had declined to come out upon the subject of a treaty at Broken Arrow, and gave as a reason that he feared that some of the Indians would put him to death in consequence of a law, if he did so? If you made such a statement, did you not immediately thereafter, and connected with the statement so made, proceed to explain what McIntosh meant, and said that he meant, about such a law;‘and that it ■was'in reference to the Tuckaubatchee and Polecat Spring proceedings only, which he did not recognise as a law of force in the nation, or as ever having been passed by authority of the nation? And did Major Andrews receive the qualification given by McIntosh about that law? Relate, particularly, how and in what manner you explained that statement to Major Andrews. 6th. Did or not General Gaines occasionally interrogate you while under examination? 7th. Did either General Gaines or Major Andrews say any thing to yon about their surprise at your not testifying as they expected? Did they say how the Indian countrymen had testified, and that they seemed to refer to you? Were or not General Gaines and Major Andrews apparently satisfied and pleased with the statements you made to them? Relate, particularly, every matter and thing connected with that examination. After your statement had been reduced to writing, did any person or persons call on you, and say to you any thing about your evidence? if so, who was it, what said he, and what was your reply? W. H. TORRANCE, W. W. WILLIAMSON, Georgia Commissioners. The answers of Joel Bailey to the annexed interrogatories. GEORGIA, Monroe County: To the first interrogatory, he answers, that he was at a council at the time and place stated. The council was held for the purpose, as witness believes, to ascertain if the chiefs would give their consent to permit the Governor of Georgia to survey the territory lately ceded by them within the limits of Georgia. The council was in session whim the witness left there, previous to which he had been informed by General McIntosh and others of the head chiefs that they were willing that the survey should be made immediately, or very soon thereafter. The witness does not recollect all the citizens of Georgia who were at the council, but recollects Bolin Smith, of Monroe county; General Ware, of Fayette county; and two persons named Hudspeth, formerly of Jasper county. To the second interrogatory, witness states that he heard said Marshall say that he was willing the survey should be made; witness says that, on his way to the council, he stopped at Mr. Rooker’s, on Flint river, where he met said Marshall, and they breakfasted together. In company with Marshall were Mr. Prosser, of Baldwin county, and a Mr. Edwards, then of the Creek nation. Marshall informed witness that he had been to pilot Mr. Prosser to the residence of General McIntosh, who was the bearer of an express from the Governor to McIntosh. Witness states that he asked Marshall if he did not intend to attend the council. Marshall replied that it was out of his power to do so; his business would not admit of it; but that he had authorized Genera) McIntosh to sign an instrument for him giving his consent to the survey; that he was perfectly willing it should be done. This conversation was a few days before the council alluded to, and about the 7th or 8th of April last. To the third interrogatory, he says that he has had some conversation with General Gaines upon the subject of a certificate signed by Joseph Marshall and William Edwards. Some time about the last of the past month, (precise day not recollected,) General Gaines stated, in the presence of witness, that he did not believe that there had been a council held for the purpose of giving consent to the survey; that it was sufficiently proven by the certificate of Joseph Marshall and a Mr. Edwards, a very respectable man, that there had been no such council. Witness then stated to General Gaines that there was such a council; that he. (the witness) was present at it. The witness states that he then informed the general of, the statements made to him (the witness) by Joseph Marshall, hereinbefore detailed. Witness says that he will not be positive, but believes that he did hand such a newspaper to General Gaines. To the fourth interrogatory, he says that he then informed General Gaines that he would not make use of the name of Edwards as a respectable man; that he believed Edwards was one of the very lowest class of mankind! General Gaines then asked the witness what he knew of Mr. Edwards. Witness informed General Gaines that he knew that Edwards had left Georgia, and had gone into the Indian nation, to avoid paying his just debts. The general then inquired of witness, to whom Edwards was indebted; he was informed by witness that Edwards was indebted to him (witness.) Witness says that he has known this Mr. Edwards for about five years, and can safely say that he does not believe him entitled to credit. To the fifth interrogatory, witness states that he has been examined by Major Andrews upon the subjects alluded to. Witness says that he did state to Major Andrews that, as to the negotiations concerning the treaty at the Indian Springs, he knew nothing of his own knowledge. Witness states that he did inform Major Andrews, and so stated in his testimony, that McIntosh declined to come ont upon the subject of a treaty, at Broken Arrow, and gave as a reason that stated in the interrogatory. The witness states that that statement had reference to the Tuckaubatchee and Polecat law exclusively; but from the hasty manner in which the testimony of witness was then taken, lie dfi pot give that explanation that he wished to have done. Witness now states, in explanation of that matter, that when General McIntosh made the statement about the law before referred to, he stated distinctly that it was the Tuckaubatchee and Polecat Spring proceedings he al- 107 E luded to; that it was not a law authorized by the nation; and illustrated his view of it by marking off on the ground the shape of a handkerchief, and dividing itlinto four equal squares or parts, and said thatthe Tuckaubatchee and Polecat law was like that—that is, for one square to make laws for all the others. Witness states further, that General McIntosh then said, that, notwithstanding it was not the general law of the nation, there were a number of Indians who were afraid some of the others would try to put it in force if they signed a treaty; that General McIntosh also stated that he believed there were then a majority in favor of a treaty, but were afraid to let it be known on account of what they called the Polecat law. Witness states that in the month of November last, previous to the meeting at Broken Arrow, General McIntosh came to this place, (Indian Springs,) when and where he, the witness, exhibited to General McIntosh a newspaper containing the proceedings at Polecat and Tuckaubatchee: the general said at that time, which was the first he saw of it, that Polecat and Tuckaubatchee had no right to make a law for all the nation; that all laws to govern the nation must be made by a full council of the nation. Witness then asked General McIntosh if he did not believe, it would prevent a treaty; to which the general replied that he did not, for it cnuld not be considered a law by any others than those of Polecat and Tuckaubatchee. After witness arrived at Broken Arrow, in December last, to attend the contemplated treaty, General McIntosh informed him that the Indians were mnre afraid of the Polecat law than he had expected. Witness states that General McIntosh uniformly denied the existence of such a national law; that the Polecat law had been made by a party who had no voice in the sale of the land, and that he believed that the party entitled to sell were all willing, but weré still afraid of the Polecat law. To the sixth interrogatory, he says that he does not recollect of having been distinctly interrogated by General Gaines, though he referred witness several times to previous conversations. To the seventh interrogatory, he says that both General Gaines and Major Andrews expressed his surprise at not testifying as they expected. They seemed satisfied with the testimony of witness until he was interrogated concerning the transactions about the treaty at this place, about which witness informed them that he knew nothing particular. It was then that they expressed their surprise, and inquired of witness why he had not kept up an intercourse concerning the treaty with the commissioners, as he seemed to have had something to do with them at Broken Arrow. He informed them that, in consequence of his engagements, he being then the proprietor and keeper of a tavern at this place, he was crowded with company, and could take no part in assisting to make the treaty. To the last interrogatory, the witness says, that what may have been said to him upon that subject can be of no importance to the parties in issue. Mr. Bailey, in conclusion, is desirons to state that, so far as respects his testimony given to Major Andrews which was calculated to affect the United States commissioners, his answers were given to direct interrogatories only; that he could have given, if interrogated to the points, such answers as would, in his opinion, fully justify the course pursued by the United States commissioners at Broken Arrow. JOEL BAILEY. Examined, sworn to, and subscribed before us, this 16th day of August, 1825. W. H. TORRANCE, WM. W. WILLIAMSON, Test:	HUGH W. ECTOR.	Georgia Commissioners. APPENDIX TO NO. 3. EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, November 21, 1825. I transmit to the Legislature certain testimony recently taken by the commissioners on the part of the State, additional to that furnished at the opening of the session, and connected with various subjects of the message of the 8th instant. G. M. TROUP. Affidavit of Reverend I. L. Brooks. GEORGIA, Baldwin County: Personally appeared before us the Reverend Iveson L. Brooks, who, being duly sworn, saith: That while at the Indian Springs, in the State of Georgia, in the month of July past, on Tuesday, the 19th day of the month, he was introduced to General E. P. Gaines by Major Joel Bailey, who keeps the public tavern at that place. After the introduction, this deponent and General Gaines entered into conversation about the Indians, the treaty, and other matters connected with them, in the public room, near the outer door; several persons were present, principally white men, and a few Indians of the friendly or McIntosh party. In that conversation, General Gaines stated, in speaking of the possessions of the United States beyond the Mississippi, that the General Government possessed no lands in that quarter free from the incumbrance of Indian titles or the occupancy of white settlers, who could not be removed without entering into formal treaties. He further said irwas the most heels-over-head piece of business in the General Government that perhaps had ever occurred in the conduct of wise men to engage by treaty with the Indians to exchange with them territory when they had none to exchange. In speaking about the treaty, he stated that in regard to the treaty he thought he had sufficient evidence in his possession tn convince him that the commencement and whole progress of it was founded in the deepest fraud and treachery, and that every individual concerned in it was damned—he paused a while, and then said—politically damned. In conversing further about the treaty and the land, after making some remarks not particularly recollected, he turned to the Indians who were present, and said, “ I tell those Indians the white people will cheat them out of their lands, get all their money, and then kick them to hell.” In speaking about Crowell, he stated that he believed him a pure and upright man; that he had done no more than his duty; and the only thing he blamed him for was signing the treaty as a witness, and that he (General Gaines) would rather have lost his right arm than have done it. Talking of the Indians, he said they were disposed to be reconciled and return to the nation, except Chilly McIntosh and the small party attached to him; that he did not care whether he did or not; that he was no chief, and had a plenty of property to live either among the Indians or whites. He further said that the people of Georgia were a reflecting people; that they were under the influence of intriguing politicians; and that he had no doubt they would ultimately approve his conduct. This deponent further saith, that the conversation was a long one, and, during its continuance, General Gaines [was] occasionally hiefhly excited, and spoke with much warmth; so much so, towards the conclusion, as to induce this deponent to break off rather unceremoniously, and turn to Major Bailey to settle his bill. I have endeavored to recollect as [well as] I can the expressions of General Gaines. Though in some cases I may have used different words, I am confident I have retained the sense of them. IVESON L. BROOKS. Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 17th of October, 1825. J. T. CUSHING, J. P. Affidavit of Colonel Michael Watson. GEORGIA, Baldwin County: Personally appeared Michael Watson, a citizen of the county of Houston, who, being duly sworn, saith: That in the month of August last, and he believes on or about the tenth or eleventh day of that month, he was at the Indian Springs, in Monroe county, in said State; that, in a conversation that was held between and among several persons then at the Springs, General Edmund P. Gaines, of the United States army, being present, the subject of conversation turned upon the late Indian treaty and the proposed survey then about to bc'made by the order of his excellency George M. Troup, Governor of the State of Georgia: he (General Gaines) stated in public company that if Governor Troup made the survey, or attempted it, he would be tried for treason and hung; that General Gaines also stated that Governor Troup and his friends were intriguing demagogues; that in the same conversation General Gaines manifested and expressed much warmth of hostile feeling towards Governor Troup and his friends. The conversation was boisterous in some respects, and it excited much warmth of feeling in the spectators and those concerned; that the whole of General Gaines’s conversation and observations were directed against the constituted authorities of Georgia, and the supporters of her administration. ’	MICHAEL WATSON. Subscribed and sworn to before me, this 10th day of November, 1825. ELI S. SHORTER, J. S. C. Affidavit of C. B. Strong, Esq. GEORGIA, Bibb County: Personally appeared before me Christopher B. Strong, of the State and county aforesaid, who, being duly sworn, saith: On the 11th day of August, in the year 1825, at the Indian Springs, in the county of Monroe, of said State, he heard a conversation commence between General Edmund P. Gaines, of the United States army, and Milton Conper, of Putnam, in which General Gaines appeared to manifest much passion; and, after this, deponent got near enough to hear what was said. He heard the general say “ he is a demagogue; his partisans are demagogues, unprincipled demagogues; he is guilty of treason, and the commissioners have stated wilfully false,” or words to that effect. I was informed by several gentlemen then present that the former epithets were used in relation, and applied to, Governor Troup of Georgia. A severe controversy ensued betwixt the general and myself, which I deem it unnecessary here to detail. This deponent further saith, that, from what passed at that time, he has no doubt but that the first mentioned expressions of reproach were used by General Gaines in direct relation to Governor Troup. CHRISTOPHER B. STRONG. Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 23d day of October, in the year of our Lord Christ 1825. ELI S. SHORTER, Judge of the Superior Court- Affidavit of Major Joel Bailey. GEORGIA, Baldwin County: Personally appeared Joel Bailey, of the county of Monroe, who, being duly sworn, saith: That, some time in the month of July last, he heard General Edmund P. Gaines, of the United States army, state that the United States commissioners, in the late Indian treaty, had promised and undertaken with the Indians (meaning the Creek Indians) more than they could perform or comply with, in agreeing to exchange lands with them west of the Mississippi, for that the United States had no land there; that General Gaines said that he dared Governor Troup to attempt to survey the land lately ceded by the Indians; that he would have an armed force, and arrest every surveyor as fast as they crossed Flint river; that if the Governor of the little demagogue State of Georgia did not inind, he (Gaiues) would get hold of him; and that the people of Georgia were a set of demagogues. JOEL BAILEY. Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 16th day of November, 1825. JOEL FLANIGAN, J. I. C. In and for the County of Newton. PUBLISHED ADDRESSES OF THE DIFFERENT UNITED STATES’ AGENTS. Taken from the Georgia Journal of the 5th of July, 1825. TO THE PUBLIC. The subjoined letter from Major Andrews (United States special agent) is presented to the public to prevent exaggeration and misrepresentation. It speaks for itself. The reasons assigned for my temporary suspension from the office of agent I trust will be duly understood and appreciated. Indeed, the untiring zeal manifested by Governor Troup, in the accomplishment of his purpose, has rarely been equalled, and never surpassed; it stands without a parallel in the annals of persecution. I ask the public and my friends to suspend any opinion in relation to the subject connected with this suspension, until I can have an opportunity of submitting my defence. Far from seeking any advantage from the locality of witnesses in the nation, and from my situation as agent; unwilling to be suspected, even by the most prejudiced, of being capable of using any influence which my official station may be supposed to give me; and anxious to disarm my accuser of the slightest pretext for any insinuation of that character, if I had not received Major Andrews’s letter suspending rne during the time of taking testimony,! should have asked it. I assure my friends and the public that the investigation will result in the establishment of my innocence of the charges preferred against me by Governor Troup; for, having every confidence in the justice of the Government of my country, and its officers appointed to conduct this investigation, and being conscious of the correct intentions by which my official conduct has been influenced, although I may be for tr season subjected to the inquisitorial proceedings of the Governor and Legislature of Georgia, and may be compelled, in consequence thereof, to bear the popular odium, yet I feel persuaded that in the enlightened judgment of my countrymen I may safely rely, and from its award I can have nothing to apprehend. I am, respectfully, CREEK AGENCY, June 22.	JOHN CROWELL. glu.	CREEK AGENCY, FLINT RIVER, June 21, 1825. You have been advised of the measures heretofore pursued by the President of the United States and of the Secretary of War, in relation to the charges, specific and implied, made against you as Indian agent. I have now to inform you that a suspension from the exercise of your functions as Indian agent, until the testimony to be collected in the Indian nation has been obtained and examined, has been decide.d on. I herewith send you a copy of the evidence collected by a committee of the Georgia Legislature, and their report as adopted by the Legislature. Copies of other documents, promised me by the Governor of Georgia, shall be furnished you as soon as those documents are received. You will accordingly turn over the agency to the sub-agent, Captain Triplett. In resorting to the discretionary power vested in me by the President, I feel it due to you to state frankly that this determination does not proceed from any present impression unfavorable to your innocence. I am not at liberty, in my present peculiar situation, to form a settled opinion on the charges made against you, until all the evidence to be collected from every quarter has been received and carefully examined; but I feel it due to you to say that, so far as I am at liberty to take up a present impression, it is in favor of your integrity and honor. I feel it due to you to make this statement, in consequence of the course (which must be considered an unjust one, if not oppressive,) pursued towards you by the authorities of Georgia; my impression, too, being chiefly grounded on the ex parte testimony taken against you. Your suspension is made from courtesy to the authorities of Georgia, who have repeatedly and urgently demanded it, on the ground that it would be impossible to elicit unbiassed testimony in the Indian nation whilst you are in the exercise of your functions. It is done from a desire to do away all pretexts which might otherwise hereafter be seized on to destroy confidence in the results of the examinations. The suspension will be withdrawn so soon ' as those examinations are concluded, should they result in establishing your innocence. As the object of the General Government, in this examination, is the establishment of truth, it could not but give me pain, as its agent, to find that, in taking testimony against you, all the usual prerogatives were lost sight of by Georgia. You were neither “ informed of the nature or the cause of the accusation, nor confronted with witnesses” against you, nor had you “ compulsory process for obtaining witnesses” in your favor. The evidence on which the harshest opinions have been formed and expressed was not only exporte, but it has been spread before the public in the newspapers before you had been informed of its character, or had an opportunity of making your defence; and public opinion thereby forestalled before the General Government, under which you hold your appointment, has had an opportunity of examining thé testimony of either party. The course you have determined to pursue, as made known to me in the copy of your letter of the 20th to the commissioners appointed by the Governor of Georgia, to take further evidence against you, in inviting them to be present at the examination of your voluntary witnesses, is of an opposite character, and cannot fail to strengthen the belief of your conscious innocence. It is scarcely necessary to add, that, in the exalted character of the President of the United States, and of the Secretary of War, you have the surest guaranty of a fair trial, and a just decision on it. Very respectfully, sir, your most obedient servant, T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. Colonel JOHN CROWELL. Taken from the Southern Recorder of the 9th of August, 1825. To THE PUBLIC.—It will be recollected that, at the commencement of the investigation against me, of the charges preferred by his excellency Governor Troup, I assured my friends and the public that it would result in the establishment of my entire innocence. The examination has now closed, and the opinion of the special agent, (Major Andrews,) contained in his letter to me of the 1st August instant, is given to the public; by which it will be perceived my suspension is withdrawn, and my innocence established. This opinion of my innocence is subject to révisai by the supreme executive authority of the Union: before that ulterior decision, it would be obviously improper to publish my defence, or a summary of the evidence upon which it is founded; but after it is officially announced, that impropriety will no longer exist; then I hope to be able to do so, whereby I trust I shall succeed in removing every doubt from the minds of the most skeptical, and silence every scruple of the most casuistical portion of the community. The public will then be able to form a just judgment between my accuser and myself. Until that period arrives, he can continue the course he has pursued throughout the investigation, in publishing what he pleases, whether in the shape of evidence collected exporte, or in the shape of reports of commissioners, since 1 feel confident that such publications will be ascribed to their legitimate causes; and since I have too much confidence in the justness of my countrymen to apprehend their effects, when the motives which influence my accuser to such a course are so obviously plain, that 1 he who runs may read’ them. ,	JOHN CROWELL. AUGUST 2, 1825. T. P. Andrews to John Crowell. SIR:	MILLEDGEVILLE, GEORGIA, August I, 1825. I acknowledge the receipt of your defence, accompanied by the testimony collected to rebut the charges preferred against you by his excellency Governor Troup, as well as the testimony taken against you by a committee of the Legislature of Georgia, and that interspersed throughout the volume of documents furnished me by the Governor of Georgia. After a diligent examination of all the testimony taken on both sides during the investigation, and coming before me, I feel it incumbent on me to say that I consider you, in reference to the charges made against you, not only an innocent, but a much injured man. This result is the more honorable to you, as you have only had it in your power to avail yourself of voluntary testimony. I shall make this report to the Secretary of War, to whom you will look for the decision of the President, which will confirm or reverse this opinion. In the mean time, you will consider your suspension withdrawn. With respect, sir, your obedient servant, T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. To Colonel JOHN CROWELL, Indian Agent, fyc. The following letter from Edmund Pendleton Gaines, major general commanding, is taken from the columns of the Georgia Journal, of the 2'id of August, 1825. HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, SIR:	INDIAN SPRINGS, August 16, 1825. I have received your excellency’s letter of the 6th, postmarked “ Milledgeville, 8th of August,” acknowledging tho publication of a letter from me, the original of which, you say, you had not received. To this 1 have only to say, it was furwarded in due time. It is, doubtless, known to you that yours of the 17th of July was published, as it is presumed, by your authority, in a newspaper before I replied to.it; you could not, therefore, feel much “ surprise” at the publication of my reply. 1 had seen, with regret, that for a United States officer to write to you was, in fact, to write for the newspapers; and that to differ from you in opinion was to be denounced as an offender. Since this was apparent to me, (that is, since the receipt of yours of the 17th of July,) I have been well aware of the tax which our little differences of opinion would impuse upon me—a tax which conscious innocence suffers under the groundless imputation of guilt. I was not, therefore, much surprised at the gross misrepresentations of your dedimus potestatem commissioners, nor at the concluding paragraph of yours of the 6th, wherein you say “ I have lost no lime to direct you to forbear further intercourse with this Government.” These expressions, like others contained in some of your previous letters, (but of which 1 took no notice,) wherein you speak of my using the militia against Georgia, <fcc., appear to evince a very high degree of that prejudice and inflated pride of office which might well be expected to prompt some little European despot “ to feel power and forget right.” Were you some little German prince, for example, (the most self-important and overbearing of all the crowned tribe,) and I a Turk, it would, in that case, excite no surprise that the little German prince should address the Turk as you have more than once addressed me; and, after freely indulging in words of “ learned length and thundering sound,” conclude with the expressions above quoted, viz: “ 1 have lost no time to direct you to forbear further intercourse with this Government."But I am not a Turk, nor are you a prince; I am a plain native of Virginia, and an adopted citizen of Tennessee; I am an officer of the United States, of which Georgia is an honored and an honorable member. My lawful public duties have called me into this State, where, yielding due homage to her laws, and those of the United States, I find myself possessed of ample privileges, which depend not upon tho whim or caprice of any individual— no, not even the Governor, with whose correspondence I confess to you, sir, I have not been so much delighted or instructed as individually to wish for its continuance. But, however unprofitable your correspondence may be to me individually, yet the respect due to the office you fill will not permit me to yield to the non-intercourse which yon have, without authority, presumed to “ direct.” On the contrary, sir, I have the right as a citizen, and the additional right as a public functionary, to address you; and should my official duties require that I should, at any time, address the Executive of this State personally, or by letter, I shall not fail to do that duty with the respect due to the office and the State over which you preside. In this State, as in all others of the United States that I have visited, I am gratified to find around me men and patriots, and the descendants of men and patriots, who fought and bled for the independence of our country, and who, in September, 1787, in the first paragraph of a rare and very interesting work, which I would recommend to your attention, united with the patriots of other States in saying, “ We, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general -welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this constitution for the United States of America.” Among such men I cannot feel myself a stranger in a foreign land. Many of these men, I am assured, will do me the justice to believe that the United States soldier, whose respectful communications of June and July last you answered with official arrogance, would cheerfully seize upon any proper occasion to throw himself between them and the fire of an invading foe, to save from harm the humblest citizen of the State. My military command has alternately, within a few years past, extended to every State and Territory of (he republic. I have, at different times, been honored with the acquaintance and occasional correspondence of more than twenty of the State and Territorial Governors, from neither of whom, except yourself and one other, have I ever received any expression other than the most dignified, amicable, and polite kind. I have addressed one and all of them, and you, in the same heart-felt terms of that respect which naturally flows from an habitual devotion to the beloved institutions of our common country, no feature of which is, in my estimation, so valuable as that which secures the just rights and privileges of the States—rights and privileges defined by the constitution and known laws, aod not such as depend upon the prejudice and passion of a few individuals—rights and privileges, to promote which is to promote the interest and honor of the Union. With these impressions I have approached the State authorities, not as foreign princes, but as brethren of one great political family, whose fair fame has already attracted the admiration of every civilized country, and whose example has led to the establishment of liberty in South America, and promises to aid in its final extension and permanent establishment throughout every portion of the world. Such institutions should not be sported with. A public officer, resolved to act the part of a bold man when he lias lost the character of a wise one, may sometimes, perhaps, innocently amuse himself in attempts to pass off'the turbulence of his thundering words for force, and the frenzy of his party zeal for fire; but when he thus writes himself into a great passion about nothing, and when he permits himself to utter threats in the face of such institutions, and gravely appeals to his commanders and “ co-workers,” and says unto them, “ having exhausted the argument, we will stand by our arms,” we (the people) involuntarily call to mind the ludicrous idea of licentiousness personified in the act of “ tweaking justice by the nose, and the babe beating the nurse;” and it becomes a grave question to determine whether to smile or be serious at such eccentricities. Wishing your excellency health and respect, I have the honor to be, EDMUND PENDLETON GAINES, Major General Commanding. Taken from the “ Georgia Patriot," of the 80th August, 1S25. HEAD-QUARTERS, EASTERN DEPARTMENT, SIR:	MILLEDGEVILLE, August 29, 1825. I have received your communication through Air. Secretary Pierce, with two papers purporting to be copies of letters from your excellency to the President of the United States, bearing date the 26th of July and 6th of August, wherein it appears you are pleased to write at me and of me, notwithstanding your avowed resolution not to write to me. To this wise expedient to preserve the immense weight of dignity under which your excellency labors, I can have no objection. I take this occasion, before noticing your assumed “ facts and arguments,” to assure you tha I have no authority whatever from the President of the United States or Department of War to write or speak to you upon any other than public and official subjects, such as I have, with perfect frankness and cordiality, communicated to you previous to the receipt of your letter of the 17lh July. In that letter, you will recollect, you so far lost sight of your own proper sphere of actiun, as to attempt to give me what you term “ a gentle, rebuke." You thus, then, laid aside the wonted high themes of your brilliant pen—the Federal Government, the Federal Judiciary, State rights, Yazoo claims, fyc. fyc.; and leaving all these great matters to stand or move in the separate and distinct orbits in which the federal and State constitutions and laws have wisely placed them, you have “ descended,” rather hastily, as it would seem, to unauthorized personal animadversion and “ rebuke,” touching certain official duties confided to me.	, In repelling the personal censure and menace contained in what you have termed your “ mild rebuke,” I have acted on my own individual responsibility, without any authority save that which is implanted in the breast of every upright man, civilized and savage; which is known to the virtuous and wise as the “ first law of nature;” a law which authorizes the free use of the bayonet against the highway robber of money, whose weapon is of a deadly hue, and the free use of the pen against the official robber of reputation, whose known weapon is the pen. I have no money, and but little property of any kind that would command money, and, therefore, have no occasion to guard against the highway robber. The little store of wealth of which I am master consists of an untarnished reputation, with some testimonials of applause generously and spontaneously bestowed on me by the National and some of the State Legislatures, of which Georgia is one; and by which she and they have secured my lasting gratitude, and strengthened the ties of friendly feeling and brotherly union between us. This little store is valued highly by me; it is my own—my all. It" will be held in trust by me for my children and my country; and it is, therefore, my right and bounden duty to preserve and defend it! It would be criminal in me to neglect it! No earthly law can impair the higher law of self-defence and self-preservation. My letters of the 14th, 16th, and 22d June, and those of the 1st and 10th of July, have convinced my friends (whose good opinion I value most highly) of my uniform and earnest desire to abstain from collision with you. And, in my answer to yours of the 17tli July, it is known that your suggestion of the haste in which you wrote induced me to decline a reply for a week, and until your letter made its appearance (as usual) in a newspaper, doubtless by your permission. If, in mine of the 28th July, of which you complain to the President, or in my last of the 16th of this month, it should appear that nature, or a defective education, should have implanted in me a little spice of that knight errantry for which your excellency is so much renowned, and that I should thereby have been tempted to break a lance with you in something like your own proper style, I cannot but hope that my fault in this case, in following your example, and quoting your own expressions, (the only fault with which I can possibly be charged,) will be pardoned by the President and the people of the United States, of whose wisdom and justice and magnanimity I have had the most undoubted proofs. To your excellency I have no apology to offer. I purpose, however, that, in uur future correspondence, after disposing of your futile charges against me, you and 1 may confine ourselves to our public and official duties. When these are accomplished, I hereby promise, should you desire it, to correspond with you “unofficially," until “we shall have exhausted the argument;” and then we will stand by our——goose quills, and talk of “valor"—about which you have written to the President. In the interim, since you appear to be fond of quotations from the poets upon the subject of “valor," I will here give you one for your particular consideration and benefit: “ The brave vent not their prowess in a storm of words, “ They let actions speak for them.” In your letter of the 26th July, recommending to the notice of the President the report of your commissioners, you remark that the report “may indeed be said to carry with it its own commentary;” aind yet you have taken care to furnish it with an elaborate commentary! It has gone forth doubly armed—with its own and your commentary. Thus armed and shielded at all points, it remains for me to approach and try its boasted strength. In this necessary measure of self-defence, I shall proceed upon the principle indicated in the following quotation: “ Out of thine own mouth will I convict thee."From your “documentary evidence,” and from the report of your commissioners, it is my purpose to prove, 1st. That your attempt to associate your commissioners with me was a usurpation as unwarrantable as it was indecorous. 2d. That their report is tainted with misrepresentation and perfidy. 3d. That the real object of your commissioners was to thwart my efforts to restore peace among the Indians, notwithstanding their professed desire to co-operate with me in the development of truth, and the restoration of peace and harmony. If I do not in my next letter establish these three points, then will I agree to submit it to the denunciation of your excellency, and the whole tribe of your servile newspaper slanderers, during the remaining period of my life. I have the honor to be, EDMUND PENDLETON GAINES, To His Excellency GOVERNOR TROUP.	Major General Commanding. Taken from the Georgia Patriot of the 13th September, 1825. MILLEDGEVILLE, September 12, 1825. The editor of the “ Patriot” is respectfully requested to suspend, for the present, the publication of my letter of the 6th instant, promised in mine of the 29th August, to his excellency Governor Troup. I have been charged with having attempted to break the late treaty, and of having connected myself with a political party of this State. I take this occasion to pronounce these charges to be wholly destitute of truth. I have frankly and candidly answered every civil question asked me by men of all parties in reference to the treaty. I have exerted myself 1 to convince the principal chiefs of the nation opposed to the treaty of the expediency of acquiescing in it. I have, indeed, cordially accepted the civilities of many much-respected citizens of Georgia, without knowing, or making any effort to know, to what parties they belonged; and I have since ascertained that they belonged to different parties. I had no knowledge of the political views of Mr. Varner at the time I replied to" his inquiry respecting the “emigrating party.” I have never deemed it proper to insult a citizen of any State, or any party, in consequence of his being civil to me. I have never, to my knowledge, endeavored to influence the vote or the political opinion of any man in the State of Georgia, in regard to the ensuing election. And, although I am not aware that my letter of the 6th will produce this effect, as it tends to expose the conduct of some men of both parties, who have advocated a violation of the eighth article of the treaty, yet, as I have been charged, however falsely, with an attempt to meddle with the political affairs of the State, with a view to the ensuing election, I have determined to suspend the publication of my promised exposition until after the election. Respectfully, EDMUND PENDLETON GAINES, Major General Commanding. Reply of Major T. P. Andrews to the reports of the Georgia Commissioners. Taken from the National Intelligencer of September 22, 1825. GENTLEMEN:	WASHINGTON, September 17, 1825. The reports of the Georgia commissioners, which contain numerous calumnies against me as an officer of the Government and as a gentleman, were some time since published in your paper. I was, at the time, confined to my bed with a severe fever, or should otherwise have asked you to publish an original reply to those reports in the Intelligencer. They have lately been published in the National Journal, and replied to through that paper. I send you a copy of the reply, and would thank you to give it the same circulation through your paper which was given to the aspersions which gave rise to it. Verv respectfully, vour most obedient servant, T. P. ANDREWS. To Messrs. GALES & SEATON, Editors of the National Intelligencer! From the National Journal. SIR:	SEPTEMBER 19, 1825. I observe in your paper of the 6th instant the three reports “ of the commissioners who represented Georgia at the late conference with the Creek Indians.” These reports were published some time last month in the National Intelligencer: I was then confined to bed with a bilious fever, and unable to answer them. They relate chiefly to matters of a public nature, on most of which I too have made reports; not based, however, on the same kind of foundation: mine are sustained by evidence, which, I trust, will be considered as full and satisfactory on every point on which it touches. Those of the Georgia commissioners appear to rest solely on their veracity or assertions, which, unfortunately, (where those gentlemen are personally best known) is not a matter of boastfulness among their neighbors. The reports verify the prediction which 1 made in a letter to his excellency the Governor of Georgia, that “ the pursuit by the authorities of Georgia was to be transferred from the Indian to the special agent of the Government.” It is not my intention to enter into a discussion of any public matters referred to in the documents in question. Indeed, having handed in my reports, I am not at liberty to allude fully or particularly to them, until they have been made public by the Government. But the commissioners of Georgia, having thought proper to asperse my character as a man, by impugning my impartiality or fairness as an agent, I feel called on to answer so much of their reports (which have been industriously circulated through the newspapers) as relates to me personally. It was not my wish to have a controversy with those gentlemen, but as they have made an attack oo me, which was uncalled fur, and unwarranted by truth or fairness, they shall not find me backward in repelling their aspersions. In doing so, it may become my duty to show that, if they are ever moved by the workings of conscience, they must hereafter, in their moments of reflection, look to the reports which I am about to notice, as the record of their own misconduct. My reply will, from its nature, (like most, if not all personal publications,) be of a harsh character; but that harshness will be found in the matter of fact it contains, and not in its language. I will first, acting on the defensive, notice the aspersions of the commissioners in the order they present themselves in their reports; I will then essay to put the commissioners themselves to the wall, that they may have a fair opportunity of showing their dexterity in getting from it. Their first insinuation is contained in the first part of the second paragraph of the first report, as follows: “From the anxiety of the special agent (Major Andrews) to satisfy the mind of the Little Prince as to the suspension of the agent, (Colonel Crowell,) we felt anxious forebodings that we need not expect to find in him a man who sought only to extend impartial justice to the accused.” The explanation of this aspersion will be found in the following brief statement: General Gaines held a preparatory “ talk” with the head chief of the Creek nation—I think, the day before he met the nation in council. I requested the general, in that interview, to make known to the Little Prince the fact of the agent’s suspension, and to explain the causes which produced it. This was, of course, necessary from a regard to the general interests of the Government, for the information of the Indian nation, and in justice to the Indian [agent] and his accusers. The commissioners have not had the effrontery to assert that any thing was stated to the Little Prince which was not strictly true and correct; they merely complain of my anxiety “to satisfy the mind of the Little Prince as to the suspension of the agent, (Colonel Crowell.”) After this explanation, I deem comment on this point altogether unnecessary. In the latter part of the same paragraph, the commissioners insinuate that I improperly withheld my opinion, when appealed to by the Rev. Mr. Compere and the commissioners, as to the absolute necessity of his making oath to the evidence which the commissioners had demanded of him. 1 was not the keeper of the Rev. Mr. Compere’s conscience, or of that of any other clergymanor gentleman; and having never made theology a profession, I did nut consider myself capable of arguing a learned divine out of a religious scruple or prejudice. If the commissioners intend to complain that I would not use force to compel that reverend gentleman to do what his conscience dictated to him he ought not to do, they should recollect that, so far from possessing that power myself, it was not in the Government even which had delegated to me all the little authority I possessed as its agent. This complaint is so futile, that I can see but one thing proved in it by the commissioners, which is, that they had no just accusations to make, against me, and were, therefore, compelled to resort to such charges as that now referred to. The official correspondence between the commissioners and myself (copies of which are annexed) will throw further light on this charge against me, as well as others. The commissioners can best tell why this correspondence was withheld from publication, in giving these reports publicity. In the fifth paragraph of the same report, other insinuations are mysteriously made as to an alleged suggestion of mine to General Gaines, that the interrogatories of the commissioners to the Indians should be submitted for my examination, before they were put to the Indians. These insinuations are perversions of truth. General Gaines can bear witness that I never made such a suggestion to him. I did suggest that all interrogatories put to the Indians, whether by the commissioners or myself, ought to be in writing, that, through their clerks, they might have an opportunity of giving their answers in writing; and, in that way, both the interrogatories and answers might be placed on record, and beyond the possibility of misapprehension and mirepresentation. The misrepresentations and distortions of facts which have been since committed by the commissioners show the propriety, and indeed necessity, of that suggestion. In the sixth paragraph of the same report, they, for the second time, mysteriously allude to my being found at the house of the missionary, (the Rev. Mr. Smith.) This offending on my part (being found in the house of a clergyman) will be fully explained when I state a fact, well known to the commissioners—that I lodged and boarded there; and that the room they say I was in was that which I used for my bedroom, office, and parlor. They assert that the attorney of Colonel Crowell was in the room with mo when they entered the house. This may be the fact, although my present impression is, that it was the Rev. Mr. Compere who had paid me a visit. That the door of the room was closed, as they assert, I think is quite probable, if not certain; because that door opened into a general family parlor, in constant use, and because the room I was in was occupied, as I have stated, as my bed chamber as well as office. That I was frequently in conversation with the attorney of Colonel Crowell, is also quite certain; because I was necessarily compelled to have a constant intercourse with him on the business which carried us both to the nation. They might have added, with truth, that I was frequently in conversation with the a^ent himself. I offer these mysterious allusions of the commissioners to circumstances which they knew to be absolutely necessary, and of a perfectly negative and innocent character, as an additional evidence that they had it not in their power to make a just allegation against me. In the fourth paragraph of the third report, (that of Colonels Jourdan and Williamson,) they refer to my letter to Colonel Crowell, suspending him from the exercise of his functions, as evidence of the agent’s case having been prejudged. As the commissioners are courteous enough on this occasion to admit that letter to be good evidence on any point, I will reciprocate that courtesy by an acknowledgment that that letter does furnish evidence of the agent’s case having been prejudged. There is, however, a material difference of opinion between the commissioners and myself as to the authorities by which that prejudgment was committed. I have thus gone through the tangible charges made against me by the commissioners of Georgia, who, I presume, have preferred them, having none of a more manly character to offer. 1 shall now make some statements, from which, if they are credited, it may be inferred that, if these charges had been true, they ought not to be credited on the assertions of those gentlemen where they are not known, and they will not be credited on their assertions wherever they are personally known to the public. The commission appointed to aid General Gaines, and to take all the trouble and all my little labor off my hands, consisted of the following gentlemen, whom I shall take the liberty of presenting to the public in a proper manner, viz. Colonels Seaborn Jones, Warren Jourdan, William H. Torrance, and William W. Williamson, commissioners; Captain J. S. Thomas and Captain William Bowen, as “marshals;” and Mr. Kenan, the clerk of the commission. Colonel Seaborn Jones, who is the aid-de-camp of his excellency the Governor of Georgia, is already known to the public as the gentleman who gave a certificate of certain remarks alleged to have been made by Mr. Wirt, which remarks, however, appear (unfortunately for the veracity of the colonel) never to have been uttered. He is considered as a general “certificate man,” who, in the absence of other testimony, will always be ready to give his eertificate, or make a report, whenever the interests of the political party to which he is attached are in jeopardy. This gentleman has been publicly accused with sundry acts which are not calculated to establish for him a high character for veracity or honor. He has been accused of having purchased, in a private improper manner, certain personal property of a man in distress, which was liable to executions held by himself as an attorney, and in that way appropriating to himself property which should have been held to the uses of his clients. He has been convicted of having taken a double fee in the same interest in dispute—one of each party. He has been accused of obtaining the control of an execution on false pretences, and attempting knowingly to recover a debt twice for his own use. He has been charged with all this “professional treachery” by a fellow member of the bar, a gentleman of property and high standing, and has never vindicated his character in a proper manner from it. The belief in its truth at his home (Milledgeville) is so great, that he was rejected by the people as a candidate for the Legislature. Colonel William W. Williamson stands convicted, (in the evidence which accompanies my report to the Government,).by the testimony of numerous witnesses, of being an active instrument in the hands of the commissioners who made the late treaty, in attempting to bribe various persons to betray their duty and honor. He is shown to have offered a bribe of eight thousand dollars to the United States’ interpreter, whose character he has since endeavored to destroy, to prevent an exposure of his own corruption. He is shown by the evidence to have been paid a thousand dollars for his services, and to have received twenty-five or thirty thousand dollars of the United States’ funds, placed in the hands of the commissioners who made the treaty, and to have been engaged with that money ever since in speculating in negroes, as a common negro trader. Such is the opinion of this man’s character where he resided and was best known, that the grand jury of Twigg’s county superior court, in March term, 1822, discredited his affidavit, and pronounced the bill which he attempted to sustain by that affidavit “No bill;” a malicious prosecution. I subjoin the affidavits of John Winslett, Lemuel B. Nichols, and J. H. Campbell, to show the character, habits, and temper of this one of the commissioners. Colonel W. H. Torrance. This gentleman has been convicted within about a year, by a sentence of the court of the place in which he resides, (Milledgeville,) of a disgraceful slander, and a considerable fine imposed by the sentence of the court, as a punishment.	. Colonel Warren Jourdan. This gentleman has been accused before the public of having screened a notorious smuggler, who had been engaged during the late war in smuggling a large quantity of blankets into Georgia from Amelia Island. The accusation, which was made by his neighbor, a man of high standing in society, has never been repelled; and was so far sustained by his fellow-citizens as to cause him to be rejected as a candidate for the Legislature. 1 regret that the attack of this gentleman on myself has compelled me, in showing his want of character and credit, to allude to a circumstance, the mention of which, I understand, gives him as much uneasiness as did the mention to Sancho Panza of his blanketing at the tavern. Captains Bowen and Thomas, the two marshals, are already known to the public. By reference to the report of Mr. Wirt (made in 1822) to the President of the United States, in the case of General D. B. Mitchell, the former Indian agent for the Creek nation, (who was convicted of having smuggled between one and two hundred African negroes into the Indian nation from Amelia Island,) it will be seen that these two gentlemen, who were his deputies in office, were the instruments of General Mitchell in introducing these negroes into the nation. It will be there seen that Captains Bowen and Thomas were the persons by whom the negroes were obtained and carried into the Indian nation. General Mitchell was dismissed on that report from office, and Captains Bowen and Thomas compelled to leave the nation. Captain Thomas is now living, or connected in business, with General Mitchell, to whom he is related; and Captain Bowen has been shown, bv the exposure of the assistant Indian agent, (Captain Triplett,) to have been of late engaged in efforts to counteract the measures of General Gaines in the Creek nation. It was Bowen who wrote the correspondence signed in the name of General McIntosh to the Governor of Georgia, relating to permission to make a survey of the lands acquired by the late treaty. Mr. Kenan, the secretary of the board of commissioners, so far as I observed or learned any thing of his character or conduct, is a young gentleman of capacity and merit, who, at the same time that lie. discharged his duty to the board and to the State of Georgia, conducted himself as a gentleman towards all those who had occasion to have any intercourse with him. I have thus attempted to show, in taking a view of their individual characters, the degree of credibility which should be accorded to the commissioners of Georgia, who have attempted, on the weight of their assertions or veracity alone, to defame the characters of General Gaines, the reverend gentlemen residing as missionaries in the Indian nation, and myself. I shall next allude to certain private acts of those gentlemen, to show their character and conduct as a board of public officers. Whilst the commissioners were in the Indian nation, it was made known to the acting agent, Captain Triplett, that a quantity of whiskey had been clandestinely introduced (through the woods, and at night) into a back building, in the rear of the houses of Princeton, near the Indian council. As the sale or distribution of liquors is always prohibited in the neighborhood of an Indian council in session, the acting agent had the whiskey thrown out of the vessel which contained it. Whilst the agent was present superintending those ordered to perform this duty, the slave servant of Colonel Jones, one of the commissioners, presented himself, and contended that it ought not to be thrown out, as it was the property of his master or the commissioners. Captain Triplett informed the servant, that if his master or either of the commissioners would say so, the same quantity of liquor would be procured immediately and restored, whatever he might think of the transaction. Colonel Jones did accordingly acknowledge that he owned it, and the restoration took place immediately. At the same time, General Gaines was informed by' the Indians and others that Captain Bowen had visited their camps; had jeered them with the fact of General Gaines’s not having given them any liquor; and informed them, if they would go to the lodgings of the commissioners, they should have as much as they wanted. The commissioners could not have wanted the whiskey for their own use, for they, or any other persons except the Indians, could have procured, at the house they boarded, what liquors they wanted for their own tables. The presumption in the nation was, that the whiskey was introduced to produce confusion among the Indians, through the agency of Captain Bowen. The conduct of the commissioners towards the reverend gentlemen residing in the nation as missionaries was of the most extraordinary character. The first question put to one of those gentlemen, (Mr. Compere, of the Baptist mission,) a gentleman of the most pious and exemplary character, was, whether he was present with the party who killed McIntosh. Towards another, (Mr. Smith, of the Methodist mission,) they acted, if possible, in a still more shameful manner. After giving him certain interrogatories to answer, one of the commissioners (Colonel Jourdan) declared, before they had received his answers, that they would not believe one word he might state, even on oath. This was known to Mr. Smith before he answered the interrogatories. The missionaries had had, a year or two ago, as they thought, cause of complaint against the Indian agent, because he would not compel or induce the Indians to attend preaching; but, at the same time, they accorded him the justice in stating that he had done all in his power to forward the interests of the missionary schools in the nation. From that cause, the commissioners appeared to think that the missionary gentlemen were bound to give evidence against the agent on any subject or charge, true or untrue, made against him. And when they discovered the willingness of those gentlemen to bear testimony in his favor, in matters io which they thought or knew him to be innocent, at the same time that they repeated their testimony against him on other points, their rage appeared to carry them beyond all the bounds of justice and discretion. Their deportment towards those reverend gentlemen, in their own house, was such that the amiable females of their families were thrown into grief and confusion. At the house of the Rev. Mr. Smith, the day after I reached the nation, I informed the three clergymen who were present, (Mr. Smith, Mr. Compere, and Mr. Hill,) that I wished to take their testimony, for or against the agent, on the charges made against him. They asked if I required statements or affidavits from them; at the same time that they expressed their willingness to make oath to their evidence, if the Government required it of them as absolutely necessary; they also stated that they wished to avoid taking an oath, if it could be done with propriety. After proper reflection, I informed them, from the knowledge I had gained of their characters, and from a respect to their sacred callings, I should not require an oath from them; but if the Government considered an oath necessary, their evidence could hereafter be returned to them from Washington time enough for them to add their affidavits. This conversation, I think, took place at dinner. Shortly after the commissioners came in, and made known their determination to examine those gentlemen. The Rev. Mr. Compere informed the commissioners of the arrangement which I had made with the missionaries, and asked if a similar one would answer for the commissioners. They ioformed him, with great rudeness, that it would not; and he stated to them, in reply, that, as he could see no necessity for giving them a duplicate of his evidence at all, the Indian agent, who was under trial, being an officer of, and amenable only to, the General Government, he must decline giving it as they demanded it. The other clergymen, as well as I recollect, assented to the correctness of Mr. Compere’s position; and the commissioners, after having made use of some further harsh language towards those gentlemen, retired, declining to take their testimony in the shape proffered. They, however, afterwards applied for and received it, without the. affidavit. It was for declining to interfere in the conversation referred to that the commissioners have charged me with a dereliction of duty; and this forms the “ head and front of the offending” of those reverend gentlemen, who have thus drawn down upon themselves the full measure of wrath now heaped on them. I venture to assert, and leave it to time to test the truth of the assertion, that there are not attached to any church or churches in this country three clergymen of more irreproachable character, or who are more devoted to religion and virtue, than the three gentlemen alluded to. One of them (the Rev. Mr. Smith) was a revolutionary patriot and soldier, but lias been, for the last forty years, a minister of the gospel. 1 understood, in South Carolina, that he had resided from twenty-five to thirty years of his life in one place (Camden) in that State; where he is now venerated for his years, his piety, and his virtues. The people of that State, to whum he is well known, are anxious for his return among them. It was made known to the acting agent for Indian affairs, who informed me of the fact whilst at Broken Arrow, that the commissioners of Georgia had carried with them into the nation a large amount of money—say from four to six thousand dollars. The personal expenses of the commissioners (who all live within sixty miles of the Indian line, aod travelled with their own horses,) could not have been more than twenty or thirty dollars apiece in the nation. For what purpose they carried so much money into the Indian country, they can best explain. If if was intended that Colonel Williamson should make with that money new efforts at bribing the white men in the nation and Indian chiefs, he had bought wit enough by experience, one would suppose, to have informed his colleagues that, although both the white men and Indians were poor, they were proof against bribery. The money was not made use of. On leaving the nation, two of the commissioners, Colonels Jourdan and Williamson, went a considerable distance out of their way home to go by the place at which the McIntosh Indians were stationed, on the Flint river, and in Georgia. One of those gentlemen (Colonel Jourdan) has had the temerity to acknowledge that he was present with one detachment of those Indians, when one of the “ marshals” of the Georgia commission (Captain Bowen) wrote a letter, in the name of the headman of those little detachments, (Joe Marshall,) to Chilly McIntosh, advising or directing him not to meet General Gaines in council with his detachment, according to appointment, at the Flint river. Indeed, although, from respect to their official situations, the commissioners were treated with all the courtesy which their deportment would permit the general to show them, vet he could not but view them as he did, judging from that deportment, and their acts generally, as so many men determined on mischief, by counteracting all his pacific and just measures. The opinions which they have since appeared to express, in favor of having more bloodshed among an unfortunate and distracted race of beings, who have been much and deeply injured, prove the correctness of the general opinions which prevailed in the nation as to their real wishes and intentions. There is one circumstance of a public nature which I shall advert to in this reply, as it lias not been alluded to in my reports to the Government, (no official act or proceeding having grown out of it,) which will tend to show the course of proceeding of the commissioners. It is the case of Kendal Lewis, which the commissioners have attempted to distort to such an extent, that it can scarcely be recognised in their report as the same transaction. The commissioners had complained to General Gaines that they wished to take the testimony of Lewis, who is a tavern or stand keeper in the nation, and who was, as they stated, not willing to give testimony. General Gaines immediately issued an order or request that Lewis should attend to be examined by the commissioners. He forthwith presented himself. The commissioners were furnished with every thing necessary for themselves and secretary in writing down the testimony. But the acting commissioner on this occasion (Colonel Jourdan) had scarcely taken his seat at the table before he drew from his pocket an affidavit, already written, which he presented for Lewis to swear to. Lewis was asked if he had heard the paper read which was presented to him to swear to, or had any knowledge of its conlents; to which be replied he had not, and that he could not subscribe or swear to any paper with rhe contents of which he was unacquainted. The paper was then read to him; Colonel Jourdan manifesting much anger at his refusing to swear to, without reading it. It contained, in substance, an insinuation that he had important information in his possession affecting the character of the Indian agent, and had heard conversations held by him of a character calculated to injure him, if disclosed; but that he apprehended serious injury to his family or property if he disclosed either. So soon as it was read to him, he told Colonel Jourdan, with some warmth, in the presence of a large number of persons, that he had never made a statement to him, or any one else, which would warrant such insinuations; that he was not on friendly terms with the agent, but that he had no knowledge of any facts or circumstances calculated to have the slightest effect for or against him in the present investigation. Colonel Jourdan insisted that he had made such a statement, and expressed a belief that he did possess some such information, but that he was afraid to disclose it. On this, both General Gaines and myself urged Lewis, in the strongest manner, if he did possess any information for or against the agent, to disclose it; and assured him, at the same time, of the protection of the Government. He. persisted in the most solemn assurances that he knew nothing of any circumstances having the slightest bearing on the matters under investigation. He at the same time admitted having said that he was “afraid to give an affidavit,” because he did not wish, from peculiar circumstances, personal to himself, to draw the notice or animadversions of any party or set of men, who might feel disappointed in finding testimony in it which they neither wished nor expected. Finding that Lewis would not swear to the affidavit already drawn up for him, Colonel Jourdan, no longer able to keep his temper, to;e up the paper which he wished Lewis to sign and swear to without reading, and departed to bis quarters; Lewis having previously, at the urgent request of General Gaines and myself, agreed to answer, on oath, any interrogatories put to him by the commissioners. Lewis afterwards explained to several gentlemen his reasons for wishing to decline giving testimony, which must, at best, be of a negative character. He stated that, some fifteen or twenty years since, (being then a citizen of Georgia,) he unfortunately engaged in an affray which resulted in the death of his opponent; that the. affair had heretofore been suffered to die away in Georgia; but should he give an affidavit, it could not meet the wishes nor apparent expectations of the commissioners, and that they might be the means, on that account, of reviving the heretofore dormant laws of Georgia against him. In fact, his reasons appeared to be generally understood, before he himself had stated them; and I have no hesitation in believing that by no persons were they better understood than by the commissioners themselves; and yet they tiave attempted to distort the transaction in such a manner as to create a belief that it was the enmity of the Indian agent Lewis dreaded in giving evidence.	'	’ Various other circumstances will hereafter be referred to, if necessary, to show the general course of the commissioners of Georgia. Finding this communication drawn to an unexpected length, I defer further expositions for the present. It will be observed that I have carefully abstained from particular allusions to public transactions, which, it may be inferred, were alluded to in my official reports to the Government. When those reports and their evidence are before the public, it will be seen that the corruption to which I have herein alluded is, if possible, much exceeded by that which has preceded it. I trust I have said enough to convince all unprejudiced persons that, if there is a wish to attack the officers of the General Government with success, it must be on other grounds, and the weapons intrusted to other hands, than those I have noticed. Had the commissioners confined their attacks to myself, being generally unknown, their reports would, no doubt, (wherever they are personally known,) have had great effect. By attacking General Gaines, whose fair fame and honorable character are mingled in the history of his country, and by attacking the reverend gentlemen who reside in the nation as missionaries, who are always found on the side of justice and virtue, and who are much better known in the southern country than themselves, they have destroyed all prospect of effecting their purposes. The charges and insinuation against General Gaines, (who, it is thought, will consider them unworthy of his reply,) and those against the missionaries, will be known to be untrue; and, from that cause, if from no other, I found a strong hope that those against myself will be generally discredited. I cannot conclude these remarks without an acknowledgment to the commissioners of the high compliment they pay me, in the various insinuations in their reports. From those it would appear that I have circumvented, at every step, four men, who appear to have_been bent on circumventing me in a faithful discharge of my duty. I conclude this reply by quoting the words of his excellency the Governor of Georgia, used in his message to the Legislature in November last: “ The Government of Georgia, in the employment of agents to superintend its various interests, has been peculiarly unfortunate.'’ T. P. ANDREWS. From the Georgia Commissioners to T. P. Andrews. S,rt‘	FORT MITCHELL, June 25, 1S25. We were not a little surprised to hear from yourself this evening that you were unacquainted with the objects or wrict we were taking testimony. We were then of the opinion (and, upon examination, have become confirmed tn that opinion) that the papers which have been submitted are sufficiently explicit. Bv a reference to the letter ot the Governor of Georgia to you, of the 20th instant, you will find he says, “ The commissioners authorized y the Legislature to take further testimony will for that purpose proceed forthwith to the nation, and under orders to make all possible despatch.” By a reference to the printed documents delivered to you at the agency on Flint river, you will see a copy of the resolution referred to. To these we can add nothing which will convey in stronger terms the objects of taking the testimony, unless, perhaps, it may be necessary to remind you of the charges preferred by the Governor of Georgia. While you seem to be ignorant of the object of our appointment, we presume that docs not extend to the appointment itself. To avoid, however, any possible mistake, we would beg leave to refer to the conversation which took place between you and Colonel Jones, at the agency, in which you inquired if any mutual arrangement had been made between Colonel Crowell and the commissioners; whether we would re-examine the witnesses sworn before the committee, to enable Colonel Crowell to cross-examine them; and whether we would assist him to compel witnesses to testify who might refuse. We would also remind you of the inquiry you again made this evening, whether we and Colonel Crowell had made any arrangement, &c. We regret we have been compelled to be thus minute, and feel more regret to remark that our object can be recognised when it is necessary to make inquiries for the benefit of Colonel Crowell, lest injustice may be done him; and when inquiries are made of you, to facilitate the business, and quiet conscientious scruples, you should decline to give any answer, and thereby (we hope unintentionally) throw difficulties in our way, already sufficiently obstructed. We would beg leave further to remark, that while the testimony which has been taken against Colonel Crowell has been made public, and he has had every opportunity of seeing and disproving it, (if in his power,) and while our instructions are positive to permit him to be present and cross-examine the witnesses, and complaint has been made by you of the appalling influence and power of the executive and legislative branches of the Government of Georgia, you have not thought proper to apprize either the Governor or ourse,Ives of the testimony which “ has been already shown you by the agent,” in his own favor, or that to which you referred to-day, which had been shown to you in favor of Hambly, the interpreter. As we could not doubt the ascertainment of truth to be the object of your mission, we could not be insensible to this difference; and we hope a second reading of the papers we have reference to will satisfy you fully of the objects uf our appointment. And have the honor to be, with consideration and respect, WARREN JOURDAN, SEABORN JONES, WM. H. TORRANCE, ,	Commissioners. Major T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. [NOTE.—This letter was received on the evening of the 26th of June and answered on the 27th, although it is stated by the commissioners that it remained unanswered until two of the commissioners had gone to Alabama.] T. P. Andrews to the Georgia Commissioners. GENTLEMEN:	PRINCETON, NEAR BROKEN ARROW, June 27, 1825. I have received your letter dated the 25tb last evening, and was not a little surprised at the misapprehension, on your part, which appears to have rendered such a letter necessary. You remark that you were surprised to hear me remark on the 25th, in reply to an observation of Colonel Jones, that I was unacquainted with the object for which you were taking testimony. I must deny, in the most positive manner, having made any remark which would fairly justify such a construction. In your conversation with the Reverend Mr. Compere, which took place accidentally in my presence, he remarked that he had conscientious scruples agianst taking an oath, “ unless in cases of absolute necessity.” He then added, that if I would say that I viewed his giving you his oath as such a ease of necessity, he would give it. My reply was, that it was a matter entirely between yourselves, which I did not wish to interfere in, and that I must decline giving an opinion as to the absolute necessity of an affidavit, as it was a matter I did not wish to interfere in, being incapable of forming a judgment on it, as “ I was unacquainted with the objects or uses to which the testimony collected by yourselves was to be applied.” You expressed some surprise at the remark, and I took occasion to add, that I did not know whether your testimony was to be laid before the Executive or the Legislature of Georgia, the General Govern- mént, or its agent, or to be used before a court of justice. I did not make my being unacquainted with those objects or uses a matter of complaint, because (as the authorities of Georgia had not thought proper to make me acquainted with their particular intentions as to the use to be made of the testimony collected by yourselves) I did not consider it a matter on which I had a right to ask information. As it has now become a subject of question, and, in a measure, of discussion, I beg leave to ask you, distinctly, to what objects or uses the testimony you collect will be applied: whether it is to be submitted to the agents of the General Government, or to the United States Government direct? or whether it is only intended to produce a conviction of guilt in the Indian agent before the Legislature, the Executive, the people, or the courts of justice of Georgia? I am more particularly induced to ask these questions to convince you that, although I have re-examined all the letters and sources of information you refer me to, as well as your letter now before me, I am still totally unacquainted with the objects or uses to which the testimony to be collected by you is to be applied. At the same time, I disclaim all right, on my part, to receive answers, unless perfectly agreeable; and state, distinctly, that, since my interview with Colonel Jones on the Flint river, I could not entertain a doubt that one object of your appointment was to criminate, if possible, the Indian agent. You must certainly excuse me for declining, what you appear to wish me to attempt—to “ quiet the conscientious scruples” of the Reverend Mr. Compere, or any other person, on any subject. I told that reverend gentleman, immediately on ^our leaving us, (as he can testify,) that I would greatly prefer his giving you an affidavit, if consistent, on reflection, with his religious principles; but that, in saying so, I did not wish to be considered as stating my belief as to its absolute necessity, not having been made acquainted with that necessity, and having also previously informed him, as well as the other clergymen in the nation, that (respecting, as I did, their characters and their religious scruples) I should view a conscientious statement from them, without their making oath to it, as all-suffi- eient, so far as their testimony was to be applied to the objects of my mission. I recollect the inquiries you refer to, as made of Colonel Jones, on the Flint river; and take this opportunity of remarking, that I have as yet received no answers to them, particularly as to the intention of the commissioners to summon the witnesses already examined by the committee, to afford an opportunity of cross-examination. I do not see the light in which the commissioners wish the first part of the third paragraph of their letter received. If no insinuation was intended by it, it appears to me that their expressions were uncalled for and unnecessary; if, on the other hand, it is intended to convey an insinuation of a disposition on my part to act in an unfair or partial manner, I feel called on to say that such an insinuation is not warranted by my acts or intentions, or by truth; and that a repetition must put a stop to all official correspondence between us, as I am determined to avoid all official correspondence (which I am at liberty to avoid) that is not conducted in a proper spirit of courtesy and justice. In reply to the latter part of the same paragraph, I would remark that I am not in official possession of the evidence you refer to, relating to the agent, having returned it to him for the present. I am, however, informed by the agent that in due time you will have an opportunity of cross-examining his witnesses, and, consequently, of seeing that testimony. The course pursued by General Gaines, in relation to the United States’ interpreter, is one which is conceived to be entirely between himself and his Government; and as it regards the statement which 1 have made to him (in reply to his demand for it) of my present impressions in relation to the interpreter, it is between the general and myself and our Government. It will readily occur to you that you will receive a great amount of information (if you have not already) not immediately connected with the particular object of investigation, but proper to be submitted to your Government. Whether such is the fact in relation to yourselves or not, I take this occasion to inform you that I should be wanting in respect to the Government which I have the honor on a peculiar point to represent, if I should offer to others the first knowledge of a great deal of information which may incidentally come before me. Such is the case in reference to the United States’ interpreter, who is not under trial. The President has so far thought proper to disregard the impressions of others, which have been laid before him, and to continue the interpreter in office. The commissioners of the late treaty, notwithstanding their impressions against him, continued to avail themselves of his services whilst in want of an interpreter. His capacity renders his services necessary to facilitate business. It was only in regard to the propriety of his being employed or not as an interpreter on the present occasion, that I have given an opinion to the general; and I understood your body, in the presence of General Gaines, on Saturday evening, to approve, of his employment, with the precautions which the general has taken on the occasion. With consideration and respect, I remain, gentlemen, your most obedient servant, T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. To Cols. WARREN JOURDAN, SEABORN JONES, and W. H. TORRANCE, Commissioners. From the Georgia Commissioners to General Gaines. DEAR GENERAL:	CRABTREE’S, July I, 1825. We shall attend to-day, at the hour of two o’clock, P. M., to take the testimony of the Little Prince, Ho- poithle Yoholo, Sandy Graison, John Riley, and Benjamin Hawkins, of which you will please inform Colonel Crowell. It is not our intention to have this examination in the square, because it will be very lengthy, and there will be no convenience for our clerk to take down the answers. We shall object to Colonel Hambly as an interpreter; we shall select Hawkins: we wish Colonel Crowell to select another. You will please invite the above witnesses to your quarters, where, by your permission, the examination will take place. Very respectfully, yours, &c. WARREN JOURDAN, W. W. WILLIAMSON, Commissioners. To Major General E. P. GAINES, Commanding, Princeton. T. P. Andrews, Special Agent, to the Georgia Commissioners. GENTLEMEN:	PRINCETON, INDIAN NATION, July 1, 1825. Your letter of this date to General Gaines has been referred to me, as well as the subject to which it relates. Colonel Williamson was present in the square yesterday, when the chiefs positively refused to have a conversation with you, or suffer any examinations except in public, in the open square or council, and made no objections, or was not understood as making any. I have therefore the honor to remind you of that determination, and to inform you that you shall have for your clerk all the facilities which have been enjoyed by the general and myself in our own written intercourse with them, which has been considerable. We will be happy to see you at the square at the hour you have fixed on. Both the general and myself will take pleasure in affording you all desirable and possible facilities; but all questions put to the Indians must be in writing, that they may be placed on record by all persons present so disposed, and that they may not be subject to be misapprehended. This is a course which the officers of the General Government have felt themselves bound to pursue, and one which, it is thought, is due in fairness to the Indians. Very respectfully, your most obedient servant, T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. To Cols. WARREN JOURDAN and WM. W. WILLIAMSON, Crabtree’s. Georgia Commissioners to T. P. Andrews, Special Agent. S,R:	PRINCETON, INDIAN NATION, July I, 1825. Your communication of this morning, in reply to ours of the same date, has been received. We cannot see the analogy between the cases cited. Your and the general’s correspondence with the Indians, we presume, front your note, has been conducted in writing; you have had time and leisure in your room to make your communications. The Indians, on the other hand, have had reasonable time allowed them to respond. Your objects have been national; ours relate to the elucidation of a few facts, and to correct erroneous opinions in relation to a few incidents connected with the late disturbances. We respectfully, and in great deference to the opinions of you and the general, ask, as a right due to Georgia, to examine a few chiefs in General Gaines’s room, or in Major Rockwell s, the counsel for Colonel Crowell. We ask it from the following considerations: First, that the examination and cross-examination would, in all P^ab.hty consume a day. Secondly, that we always intended, and have always so expressed ourselves, that it should be under the immediate observation and control of General Gaines and yourself, and under the observation of Colonel Crowell and his counsel. Under such an arrangement, we cannot withhold the expression of our opinion, that, if any advantage existed, it would certainly be on the side of the agent. Thirdly, it does not seem reasonable to us, in the compliance of an unreasonable request by the Indians, that they will hold no converse or communication with the Georgia commissioners, unless in the open square, that we should be subjected to all the inconveniences of the most inclement season, when no possible injury could result to themselves or the agent in pursuing the course we propose. Fourthly, from the facility of communication with themselves, by signs, as well as in a language we do not understand, we are firmly of the opinion that no possible good could result in the examination we propose, if their proposition be adopted. No possible injury could result to any person from the adoption of the course we propose, under the restrictions and safeguards we accede to. Fifthly, if we have not been misinformed, the agent has had all the benefits and indulgences extended to him that we ask for or claim. We would respectfully suggest to General Gaines to recall to his recollection the distinct and positive understanding on this subject in his room, between the Georgia commissioners and himself. The interrogatories we propose exhibiting are reduced to writing, and we had no* wish to submit them in any other form. It belongs to you gentlemen, exclusively, to say whether the like indulgence will be afforded us. With high consideration and respect, yours, <fcc. <fcc. WARREN JOURDAN, WM. W. WILLIAMSON, Major T. P. ANDREWS.	Commissioners. T. P. Andrews to Georgia Commissioners. GENTLEMEN:	PRINCETON, INDIAN NATION, July 1, 1825. Your communication, in reply to my note of this morning, was handed to me whilst General Gaines and myself were engaged in council with the Indians, at Broken Arrow. 1 immediately handed it to the general, who stated your request to the chiefs in council, and urged them to accede to it. I am requested by General Gaines to say that he has no objection to the chiefs meeting you at any place, but that the objection is made by the chiefs themselves, and that he is not disposed to insist on their doing so against their own determination. My objection relates solely to any questions being put to them that are not in writing, and, by that means, placed on record, and out of danger of being misapprehended. My objection was elicited in consequence of having understood from General Gaines that Colonel Jones, of your board, had refused to put them in writing. You will permit me to remark, that on the score of time neither General Gaines nor myself can but think that you have had at least as much, in which to make your examinations, as any other person or persons whatever. Indeed, from the number of your board, it is thought that you enjoy, in that respect, very great advantages. The only questions put to the Indians, in relation to the Indian agent, were propounded to them, and answered in the course of an hour or so, without leaving the council, and not as supposed in your communication. As it regards the exposure of the commissioners of Georgia to the inclemency of the weather, I cannot but remind you that it is an exposure which the general and myself would have taken pleasure to share with you, although we have already been exposed to that weather for some time, without intermission. ‘	1 take this opportunity of assuring you that you have been misinformed in supposing that the agent has had the benefits and indulgences which you ask for. The general directs me to say that he does not consider himself as having had any understanding which militates in the 'smallest degree with his present determination of not compelling the Indians by force (if he had a force near him, which you know is not the case) to attend the examinations in the particular manner you request of him. He has not only requested, but urged them, so far as he could do so with propriety, to accede to your request; which they have replied to with great fixedness, as you will perceive from their reply, which he requests me to say will be handed to you so soon as it can be made out and copied. With high consideration and respect, yours, &c. &c. T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent. To Cols. W. JOURDAN and W. W. WILLIAMSON, Commissioners, fyc. PRINCETON, Indian Nation: Personally appeared John Winslett before me, Thomas Triplett, acting agent for Indian affairs, who, being duly sworn, says: That on Saturday last, the 2d instant, al a house occupied by a negro of Chilly McIntosh, who had whiskey for sale, William W. Williamson, one of the commissioners from Georgia, in a conversation with this deponent and others, consisting of Benjamin Hawkins, Josiah Gray, (Indians, who understood English,) Lemuel B. Nichols, Isaac Burns, Nelson Kent, and others, among other things asserted that he had been threatened since he had been here, but not by the red people; and after some other remarks, he observed that the President of the United States had acted like a damned insignificant rascal, for taking notice of reports which had the effect of stopping the survey. JOHN WINSLETT. Sworn to before me, this 4th day of July, 1825. THOMAS TRIPLETT, Witness: T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent.	Acting Agent of Indian Affairs. Lemuel B. Nichols, being duly sworn, says: That the above facts and conversation are, to the best of his recollection and belief, just and true; and such conversation did take place, as above stated. LEMUEL B. NICHOLS. Sworn to before me, this 4th day of July, 1825. THOMAS TRIPLETT, Witness: T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent.	Acting Agent of Indian Affairs. John H. Campbel], being duly sworn, says: That he was present at the place and time within mentioned; recollects to have heard a part of the conversation mentioned in said affidavit, to this import: that the President of the United States was an impertinent rascal; was not present all the time. This remark was made by Williamson. J. H. CAMPBELL. Sworn to before me, this 4th day of July, 1825. THOMAS TRIPLETT, Witness: T. P. ANDREWS, Special Agent.	Acting Agent of Indian Affairs. * Colonel Jones stated positively to General Gaines that the commissioners would not agree to reduce them to writing, or suffer copies to be taken.	T. P. A. CORRESPONDENCE ON THE SUBJECT OF THE DIVIDING LINE BETWEEN GEORGIA AND ALABAMA. The Governor of Georgia to the Governor of Alabama. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, Jnne 14, 1825. The enclosed resolution of the late Legislature will inform you that the Executive of Georgia is charged with the running of the line dividing this State and Alabama. As it is more than probable that 1 will take measures to carry their wishes into effect very soon after the United States Government shall have had an opportunity to quiet the disturbances which prevail in the Indian country, and as it is very desirable that the Government of Alabama shall harmoniously co-operate with that of Georgia in the execution of the work, 1 will thank you to inform me whether you feel yourself authorized to appoint commissioners on your part to meet the commissioners of Georgia, so that the operation may be a conjoint one, and satisfactory in its results to both parties. Very respectfully, His Excellency the GOVERNOR OF ALABAMA.	G. M. TROUP. Governor Pickins, of Alabama, to Governor Troup. SIR:	EXECUTIVE OFFICE, CAHAWBA, July 3, 1825. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 14th ultimo, and with it the resolution of the Legislature of the State of Georgia authorizing the immediate running and marking the divisional line between that State and the State of Alabama, after notice, however, to the Executive of this State, to afford an opportunity for co-operation in the work by appointing of commissioners on the part of Alabama. In my former letter you were informed that the subject had been submitted to the Legislature of this State at the last session, and that no measures had been adopted thereon by that body, whereby I am altogether unauthorized to appoint commissioners, or otherwise to co-operate in the desired work. It is proper here tu observe, that the omission of the Legislature to act hitherto was owing to no indifference to the importance of participating in the operation, nor to any indisposition to co-operate liberally and harmoniously in the execution of the work, whenever any practical benefit to either State might be promised. Until very recently, the country on both sides of the proposed line was, for its whole extent, embraced within the territory allotted to the Creek and Cherokee Indians; is even yet, and must continue for many months to be, under the occupancy of the Indians. Up to the period of adjournment of the last Legislature of this State, no disposition was evinced by either of those nations, from which a cession of their territory was anticipated by that body, rendering a designation of the line through it necessary. Now that a treaty of cession has been made and ratified, you may be confidently assured that the Government of this State will act with promptness and cordiality, so soon as the situation of the ceded territory shall be such as to render it advisable. It is, however, obvious to your excellency that, to provide the necessary measures for a legal co-operation by this State, a convention of its Legislature will be indispensable—the regular period for which will happen in November next. It is presumed that this will be in very convenient season to meet the views of the Government of Georgia, even should it be found to be expedient to commence at an earlier" period to survey its own portion of the ceded territory; considering also the period reserved by the late treaty for the occupancy of the Creeks. This subject shall be at the earliest moment presented fur the particular attention of the Legislature; and the object, I trust, will be seasonably accomplished with mutual satisfaction to both States, in the only admissible or practicable way, by mutual participation. I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, His Excellency the GOVERNOR OF GEORGIA.	’ ISRAEL PICKINS. Governor Troup to Governor Pickins. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GA., MILLEDGEVILLE, August 10, 1825. I have had the honor to receive your letter in answer to mine on the subject of running the dividing line between this State and the State of Alabama; and, in compliance with the wishes expressed by your excellency, will cheerfully postpone the operations until November, confidently relying on the assurance that the Legislature of Alabama will, on its first meeting, take prompt measures to co-operate with Georgia in the execution of the work. Very respectfully, .	G. M. TROUP. His Excellency ISRAEL PICKINS, Governor of Alabama, Cahawba. CONGRESS.] 