No. 14. [3d Session. NORTH WESTERN INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS ON THE 9th OF DECEMBER, 1790, ,dnd referred to by the President of the United States in his speech to Congress of December 8, of which the following is an extract: “ It has been heretofore known to Congress, that frequent incursions have been made on our frontier settlements by certain banditti of Indians from the northwest side ol the Ohio. These, with some of the tribes dwelling on, and near, the Wabash, have of late been particularly active in their depredations; and, being emboldened by the impunity of their crimes, and aided by such parts of the neighboring tribes as could be seduced to join in their hostilities, or afford them a retreat for their prisoners and plunder, they have, instead of listening to the humane invitations and overtures made on the part of the United States, renewed their violences with fresh alacrity, and greater effect. The lives of a number ol valuable citizens have thus been sacrificed, and some of them under circumstances peculiarly shocking; whilst others have been carried into a deplorable captivity. These aggravated provocations rendered it essential to the safety of the western settlements, that the agressors should be made sensible that the government of the Union is not less capable of punishing their crimes, than it is disposed to respect their fights and reward their attachments. As this object could not be effected by defensive measures, it became necessary to put in force the act which empowers the President to call out the militia for the protection of the frontiers; and I have, accordingly, authorized an expedition, in which the regular troops in that quarter are combined with such draughts of militia as were deemed sufficient: the event of the measure is yet unknown to me. The Secretary of War is directed to lay before you a statement of the information on which it is founded, as well as an estimate of the expense with which it will be attended.” War Department, December 8th, 1790, Sir: In obedience to the orders of the President of the United States, I have the honor respectfully to submit to the Senate, a statement of the information on which the expedition against the Indians northwest of the Ohio has been founded, and also the instructions to the Governor of the Western territory, mid the commanding officer of the troops relative to the same object; together with an estimate of the expense with which the expedition will probably be attended. I have the honor to be, with great respect, sir, your most obedient and very humble servant, H. KNOX, Secretary of War. The Honorable the President of the Senate of the United States. Information relative to depredations of the Indians Northwest of the Ohio. John Evans, Lieutenant of the county of Monongalia, to the Executive of Virginia, 25th April, 1789. On the 23d instant the Indians committed hostilities on the frontiers of this county, killed a captain William Thomas, Joseph Cornbridge and wife, and two children on Dunker’s Creek, which has alarmed the people in such a degree as. to occasion them to apply to me for assistance. William McClery to the Governor of Virginia. Morgantown, 25th April, 1789. An express came here this morning with the disagreeable news of the Indians having committed hostilities on one of our frontier settlements on the 23d instant; two parties attacked, nearly about the same sime, two families on Dunkard Creek, about twenty to twenty-five miles .from this place, and killed one man out of one, and the man and his wife and two children, which was the whole of the other family; the alarm given to the frontier of this county generally by this murder, hath become very serious, and unless some speedy assistance is given, I am something of opinion,' that the Monongahela river (which runs by this place) will be our frontier line in a short time. ■ Geo. C/cndinen to the Governor of Virginia. Greenbrier, 15th June, 1789. I am also unhappy to find that the Executive have received no official information respecting the disposition of the Indians westward of the Ohio; but let their disposition be what it may-, they, or some Indians to us unknown, since my last, by Mr. Renick, have killed ami taken ten prisoners from the settlement on Clinch, and also several persons at the mouth of Great Sandy, and I have reason to expect their blows hourly on Kenhawa. Robert Johnson, Lt. of the County of Woodford, to 'the President of the United States. District of Kentucky, 22d August, 1789. About the 10th instant, two men were fired on by a party of Indians, but no damage sustained; only-one of the horses the men rode was killed; the Indians took the saddle and bridle, and the night following, they stole'eleven horses; our men pursued them, next day came up with them, and retook all the horses, together with the said saddle and bridle, and killed two (one of which was a white man.) On Sunday, the 16th, six negroes were taken by a party of Indians in ambuscade, about three quarters of a mile from my house; they carried them about one quarter of a mile, where they were surprised by the noise of some people riding near them; they tomahawked four, two of which died, two were left for dead, which are now in a hopelul way of recovery; the other two made their escape while they were murdering the rest. The day following, the party was seen twice, and the evening or night of the sixteenth they stole some horses from Captain Buford; we pursued them as quick as possible, with about forty men, to the Ohio, about twenty-five miles below the moutlvof Big Miami, where twenty-six volunteers crossed the Ohio after them; we came to a large camp of them, early in the morning of the 20th, about twelve miles from the Ohio; we divided our party, and attacked them opposite, on each side; they fought us a short time in that position, until they got their women and children out of the way, and then gave back to a thick place ;of high weeds and bushes, where they hid very close; we immediately drove up about forty of their horses, and made our retreat across the Ohio. We lost three men and two wounded. The Indians wounded one of our men as we returned. Thus they are going on from time to time in this country. The Convention to the President of the United States. Danville, 26th July, 1789. We can assure your Excellency that the militia of Kentucky, from their hardiness, alertness, and bravery, are able to render essential service to the inhabitants of the district,’ if they are employed in its defence. And we beg leave further to observe, that, from the present station of the federal troops, it is absolutely impossible to give the commanders notice, so as to enable'them, even if their force was sufficient, to render any service whatever. Robert Johnson, County Lieutenant, to the Governor of Virginia. District of Kentucky, Woodford County, August 22d, 1789.. The hostile acts of the savages are so frequent in our country that it becomes troublesome to write you on every occasion. On the 10th of this instant, a party fired on a young man in this county, near the settlement, killed the horse, and took the saddle and bridle, ana stole some horses, the night following. We were in motion, early next morning, and soon found their trail, and came up with them and retook the horses, and killed two of them, one of which was a white man; the 16th following, a party took six negroes within a mile of my house, killed two, wounded two with their tomahawks, and left them for dead, and the other two made their escape while they were murdering the rest. The second night after, they stole some horses. About forty men followed them to the Oliio, and twenty-six crossed the river and followed them over the Ohio, about twelve miles, where we came up with a party at a targe camp, making salt at a salt spring: we divided the party, and attacked them on each side; they soon gave back: we took some of their horses, and returned to the Ohio, where we crossed. We lost three men killed and two wounded. An account of the depredations committed in the District of Kentucky.by the Indians, since the first of May. 1789. In Jefferson county, on Floyd’s fork, two men killed: near the same time and place, two persons were killed and three taken prisoners. On Brashear’s creek, two killed and two taken prisoners. On the 17th July, Chinoweth’s station was attacked by a number of Indians, who entered Chinoweth’s house, while the family was at supper. Three of.Chinoweth’s family were killed and seven wounded. Three of the wounded are since dead, and several others yet dangerous. The Indians plundered the house of every thing they could carry away. There was at the same station, before this date, one man killed and one wounded. The number of horses stolen from this county exceeds twenty. Nelson.—Two men killed and two wounded, and a number of horses stolen, to the amount of about twenty. Lincoln.—One man and one child killed and two women wounded: about twenty-five burses stolen. Madison.—On the first day of June, the Indians broke into the house of Edmond Stephenson, and wounded one person; they have stolen a number of horses from this county. Bourbon.—Two men have been badly wounded.aml about fifteen horses stolen. Mason.—Two men killed and forty-one horses stolen. Woodford.—One boy killed and several horses stolen. Colonel Benjamin U’ilson to Governor St. Clair. Harrison County, 4th October. 1789. On the 19th of September last, a party of Indians killed and scalped four persons, and captured four; the family of a certain M illiam Johnston, within about nine miles of Clarksburz. On the 22d, the Indians killed John Mauk’s wife and two of his children, and burnt his house; the same evening,burnt Jacob Flot/.er’s house; the family hardly escaped. On the 23d, burnt Jethro Thompson's house; and on the 26th, burnt John Simm’s house; and on the. 28th, stole from Randolph county, ten or eleven horses. The number of horses taken from this county, is not yet truly ascertained: but certain, five horses taken—cattle, sheep, and hogs killed. Some part of this mischief done eleven or twelve miles in towards the interior parts of this county. Sir. be assured, the people of this part of the county are much alarmed and much confused: and in my humble opinion, if something more than treaties made with part of the Indian tribes, is not done shortly, it will be with difficulty the frontiers of this county can be kept from evacuating their settlements. This opinion I have gathered from my having taken a tuur amongst the people, whilst the mischief was doing. Geo. Clendinen, IAeut. of the county of Aenhawa. to the President of the United States. Richmond, 27th December, 1789. The Indians have, in the county of Kenhawa. committed many hostilities, some of which, I: beg leave to enumerate. They killed a man near Point Pleasant; took a young man. and’a negro fellow, prisoners; have shot at others, who made their escape: and have taken between twenty and thirty head of horses, together with many other outrages, to the manifest injury and distress of the inhabitants. If protection is not immediately given, I am sure the zreater part of our frontier will be compelled to leave their homes.'and cither live in forts or move into the strong settled parts of the neighboring counties, which I conceive would do great public injury, as well as distress, in a great degree the inhabitants that are thus exposed, who are situated in a part of die country not only to become respectable but very useful. Address of the General .Assembly of Virginia to the President of the United States. It has been a great relief to our apprehensions for the safety of our brethren on the frontiers, to learn from the communications of the Secretary of War, that their protection against the incursions of the Indians has occu pied your attention. Knowing the power of the Federal Executive to concentrate the American force, and confiding in the wisdom of its measures, we should leave the subject unnoticed, but from a belief that time has been wanting to give the proper intelligence,and make the necessary arrangements of defence, for a country so far remote from the seat of Government. - Many members of the General Assembly now present, have been either witnesses of the recent murders and depredations committed by the savages, or have brought with them information, the truth of which cannot be questioned. It is unnecessary to enter into a detail of those hostilities. Permit us only to say, that those parts of Kentucky, and the southwestern and northern counties, lying on the Ohio and its waters, which have generally been the scene of Indian barbarity, are now pressed by danger the most imminent. We have been induced to suppose it possible, that, for the purpose of affording effectual relief, it may be found expedient to carry war into the country of the Indian enemy. Should this be the case, we take the liberty of assuring you, that this Commonwealth will cheerfully sustain her proportion of the expenses which may be incurred in such an expedition. From the Representatives of the frontier counties of Virginia, to the President of the United States. Richmond, 12/A December, 1789. In addition to the address of the General Assembly on Indian Affairs, we, the representatives of the counties of Ohio, Monongalia, Harrison, and Randolph, are constrained to take the liberty of stating to you the defenceless situation of those counties, in order that you may be able to direct such measures as may be necessary for their defence, as we have every reason to expect that the Indians will break in upon our settlements as soon as the weather will permit them in the spring. First, from the northern boundary line, where it croses the Ohio river at the mouth of the Little Beaver creek, down the said river to the mouth of Big Sandy creek, distant about three hundred miles, we lay open to the ravages of the Indians, who may attack our settlements in any quarter they may choose. It may here be supposed, that the troops stationed at Muskingum would check their progress in this business; but experience hath taught us, that they are of very little use, lor we find, that the Indians cross the river Ohio, both above and below that garrison, undiscovered either on their way to our country or returning to their own. 12 * And indeed, such will always be our fate, until more effectual measures are adopted for our defence. It may be further supposed, that General St. Clair can grant all the relief that is necessary for our safety. In answer to which, we beg leave to observe, that, although we have the highest opinion of that gentleman’s integrity and goodness, yet, from his necessary calls to visit the different posts on the Ohio river, even as low down as the Rapids, we fear it will be out of his power to render us the necessary aid; besides, it is impracticable for us to find him in the hour of distress. We further beg leave to suggest, that, whilst our operations were confined to a defensive plan only, we have ever found thegreatest degree of safety to our country arising from keeping out scouts and rangers on our frontiers. Indeed, it was owing to that plan, and that only, that large tracts of ourcountry have not, long ere now, been depopulated. These scouts and rangers were composed of our own militia, on whom our people could, with confidence, depend, as they are well acquainted with our woods, and with the paths the Indians use to come in upon our settlements. Whilst we were thus covered, we lived in perfect security, but as.soon as they were withdrawn last spring, we immediately felt the effects of Indian cruelty: for, from the month of April last, to the month of October, at which time we left home, there were killed and captured twenty persons—a considerable number of horses and other property carried off, and several houses burnt in our country. All military regulations being submitted to you, we therefore beg leave to suggest our wishes, that you would continue to us the aforesaid mode of defence, should you approve of it, or direct such other measures as you, in your wisdom, may think more advisable to be continued in our country, until it may be thought necessary to carry on offensive war into the enemy’s country, to bring about a lasting peace. Suffer us further to assure you, that we, on the behalf of our bleeding country, look up to you, and to you only, for that assistance that our necessities require, and shall conclude with praying that the great Parent of the universe may conduct you under the eye of his special providence, enabling you to till that exalted station to which he hath called you, as well for the good of your fellow citizens, as also for the happiness of mankind, so far as they come within the bounds of your administration.. We have the honor to be, with very great regard and esteem, your Excellency’s most ob’t servants, JOHN P. DUVALL, Senator. WILLIAM MACMAHON, ? n, ■ ARCHIBALD WOODS, 3 ' WILLIAM M‘CLEERY, 7 Monon-aliw THOMAS FIND ALL, 5 Monon*(UuL JOHN PRUNTV, 7 GEO. JACKSON, $ Harnson-JONA. PARSONS, 7 ,,,, CORN. BOGARI), j. Randolph. Governor St. Clair to the Secretary of. I Car. Fort Steuben, 26th January, 1790. By a note this moment received from Louisville, I am informed that the Indians have killed three men, within twelve miles of Danville, at Carpenter’s Station, and three more, and broke the settlement up, upon Russell’s creek, about forty miles from the same place; some people who had been hunting on this side the river, about six miles below Limestone, were fired upon by Indians, ami one man killed; just almost at the time Major Doughty was passing; he landed and pursued them, but in vain. Hon. Harry Innes, Judge for the District of Kentucky, to the Hon. Jno. Brown. Danville, IS th March, 1790. In the month of January, a boat with ten persons were cut off, about sixteen miles above Limestone; nine found dead in the boat, and one woman missing; during the massacre, a boy, who was a prisoner, made his escape; he was up Licking, being out with two men on a hunting party, who were killed. Three men were killed about the same time in the wilderness, between Rickland creek and Stinking creek; on the road two escaped. Old John Sloan and his son, were killed on the head of the Rolling fork; one man killed on Holin. A station on Russell’s creek was attacked about the 25th of the month; Isaac and Nathan Farris, a son of Isaac. Farris, John Painter,and oneotherman, killed; a negro woman, and white woman wounded, and a number of horses have been taken, but I can’t enumerate them. One Harper was killed on State creek. In February, one man killed at the Mmllick; one killed at the mouth of Kentucky, and the people have evacuated the station from fear. In this month I have only heard of one man killed and one wounded on the Rolling fork: but from various reports, there is too much reason to fear they will be hostile this spring. 11 7/i. If. Dou-clI to the Hon. John Brown. 4th April, 1790. Although I wrote you a few days ago, 1 feel a propensity, to hand you every intelligence in my power. The Indians have again made a capital stroke on the Ohio; they, to the number of about fifty, are encamped near the mouth of the Scioto, and have, by means of a white prisoner, who they have with them, taken three boats and aperiogue; the periogue contained six men. who were going up the riverfront Limestone; one of the boats belonged to Mr. John May; the six men, together with Mr. May, and the whole crew, were put to instant death'by the. savages. The other two boats, one of them belonged to families, the other was the property of Colonel Edwards, of Bourbon, and Mr. Thomas Marshall and others, who, the day after May was taken, were at the same place attacked by the savages; they in the first instance attempted to induce the boats to come to shore, by means of the prisoner, who was the only person exposed to view, and who affected the utmost distress and anxiety, in order that he might be received on board and brought to Limestone: but finding their stratagem would answer no purpose, they immediately exposed themselves, and began to fire on the boats, but without effect; the devils then, to the number of about thirty, jumped into May’s boat, and gave chase: by which means, being better supplied with oars, they would soon have overtaken Marshall and the. family boat, if it had not been for Colonel George Thompson, who was owner to a third part in the same company; he threw out all the horses he had in his boat, and received Colonel Edwards’ crew', and the families all into his boat, together with their oars, by which means the whole of the people escaped after sustaining a chase of about fifteen miles. The loss of property in the two boats, was seventeen horses, about-fifteen hundred pounds worth of drygoods, and a considerable quantity of household furniture. It is not known what May had on board, as no person was left alive. I have also heard to-day, that the Indians have taken a boat on Salt river, which was laden with salt, and killed a John Prior, and tw o others who belonged to the boat’s crew. These are the most material outrages that I now recollect. The consequences are truly alarming; no preparation is yet made, neither can there be by us, who are not authorized to cross the river. Governor St. Clair to the Secretary of Jf'ar. Cahokia, Is/ May. 1790. The Major (Hamtramck) understanding that there was some private difference between that Indian and the person who served as interpreter to the messenger, did. on the first of April, send forward another messenger, and he has enclosed to me a letter from him from Quitepicomuais. fifteen miles above OuGconsin, of the loth of that month, a translation of which is sent with this. By that letter you will observe that every tiling is referred to the Miamies, which does not indicate a peaceable issue. The confidence these have in their situation, the vicinity of many other nations, either much under their influence, or hostilely disposed towards the United State', and pernicious counsels of the British traders, joined to the immense booties obtained by their depredations on the Ohio, will most probably prevent them from listening to any reasonable terms of accommodation, so that it is much tube feared that the United States must prepare effectually to chastise them; and the consequence of nop doing it. may very probably be the defection of those who are now at peace, and would remain so, with the entire alienation of the affections at least of the people of the frontiers. N. B. Gamelin's information being unimportant, is not copied. Representation from the Field Officers of Harrison county. Virginia, Harrison County. February 2d, 1790. Sm: The alarming predicament in which this country now stands, as touching the state of Indian affairs, and the small prospect of protection from his Excellency Arthur St. Clair, hath moved us the subscribers to meet this day in council, in order to concert measures as. far as in our power, to calm the minds of our exposed frontiers, who expect early in the Spring to be. again harassed by the savages. It appears to us. by the address of the General Assembly of Virginia, dated the 30th of October. 17S9, that official information has been given to your Excellency of the Indians' wanton barbarity on the frontiers of this State. We also have the strongest assurance that the members of the General Assembly from the western district did apply, by a subsequent address, separate, and apart from the said address sent by the General Assembly, which we trusted would have fell into your hands before Governor St. Clair left New York, which now appears to us not to be die case; therefore, the frontiers are left defenceless; the people, who lay exposed, are complaining that diey are neglected; that the interior parts of the United States have enjoyed peace since the year 1782; that Government has got thoughtless about the lives of their citizens. &c. We would undertake to give a full detail of the various incursions made on the frontiers of this country, but expect our county lieutenant will hand this petition to your Excellency, who, we believe, will better satisfy your inquiries than our detail. We presume the aforesaid address of our legislative body, and the separate address rent by the members of this western district, fully take, in our wishes as touching the mode of present and future relief. Therefore, in the name and behalf of our suffering fellow-citizens, over whom we preside as field officers of the militia, pray diat your Excellency would take our distressed situation under your parental care, and grant us such relief as you in your wisdom shall think proper, and we, in duty bound, will pray. &c. BENJAMIN WILSON. Colonel. GEO. JACKSON. Lieut. Colonel. The President of the United States. WILLIAM ROBINSON. Major. Extract of a letter from the Lieutenants of the counties of Fayette. IFoodford. and Mercer, to the Secretary of I Far, dated 14 th Jiprii, 1790. We almost even- day receive accounts of their horrid murders on our defenceless frontiers, (which entirely surround us) and the taking of horses and other property, to die ruin of a number of families. It is painful to repeat particulars, but some recent acts of the savages demand our representation. Several boats have, within a few weeks past, been attacked and taken on the Ohio river, and one in Salt river, by strong parties of Indians, and their unhappy crews murdered or carried into captivity. We have reason to believe that there is a combination of several tribes, and their numbers pretty numerous. Major Hamtramck to Governor St. Clair. Post Vincennes, May 22, 1790. I now enclose the proceedings of Mr. Gamelin, by which your Excellency can have no great hopes of bringing the Indians to a peace with die United States. The 8th of Mav Gamelin arrived, and on the 11th some merchants arrived, and informed me, that, as soon as Gamelin had |passed their villages, on his return, all the Indians had gone to war; that, a large party of Indians from Michilimackinack and some Pattawatamies had gone to Kentucky; and that, three days after Gamelin had left the Miami, an American was brought there and burnt. Deposition of Charles Johnson, taken before the Secretary of I Far, July 29. 1790. On the 20th of March, 1790, going down the river Ohio, in company with John May, Esq. of Virginia, with four other persons in our boat, (two of whom were women) we were attacked by a party of fifty-four Indians, consisting chiefly of Shawanese and Cherokees. In this attack, Mr. May and one of the women were killed, the re^t of us made prisoners. The day following, a canoe coming up the river, with six men in it. were fired upon and all killed. In a fewr hours afterwards, two boats (the owners of which had abandoned them and got on board a third boat that was in company) were taken by the savages, with goods and other property in them, which, in my opinion, must have amounted to several thousand pounds value. Two days afterwards the Indians divided themselves into several parties, w hen they set off to this town, and arrived in about five or six weeks at Sandusky, where the nation of Wyandot or Huron Indians live. Whilst in the Indian country, I was informed that one of our party, whose name was William Klin, and whom, on a division, had fallen to the Cherokees, was carried to the nation of Miamies, there tied to a stake, and, in the most inhuman manner, w as roasted alive. I further understood that there are a number of Americans who have been made prisoners by the Indians, and are now in the Shawanese and Miami nations, languishing under slavery and all its bitter appendages. Col. Robert Rankins to Col. Thomas Lewis. April 3, 1790. As I presume you have not heard of the late mischief, I shall just beg leave to inform you, that, about six weeks ago, two men were taken off Cabin Creek, who have been made use of to decoy boats ashore, by which means six men in a canoe, going up the river, attempting to escape, after they found themselves ensnared, were murdered; Mr. May's boat taken, himself and one other killed, the rest of the crew made prisoners; two boats, in which was a considerable amount of property, belonging to Col. John Edwards, of Bourbon, Capt. Thomas Marshall, and a number of other gentlemen taken; the gentlemen themselves forced to crowd into Col. George Thompson’s boat, and rowr for life, the Indians having pursued them in Mr. May’s boat, armed for that purpose, w;ith unparalleled avidity. Two men were also killed and seven more, one woman, and five children, taken prisoners, about six weeks ago, in Kennaday’s Bottom, on the Ohio. 20 miles above Limestone, where they were engaged in erecting a new settlement. All this mischief has been done by the same party of Indians, who are still on the river, and, from information, about the same place where the boats and canoe were taken, six or seven mile's above the mouth of Scioto. And we are informed, by the two men above mentioned, who have escaped and come in, that they have sent the plunder to their town by a party, and expect a reinforcement. A party of men was raised in this settlement on the first intelligence of the disturbance, but a dispute arising among them respecting the object in view, they split, and returned without doing of any sendee, except bringing away a boat which the Indians fitted up for their offensive operations. However, such generally is the consequence of expeditions where the officers who conduct them have only power to advise and persuade; and it is much to be lamented that the Government under which we live wants power, or they who are at the helm a disposition, to protect its citizens. I have this moment received further intelligence of the depredations of those cursed devils. A boat from Green-briar, in which was Colonel Ward, Mr. R. Madison, and three or four other boats front Monongahela, were yesterday afternoon attacked, at or near the place mentioned above; a Mr. Richards was killed, and the Monongahela people were obliged to abandon one of their boats, with about one hundred gallons of whiskey, some other property, besides several horses and cattle: a number of horses were killed and wounded in the other boats. Judge Innes to the Secretary of War. Danville, May 1 Sth, 1790.- That you may have an idea of our unhappy situation, I beg leave to refer yon to a letter I wrote on the 20th ultimo, to the Hon. John Brown; since which the Indians have killed two wliite men and two negroes in Jeflerson county; in Nelson two girls, scalped one woman, and made one other woman prisoner. Judge Innes to the Secretary of (tar. _ Danville, July 7th, 1790. 1 have been intimately acquainted with this district from November, 1783; I can with truth say, that in this period of time, the Indians have always been the aggressors; that any incursions made into their country have been from reiterated injuries committed by them; that the depredatory mode of war and plundering carried on by them, renders it difficult, and almost impossible, to discriminate what tribes are the offenders; that, since my first visit to this district, which was the time above named, 1 can venture to say, that above 1500 souls have been killed and taken in the district, and migrating to it; that upwards of 20,000 horses have been taken and carried off, and other property, such as money, merchandise, household goods, and wealing apparel, have been carried off and destroyed by these barbarians, to at least T15,000. Repeated informations have been given of these injuries, which continue to be daily perpetrated, and yet we have no satisfactory account of the intention of Government for our relief; the consequences to the district are of a serious and important nature; by them do we see the population of our country decreased, by the murders committed on the emigrants and actual settlers, and by them do we find people intimidated from migrating to our country, which lessens our rising strength; by them is the wealth of our citizens diminished, and the value of our lands decreased. What will be the result? Volunteer expeditions will be carried on into the Indian countries, upon the principle of revenge, protection, and self-preservation, and Government will not be able to counteract them; the consequences will be, that the volunteers who may thus embody will not discriminate between the Indians who are hostile and those who have treated; they will consider all as enemies that come in their way, and the supposed amicable Indians will no longer have any faith in Government; it will not only prevent the intended views of Government, but undo what hath been done. I will, sir, be candid on this subject, not only as inhabitant of Kentucky, but as a friend to society, who wishes to see order and regularity preserved in the Government under which I live. The people say they have long groaned under their misfortunes, they see no prospect of relief, they are the strength and wealth of the Western country; all measures which have been attempted, are placed (for execution) in the hands of strangers, who have no interest among them: they are the general sufferers, and yet have no voice in the business; thev are accused as the aggressors,-and have no representative to justify. These are the general sentiments of the people, and they begin to want faith in the Government, and appear determined to revenge themselves: for this purpose a meeting; was lately^ held in this place, by a number of respectable characters, to determine on the propriety of carrying on three expeditions this fall. From a more general representation of the district, the business was postponed until the meeting of our convention, which is about the 26th instant, at which time there will be a very general meeting of influential characters of the district: and unless some information is received before that time, that will be satisfactory, I fully expect one 01-more expeditions will be determined on. Impressed with the idea that the foregoing observations will not be unacceptable to you as an officer of Government, through whose Department it may be properly communicated to the President; if worthy your attention, I shall make no apology for the length of my letter. From the same to the same.—July Sth. I have, this day, received a letter from Governor St. Clair, dated the 5th inst.  > at the Rapids of Ohio;” he says, “ that the expectations of peace which I much wished, cannot be realized with the people on the Wabash, and in consequence I have come here sooner than I should otherwise have done, to prepare for operating against them.” He has requested me to apprize the field officers of the district, that he shall call tor the proportions of the militia they are to furnish, in consequence of the orders he has received from the President. Alexander S. Ball it, Lieut. Jefferson County, to Judge limes. May -24th, 1790. 1 now embrace the first opportunity which offers, of informing you, that a man was wounded near Sir. Joseph Hite's plantation, about a fortnight ago. 1 mention this instance as the last of several which have appeared this spring, of mischief done by the Indians in this country. Certificate of Robert Lemen, Jacob Steidan. and William Price. We, the under writers, inhabitants of Jefferson county, on the waters of Brashear's creek, do certify, that, in the latter end of March last, the Indians took a negro woman prisoner, the property of Anderson Long, two young men at work at the said Long's, in his field, on Clear creek and branch of Brasliears creek. That, on Tick creek,a branch of Brashear’s creek, in April, the Indians killed two men at work in their field. That, in May. two boys were made prisoners from Loudon's station, on the head of Drennon's Lick creek. That, on the 23d instant, a party ot Indians fired on a company of people, on Clear creek, as they were returning from meeting, killed one man on the spot, and took a young woman prisoner, who they carried about ten miles, and then tomahawked and scalped her. That, on the 25th instant, as a company were bringing home the corpses of the man and woman, they were alarmed by their dogs, and sent a party out to reconnoitre, who discovered the trail of some Indians. Given under our hands, this 28th day of May. 1790. ROBT. LEMON, JACOB STEULAN. WM. PRICE. There was no magistrate, to be conveniently found, when this certificate was given, or I would have had an affidavit made of the facts. HARRY 1NNES. John Caldwell to Judge Inncs. Nelson* County, May 12//;, 1790. On Tuesday morning, about eleven Indians attacked the house of Miles Heart, on Valley Creek, a fork ofNoIe-lin, and killed Heart and one of his children: and his wife and two more, which includes the whole family, were made prisoners. Deposition of Samuel U’inter. taken before Christopher Greenup. 21 st May, 1790. M ERCEU, SS. Samuel Winter came before me, a justice for the said county, and being sworn, saith: That he is an inhabitant of Nelson county, and resides on Noleliti creek, that a certain Miles Heart, who lived on Valley creek, about six miles from the deponent, was murdered in his house, on Tuesday, the lltli instant, and that the wife and two children of the said Heart were taken prisoners : that two of Heart's horses are missing, which are supposed to be carried ofl’by the Indians, who did the mischief. Christopher Greenup to Judge Ilines. Mercer County. 24//t May, 1790. About four days ago. the Indians stole four horses from Mr. Meaux. a considerable distance within the inhabitants; this might have been prevented had there been scouts. John Caldwell to Judge limes. June 4th, 1790. About the seventh of March last, the Indians came to the Rolling fork, and stole a number of horses, to the amount of sixteen; they were pursued by Captain Wilson, and a small party, who came up with them, in about forty miles; but, being overpowered, they were obliged to retreat: Capt. Wilson was killed upon the spot. Robert Johnson to Judge limes. May 13th, 1790. I send you two depositions, containing an account of some mischief done lately by the savages in this county, to wit: the kdling McBride and McConnel. in April last, and also taking a son of Mr. Tanner’s (on the Ohio) a prisoner, &c. fatso inform you, that, last fall, two men were killed by the savages, one of the name of Brown, whose wife and children live now in Lexington, as I was with the men who brought the corpse into the neighborhood I live in ; besides this, there hath been another party, last winter, who stole a number of horses from the neighborhood I live in. and carried them off. Deposition of John Garnett, taken before Robt. Johnson, M. for IP. C. May 12 th, 1790. W oodford County, ss. John Garnett, of full age, being duly sworn, saith : That he was at Mr. John Tanner’s station, on the Ohio, in said county, about five miles below the mouth of the Big Miami, and that said Tanner informed him, that, about the last of April, or first of May, five Indians came and lay in ambush, a little over one hundred yards from his house, between the house and his held, and took a son of said Tanner’s, about nine years old, and carried him off, across the Ohio : and further saith, that Indians have been, since, within about two miles of said station, and this deponent further saith not. Deposition of Samuel Stephenson, taken before Robert Johnson, M. for W. (Tty, May 12, 1790. Woodford County, ss. Samuel Stephenson, of full age, being duly sworn, saith : That, about the 12th of April, 1790, being called on to go out to bring James McBride and--McConnel, who were killed by the I ndians on the road or path from the mouth of Licking, to the settlement on Elkhorn ; and this deponent further saith, that he assisted to bring two men which were both scalped ; one was much cut with a tomahawk, and the other was shot through the hips, and he believes them to be said McBride and McConnell ; and thisdeponent further saith not. John Edwards to Judge Lines. Bourbon County, May 12, 1790. This morning was killed, within six or seven miles of this place, by the Indians, a certain Lewis Parker, who was at his work. It will be unnecessary for me to say any tiling more with respect to the murder, as I have enclosed you an affidavit; and, as to the murder of two more men, I am satisfied of its certainty, but have had no opportunity of finding the man, who was with them when they were killed, nor those who have since buried them ; the names of the men were McBride and McConnell. Deposition of David Rankin and James Hays, taken before Benjamin Harrison, 1790. Bourbon, ss. Tlus day came before me, one of the commonwealth’s justices for said county, the subscribers, and made oath, that, on the 12th of May, inst. they saw Lewis Parker lying dead; he had received several wounds, with balls, tomahawks, and knives; (he was scalped) that they found him, the said Parker, about one hour after he was killed, and that they verily believe he was thus murdered by Indians, and further say not. Certificate of Benjamin Harrison. Although I did not see the Indians kill Parker. I do verily believe they did do it; I saw his body about two hours after he was killed; it happened at Michael Hogg’s, not ijitite three miles from my house, and I followed the trails of those who committed the murder, near ten miles; their direction was towards the Big-bone Lick'. The Indians have stole two horses from Mr. Coleman, lately. There is no person, in this quarter, that knows any thing of McBride and McConnell’s being killed, only from hear-say; but it is a matter of fact. John Edwards. Lt. Bourbon County, to Judge Lines. Bourbon, May 12, 1790. I am sorry to inform you, since my last letter, that a man was killed, by a party of Indians, in his cornfield, about seven miles from my house, on Thursday last; also a boat was taken, about eight or ten miles above Limestone, where five persons were found killed on the shore. I think we need no greater proof of the intentions of those savage barbarians, to distress us. Henry Lee, Lieutenant Mason County, to Judge Lines. Mason County, May 16th, 1790. On the night of the 11th instant, four boats (one of which contained an officer and eight men of the United States’ troops) landed about nine miles above Limestone, and about 12 o’clock was fired on by a party of Indians, supposed to be fifteen or twenty in number; three boats made their escape without damage, the other, containing sixteen souls, fell into possession of the enemy; five of those persons were killed .and most horridly massacred; three made their escape, one of which was wounded, the balance taken prisoners; and from every discovery I have been able to make, they have not yet re-crossed the river. On the 15th instant, a trail of a party of Indians, supposed to be about fifteen, was discovered crossing the Ohio within the bounds of our lower settlements, and directed their course towards the Blue Licks; this notice nas put the neighborhood in that quarter, on their guard; I have had no further intelligence, but am under apprehensions every hour of the fatal consequences; our surveyors and hunters have all retired from the woods, the frequent signs of Indians render it unsafe for them to pursue their business. John Logan to Judge Lines. Lincoln, May 17th, 1790. Friday morning the 14th instant, a company was defeated on the other side Ingle’s station; six of said company are missing, supposed to be killed. About ten or fifteen Indians took possession ot all their horses and goods, ready packed up to start. James Barnett to Judge Lines., Madison, Mount Holley, 23d May, 1790. I can assure you, sir, that the frontier of this county (which is about forty miles) have considered themselves in imminent danger all the last spring; but their fears are much increased, since the last hostilities committed on the wilderness road, and Indian signs discovered very lately upon Station Camp. The mischief above referred to was in Madison county, about forty miles from the inhabitants; four killed, two wounded, 10 or 12 horses, with valuable property. H. INNES. Deposition of Joseph Barnett, taken before Michael Campbell, June 8th, 1790. Nelson County, ss. This day came Joseph Barnett, Esq. before me, a justice of the peace for said county, and made oath, on the holy evangelists of Almighty God, that on the eighteenth of April last past, (being Lord’s day) about the hour of five in the evening, a party ot Indians fell upon a few defenceless people, who were returning from Hartford town, on Rough creek, to a station at the house of this deponent, being two miles 'distant, killed a girl of twelve years old, and a boy of eight years old, cutting them in a cruel manner, with tomahawks supposed; cut an ancient lady of both respectable family and character, in her right arm, head and back, in a cruel manner, with a scimitar, and after haring scalped her alive, left her, and his scimitar with her, and carried off the daughter of this deponent, a girl near eleven years old, into captivity. They were pursued by a party till night, which gave them an opportunity of escaping. The above mentioned boy lived till Tuesday morning following, having his scull split with a tomahawk, and a great part of his brains on the outside of his wounded scalped scull; and the old lady is yet alive, notwithstanding all the misery she has endured; further this deponent saith not. Observe that the above persons were returning from sermon. Brigadier General Harmarto the Secretary of War. March 24th, 1790. The Indians still continue to murder and plunder tire inhabitants, especially the boats going up and down the Ohio river. About the beginning of this month, they broke up Kenton’s station, a small settlement of fifteen miles above Limestone, killing and capturing the whole of the people, supposed to be ten or twelve in number. Buckner Thruston, Esq. has just arrived here, who informs me of a capital stroke of plunder which they made from the boats, one of which he was on board, a small distance above the Scioto river. This gentleman is a member of the Virginia Legislature, and has given me the enclosed written report of the attack, by which you will please to observe, that the property captured by the savages was estimated at tour thousand pounds. He supposes them to have been Snawanese. No calculation will answer, but raising a sufficient force to effectually chastise the whole of those nations who are known to be hostile. Report of Buckner Thruston. Esq. March 24th. 1790. On the 21st of March, about 12 o'clock, we discovered on the Indian shore a flat bottomed boat, which appeared to be crowded with Indians: we were fortunately near the Virginia shore at the time we discovered the savages. On our coming opposite them, a white man ran down on the beach and hallooed to us, for God's sake, to surrender: that there were fifty Indians, and if we made resistance, we should be massacred. We refused to surrender, and immediately they fired on us for a considerable time, perhaps to the number of one hundred guns, which gave us time to pass by them; they then embarked all hands aboard their boat, (commonly called a Kentucky boat, which they had taken a day or two before from Mr. John May, who. with four other men, it is supposed are either killed or taken) and gave chase to us: upon finding that we could not escape, there being three boats in company, we chose out the strongest boat, turned the horses adrift, and embarked therein.: all the people belonging to the three boats cut holes in her sides, and put in the oars of the three boats, and made the best way we could for fifteen or twenty miles, the Indians pursuing us with great earnestness. They left us after a chase of between two and three hours, and we arrived without further impediment at Limestone. We lost twenty-eight horses, fifteen hundred pounds value of merchandise, (as I am informed) besides private property of passengers and others, to a considerable amount. We supposed the Indians to be fifty or sixty in number. We had about twenty-eight men. and sixteen or seventeen guns, a family ot women, and a few negroes, women and children. The principal sufferers among the passengers, were. Colonel Thompson, Colonel Edwards, Mr. Abner Field, Mr. Thomas Marshall. Brigadier General Hurraar to the Secretary of Jf'ar. June 9th, 1790. At the solicitation of the inhabitants of Kentucky, (copies of which are enclosed) 1 was induced to endeavor to break up a nest of vagabond Indians, who had infested die river, and seemed to make it an object to establish themselves near the mouth of the Scioto, in order to interrupt the navigation of die Ohio, and to plunder and murder the emigrants. I am sorry that my endeavors were un?uccessful. as the villain? had retreated: wolves might as well have been pursued; every exertion in my power was made without effect. Having settled our plan of operations, w hich was to make a circuitous route, and strike the Scioto pretty high, and from thence march down to its mouth, in hopes to intercept some of their parties, we took up our line of march on the same day, (18th April) and gained about twelve miles. On this first day's march, four moecason tracks were discovered. General Scott detached a small party of horsemen, who fell in with the savages, killed them, and brought the four scalps into Limestone. Ensign llartshorne's convoy of boats was attacked at midnight on the 12th. (May) about nine miles above Limestone, from the Virginia side, and several of the emigrants killed; I have enclosed a copy of his report. Sir: Fort Washington, flay 50th. 1790. I beg leave to report as follows: On the 12th instant, as I was coming down the Ohio, in company with five other boats, in the evening, before we came to Limestone, by the request of the company, we put to snore, in order to stay until 2 o'clock, so that we might land at Limestone in day-light. I landed nine miles above Limestone, and the other boats landed about one hundred yards below me. About 12 o'clock the Indians attacked the lowermost boat; after a number of shot they left it. and tell on the other above them, which they took—in this time my men fired five or six shot at the flash of their guns. 1 had much to do to keep the men in the boat from cutting her loose, and leaving my men on shore, so I thought proper to order my men on board: for, by every circumstance, I thought them too strong for me w ith so few men; and it being very dark, I ordered the boat off from the shore, and fell down into their fire, where we received a number of shot; and when I found that all the boats were not taken, I ordered them to go ahead in case the Indians did pursue us, that I might check them. We arrived at Limestone at 3 o’clock in the morning; I immediately wrote to the county lieutenant upon the matter; he, with twenty men, came down: at 3 o’clock in the afternoon, myself with five men went up to the place where we were attacked; we found one man, one woman, and three children, killed and scalped, winch we put into the boat, w ith their property, to Limestone. There are eight missing; the whole killed and missing is thirteen souls; they took none of the property but one horse. 1 am, sir, your most humble servant, ASA 1IARTSHORNE, Ens. 1st U. S. regt. James Wilkinson. Esq. to General I/armar. Lexington, 7th .April, 1790. I write to you at the public request, on a subject deeply interesting to Kentucky, our national honor, and to humanity. For more than one month past a party of savages has occupied the Northwestern bank of the Ohio, a few' miles above the mouth of Scioto, from w hence they make attacks upon every boat which passes, to the destruction ot much property, the loss of many lives, and the great annoyance of all intercourse from the northw ard. By very recent accounts, we are apprized that they still continue in force at that point, and that their last attack was made against five boats, one of 'which they capture.!. It is the general, and I conceive a well founded opinion, that if this party is not dislodged and dispersed, the navigation of the Ohio must cease. In a case so very critical, the people of this district conceive themselves justified in appealing to arms, because their dearest interests, and the lives ol their brethren, are at hazard; but being extremely unwilling to proceed, except in a legal, regular, and authorized way, they call upon you for your advice, succor, and assistance, in the hope and the expectation, that von will be able to co-operate with a detachment of the troops under your command, and carry an immediate expedition against the before mentioned party of savages, from Limestone, where it is proposed to rendezvous a body of militia volunteers. Colonel Patterson waits upon you on this occasion to know your determination, and to make such adjustments as may be deemed expedient. Levi Todd to General Harmar. Fayette, 7th .April, 1790. Within a few days past a parly of Indians, who have taken post on the Ohio, near the mouth of the Scioto, have captured four boats, killed and taken several people, and much property; for the particulars I refer you to Colonel Patterson, who, I expect, will hand von this. From circumstances we may conclude this practice will be continued, unless they are dislodged. The unhappy consequences which will result, are too obvious to every discerning man, and too distressing to be borne. A party of men from the counties north of Kentucky river, are preparing to remove these troublesome fellows from their station. They will rendezvous at Lexington, on Thursday, the 15th instant; at Limestone, the Saturday following. The inhabitants of this district flatter themselves they will meet with every encouragement and protection from the officers in the Western Government, in every plan that will tend to secure their persons and property, and to protect in the enjoyment of those rights, for which we have so often risked our persons, and expended property. I flatter myself that, in the present instance, we shall not only meet the approbation of his excellency General St. Clair, but with such instructions and assistance from you, as you may judge best calculated for the execution of the intended design, that a peaceable emigration may be preserved to the Western country. I flatter myself that an account of the hostilities that are committed in the Western country will, by the earliest opportunity, be transmitted to the President of the United States. Colonel Patterson to General Harmar. Licking, 9th April, 1790. I was very desirous of handing you General Wilkinson’s and Colonel Todd’s letters, but our interruption on the way, and my business at home, puts it out of my power. Mr. Lemond, who I expect will hand this with others, can inform you particularly. I do not know that my personal attendance would have answered any purpose, only to have informed you of our intention. We do not wish to infringe on the rights of the Federal Government; it is well known that the Indians occupy both sides of the river. We know that it is not infringing to drive the enemy from our own door, but that will not answer any purpose in this case. We rest assured that we will not only meet with your approbation, but your assistance. You need not doubt, but that, on Saturday, the 17th instant, there will be at Limestone, five hundred men at least, to co-operate with your troops, and your directions. Our men will be furnished with twelve day’s provisions, expecting to continue out that time. Governor St. Clair to the Secretary of IVar. NewYork, August 2.3d, 1790. “The letter from Major Hamtramck,'and journal of Mr. Gamelin, copies of which accompany this, were received by me at Kaskaskias, after my return from Cahokia; and when I was on the point of setting out for the Wabash. From the information that journal contained, and the intelligence which the Major had received afterwards, as stated in the letter, it appeared to me, that there was not the smallest probability of an accommodation with the Indians of that river, and of the Miami, and that, from the manner in which the proposal of an accommodation had been received by them, and their subsequent conduct, it would not be proper for me to go to Post St. Vincennes; I therefore took the resolution to return by the Mississippi and Ohio rivers, to the head quarters of the troops, in order to concert with General Harmar upon the means of carrying into effect the alternative contained in my instructions from the President—that of punishing them; and accordingly embarked on the eleventh day of June, and arrived at fort Washington on the 13th day of July. Before my departure from Kaskaskias, I put a letter into the hands of Major Sargent, informing him of my intended journey, and that, as soon as I had embarked, he was to consider me as absent, and in consequence, the government devolved upon himself, and desired him to proceed to the post, lay out a county there, establish the militia, and appoint the civil and military officers. I was led to proceed in this manner from the little time there would be to digest the business, and bring the necessary force together from so many and distant parts, before it would be necessary that they should move, and the certainty there appeared to be that, it I went to the post, the consuming a good deal of it would be unavoidable, and the season for operation be lost. From the falls of Ohio, 1 took Mr. Elliot, one of the contractors, with me to head quarters, that he might, in person, give General Harmar information with respect to the certainty of supplies, without being assured of which, it would be vain to think of the matter. The number of militia I was empowered to call for. was one thousand from Virginia, and five hundred from Pennsylvania, to act in conjunction with the continental troops; these the General estimated at four hundred .effective. The manner of employing this force, which was concluded upon, is this: three hundred of the militia of Virginia are to rendezvous at fort Steuben, and with the garrison of that fort, to march to Post St. Vincennes and join Major Hamtramck; the remaining twelve hundred of the militia to assemble at fort Washington, under the orders of General Harmar, which, with the troops to be collected there, will form a body of fifteen hundred: these are intended to march directly across the country to the Miami village, while Major Hamtramck moves up the Wabash to attack any of the villages on that river to which his force may be equal; but,as it is not so respectable as I could wish it, 1 took it upon myself to give him authority to call for aid from the militia of Post St. Vincennes. It would, perhaps, have been better that the whole should have been drawn together, and one solid effort been made; but it was next to impossible to form a junction of all the parts at any one proper place, in time, and we were not without lmpes that, as the movements wilt be made in concert, the success of both may be forwarded by each other: for that up the Wabash will, certainty, I think, make those nations uneasy for themselves, and prevent them from aiding the Miamies, while the direct movement to their village will have the same effect upon them. 1 could indeed have wished that the force in both quarters had been more respectable, as far as it is possible their success should be put out of the chance of accidents; for a failure will be attended with the very worst consequences. I believe, sir, that, if the President approves the business, and should think proper to add to the numbers, it is not yet too late, being of opinion that many more men might be obtained from that part of Virginia from whence the others are called, on very short notice. You will observe, sir, by my letter to the county lieutenants, that the rendezvous at fort. Washington is fixed for the 15th of next month. Their assembling there, however, was not counted upon before the 20th, and that they would be in readiness to march by the first of October. Before that time, I hope I shall be able to join them. Mr. Elliot made very little hesitation about the provisions, though it will be impossible to furnish flour. Corn, however, it seems, is still abundant in Kentucky, and with that General Harman's satisfied. I am very apprehensive that some disappointment will be met with in the quota of Pennsylvania: for I found that, in two of the four counties from widen that militia is to be drawn, they have not had an officer for upwards of two years, and there was a general complaint for want of arms. I represented that matter to the Executive of the State, and they think the first difficulty will be obviated by a voluntary enlistment, and have ordered a quantity of arms to be sent forward. As a disappointment there would be fatal, perhaps the President may think proper to make some conditional provision against it. I hope it will not happen, but I fear it : and am extremely anxious about it, on account of the expense that will have been incurred to no purpose, and more so from the injury the reputation of the Government would sustain. I request the favor of you, sir, to lay this letter before the President as soon as possible: for it is of importance that I should return without loss of time, as the assembling the militia of Pennsylvania is appointed on the 3d, and their being in motion not to exceed the 10th of September. 1 have added a copy of my letter to the county lieutenants, and to the senior officer of the Pennsylvania militia. Mr. Gamelix’s Journal. Memorandum of sundry speeches held by Anthony Game!in to the chiefs of the TT'ctbash and Miami nations. I, Anthony Gamelin. by order of Major Hamtramck, set off from fort Knox the 5th April, to proceed to Miami town, with the speeches of his Excellency Arthur St. Clair, and to receive the answer of the Wabash and Miami nations. The first village I arrived to is called Kikapouguoi. The name of the chief of this village is called Ees Jatnbes Croches. Him and his tribe have a good heart, and accepted the speech. The second village is at the river du Vermillion, called Piankeshaws. The first chief, and all the chief warrior', were well pleased with the speeches concerning the peace: but they said they could not give presently a proper answer, beiore they consult tlie Miami nation, their eldest brethren. They desired me to proceed to the Miami town, and, by coining bade, to let them know what reception I got from them. The said head-chief told me, that he thought the nations of tne lakes had a bad heart, and were ill disposed for the Americans: that the speeches would not be received, particularly by the Chaouanons,* at Miami town. The 10th of April I met thirteen Kickapoo warriors? 1 asked them the purpose of their journey. We are for war, said they, not against the white people, but against the Chichashas. 1 told them to be friends with white people: 1 gave them a letter for the commanding officer of Post Vincennes, desiring them to go and shake hands with him. They promised to do it. The 11th of April, I reached a tribe of Kickapoos: the head chief and all the warriors being assembled. 1 gave them two branches of white wampum, with the speeches of his Excellency \rthur St. Clair, and those of Major 11am-tramck (it must be observed that tne speeches have been in another hand before me.) The messenger could not proceed further than the Vermillion, on account of some private wrangling between the interpreter and some chief men of the tribe. Moreover, something in the speech displeased them very much, which is included in the third article, which says, “ I do now make you die offer of peace: accept it or reject it, as you please.” These words appeared to displease all the tribes to whom the first messenger was sent. They told me they were menacing, and, finding that it might have a bad effect, 1 took upon myself to exclude them, and, after making some apology, they answered that he and his tribe were pleased with my speech, and that I could go up without danger: but that they could' not presently give me an answer, having some warriors absent, and without consulting the (luiatanons, being the owners of their lands. They desired me to stop at Quitepiconnae, that they would have the chiefs and warriors of Ouitanons, and those of their nation, assembled there, and would receive a proper answer? they said that they expected by me a draught of milk from the great chief, and the commanding Officer of the post, for to put the old people in good humor: also some powder and ball for the young men for hunting, and to get some good broth for their women and children? that I should know a bearer of speeches should never be with empty hands? they promised me to keep their young men from stealing, and to send speeches to their nations in the prairies for to do the same. One of the chiefs desired me to listen to msspeech. “ Is it true that a man called Lewis Loder has, in last summer, carried a letter, wrote with red ink upon black paper, directed to the chief of the Falls, by the French and American people of the post, inviting him for to furnish Ins young men for to destroy the Kickapoos? Yourself. Gamelin. you wrote the said letter, without giving notice to the chiefs of that place, as reported to us. But the chief of the Falls answered: 1 dont understand the meaning of wciting a letter with vermillion? dont \ ou know that the Kickapoos are my children, as well as other nations? Instead of destroying them. I want to contract a solid peace with them. That is a proof of a good heart of the great, chief, and we sincerely believe that what you say concerning the peace is very true. Another prool of his good heart: we heard that Ducoign applied to the commanding officer of the post for to go against us. with the French people, his brethren? but Jie got a refusal.’’ The 14th April the Ouiatanons and the Kickapoos were assembled. After my speech, one of the head chiefs got up and told me: “ You. Gamelin. my friend, and son-in-law, we are pleased to see in our village, and to hear by your mouth, the good words of the Great Chief. We thought to receive a few words from the French people, but I see the contrary: none but the Big-knife is sending speeches to us. You know that we can terminate nothing without the consent of our elder brethren, the Miamies. I invite you to proceed to their village, and to speak to them. There is one thing in your speech I do notlike: I will not tell of it: even was I drunk, I would perceive it? but our elder brethren will certainly take notice of it in your speech. You invite us to stop our young men. It is impossible to do it,being.constantly encouraged by the British.” Another chief got up and said: “The Americans are very flattering in their speeches: many times our nation went to their rendezvous. I was once myself. Some of our chiefs died on the route, and we always came back all naked, and you,Gamelin, you come with speech, with empty hands.” Another chief got up and said to his young men: “ If we are so poor, and dressed in deer skins, it is our own fault: our French traders are leaving us and our villages, because you plunder them every day, and it is time for ns to have another conduct.” Another chief got up and said: “ Know ye that the village of Ouiatanon is the sepulchre of all our ancestors. The chief of America invites us to go to him, if we are for peace; he has not his leg broke, having been able to go as far as the Illinois: he might come here himself, and we should be glad to see him at our village. We confess that we accepted the axe, but it is by the reproach we continually receive from the English and other nations, which received the axe first, calling us women; at the present time, they invite our young men to war: as to the old people, they are wishing for peace.” They could not give me an answer before they received advice front the Miamies, their elder brethren. The 18th April I arrived at the river it l’Anguille. The chief of the village, and those of war. were not present. I explained the speeches to some of the tribe; they said they were well pleased, but they could not give me an answer, their chief men being absent; they desired nte to stop at their village coming back, and they sent with me one of their men for to hear tne answer of their eldest brethren. The 23d April I arrived at the Miami town? the next day, I got the Miami nation, the Chaouanons, and Delawares, all assembled. I gave to each nation two branches of wampum, and began the speeches, before the F’rench and English traders, being invited by the chiefs to be present, having told them myself I would be glad to have them present, having nothing to say against any body. After the speech, 1 showed them the treaty concluded at Muskingum, between his Excellency Governor St. Clair? and sundry nations, which displeased them. I told them that the purpose of this present time was not to submit them to any condition; but to offer them the peace, which made disappear their displeasure. The great chief told me that he was pleased with the speech? that he would soon give me an answer. In a private discourse with the great chief, he told me not to mind what the Chaouanons would tell me, having a bad heart, and being the perturbators of all the nations. He said the Miamies had a bad name, on 13 By these are meant the Shawaneese. t, account of mischief done on the liver Ohio, but he told me it was not occasioned by his young men. but by the Chaouanons, his young men going out only for to hunt. The 25th of April, Blue Jacket, chief warrior of the Chaouanons, invited me to go to his house, and told me, “ My friend, by the name and consent of the Chaouanons and Delawares, I will'speak to. you. We are all sensible of your speech.'and pleased with it: but, after consultation, we cannot give an answer without hearing from our father at Detroit, and we are determined to give you back the two branches of wampum, and to send you to Detroit to see and hear the chief, or to stay here twenty nights for to receive his answer. From all quarters, we receive speeches from the Americans, and not one is alike. We suppose that they intend to deceive us—then take back your branches of wampum.” The 26tln five Pattawatamies arrived here with two negro men, which they sold to English traders,* the next day I went to the great chief of the Miamies, called Lc Gris; his chief warrior was present. 1 told him how I had been served by the Chaouanons; he answered me, that he had heard of it; that tne said nations behaved contrary to his intentions. He desired me not to mind those strangers, and that he would soon give me a positive answer. The 28th April, the great chief desired me to call at the French trader’s, and receive his answer. “Don’t take bad,” said he, “of what I am to tell you; you may go back when you please. We cannot give you a positive answer; we must send your speeches to all our neighbors and to the Lake nations; we cannot give a definitive answer without consulting the commandant of Detroit.” And he desired me to render him the two branches of wampum refused by the Chaouanons; also, a copy of speeches, in writing. He promised me that, in thirty nights, he would send an answer to Post St. Vincennes, by a young man of each nation; he was well pleased with the speeches, and said to be worthy of attention, and should be communicated to all their confederates, having resolved among them not to do any thing without an unanimous consent. I agreed to his requisitions, and rendered him the two branches of wampum, and a copy of the speech. Afterwards, he told me, that the Five Nations, so called, or Iroquois, were training something; that five of them and three Wyandots were in this village with branches of wampum; he could not tell me presently their purpose, but he said I would know of it very soon. The same day Blue Jacket, chief of the Chaouanons, invited me to his house for supper, and. before the other chiefs, told me that, after another deliberation, they thought necessary that I should go myself to Detroit, for to see the commandant, who would get all his children assembled for to hear my speech. I told them I would not answer them in the night—that I was not ashamed to speak before the sun. The 29th of April, I got them all assembled. I told them that I was not to go to Detroit; that the speeches were directed to the nations of the river Wabash and the Miami, and that, for to prove the sincerity of the speech, anti the heart of Governor St. Clair, I have willingly given a copy of the speeches, to be shown to the commandant of Detroit; that his excellency will be glad to hear that his speeches have been sent to Detroit, and, according to a letter wrote by the commandant of Detroit to the Miamies, Chaouanons, and Delawares, mentioning to you to be peaceable with the Americans. I would go to him very willingly, if it was my directions, being sensible of his sentiments.1 1 told them I had nothing to say to the commandant, neither him to me. You must immediately resolve, if you intend to take me to Detroit, or else I am to go back as soon as possible. Blue Jacket got up and told me, “My friend, we are well pleased with what you say; our intention is not to force you to go to Detroit: it is only a proposal, thinking it for the best. Our answer is the same as die Miamies. We will send, in thirty nights, a full and positive answer, by a young man of each nation, by writing to Post St. Vincennes.” In the evening, Blue Jacket, chief of the Chaouanons, having taken me to supper with him, told me, in a private manner, that the nation Chaouanoii was in doubt of the sincerity of the Big-kniles, so called, having been already deceived by them. That they had first destroyed their lands, put out their fire, and sent away their young men, being a hunting, without a mouthful of meat; also had taken away their women, wherefore, many of them would, with great deal of pain, forget these aifronts. Moreover, that some other nations were apprehending that offers of peace would, may be, tend to take away, by degrees, their lands, and would serve them as they did before; a certain proof that they intend to encroach on our lands, is their new settlement on the Ohio. If they don't keep this side clear, it will never be a proper reconcilement with the nations Chaouanons. Iroquois, Wyandots, and perhaps many others. Le Gris, chief of the Miamies, asked me, in a private discourse, what chief had made a treaty with the Americans at Muskingum. I answered him, that their names were mentioned in the treaty; he told me that he had heard of it some time ago, but they are not chiefs, neither delegates, who made that treaty; they are only young men, who, without authority and instruction from their chiefs, have, concluded that treaty, which will not be approved. They went to that treaty clandestinely, and they intend to make mention of it in tne next council to be held. The 2d of May, I came.back to the river ii l’Anguille. One of the chief men of the (tribe being witness of the council at Miami town, repeated the whole to them; and whereas the first chief was absent, they said they could not for present time, give answer; but they are willing to join their speech to those of their eldest brethren. “To give you proof of an open heart; we let you know that one of our chiefs is gone to war on the Americans, but it was before we heard of you; for certain they would not have been gone thither.” They also told me, that a few days after I passed by their village, seventy warriors, Santeux and Outawais, from Michiliniackinac. arrived there; some of them were Poux, who, meeting in their route the Sauteaux and Outawais, joined them. “We told them what we heard by you; that your speech is fair and true. We could not stop them from going to war. The Poux told us, that, as the Sauteaux and Outawais were more numerous than them, they were forced to follow them.” The 3d of May, I got to the Ouias; they told me that they were waiting for an answer from their eldest brethren. “We approve very much our brethren for not to give a definitive answer,’ without informing of it all the Lake nations; that Detroit was the place where the fire was lighted; then it ought first to be put out there; that the English commandant is their father, since he threw down our French father; they could do nothing without his approbation.” The -4th May I arrived at the village of the Kickapoos: the chief, presenting me two branches of wampum, black and white, said: “ My son, we cannot stop our young men from going to war; every day some set off clandestinely lor that purpose: after, such behavior from our young men, we are ashamed to say to the great chief at the Illinois and of the Post St. Vincennes, that, we are busy about some good affairs for the reconcilement; but be persuaded that we will speak to them continually concerning the peace, and that, when our eldest brethren will have sent their answer, we will join ours to it.” The 5th of May I arrived at Vermillion; I found no body but two chiefs; all the rest were gone a hunting; they told me they had nothing else to say but what I was told going up. They told me that the Grosse Tete, a warrior absent, appears to have a bad heart. ANTOINE GAMELIN, Messenger. This 17th day of May, appeal'd before me, Mr. Antoine Gamelin, and swore that the within is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. FS. HAMTRAMCK, Major Commandant. AR. ST. CLAIR. Copy of a circular letter from Governor Si. Clair, to the county Lieutenants. Head Quarters, Fort Washington, July 15th, 1790. Sir: _ _ .... The interests of the United States dictating a peace with the Indian nations on the Wabash, if it could be obtained upon reasonable terms, I was directed by the President to give them information of the disposition of the General Government on that subject, and to try to effect it ; at the same time. I was instructed by him to take measures for the security of the frontier country, in case of their continuing hostile. The following is extracted from his instruc- lions to me on that heail (here was inserted that pai r of my instructions relative to the militia. 1 I have now to inform you that there is no prospect of peace with the said Indians at present; on the contrary, iney continue very ill disposed towards the United States in general, and to Virginia in particular: and many parties are, from information lately received, now actually gone to war. The commanding officer of the troops and myself have, therefore, concerted a plan of offensive operations against them, and in conformity with the above recited instructions, I now call upon.you, in the name of the President of the United States, £>r----men, rank and tile, and properly officered, according to the legal establishment of the militia of your State, to act in conjunction with the federal troops, against die said Indians: and that they be at-, on the----day of September next, armed, accoutred, and equipped, for a service of sixty days or more, alter they shall have joined the troops, unless the object in view shall be sooner accomplished. The laudable desire, and ardent spirit, to repress incursions of the savages, bv which the militia have been actuated. upon all occasions, leave not room for a doubt but the present opportunity to punish them for the many injuries .and cruelties they have committed, will be embraced with zeal. But allow me to observe, that it is of the utmost importance that they be punctually at the rendezvous. I have the honor to be, &c. AR. ST. CLAIR. The counties of Virginia were called upon in the following proportion, which were assigned them from the best .nformalion I could get, of their respective Strengths: The county of Nelson, 125'Lincoln. 125 < Jefferson, 50 J 300 Madison. 125') Mercer. 125 Fayette. 200 V Bourbon, 125 (Woodford. 85 | Mason. 40J 700 To rendezvous at Fort Washington. September 15th. The counties of Pennsylvania, the proportions of which Mere assigned them by the number of their representatives in Assembly, which being governed by the number of people, from time to time, appeared an equal rule, and was the only one. I had to go by. having been able to meet with but one of the Lieutenants. Wasliington county. 220''. Westmoreland 110 assemble at McMahon's creek, four miles below Wheeling, on 3d Sept. Alleghany. 60 j 500 Copy of a letter from Governor St. Chur to the senior officer of the Pennsylvania militia, assembled at McMullens Creek. Pittsburgh, August 7th, 1790. Sir: As soon as the detachments from the different counties are arrived, you will proceed, without loss of time, to fort Haruiar, at the mouth of the Muskingum, and there join the Federal troops under the command of Major Doughty, who will either conduct you to head quarters, or direct the manner in which you are to proceed to that place. 1 do hone, and expect, that nothing will prevent the whole quota of Pennsylvania from being assembled at the appointed place and time: after which, you will remain on that ground not a moment longer than is necessary; at all events you must be in motion from thence, on, or before, the 10th of September: for the delaying beyond that period, even for one day, might create difficulties and embarrassments that would not be easily got over, if it did not render the expedition altogether abortive. 1 have mentioned the 10th as the utmost period, but you are by no means to delay it to that time, if the different detachments are sooner arrived. Should it happen that any of them are not got up when you move, leave directions for them to follow you with all possible expedition to Fort Washington, without halting at Muskingum. You will he sure to take the necessary measures for the security of your camp, white you remain at the rendezvous, and on your way down the river; possibly you may see no Indians, or none that are hostile, but a surprise is ever to be guarded against, so that you will never encamp without establishing proper guards and patrols, nor even go ashore, tor ever so short a time, without the same precaution. Vou will please to observe that many ot the friendly Indians with whom the United States are engaged by treaty, may be in the neighborhood of McMahen's creek, and that they have a right to hunt in that country. Itis of great consequence that no injury be done to any of them, both for the sake of public faith, which has been pledged to them, and to keep them detached from those who are inimical. You will therefore impress the necessity of treating those Indians with kindness, should any of them be met with, upon the minds of the people under your command, in the most forcible manner. Indeed, the success of the expedition, in some measure, depends upon it. They are the Wyandot's and Delawares. If you see any of them, assure them no harm is intended them, il they continue in peace. AR. ST. CLAIR. The Governor of the Western Territory to the Secretary of liar. M arietta, 19th September, 1790. The depredations on the Ohio and the Wabash still continue; everyday, almost, brings an account of some murder or robbery, and yesterday a number of horses were taken from this settlement. Not long ago. a boat belonging to Mr. Vigo, a gentleman of Post St. Vincennes, was fired upon near the mouth of Blue River. This person, the United .States have been very much obliged to on many occasions, and is, in truth, the most disinterested person I have almost ever seen. He had three men killed, and was obliged in consequence to fall down the river. This party, it seems, had been designed to intercept me: for they reported that they had had three lair discharges at the Governor’s boat, and expected that they had killed him. In descending the river, Mr. Vigo’s boat fell in with Mr. Melclior’s, returning from Tennessee, and attempted, in company with him, to ascend the Wabash. Here they were attacked again. Melchor escaped, and fell down.it seems, to the Alice de la graisse, but the savages possessed themselves of Vigo’s boat, which they plundered of all his and the crew’s personal baggage and arms; but as she was navigated by Frenchmen, they suffered them to depart with the peltries, telling them that, if she had not been in company with Americans, they would not have injured them, and that, if they found them in such again, they would put them to death. Captain McCurdy likewise was fired upon between Fort Washington and this place, and had five or six men killed and wounded. I am directed to write to the commanding officer at Detroit. I have enclosed a copy of that letter.” Governor St. Char to the commanding officer of Detroit. Marietta, 19th September, 1790. Sir: As it is not improbable that an account of the military preparations going forward in this quarter of the country may reach you, and give you some uneasiness, while the object to which they are to be directed is not perfectly known to you, I am commanded by the President of the United States to give you the fullest assurances of the pacific disposition entertained towards Great Britain and all her possessions, and to inform you explicitly that the expedition about to be undertaken, is not intended against the post you have the honor to command, nor any other place at present in the possession of the troops of his Britannic Majesty, but is on foot witli the sole design of humbling and chastising some of the savage tribes whose depredations are become intolerable, and whose cruelties have of late become an outrage, not on the people of America only, but on humanity, which I now do in the most unequivocal manner. After this candid explanation, sir, there is every reason to expect, both from your own personal character, and from the regard you have for that of your nation, that those tribes will meet with neither countenance nor assistance from any under your command, and that you will do what in your power lies, to restrain the trading people, from whose instigations there is too good reason to believe, much of the injuries committed by the savages lias proceeded. I have forwarded this letter by a private gentleman, iri preference to that of an officer, by whom you might have expected a communication of this kind, that every suspicion of die purity of the views of the United States might be obviated. Governor St. Clair to the Secretary of War. Fort Washington, 9th October, 1790. On the 23d ultimo, I arrived at this place, and found every thing in a better state of preparation than I had flattered myself with, owing to the prudent care and attention of General Harmar, and the indefatigable application of Captain Ferguson. The militia that had been ordered from Kentucky, appeared on the day appointed, all except one hundred and forty, who have since come forward, and marched to join the army. Major Wyllis, with the troops from the falls, got up on the 22d, and Major Doughty, with part of the garrison of fort Harmar, arrived on the 25tn. From the failure on the part of Pennsylvania, the corps would have been rather too weak, and General Harmar was of opinion with me, that it would be proper to ask for a reinforcement from Kentucky, and in virtue of the powers granted to me by the President, I immediately called for five hundred from the counties of Fayette and Woodford, which were the nearest, and also the most populous, and requested that, if it coukl be done, they might all be \ mounted; but as the other militia had been for some time here, and were beginning to grow impatient, it was thought best not to wait for the arrival of the reinforcement, and accordingly the corps under the immediate command of Colonel Harding, was put in motion on the 27th, with orders to advance about twenty miles, and to open a road from their camp to this place, for the passage of the artillery. By the accounts we have of the country, after the first twenty miles are passed, it becomes level, and so thinly covered with wood, that there will be little occasion to ' open roads. On the 30th, General Harmar moved with the troops, three pieces of artillery, and the provisions for the campaign, the cattle and horses for the transportation of the flour having arrived in due season. On the 2d instant, Mr. Frotbingham arrived with the remainder of the garrison of fort Harmar, and proceeded to join the army on the third. 'I have not heard from General Harmar since his second day’s march. The country was then hilly and difficult for the artillery; but some persons who had been viewing the country came in two day’s ago, who confirm the account of its very soon becoming level and open. They fell in upon the trace of the army about seven miles from Mud river, and returned upon it In that distance, there had been occasion to make only one very small causeway with logs. They must be up with Ohillicothe before now, and if they have not been opposed there, which I do not expect, as it is situated in a plain prairie. The Indians will be found assembled at the Miami village. Major Hamtramck had orders from General Harmar to move on the 25th of the last month, and the militia would join him in time for him to comply with the orders within a day or two at farthest. The intelligence I received shall be communicated from time to time, by every opportunity, and by express, if any thing occurs of sufficient importance. The Tittle army moved in high spirits, and have had excellent weather ever since, one day’s rain excepted.'.Messrs. Elliot and Williams, Contractors, to the Secretary of JVar. 14th October, 1790. In consequence of orders received from General Harmar, dated the 15th of July, which we engaged to comply with by the 1st of October, we have, before the 18th of September, furnished and equipped for the use of the army, in the intended expedition against the savages, one hundred and eighty thousand rations of flour, two hundred thousand rations of meat, eight hundred and sixty-eight pack and artillery horses, equipped with pack "saddles, bags, rones, &c. and one horse-master general, eighteen horse-masters, one hundred and thirty pack-norse drivers, all of which could not have been done upon so short, a notice as we nave had, if we had not employed all our funds, and pledged our credit to the extent, to the people of the Western country, where the supplies were principally furnished. The expedition, we trust, cannot fail from any default of ours, for we have forwarded supplies in greater quantities than were required of us; and even more tnan our most sanguine expectations, at the commencement of the business, encouraged us to promise. Instructions from the President of the United States to the Governor of the Western Territory.—6th October, 1789. To Arthur St. Clair, Esq. Governor or the territory of the United States northwest of the Ohio, and Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Northern district: Snu Congress having, by their act of the 29th of September last, empowered me to call forth the militia of the States, respectively, for the protection of the frontiers from the incursions of the hostile Indians, I have thought proper to make this communication to you, together with the instructions herein contained. It is highly necessary that I should as soon as possible, possess lull information, whether the Wabash and Illinois Indians are most inclined for war or peace. II for the former, it is proper that I should be informed of the means which will most probably induce them to peace. If a peace can be established with the said Indians on reasonable terms, the interests of the United States dictate, that it should be effected as soon as possible. You will therefore inform the said Indians of die dispositions of the General Government on this subject, and of their reasonable desire that there should be a cessation of hostilities as a prelude to a treaty. If, however, notwithstanding your intimations to them, they should continue their hostilities, or meditate any incursions against the frontiers of Virginia and Pennsylvania, or agaiiist any of the troops or posts of the United States, and it should appear to you that the time of execution would he so near as to forbid your transmitting the information to me, and receiving my further orders thereon, then you are hereby authorized and empowered, in my name, to cal! on the lieutenants of the nearest counties of Virginia and Pennsylvania, for such detachments of militia as you may judge proper, not exceeding, however, one thousand from Virginia and five hundred from Pennsylvania. I have directed letters to be written to the Executives of Virginia and Pennsylvania, informing them of the before recited act of Congress, and that I have given you these conditional directions, so that there may not be any obstructions to such measures as shall be necessary to be taken b\ you for calling forth the militia agreeably to the instructions herein contained. The said militia to act in conjunction with the federal troops, in such operations, offensive or defensive, as you, and the commanding officer of the troops, conjointly, shall judge necessary for the public sendee, and the protection of the inhabitants and the posts. The said militia, while in actual service, to be on the continental establishment of pay and rations; they are to arm and equip themselves, but to be furnished with public ammunition if necessary, and no charge for the pay of said militia will be valid unless supported by regular musters, made by a field or other officer of the federal troops, to be appointed by the commanding officer of the troops. I would have it observed forcibly, that a war with the Wabash Indians ought to he avoided by all means consistently with the security of the frontier inhabitants, the security of the troops, and the national dignity. In the exercise of the present indiscriminate hostilities, it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to say that a war without further measures would be just on the part of the United States. But, if, after manifesting clearly to the Indians, the dispositions of the General Government for the preservation of peace, and the extension of a just protection to the said Indians, they should contiuue their incursions, the United States will be constrained J ; ' ' ' with severity. You will, also, proceed, as soon as you can, with safety, to execute ihe orders of the late Congress, respecting the inhabitants at St. Yincennes, and at the Kaskaskias, and the other villages on the Mississippi. It is a circumstance of some importance, that the said inhabitants should, as soon as possible, possess the lands to which they are entitled, by some known and fixed principles. I have directed a number of copies of the treaty made by you, at fort Harmar. with the Wyandots, &c. on the 9th of January last, to be printed and forwarded to you, together with the ratification, and my proclamation enjoining the observance thereof. As it may be of high importance to obtain a precise and accurate knowledge of the several waters which empty into the Ohio, on the northwest, and of those which discharge themselves in the lakes Erie and Michigan, the length of the portages between, and nature of the ground, an early and pointed attention thereto is earnestly recommended. Given under my hand, in the city of New York, this 6th day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine, and in the thirteenth year of the sovereignty and independence of the United States. The Secretary of JVur to General Harmar. 7th June. 1790. The information contained in your letter of the 24th of March last, relative to the depredations of the Indians, is corroborated by several other letters, with considerable additions. The reports of these several events, have excited much disquietude in the public mind generally, and, more particularly, in all men whose views or interests are westward. A letter from Judge Symmes, dated at Lexington, the 30th of April last, mentions, that you, with some continental troops, and General Scott, with some volunteers from Kentucky, had made an expedition up the Ohio, against the Indians,at or near the Scioto, who had annoyed the boats in descending the Ohio, but without any considerable effect, having killed only four Indians. The recent hostilities, according to the information, seems to have been committed by the remnants of the Shaw-anese,. and the banditti from several tribes associated with them. Although the said Shawanese, and banditti, aggregately, may not amount, at the excess, to two hundred lighting men, yet they seem sufficient to alarm the whole frontier lying along the Ohio, and, in a considerable degree, injure the reputation of the Government. To extend a defensive and efficient protection to so extensive a frontier, against solitary, or small parties of enterprising savages, seems altogether impossible. No other remedy remains, but to extirpate, utterly, if possible, the said banditti. The President of the United States, therefore, directs, that you, and the Governor ot the Western Territory, consult together upon the most practicable mode of effecting this object, in such manner as not to interfere with any treaties lie may be about forming with any of the,regular tribes of Indians on the Wabash. At this distance, and under the information received, it would seem that an expedition of the nature herein described, might, if conducted with great address and rapidity, be attended with the desired etl'ect. The troops to be employed on this occasion, to be composed of one hundred continental, and three hundred militia, non-commissioned officers and privates, all picked men, and properly officered. The militia to he drawn from the nearest counties of Kentucky, to rendezvous at fort Washington, or the mouth of the Great Miami, or such other place as you may judge more proper, to be engaged for thirty days from their arrival at the rendezvous. The continental troops and militia to he mounted on horseback, and if, in the judgment of the Governor and yourself, that mode of transportation would most probably ensure success, and horses could be obtained in a reasonable distance. The militia to be on continental pay, according to the establishment, passed the 30th April last; and rations from the time of their arrival at the place of rendezvous. A continental officer, to muster and inspect the militia on their arrival, and none to be inserted in the pay abstracts, which must be certified by you, unless so mustered. The militia to find their own arms and accoutrements, but to be furnished by the public, with ammunition, if necessary. The militia officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates, to be allowed for the hire and risk of their horses, and horse accoutrements, such a sum, per day, as the Governor anil you shall certify that the nature of the service required; provided, however, such sum shall not exceed half a dollar per day. The horses to be hired for continental troops, to be on the same terms, or less, in proportion to the risk of the horses, which, perhaps, ought to be on account of the United States, according to the value ot the horses, which, in that case, ought to be appraised. It is presumed, that each horse, besides the rider, ought to carry thirty days bread and pork, or bacon, and nbout a bushel of corn, or one quart per day, as fodder for the horses. 03637365 The Shawanese, and banditti associated with them, are said to reside on the eastern branches of the Wabash river, towards its head. I have learned from Major Doughty and Captain Ferguson, that the Wabash has a more easterly course tiian is laid down in Hutchin’s map. If this be so, the distance from the mouth of the Great Miami, over, cannot greatly exceed the distance from the rapids over to Post St. Vincennes. But, suppose the distance should be oue hundred and thirty or forty miles, it could be marched on horseback, in four days, at furthest. It would be unnecessary to enter into any further details. To the judgment of the Governor and you, the expedition may justly be conficied. Efficacy, and die peace of the frontiers, are the great objects; with these are to be blended due economy. But, all future depredations of the Indians from the southwest of the Ohio, in considerable numbers, must, if possible, be prevented; and, for this purpose, the orders now given, or even an extension of them, one or two hundred men, must be considered as a standing order, until die object of extirpating the murderous banditti before mentioned, be effected. It is, however, strongly to be observed, that the highest precautions must be taken in all incursions into_ the Indian country, that the friendly, or even neutral tribes, be uninjured, but, that the strongest assurances be given to such tribes, of the pacific and just dispositions of the United States, and, at the same time, of their firm intentions of inflicting severe punishment upon all those of a contrary nature. Although these orders are to be considered as addressed, conjointly to the Governor and yourself, yet, in case of his absence, and a conviction, in your own mind, that an expedition of the beforementioned description would not interfere, or impede his negotiations, you are to undertake it as if he were present. The Secretary of War to the Secretary of the Treasury. 2,5d Jhtgust, 1790. Jin estimate of the expense of employing, for three months, one thousand seven hundred militia, and four hundred continental troops, in an expedition against the Wabash Indians—two hundred of the militia to be mounted. The Militia. The pay,..........................................-............................................ $24,012 The subsistence and rations at 16-90ths of a dollar,   31,502 Forage for the field and staff officers, ......... 234 -------$35,548 The Continental Troops. additional expense of subsistence and rations to the continental troops, during the same period. This expense arises from the contract; the price of the ration at fort Washington is stated at six and a half ninetieths of a dollar; but, from that post to the places of operation, the, price will be sixteen-ninetieths,...................................................- - - - - 4,146 The quartermaster’s department, including the hire of four hundred horses, purchase of boats, and transportation, '-      30,000 Contingencies,  10,306 $100,000 The contractors are to execute the duties of the quartermaster’s department; the extra services, therefore, which will be required of them, independent of the sum set down for contingencies, will amount to sixty-five thousand six hundred and eighty-two dollars. One half of this sum may be necessary to be advanced immediately, to enable them to perform effectually the services required. The Secretary of War to Governor St. Clair. 23d Jh/gust, 1790. I I have submitted to the President of the United States, your letter of this date, and the papers therein referred to, containing the reasons on which you have founded the proposed operation against the Wabash Indians. While the President regrets exceedingly the occasion, he approves the measures you have taken, for preventing those predatory incursions of the 'Wabash Indians, which, for a considerable period past, have been so calamitous to the frontiers lying along the Ohio. 'The offers of peace, which have been made upon principles of justice and humanity, to the "Wabash Indians, and refused- will fully justify the conduct of the United States in the operations which have been directed for the prevention of future murders and robberies. It is the earnest desire of the President that the operation should be effectual, and produce in the Indians proper dispositions for peace. He therefore confide^ in your judgment and abilities, as being perfectly acquainted with the force of the Indians, the nature of the operation, and all the circumstances of the case, whether any further force shall be added to that already ordered. If, upon due deliberation, you should be of opinion that the force you have directed should be inadequate to the end proposed, and that an additional number ol militia should be requisite, he consents to the measure, and hereby authorizes you for that purpose. In this case, the additional number of militia should betaken from the frontier counties of Virginia, on account of their vicinity to fort Washington, the place of rendezvous. And, if you should be of the judgment that two hundred of the militia should be mounted on horse-back, he also consents to such arrangement, under the regulations prescribed in my letter to Brigadier General Harmar, of the 7thday of last June. ‘ It may not, however, be improper to observe, in all the arrangements for the expedition, that, while energy is the first principle to be observed, it must be blended with a just economy. There are existing jealousies in the minds of the British officers, in Canada, of the designs of the United States respecting the posts to have been relinquished by the last peace. It will be a point, therefore, of delicacy, that you should take measures, by sending some officer or messenger, at a proper time, to assure the commanding officer of the real object of the expedition. That the Shawanese, and some others joined with them, have committed such enormous offences against the citizens of the United States, as are any longer insupportable; but, to assure him of the entire pacific disposition of the United States towards Great Britain and its possessions. You will also find it, at some certain moment, highly proper to inform the Indians, with whom you have formed treaties, of your pacific dispositions towards them. And it. may also be proper, under certain circumstances of humiliation of the Indians, to conclude with them treaties of peace, provided it can be done on proper security of their good behavior, and consistently with the dignity and interest of the United Slates. The President has directed me to observe, that many important circumstances concur to press, that the operation should commence immediately after the assembling of the militia; and as the main force will march from fort Washington, it is his opinion, as far as an opinion can be formed from the maps, that the march of the troops from that post, should commence two or three days previous to those from Post Vincennes. The militia employed must be mustered previously to their march, and on their return before they are discharged, by a field officer of the continental troops, agreeably to your instructions from the President, dated the 5tn of October, 1789. and to Brigadier General Harmar. dated the 7th of June last. I have made an estimate for the object of the expedition, and transmitted it to the Secretary of the Treasury, and I have requested him to advance a sum ot money to the contractors, in order to enable them to furnish the requisite supplies of provision and articles in the quartermaster's department. 1 have also written to Mr. Hodgden. commissary of military stores in Philadelphia, to forward, immediately, by the way of Red Stone and Wheeling, two tons of best rifle and musket powder, four tons leaden bullets, cartridge-paper, ease shot for 5] inch howitzers, and lor three and six pounders. I have written to Lieutenant Ernest, at fort Pitt, directing him to repair to Red Stone, in order to receive said stores, and to have them transported down the Monongahela. by water, to fort Harmar, or to Wheeling, by land, and thence to fort Harmar, as he shall find most convenient. The Secretary of ffarto Brigadier General Harmar. August 24. 1790. I now acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 15th of last month, by Governor St. Clair, who has stated to me the plan of the proposed expedition against the Indians, and the same has been submitted to the President of the United States, who has approved thereof. My letter to the.Governor, of yesterday, which he will communicate to you, contains some circumstances which may not be necessary to repeat. The expedition you are about to undertake is not only of great importance in itself, but it may be attended with extensive and remote consequences. Every consideration, therefore, of a public nature, as well as personal to yourself, require that it should be conducted in the most perfect manner; that there should not be any omissions, but all just arrangements made to produce a due execution of every plan and order. A knowledge of your enemy’s strength, situation^ and designs, must be essential to your success; you will, therefore, make the best arrangements for obtaining intelligence. While, on the one hand, your movements and execution should be so rapid and decisive as to astonish your enemy, so, on the other, every possible precaution in the power of human foresight should be used to prevent surprise. To enter into the details of the measures you ought to take to effect the former, or prevent the latter, would be to attempt to preclude the exercise of }our abilities. The President of the United States is impressed with the conviction that you are aware of the importance of your command, anil that you will endeavor to make the best arrangements to ensure success, and particularly that you will avail yourself, on all occasions, of the mature experience and judgment of Governor St. Clair. I have, agreeably to Major Doughty’s report, directed Mr. Hodgden to forward two tons of the best rifle and musket powder, lead in proportion, cartridge paper, flints, and the medicines you wrote for, the capital articles of which are doubled. I have transmitted you, by Governor St. Clair, one thousand dollars for contingent money, for which you will forward me triplicate receipts. As it is probable that most of the militia may be armed with rifles, which are certainly not good arms in a close light, itmay.perhapl.be proper for you to attempt to persuade some of them to arm themselves with the spare muskets you have in store. P. S. It will be necessary that you communicate the time of your setting out. the number of your command, the progress and termination of the expedition, and the various events proper for the President to know. The Secretary of liar to the Governor of Virginia. SEPTEMBER 2, 1790. Governor St. Clair has, in person, laid before the President the plan of the proposed operation against the Wabash Indians, which has been approved. It being the anxious desire of the President that the expedition should be effectual, and not require a repetition, all the arrangements are made to accomplish so desirable an end. For this purpose. Governor St. Clair has been further empowered to require, if necessary, an additional number of men. if, therefore, there are any measures necessary to be taken by your Excellency and the council, in order to facilitate an additional number of men, the President of the United States hopes they will be expedited with all possible despatch. It has been suggested that the expedition may be liable to miscarriage, from a jealousy of the militia and regular troops. It is devoutly to be wished that such suggestions may be entirely unfounded. But, if jealousies should exist, it would be highly important that they should be entirely removed, or suspended during the season of activity. I shall write particularly on this point to Governor St. Clair and to Brigadier General Harmar, to adopt the most conciliatory conduct. It has also been mentioned as a circumstance of considerable importance to the success of the expedition, that Colonels Logan and Shelby should be induced to accompany the militia on the expedition, even as volunteers,!great confidence being placed in the characters of these gentlemen. Could your Excellency, therefore, influence those gentlemen to go forth on this occasion, it would be highly acceptable, ana might tend greatly to the accomplishment of the public good. The expense of the expedition will be great, and if it should fail by any circumstances whatever, the public injury and disappointment will be in proportion. It is thought proper, for particular and political reasons, to give the expedition the appearance of being levelled only at the Shawanese. The Secret ary of IVar to Messrs. Elliot and ffllliams, at Baltimore. September 3, 1790. Your friend, Colonel Samuel Smith, lias been here, and has made sueli arrangements with the Secretary of the Treasury, respecting advances, as Ire entirely satisfactory to him. You will, therefore, not find yourselves any ways restrained in your preparations for want of pecuniary assistance. I am persuaded that you will endeavor, by every possible exertion, to make adequate preparations, both in the commissary and quartermaster's line, for the proposed expedition. t.On your making adequate and seasonable supplies, the whole success of the expedition may depend. You will see, therefore, the urgent necessity of every thing being in perfect readiness. The Secretary of Jfar to Governor St. Clair. September 12, 1790. I have not been unmindful of the suggestion you made at the moment of your departure from this city, relative to the establishment of a post at the Miami village, in the event of the proposed expedition’s succeeding in a certain degree. I have had a full communication on the subject with the President of the United States, to whom you had previously made the same suggestion, and the following ideas are the result thereof, and will serve for the direction of yourself and Brigadier General Harmar on the occasion. In contemplating the establishment of military posts northwest of the Ohio, to answer the purposes of awing the Indians residing on the Wabash, the west end oi'Lake Erie, St. Joseph’s, and the Illinois, as much as Indians can be awed by posts, and at the same time exhibiting a respectable appearance to the British troops at Detroit and Niagara, the Miami village presents itself as superior to any other position, excepting the actual possession of the posts on the lakes, which ought to have been given up comfonnable to the treaty of peace. This opinion was given to me by the President in the year 1789, and has several times been held forth by me to Brigadier General Harmar. But, at the same time, it must be acknowledged that the measure would involve a much larger military establishment, than, perhaps, the value of the object, or the dispositions of the United States would justify, and that it would be so opposed to the inclinations of the Indians generally, even with the tribes with whom we have made treaties, as to bring on inevitably an Indian war of some duration. In addition to which, it may be supposed that the British garrisons would find themselves so uneasy with such a force impending over them, as not only to occasion a considerable reinforcement of their upper posts, but to occasion their fomenting, secretly at least, the opposition of the Indians. The proposed expedition is intended to exhibit to the Wabash Indians our power to punish them for their hostile depredations, for their conniving at the depredations of others, and for their refusing to treat with the United States when invited thereto. This power will be demonstrated by a sudden stroke, by which their towns and crops may be destroyed. The principal means used will be the militia. Let us suppose the expedition to be successful, as I pray God it'may, and let us estimate the force which would be fully required for establishing a post at the Miami Village. From the mode of Indian lighting, it will not be reasonable to conclude their force will be greatly reduced in the skirmishes] they may have with Brigadier General Harmar, or Major Hamtramck. If, therefore, eleven hundred warriors, according to your judgment, delivered to me, could be brought into activity from the Wabash and its vicinity, to which may be added a much greater number, if we should suppose that the Wyandot, Delaware, St. Joseph’s, and Illinois Indians should be combined with them, the post to be established ought not to have a less garrison than 750 men; were it inferior to this number, it would always be liable to be invested and to have its supplies cut oft’, even when arrived in its vicinity. Whether the posts of communication essentially necessary to the existence of the Miami post, should be up the Wabash, up the Miami of the Ohio, or the Miami of lake Erie, they would require at different places, at least 500 men. To establish the post in the first instance, so as to render it superior to the Indian force in the neighborhood, would require all the troops employed in the expedition, to wit, 2,000: for if a sudden stroke, by which the attention and force of the Indians should be divided, would require that number, the notoriety of establishing a post and erecting fortifications at the Miami village, in the heart of the Indian country, would require the same or a superior number; as the Indians would then have one object of their attention and exertion. To complete the works at the post, and the essential communications to it, would probably require two months. Would the militia stay for that period? It so, would part of them remain in garrison afterwards, for six months? for the four hundred continental troops to be employed on the expedition, would be utterly inadequate for all the services required. Besides, the post could not be established, unless it had a number of pieces of cannon, and a proper quantity of stores, and also three months’ provision in the first instance. The transportation of these articles, would require considerable time anil a great apparatus. It might be added, further, that, although the establishment of a strong post, at the Miami Village, would awe the Indians, yet experience has demonstrated that posts will not prevent the depredations of small parties against the frontiers. To render the measure entirely effectual, and at the same time to guard the public lands from intrusion, the regular force tobe employed, northwest of the Ohio, ought to be increased to 1,800 men. This establishment would not be compatible either with the public views or the public finances, unless it should result from mere necessity; a due consideration, therefore, of these several circumstances, renders the measure at this period inexpedient, and, therefore, not to be undertaken. ... The expedition will either incline the Indians to treat of peace, or it will induce them to wage open war in the ensuing spring. A. further time is also required, to know the intentions of the British court, respecting the delivery of Niagara and Detroit The decision of this point has an intimate connexion with the peace of the frontiers. The ultimate determination of Government must, therefore, depend on the result of the arrangements which have been directed and which are in operation. It would not be wise to direct a measure which would give a wrong bias to affairs. The President will be exceedingly desirous to learn the measures taken by yourself and Brigadier General Harmar, from time to time, and above all, he is exceedingly anxious that every arrrangement should be made to render the proposed expedition entirely effectual. Secretary of War to General Harmar. ’ 14th September, 1790. The expense of the proposed expedition will be great; but, I have that confidence in your economical arrangements, that you will not order more pack-horses than shall be absolutely necessary, consistent with efficacy. Hie pack-horses for provisions, will be at the contractor’s expense. It is true they will have an additional price for the rations; but, as you will not take tents, and, in all other respects, will be unincumbered, and as light as possible. I do not conceive that you will want pack-horses for other objects than your provisions. I have written to the Governor by this conveyance, respecting the Miami village, which will be considered as a joint letter. The President of the United States will be anxious to hear of die arrangements and success. The Secretary of War to General Harmar. 3d September, 1790. Since the departure of Governor St. Clair, I have been informed, that there may be an aversion in the minds of the militia to act with the regular troops. If this should really be the case, and any jealousies should arise, to impede the success of the expedition, it would indeed be an unfortunate circumstance. Every precaution therefore should be taken by the Governor and yourself, either to remove such dispositions, if existing, or to prevent them arising among the militia. It has been suggested, that, could Colonels Loran and Shelby, of Kentucky, be induced to accompany the expedition as volunteers, they would have a powerful influence over the conduct of the militia. I therefore submit the idea., that the Governor and you invite those characters to accompany you in the expedition, and that you treat them with the greatest cordiality.   . To Governor St. Clair,'or Brigadier General Harrnar. Sir: War Office, March 5, 1790. In pursuance of powers vested in the President of the United States, by the act of Congress, passed the 29th day of September, 1789, he authorized you, by his instructions, dated the 6th of October following, in certain cases, and in the proportions therein specified, to call forth the militia of Virginia and Pennsylvania, forAhe protection of the frontiers against the depredations of the Indians. Since transmitting you the aforesaid instructions, he has received several applications for protection, from the inhabitants of the frontier counties of Virginia, lying along the south side of the Ohio. These applications are founded on the depredations of small parties of Indians during the last year, who, it seems, have murdered many of the unguarded inhabitants, stolen their horses, arid burned their houses. : Until the last year, an arrangement of the following nature existed at the expense of Virginia. The lieutenants of; the exposed counties, under certain restrictions, were permitted to call forth a number ot active men as patrols or scouts, as they are generally termed, arid parties of rangers; but the government of that State thought proper to discontinue that arrangement on the organization of the General Government, to which the inhabitants ot the said counties now apply for protection. All applications of this nature have been placed before the Congress for their information, and in order that they may adopt such measures as the case may require. Put as the season is fast approaching in which the inhabitants are apprehensive of a repetition of the injuries suffered the -last year,- they seem to be of an opinion, that their situation requires some conditional security, previously to the measures which may result from the deliberations of Congress. The President of the United States has, therefore, so far conformed to their apprehensions on this point, as to refer the case to you, orrin your absence to Brigadier General Ilarmar, and to give you the authority herein described. 1st. That if, from good and sufficient information, it should be your judgment, or, in your absence, the judgment of the commanding officer aforesaid, that any of the frontier counties of Virginia, lying along the south of the Ohio, are, under existing circumstances, threatened immediately with incursive parties of Indians, that you or the said commanding officer, under your hands and seals, empower the lieutenants of such exposed counties to call forth a particular number of scouts? in proportion to the danger of the said counties, not, however, exceeding, for one county, the number of eight men. The said scouts to be continued in service no longer than the danger shall exist, according to the judgment of the county lieutenants. ■ 2d. That, when the said sendee shall be performed, the following evidence thereof shall be required: 1st. A return of the names, ages, and residence, of the said scouts. 2d. An abstract of the pay of the said scouts, specifying the exact days in which they were so employed. The pay to be regulated by the lowest price in the respective counties in which the service may be performed; and on this point; you and the commanding officer will be particularly accurate. I have been informed, that 5s. Virginia currency per day, lias been given to each of the scouts. If this high price has been given, it must form the excess to be given on the part of the United States. , 3d. An account of rations, each ration being stated at not a higher rate tliat Gri. per ration. 4th. All these papers might be signed and certified on oath by the county lieutenants, or commanding officer of each county, and transmitted to Brigadier General Harrnar, in order to be delivered to the paymasterof his regiment, who will have the accounts passed, and draw the money for the same. The money so drawn, to be paid by him to the county lieutenants, who must produce to him the receipts of the individuals for whom the money was so drawn. The commanding ollicer will also issue a reasonable quantity of powder and ball, for the said scouts, to the county lieutenants. It is. however, to be strongly remarked, that all measures of this nature are uncertain, opposed to the principles of regularity, and to be adopted only in cases of exigence, and to cease the moment the said exigencies shall cease. That, therefore, you, or the commanding officer aforesaid, will not confer the authority herein contained, but in cases of the most conspicuous necessity; and that, when such cases do arise, that you or he transmit to this office, a particular detail of the evidences whereon you have formed your judgment. II. K. To the Lieutenants of the counties of Harrison, Randolph, Ohio, Monongalia, and Kenhawa; and also to the JAcutenunt of Russell county, .April 29th, 1790. . War Office, Jlpril 13, 1790. Sir: _ The President of the United States, on the 3d of last month, directed me to authorize the Governor of the Western territory, or, in his absence, the commanding officer of the troops, in certain cases, to empower the lieutenants of the counties lying along the Ohio to call forth, for the protection of said counties, certain patrols, denominated scouts, at the expense of the United States. Colonel Duval, lieutenant of Harrison county, was charged with these orders to the Governor, or Brigadier General Harrnar, and from the particular interest he took in the affair, no doubt can remain, but that he exerted himself to have the said orders carried into full effect. But, as it is possible that some delays may have been occasioned, by your distance or other circumstances, and as the President of the United States is exceedingly desirous that the exposed counties may avail themselves of the provision intended in said orders, he has directed me to write to the lieutenants of the counties of Harrison, Randolph, Ohio, Monongalia, and Kenhawa. in Virginia, and in case their situation required the benefit of the said provision, that they should be empowered for that purpose. 'Therefore, sir, I do, in the name of the President of the United States, hereby authorize and empower you, if in your judgment the appearances of danger are such as to require the measure, to call forth the scouts herein mentioned, and under the regulations described.* H. K. To Harry lanes. Esq. District Judge of Kentucky. War Office, Jlpril 13, 1790. Sir: By some recent information from the Ohio, it appears that the Indians still continue their depredations on the frontiers. . * A general arrangement relative to the frontiers has been contemplated, but, not having been finally concluded upon by Congress, and the season of activity approaching, the President of the United States was induced, from the * For these regulations, see the preceding letter of the 3d of March, to Gov. St. Clair, or General Harrnar. 14 * particular situation of the counties lying along the Ohio, to direct, on the 3d of last March, that the Governor of the Western territory, or, in his absence, Brigadier General Harmar, should be invested with a conditional authority, of which the enclosed is a copy. ; ' ' "These orders were transmitted by Colonel Duval, lieutenant of Harrison county, who' would undoubtedly, as he was much interested in the business* convey, expeditiously the same to the commanding officer. But, as it is possible, notwithstanding, that some delays may have taken place, and as the President of the United States is exceedingly desirous that the inhabitants of the frontier counties should experience the benefits of the provision contained in the said orders to the commanding officer, he has directed me to make this communication to you; and he has further directed me to empower you, that, in case any of the counties of Kentucky should not have already availed themselves of said provision, and should, in your judgment, stand in need thereof, that you should, under your hand and seal, authorize the lieutenants of such counties to call forth the scouts, precisely as to the numbers and under the regulations directed in the instructions to the Governor of the Western territory, or, in his absence, the commanding officer of the troops. ' , ’ ■ ’ The information of the wages paid for the scouts, was given by Colonel Duval. It exceeds greatly all calculations of pay to be given persons tor performing military service, and,'were it carried to a considerable extent, no government on earth could support it. But as this measure is regarded merely as a temporary expedient until further measures are taken, the President of the United States consents to the usual sums being given, which hitherto have been given by Virginiafor the same services; at the same time, he reposes entire confidence in your character, that you will (if arrangements should not have been made by the commanding officer) guard in this respect the interests of the United States. It is the opinion of some gentlemen, well acquainted with Kentucky, that four scouts, or men, to each county, would be satisfactory. If tins should also be your judgment, you will limit the arrangement .to that number’, or at least to the usual number heretofore employed. But as the information was different from that whereon the instructions to the Governor and commanding office'r of the 3d of March were founded, it has been concluded best to make no alteration in that discretionary arrangement. . ~ ' . ’ H. K. Copy of a letter written by the Secretary of War to the Lieutenants of the counties of, Washington, in Pennsylvania, Harrison, Pandolph, Ohio, Monongalia, and Kenliaiva, in Virginia, Mason, Bourbon, Woodford, Madison, Lincoln, Mercer, Nelson, and Jefferson, in Kentucky. War Office, July 17, 1790. Sir.: ' " .'   ; ■ ' ■ 'I had the honor, on the 13th day of April last, to address you on the subject of the incursions of small parties of Indians on the western frontiers. In that letter I authorized you2 in -the name of the President of the United States, in certain cases of imminent danger, to call out, for the protection of the county, certain species of, patrols, denominated scouts, at the expense of the United States.   ' ’ ' 'I have now the honor, by the direction of the President of the United States, to inform you, that the authority contained in said letter relative to said scouts, is to be considered as having ceased and terminated upon your receiving this letter, duplicates of which I have written arid transmitted to you. The representations of the then deplorable situation of the frontier counties, and the high estimation the said scouts were, held in by the inhabitants, were the inducements of the President of the United States to consent to calling forth that expensive species of militia as a temporary measure for the protection of the exposed counties. But, as experience has demonstrated the inefficiency of defensive measures for an extensive frontier, against straggling parties of Indians, and as conditional orders have been transmitted to the Governor of the Western territory and the commanding officer of the troops of the United States, to act offensively against the Shawanese and outcast Cherokees joined with them, inhabiting northwest of the Ohio, who are probably the banditti which has for some time past committed depredations on the counties lying along the Ohio; and as the militia or rangers hereafter described will, in cases of necessity, be permitted, at the expense of the Union, in lieu of the scouts, it is presumed that no injury will be sustained by revoking the authority for calling into service so expensive a species ot troops as the said scouts. . ‘ _ _ _ .. . ' . , The President of the United States is anxiously desirous of effectually protecting the frontiers, arid he will take all such reasonable measures as, in his judgment, the case may require, and for which he shall be,'by the constitution or bv the laws, authorized. . '   ■   . - V lie has, therefore, directed me to inform you, that, in addition to the general measures aforesaid, which have been ordered, he has empowered the Governor of the Western territory and Brigadier General Harmar, or either ot them, to make the arrangement hereafter described for the internal security of the exposed counties. ■ The said Governor and commanding officer, or either of them, will, under their hands and seals, empower the lieutenants of such counties lying along the Ohio, as they shall judge necessary, to call forth the number of militia or rangers hereafter mentioned, and under the regulations prescribed.   . '1st. The said militia, or rangers, shall not exceed, for the internal defence of any county, one subaltern, one sergeant, one corporal, and twelve privates, but such less number may be ordered as the said Governor and commanding officer, or county lieutenant, may judge requisite. - . 2d. The said militia, or rangers, shall, during the time of their actual service, receive the following rates of pay, which are the same as is by law established for the regular troops of the United States and the militia, viz: Lieutenant, twenty-two dollars 'j. Ensign, eighteen dollars -| - , Sergeant, five dollars - ' A per month. Corporal, four dollars | Privates, three dollars '   J 3d. The said rangers shall be furnished with rations, in such manner as the lieutenants of the county shall think proper. The United States will allow for each ration sixpence, Virginia currency, or eight and one-third hundredth parts of a dollar; the subaltern to have two. and the non-commissioned and privates one ration each. 4th. The lieutenant of each county will be responsible, on oath, that the said rangers shall be called into service only in cases of imminent danger, and that they be discharged as soon as the danger shall cease. That, when any service shall have been performed by said rangers, the following evidence thereof will be required: 1st. A return of the names, rank, ages, residence, and times of service, of each of the said rangers. 2d. A pay abstract, or account of the number of said rangers, agreeably to the aforesaid returns. 3d. An abstract of the rations, agreeably to the aforesaid return. 4th. These papers to be signed and verified, upon oath, by the lieutenant of the county, or commanding officer of the militia, who will transmit the same to Brigadier General Harmar, or the commanding officer of the troops of the United States on the Ohio. _ ' , ■ _ 5th. Brigadier General Harmar, or the commanding officer of the troops, will certify on the said return, that the said rangers were ordered into service in pursuance of his authority* or the authority of the Governor of the Western territory. > . 6th. The paymaster of the regiment of regular troops will receive the amount of the said abstracts from the treasury or pay office’of the United States, and pay the same to the county lieutenants, and the said county lieutenants will pay each of the rangers, respectively, taking triplicate receipts for the payments, two of which he must transmit to the paymaster aforesaid, within two months from the time he shall have received the money from the said paymaster; and, until these said receipts shall be transmitted to the said paymaster, the lieutenants of the counties will be held responsible for the sums they may have received, or such proportions thereof for which they shall not have produced receipts from the individual rangers (or their attorneys) who performed the sendee. And whereas some of the counties may be involved in such immediate danger as not to permit the county lieu tenants sufficient time to obtain the authority herein mentioned from the said Governor or commanding officer, in such case the county lieutenants may order out the rangers herein mentioned, under the regulations prescribed, on condition that, as soon as may be, the said lieutenants of the county and two magistrates make a statement to the said Governor and commanding officer of the reasons which induced them to order out the said rangers. This statement will be considered as essential, in order that General Harinar, or the commanding officer, may ground thereon his certificate on the pay abstracts, without which, payments will not be made. It may perhaps be considered as unnecessary, after stating the vouchers before mentioned, to add any further precautions against unnecessarily calling out the rangers before described, but, as the said service is atbes’t only to be viewed as an expedient, rather temporary and desultory, than permanent and regular! it is the earnest desire of the President of the Lnited States that it should be conducted with the highest economy. He therefore has desired that the county lieutenants may be strongly impressed with this idea, as well from a personal regard to themselves as to the common welfare of the Western country and the United .States. If the permission now given be used with great discretion, and only in cases of real necessity, every consideration will, in future, justify a more extensive and perfect protection, should the situation of the frontier require the same. , I shall beg, that, immediately upon j our receiving this letter, you will inform me thereof. 1 have the honor to be. sir. your most obedient humble servant. H. KNOX. Secretary for the Department of War. An estimate of the expenses of scouts and rangers, for the protection of the frontiers lying along the Ohio, the Cumberland settlements, and the settlements upon and between the forks of Holston and French Brornl rivers, for the year 1791. , * L Five men or scouts to be averaged for each county, and the number of counties or divisions being estimated at 22. 110 men, to be employed as scouts from the 1st of March to the 30th of-November, beiug 9 months, at the rate of 12 dollars per month, - - - - - - - $11,880 00 One ration per day is, for the above period, for 110 men, 29,700 rations, at 8] cents per ration, - 2,524 50 $14,404 50 ■ RANGERS. One lieutenant, one sergeant, one corporal, and twelve men, to act as rangers for each of twenty-one ■ of the above counties, at the same rate of pay as the regular troops. ■ 21 Lieutenants, at 22 dollars per month, is, for 9 months, 21 Sergeants. 5 do do do do 21 Corporals. 4 do do do do 252 Privates, 3 do do do   do Three lieutenants, six sergeants, six corporals, and forty-eight private period! for Russell county— - 3 Lieutenants, at 22 dollars per month, is, for 9 months. 6 Sergeants,- 5 do do do do 6 Corporals, 4 do do ' do do 48 Privates, . 3 do do do do 24 Lieutenants, at 2 rations per day, is, for 9 months, 12,960 rations. 354 Non-commissioned and privates, at I ration, - 95,580 do 108,540 do at 8.1 cts. per ration, 9,225 90 ----------- 24,264 90 $38,669 40 H. KNOX. Secretary of I Car. $4,158 00 . 945 00 756 00 6,804 00 5, for the same 594 00 270 00 216 00 1.296 00 ,1 general estimate of the expenses tfhich would be incurred by an expedition aginst the Wabash Indians, calculated upon a scale of twelve hundred regulars and twelve hundred levies. The period of the expedition four months. And also the amount of the expenses, for one year, of the proposed augmentation of the regular troops. The expense of 2,000 levies, as per estimate B, No.'2, - - - - - $74,770 00 Bounties for 2.000 levies, at 5 dollars per man. - - - 10.000 00 The difference between 3,200 rations per day. on the Ohio, and the proposed places of operation, the one being stated in the contract at 6| cents, and the other at 15j cents, calculated at 120 days: 384,000 rations, at 83 cents, difference, . - - - - -     32.640 GO Camp equipage of all sorts: boats, horses, tents. &c., and the transportation of the hospital stores, baggage for the army; the cannon and stores of all sorts, to establish a post at the Miami, estimated in gross,  - - - - - - - - ... - - 50,000 00 Medicines and hospital .-tores. . - - - - - ' - - 4,000 00 Contingencies, - - - - - - - - - - 25,000 00 < . . ■ $196,410 00 The amount of the annual expenses for the additional regiment of regulars, as per particular estimate A, amount to - - - . - - - - $101,446 40 And, if the bounty of 8 dollars for 2,128 non-commissioned and privates should be added for the whole regular establishment, augmentation included, the following extraordinary expenses would be incurred, - - - - - 17,024 00 The establishment of a major general for one year, as per estimate B 2, amounts to - 2,937 00 One aid-dc-camp, with the rank of a captain, and pay and emoluments of a major, as during the late war— Pay. . 40 dollars per month. - $480 00 Subsistence. 4 rations per day, at 12 cents, - 175 20 Forage, 10 dollars per month, - - - - 120 00 775 20 Two inspectors, omitted in the general estimate of the War Department, for the year 1791, formed the 7th December 1790, one of whom to act as brigade-major— ; Two inspectors— Pay, 30 dollars per month, - - - - - $720 00 1 “   ' - Subsistence, 3 rations per day, at 12 cents, - "262 80 Forage, 10 dollars per month, - - - 240 00 ^ . ’ ----------------------------------------------------—' 1,222 80 The establishment of a quartermaster, as per estimate B, .... 1,126 80 . -    124,532 20 .■ Total, to be provided for, - - - $320,942 20 H. KNOX, ' , . Secretary of War. '   ‘ ' ' ; . ; U 1st Congress.]
