No. 87 [3d Session. THE ONE I D AS. Oentlemen of the Senate: I send you. for your June. 1798. at their village. January 30, 1799. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE. .1A XU VRV 31. 1799. consideration, a treaty with the Oneida nation of Indians, made on the first day of JOHN ADAMS. \t a Treaty held with the Oneida nation or tribe of Indians, at their village, in the Stale of New York, on the first day of June, in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-eight: Present, Joseph Hopkinson. commissioner. appointed under the authority ol the United States to hold the treaty: Egbert Benson. Ezra L'Homme-dieu, and John Taylor, agents for the State of New York. The said Indians having, in the month of March last, proposed to the Governor of the said State, to cede the lands hereinafter described, for the compensation hereinafter mentioned: and the said Governor having acceded to the said proposal, and advanced to the said Indians, at their desire, in part payment of the said compensation, three hundred dollars, to answer their then immediate occasions, the said cession is, thereupon, in the presence, and with the approbation of the said commissioner, carried into effect at this treaty: nliich hath, on the request of the said Governor, been appointed to he held for the purpose, as follows, that is to say: The said Indians do cede, release, and quit claim to the people of the State of New York, forever, all the lands within their reservation, to the westward and southwestwanl of a line from the northeastern corner of the lot No. 94. in the last purchase from them, running northerly to a button wood tree, marked on the east side “Oneida R. 1798, ” on the west side. *"H. P. 8. 1798," and on the south side, with three notches and a blaze, standing on the bank of the Oneida lake, in the southern part of a bay called Newageglikoo; also, a mile on each side of the main Genesee road, for the distance of one mile and a half, westward, to commence at the eastern boundary of their said reservation: and. also, the same breadth for the distance of three miles, on the south side, and of one mile on the north side of the said road, eastward, to commence at the eastern boundary of the said lot No. 54: Provided and exceptednevertheless. That the following Indian families, viz: Sarah Dockstecler. Cornelius Docksteder. Jacob Dceksteder, Lewis Denny, John Denny. Jan Joost, and Nicholas, shall be suffered to possess, of the tract first abovementioned. to grounds cultivated by them, respectively, and their improvements, not exceeding fifty acres, to each family, so long as they shall reside there: and in consideration of tins proviso and exception, the said Indians do further cede that a tract of twelve hundred and eighty acres, as follows, that is to say: Beginning in the southeast corner of lot No. 59, in the said last purchase, and running thence, east one mile: thence, north two miles: thence, west one mile: and thence, south two miles, shall be considered as set apart by the said nation or tribe, for the use of the said families, whenever they shall remove from where they now reside. The said agents do, for the people of the said State, pay to die said Indians, in addition to the said sum of three hundred dollars, already advanced to them, as abovementioned. the further sum of two hundred dollars, and do grant to the said Indians, that the people of the said State shall pay to the said Indians, at their said village, on the first day of June next, and on the first day of June, yearly, thereafter, the annual 'inn of seven hundred dollars. In testimony whereof, the said commissioner, the «aid agents, and the said Indians, have hereunto and to other acts of the same tenor and Hate, the one to remain with the United States, another to remain with the State of New York, and another to remain with the said Indians, set their hands and seals, at the village aforesaid, the day and year first above written. JOSEPH HOPKINSON. Commissioner. EGBERT BENSON. } EZRA L HOMMKD1HU, Ldg ents, JOHN TAYLOR. 3 . hid a number of Indians. Albany, 23d April, 1798. Sir: During the late session of the Legislature, the chiefs of the Oneida tribe of Indians came to this city, and signified to me, that the object of their visit was to propose a sale of a part of their lands. This being communicated to the Legislature, I was authorized to appoint agents to confer with them on the subject. I herewith enclose a copy of the instrument by which they were appointed, (No. 1) and also a copy of their report to me, (No. 2.) This report was adopted and confirmed by the Legislature, and provision has been made for perfecting, in the usual forms, the agreement stated in it. When the chiefs were about to take leave, I made to them, and gave them a copy of the speech which you will find in the enclosed paper, No. 3; and the money therein mentioned was paid to them in iny presence by our agents. We find it most convenient;, that the proposed^ treaty should be held with them on the first day of June next, and we wish it may be held at Oneida, that all the chiefs may attend it, and because it may there be held at less expense than at any other place. Re so obliging, sir, as to lay these representations before the President, with my request that he will be pleased to appoint a commissioner to hold the said treaty, at the time and place before mentioned. The moment I receive information from you that the appointment is made, I shall advise the Oneidas of it, and immediately take the other measures which will be proper and necessary on the part of this State. I have the honor to be, with great respect, sir, your most obedient and most humble servant, JOHN JAY. The Hon. Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of State. No. l. The Governor of the State of New York to the Honorable Egbert Benson, Esquire, one of the Judges of the Supreme Court of the said State, Simeon Be JYitt, Esquire, Surveyor General of the said State, and John Taylor, Esquire, first Judge of the Court of Common Pleas, in and for the county of Albany, greeting: Whereas the chiefs of the Oneida tribe of Indians, (having come to this city for the purpose) have signified their desire to sell their claim to certain parts of the land reserved to their use: Now, therefore, in pursuance of the authority vested in me by an act of the Legislature for that purpose, made and passed the 26th of February instant, I have appointed, and hereby do appoint, you, the said Egbert Benson, Simeon De Witt, and John Taylor, and any two of you, commissioners, on the part ol this State, to confer with the said chiefs, and, with precision, to ascertain and report to me, what part or parcels of the said lands they wish to dispose of, and on what terms. [l. s.] Given under my hand, and the privy seal of the State, the 27th day of February, 1798. JOHN JAY. . No. 2. In consequence of your Excellency's appointment, we have met and conferred with the Oneida Indians now in this city, and respectfully report, that the intent of their visit is to make a further sale of lands, and they have offered and proposed to sell all the lands within their reservation, to the westward and southwestward of a line from the northeastern corner of lot No. 54, in the last purchase from them, running northerly to the extremity of the northeastern point of a bay on the south side of the Oneida lake, called Newageglikoo, and also a mile on each side of the main Genesee road, for the distance of one mile and a half westward, to commence at the eastern boundary of their reservation; and also the same breadth for the distance of three miles, on the south side, and for one mile on the north side of the said road; eastward, to commence at the eastern boundary of the said lot No. 54. The consideration they propose to ask, is a payment of five hundred dollars on the completion of the sale, and a perpetual annuity of seven hundred dollars; and as some time may elapse before the authority to hold a treaty, and the appointment of commissioners can be obtained from the General Government, they are very desirous to have three hundred dollars, of the five hundred dollars, advanced to them at this time, to answer their immediate occasion. They, however, still stipulate, that the State shall suffer the following Indian families, Sarah Docksteder, Cornelius Docksteder, Jacob Docksteder, Lewis Denny, John Denny, Jan Joost, and Nicholas, to possess the grounds cultivated by them, respectively, and .their improvements, (not exceeding fifty acres to each family) as long as they shall reside there. And they will agree that a tract of twelve hundred and eighty acres, as follows: Beginning in the southeast corner of lot No. 59, of the said last purchase, and running thence east one mile, thence north two miles, thence west one mile, and thence south two miles, shall be considered as set apart by the nation for the use of these families, whenever they shall remove from where they now reside. It is only requisite for us further to state, that they appear determined not to part with any lands adjoining on the road, unless the State will also, at the same time, purchase from them other lands as we nave described them. EGBERT BENSON, JOHN TAYLOR, CAgents. SIMEON DE WITT, 3 No. 3. . Albany, oth March, 1798. Brothers of the O.neida Nation: The agents whom I appointed for that purpose, have reported to me that they have met and conferred with you; that the intent of your visit is to make a farther sale of lands, and that you have offered and proposed to sell all the lands within your reservation, to the westward and southwestward of a line running northerly from the northeastwardly corner of lot No. 54, in the last purchase from you, to the extremity of a northeastern point of a certain bay, on the south side of the Oneida lake, called Newageglikoo; and also a mile on each side of the main Genesee road, for the distance of one mile and an half westward, commencing at the eastern boundary of your reservation, and also the same breadth for the distance of three miles on the south side, and one mile on the north side of the said road, to commence at the eastern boundary of the said lot No. 54, for the consideration of five hundred dollars on the completion of the sale, and a perpetual annuity of seven hundred dollars; but that, as some time may elapse before an authority to hold a treaty with you, and the appointment of commissioners can be obtained from the General Government, you are therefore very desirous to have three hundred dollars, of the five hundred advanced, at this time, to you, to answer your immediate occasions; that you. however, still stipulate, that the State shall suffer the following Indian families, Sarah Docksteder, Cornelius Docksteder, Jacob Docksteder, Lewis Denny, John Denny, Jan Joost, and Nicholas, to possess the grounds cultivated by them, respectively, and their improvements, (not exceeding fifty acres to each family) as long as they shall reside there; and you will agree, that a tract of twelve hundred and eighty acres, as_ follows: Beginning in the southeast corner of lot No. 59. of the said last purchase, andrunning thence, east one mile; thence, north two miles; thence, west one mile; aiiil thence, south two miles; shall be considered as set apart by the nation for the use of these families, whenever they shall remove from where they now reside. Brothers: I accept your offer and proposals, and I shall immediately apply to the President to have a treaty held, under the authority of the United States, for the purpose of perfecting and effecting the business; and I shall give you seasonable notice of the time and place of holding the treaty. In the mean time, agreeable to your desire, I shall direct the three hundred dollars to be advanced to you, for the use of your nation, and the. accounts of you, expenses to be paid; and, in addition thereto, the sum of one hundred and ten dollars to be furnished to you. o your expenses home. JOHN JAY. The principal men of the Oneidas, whose names are hereunto subscribed, reported to the commissioner of the United States, appointed to hold the treaty with them, and to the agents ol the State of New York, from a council of the nation, held after the execution of the act of cession of this date, that it was their intent that Lewis Denny and John Denny were not to have any part of the twelve hundred and eighty acres, but that the same should be divided into five lots, as nearly equal in quantity and quality as may be, and be. granted by the State to Sarah Dock steder, Jacob Docksteder. Cornelius Docksteder, Jan Joost, and Nicholas, each a lot, and that they shall, severally , remove from oft' the ceded lands, and reside on their respective lots, as soon as conveniently may be; and that they may then sell and dispose of the same as the white people do, in fee simple. Dated at their village, the first day of June, 1798. JOHN SKANONDO, his + mark. ANTHONY SIIONONGHRIYO, his-f mark. PAUL TEH A V WEN G A ROREN 0. his + mark. Witness: JACOB REED. James Dean, Interpreter. This is the act of the four Indian chiefs referred to in my report to the Secretary of State, dated on the 2Gth instant, relative to the lands set apart for certain individual Indian families. JOS. HOPK1NSON. June 21th, 1798. June 26th, 1798. Sir: In consequence of the appointment of the President of the United States, 1 have attended, as the commissioner on the part of the United States, at a treaty lately held between the State of New York, and the Oneida tribe or nation of Indians, at their village, and have superintended, in the manner prescribed by the act of Congress, entitled “An act to regulate the trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes/’ the execution of an act, dated the first instant, ceding to the State of New York the lands, and for the compensation therein specified. This act, together with a subsequent declaration from them, reduced to writing, and subscribed by four of their principal men, more fully explanatory of the intention of the nation, in respect to the disposition of the tract of twelve hundred and eighty acres, set apart for certain individual Indian families, accompany this report. In the course of the conferences which took place during the treaty, the Indians declared it was their will to give to Mr. Chapin, the superintendent of Indian affairs, two hundred and forty acres of the tract of one mile square, lying eastward from New Stockbridge, and reserved out of their cession in 179-7, and the remaining four hundred acres to the Northern Missionary Society, in the State of New York, for the use of a minister to reside among them; and requested me to report it to the President of the United States, in order that Mr. Chapin and the Society might be enabled to take and hold the lands accordingly. JOS. HOPKINSON. Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of State. 6th Congress.] 
