NO. 216 TREATY WITH THE QUAPAW TRIBE. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 19, 1825. [To the Senate of the United States:	WASHINGTON, January 17, 1825. I transmit to the Senate, for its advice and consent as to the ratification, a treaty, which has been concluded by a commissioner duly authorized for the purpose, with the Quapaw Indians in Arkansas, for the cession of their claim to lands in that Territory. I transmit, also, a report from the Secretary of War, with other documeots relating to this subject. JAMES MONROE. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, January 6, 1825. I have the honor to lay before you the enclosed treaty, which has been concluded with the Quapaw Indians, under the provisions of an act of Congress of the last sessioo, for the extinguishment of their title to lands in the Territory of Arkansas, accompanied by a copy of the instructions of this Department to the commissioner, and of his letter transmitting the treaty. I have the honor to be your obedient servant, J. C. CALHOUN. Tn the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. . Articles of a treaty between the United States of America and the Quapaw nation of Indians. ARTICLE 1. The Quapaw nation of Indians cede to the United States of America, in consideration of the promises and stipulations hereinafter made, all claim or title which they may have to lands in the Territory of Arkansas comprised in the following boundaries, to wit: Beginning at a point on the Arkansas river, opposite to the post of Arkansas, and running thence a due southyvest course to the Ouachita river; and thence, up the same, to the Saline fork; and up the Saline fork, to a point from whence a due northeast course will strike the Arkansas river at Little Rock; and thence, down the right (or south) bank of the Arkansas river, to the place of beginning. ART. 2. In consideration of the cession made in the first article of this treaty, by the aforesaid chiefs and warriors the United States engage to pay to the four head chiefs of the Quapaw nation the sum of five hundred dollars each’, in consideration of the losses they will sustain by removing from their farms and improvements; the payment to be’ made at the time they receive their annuity for the year eighteen hundred and twenty-five; and, also, to the said nation, the sum of four thousand dollars, to be paid in goods, at the signing of this treaty. And the United States also engage to pay to the Quapaw nation one thousand dollars in specie, annually, for the term of eleven years, in addition to their present annuity. ART. 3. The United States hereby guaranty to the said nation of Indians the same right to hunt on the lands by them hereby ceded as was guarantied to them by a treaty concluded at St. Louis, on the twenty-fourth of August, eighteen hundred and eighteen, between the said Quapaw nation of Indians, and William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners on the part of the United States. ART. 4. The Quapaw tribe of Indians will hereafter be concentrated and confined to the district of country inhabited by the Caddo Indians, and form a part of said tribe. The said nation of Indians are to commence removing to the district allotted them before the twentieth day of January, eighteen hundred and twenty-six. ART. 5. For the purpose of facilitating the removal of the said tribe tu the district of country allotted them, and as a compensation for the losses sustained, and the inconveniences to which they may bè exposed, by said removal, the United States will furnish them with corn, meat, and salt, for six months, from the first day of January, eighteen hundred and twenty-six. The United States further agree to furnish a sum, not exceeding one thousand dollars, to be expended by their agent, to facilitate the transportation of the said tribe to the district of country herein assigned them. An agent, sub-agent, or interpreter, shall be appointed to accompany said tribe, and to reside among them. ART. 6. From the cession aforesaid, there shall be reserved to James Scull, in consideration of a debt of seven thousand five hundred dollars,due to him from the Quapaw hation, and recognised in open council, two sections of land, commencing on the Arkansas river, opposite to Mrs. Embree’s, and running up and back from said river for quantity. And the United States guaranty to the Quapaw nation the payment of the said debt of seven thousand five hundred dollars, either by the ratification of the grant made in this article, or by the payment of said amount in money, exclusive of the amount stipulated to be paid to the said nation by this treaty. ART. 7. There shall be granted by the United States to the following persons,‘being Indians by descent, the following tracts of land: To François Imbeau, one quarter-section of land, commencing at a point on the Arkansas river, opposite the upper end of Wright Daniel’s farm, and thence up and back from said river for quantity. To Joseph Duchassin, one quarter-section of land, commencing at the lower corner of the quarter-section granted to François Imbeau, and running down and back from said river for quantity. To Saracen, a half-breed Quapaw, eighty acres of land, to be laid off so as to include his improvement, where he now resides, opposite Vaugines. To Baptiste Socie, eighty acres of land, lying above and adjoining Saracen’s grant. To Joseph Bonne, eighty acres of land, lying above and adjoining Socie’s grant. To Baptiste Bonne, eighty acres of land, lying above and adjoining Joseph Bonne’s grant. To Lewis Bartelmi, eighty acres of land, lying above and adjoining Baptiste Bonne’s grant. To Antoine Duchassin, eighty acres of land, lying, above and adjoining Bartelmi’s grant. To Baptiste Imbeau, eighty acres of land, lying above and adjoining A. Duchassin’s grant. To François Coupot, eighty acres of land, lying above and adjoining Baptiste Imbeau’s grant. To Joseph Valliere, eighty acres of land, lying above and adjoining François Coupot’s grant. All the said tracts of land shall be laid off, so as to conform to the lines of the United States’ surveys, and binding on the Arkansas river. ART. 8. This treaty shall take effect, and be obligatory on the contracting parties, so soon as the same shall be ratified by the Senate of the United States. In testimony whereof, the commissioner on the part of the United States, Robert Crittenden, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the said nation, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals. Done at Harrington’s, in the Territory of Arkansas, on the fifteenth day of November, A. D. eighteen hundred and twenty-four, and of the independence of the United States the forty-ninth. ROBERT CRITTENDEN. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Quapaw nation of Indians.] SIR:	WAR DEPARTMENT, June 26, 1824. By an act of Congress of the 26th ultimo, seven thousand dollars are appropriated towards the extinguishment of the right of the Quapaws to lands in the Territory of Arkansas; and I have the honor to enclose you a commission from the President of the United States, appointing you to treat with those Indians for the accomplishment of this object, and for the compensation to your secretary, the selection of whom is left with you. It is desirable that this treaty be held as early as practicable. The disposition to be made of the Quapaws will engage your attention. That which is most desirable is, to incorporate them (if this can be done in the spirit of mutual friendship and good feelings) with the Caddoes; if this cannot be effected, with some other tribe; but if such a union cannot be accomplished, then you will make the best disposition of them which may be practicable. Confiding in your prudence that the treaty will be held with the least possible expense, it is deemed unnecessary to give you any particular instructions on this point. The provisions will be obtained on contract, on the most moderate terms, and the rations issued will be on account, and according to the number receiving them, which you will be particular in stating. As you are on the spot, and the Quapaws but few in number, it is expected that a short time only will be required to accomplish the objects of the commission, and at a reasonable expense. A warrant for the appropriation has issued in favor of the Hon. Henry W. Conway; but as it may not require the whole of it in making this treaty, you will, as soon as the treaty is completed, transmit your accounts and vouchers for settlement, so that the unexpended balance (if any) may be returned to the treasury. The sum appropriated is intended to cover all the expenses connected with the commission, as well your pay as commissioner, and the pay of your secretary, as the disbursements which you may make in holding the treaty. Your compensation will be at the rate of eight dollars, and that of your secretary to the commission at the rate of five dollars per diem, for the time you are actually engaged. The payment will be made on your certificate of honor, specifying the time that you and the secretary have been actually engaged. Your certificate, also,'will be a necessary voucher for the items of expenditure under the commission. 1 have the honor, &c. ROBERT CRITTENDEN, Esq., , Secretary and Acting Governor, <fyc. of the Arkansas Territory. SIR:	LITTLE ROCK, November 24, 1824. Mr. Thomas W. Newton, the secretary of the Quapaw treaty, will present to you the result of my negotiations on the subject. I have deemed it improper to trust a paper of its importance to our precarious mails. I have stipulated nothing with him as to compensation; he carries it on, relying solely upon your adjudication of his claim. I have the honor to inform you that the entire wishes of your Department have been met in the treaty which has been concluded. I regret the impracticability of a compliance jvith a part of your letter of instructions, as to a designation of the number of Indians rationed each day. The number upon the treaty ground fluctuated, hourly, from fifty to one hundred and fifty. An Indian will eat two United States rations each day for ten days; and if I had limited them to one, I have no hesitation in saying they would have deserted the treaty ground. They were much averse to a cession of their entire claim, and I was constrained to resort to every honorable means to gain upon their feelings, and obtain their confidence. You will perceive by my accounts that, to effect this obj'ect, I was not only compelled to give them as much as they would eat, but that I presented them with one blanket each, and the chiefs each a uniform coat. I flatter myself, however, that if I have exceeded your estimate of the probable expenses of holding this treaty, it will, in your estimation, be more than counterbalanced by the reduced price for which I have obtained their land. The Indians insisted, from the earliest stages of the treaty, on receiving as a prompt payment, in case of sale, the same amount as paid (by Governor Clark) to them on a similar occasion. I found it necessary to comply with this request, and obtained for them the articles they wished, to the amount of four thousand dollars; for which their receipts are forwarded, to be credited, as you will perceive by the treaty, as a payment of that amount out of the fifteen thousand dollars, the consideration money for the land ceded. I have been constrained to allow them a few reserves or donations to half-breeds resident in the nation. You will find them few and very limited, with the exception of James Scull’s: he is a white man. The treaty itself presents a fair statement of his case. I would barely remark, that he is poor, with a numerous family; that the benevolence of his disposition tempted him to credit them for the specified amount, and that almost abject poverty will be the consequence of his failure to obtain remuneration. The Indians will join the Caddoes, for which purpose they will immediately set on foot negotiations; their allowance of provisions is estimated as barely sufficient to enable them to reach their new home. I have been in much pain at my inability to comply sooner with your wishes in holding this treaty; but the want of the essential articles for doing so, my being compelled to send to the banks of the Ohio for them, and the indisposition of my family during the summer, will, I hope, be deemed sufficient apologies. I have had no precedents to guide me in this treaty, never having been at one previously. I apprehend, therefore, inaccuracies in the accounts, and possibly in the treaty.- I am conscious that I paid the four thousand dollars on my own responsibility; the residue of the disbursement I designed to be strictly within the limits of your instructions—in their spirit, at least, where an obedience to the letter was impossible. For any further information relative to the disbursements or to the accounts forwarded, I refer you to Mr. Newton. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, ROBERT CRITTENDEN. Hon. JOHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. N. B.—I omitted to remark, in the body of my communication, that, as I had received six thousand four hundred dollars only out of the seven thousand five hundred dollars appropriated, and as the surplus on the account rendered is a strain on my limited means, I would be much obliged to you to forward the money, if consistently you can, from the residuum of the contingent appropriation. CONGRESS.] 
