No. 91. [1st Session. GENERAL VIEW. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, DECEMBER 8, 1801, By message from the President of the United States,of which the following is an extract: “ Among our Indian neighbors, also, a spirit of peace and friendship generally prevails, and I am happy to inform you, that the continued efforts to introduce among them the implements and the practice of husbandry, and the household arts, have not been without success; that they are become more and more sensible of the superiority of this dependence, for clothing and subsistence, over the precarious resources of hunting and fishing; and, already, we are able to announce, that, instead of that constant diminution of numbers, produced by their wars and their wants, some of them begin to experience an increase of population.” .1 sketch of the present stale of the objects wider the charge of the principal agent for Indian affairs Smith of the Ohio. The National Council.—The Indians of the Creek agency have been prevailed on, by the agent, to conform, in a considerable degree, to his ideas on this subject. Once a year, and generally in the month of May, the towns are invited by the agent to send a deputation, to meet on a given day, to compose a national council. To this council the agent makes a report of the state of the nation, suggests his ideas of what is proper for them to do, and applies for compensation and satisfaction for offences committed in violation of their treaty stipulations with us. The number of deputies who attend cannot hitherto be restrained to a given number, but they seldom exceed five or six from a town. At first, it required a continued attention to the chiefs, to make them comprehend the utility of such a plan, and the necessity of carrying its decisions into effect. Heretofore, every town, tribe, or family, provided its own regulations, and those of a general tendency were left to the government of public agents, who used temporary expedients only; among the most powerful and persuasive of which were the pressure ot fear from without and presents. The council appoint a speaker, who remains in office without limitation as to time. All propositions are debated until they are agreed to or postponed; the agreement is called the will of the nation, and is expressed by the speaker, publicly, to all the chiefs, and to the. agent for Indian a Hairs, who records such parts as interest any of their neighbors, red or white. The council, when convened, sit night and day; the public buildings is their place of lodging as well as business, and they debate as much in the night as in the day. They lie down, when they are sleepy; when hungry they eat; and when any thing important is under debate they attend to it. The agent furnishes beef, corn, beans, and salt, and the town where the council meet, furnishes butchers, cooks, and waiters. The expense of a meeting is something less than four hundred dollars. I doubt, not, in a few years, it will be a useful instrument to approximate them to a more civilized state, and give the United States a more commanding influence over them. One of the interpreters and assistants to the agent, a half breed and chief of the land, remains constantly in the council during their sitting, and the agent has a right to enter and speak when he pleases. liaising of stock.—This is more relished by the Creeks than any part of the plan devised for their civilization. They are now' eagerly acquiring cattle, by every means in their power. The country is a fine range for them, summer and winter: every town has some acquired, mostly during the Revolutionary war between the United States and Great Britain, by the traders, tories, (here a banditti of plunderers) or by the war parties of Indians. Cattle, till lately, were not held in much estimation; but since the failure of supplies from hunting, they are resorted to, as the substitute, anil bear a pretty good price. Cows and calves are rated at ten dollars, and steers for beef, by age, at two dollars and fifty cents per year. The country is fine for hogs, but the want offences, scarcity of corn, front the present state of aghculture, and inattention of the Indians, both of which is necessary to keep them from running wild, and being two much infested with wolves, tigers, and wild cats, is for the present a bar to their increase. Horses are in general use, but small; liable, within a few years, to a distemper, called here the yellow water. The agent has, the last winter. introduced some sheep; they are in the care of an assistant and interpreter, a half breed, and promise to do well. There is another Hock, the property of Mr. Barnard, an assistant and interpreter, among the Lower Creeks, of several years standing, w hich increase fast, and have fine wool. He has goats, also, w hich do well. Stock of all kinds require salt, except w here they have moss or cypress ponds, or are within sixty miles of the sea coast. .Agriculture.—The improvements in this are slowly progressive. The agent has prevailed on several of the towns, who had exhausted the lands in their neighborhood by culture, to settle out in villages; this practice is increasing, and all of them fence their fields. There has been a demand this season for plows, and seventy have been issued out of those sent by the Secretary of War, and fifty of them are in use by Indians. There is a nursery of peach trees in the Lower Creeks, and one has been lately established among the Upper ('reeks: and the Indians begin to accept of, and to plant them: nearly five thousand have been raised and distributed since the arrival of the agent. The nurseries are increased, and will be kept up to the demand; they are hitherto raised bv the agent and his assistants, without any expense to the agency. Cotton is raised in several places, but in small quantities, by Indians; it does well throughout the agency. The green seed is in general use, and well suited to the northern half of the agency: and the sea island cotton, from two successive experiments, promises to do well on the southern half. Some cotton has been sent to market. Flax does well, and the next season will be cultivated in several  places. There is much rich swamp land, fine for it. and sufficiently dry in the season, for its growth. Wheat, barley, rye, and oats, have been introduced, and fairly tried. The three first do well; but the springs being generally dry. oats have failed. The early white and brown wheat is ripe by the middle ot May. Apple trees, grape vines, raspberries, and the roots, herbs, and vegetables, usually cultivated in good gardens, have lately been introduced, and they all thrive well. Manufactures.—The present spring, the agent has delivered to Indian women, one hundred pair cotton cards, and eighty spinning wheels. There are eight looms in the nation, four of them wrought by Indian or half breed women, and the remainder by white women. There is a woman employed as an assistant, to teach the Indian women to spin and weave, and the agent has appointed, as a temporary assistant, a young Englishman, from a manufactory in Stockport, in England, who can make looms and spinning wheels, and every thing appertaining to them, and he understands weaving. He will in a few days have a ninth loom set up, at the residence of the agent. The women have this spring adopted this part of the plan with spirit, and have promised to follow the directions of the agent with exactitude. Three Indian women of one family, who have been spinning for two years only, have clothed themselves well, and acquired some hogs and cattle: are proud of the exertions they have made, and are, by their conduct, a stimulus to‘their country women. One of the looms, and two of the spinning wheels, in use, were made by an Indian chief, for his own family. The chiefs, who were apprehensive, at first, that, if their women could clothe and feed themselves by their own exertions they would, become independent of the degraded state of connexion between them, have had proofs that the link is more firm in proportion, as the women are more useful, and occupied in domestic concerns. Oil, of hickory nut and acorns, was in use in small quantities among the Indians, as an article of food. In the year 1797, the agent, finding that the hickory trees were mixed through the waving land, and abounded on the Hats, made an effort to encourage this manufacture; he offered three fourths of a dollar a quart for the oil that should be made that year, of hickory nuts, and could procure a few bottles only. In 1798 lie received eight gallons. In 1799 he purchased thirty gallons, and the last winter he fixed the price at one dollar a gallon, and the manufacture has increased to three hundred gallons, actually delivered for market. Some has been sent to Mobile, and sold at two dollars, and a trader is now descending the Alabama, on his way to New Orleans, with a pass from the agent, with two hundred and forty gallons of the oil. The process of making this oil is simple, and susceptible of improvement. The nuts are dried and pounded up, then put into boiling water, stirred up for a while, set by, from the fire; the oil rises to the top, is brushed off with feathers, and then boiled. The black jack acorn is the best of the acorn oil, and in more estimation, among the Indians, than the hickory nut oil. Coarse earthen pots and pans, garters, ornamented with beads, basket sitters, and fans, ingeniously made, of split cane, and moccasins, close the list of their manufactures. Precautions preventative of the commission of crimes, in aid of the exertions of the old chiefs. In the fall season, every hunting party, in going out, report themselves to the head-men of the town, and one of them is appointed the chief, to be answerable for the conduct of his companions. In all practicable cases, the chief applies to the agent, states the intention of his party, and receives a certificate of the fact, recommending him to the friendly attention of such white people as he may meet; and, on the return of the party in the spring, a report is made to the agent, by all these chiefs, in person, by some of their companions, or by some of their towns people, stating where they have been; what they have seen, and what they have (lone. This is a very important regulation; it gives the agent a correct view of occurrences throughout the extended range of the hunters, and enables him, with inconceivable speed, to prevent or correct crimes or abuses. In further aid, the sale of horses has an additional corrective to the special licence” to buy. All Indians having horses to sell are now bound to report them to the. agent, and receive from him a'certificate, describing the horse, naming the owner, and that the property is good. So far, this regulation seems infallible on the Indian side, and would be so, but, on the white side, the practice does not correspond with the law. The people on the frontiers purchase horses from the Indians without special license, and without asking any thing about the true owner. Horses found on the Indian lands, near the plantations of their owners, are frequently taken up by the Indians, tarried across the river, and sold for a small part of their value only, and the Indians frequently report those sales to the agent, describing the. horse, where taken up, and where sold, and this has, in several instances, enabled the agent to give information which has directed the true owner to the discovery of his horse. As no aid has hitherto been furnished by my fellow-citizens on the northeastern frontier, to correct this abuse, no prosecutions have taken place, for the want of that proof which they could give. Trade.—Since the death of Mr. Price, pro-agent of war, there has been no licence renewed, as, from iny instructions, the agent of war in Georgia was to grant them. All the licences granted by Mr. Price have long since expired, and this has been thrice repeated by me, to the Secretary of War, without receiving any directions. As soon as the licences expired, the agent passed a general regulation for the traders to continue their trade, notwithstanding, until further advised by him. As the factor for the United States at fort Wilkinson, was not authorized to trade in cattle and hogs, the agent has given permits to people, recommended to him to be of good character, to trade for cattle and hogs only, and these permits are limitted to the annual season for beef and pork. - This regulation was deemed indispensable, as the want of dealers in cattle and hogs, and of eoui’Se a market for them, deranged our plan of civilization in one of the most important parts of it. Public Establishments.—There are two: one among the Lower, and the other among the Upper Creeks. The two blacksmiths, promised under the 8th article of the treaty of Coleraine, reside at them: The smiths are instructed to mend only, and not make any thing but by order of the agent. In the spring they are restricted to implements of husbandry, and at other seasons they attend equally to any work brought them. White people pay for their work, and this constitutes a small fund for coal, wood, aim small articles wanted in the shops, and is reserved for that purpose. The smiths receive each twenty six dollars per month and the value of one ration per day, at the contract, price on the frontiers; and the strikers ten dollars per month, and the value of a ration a day, paid quarterly. The manner of administering justice.—When the national council are convened, all the white people are ordered to attend on a given day. Three of the most respectable are appointed by the agent to hear and decide on all eases between white people, with the right of appeal to him. In all cases between a white man and an Indian, the agent hears and decides himself. The judgments have hitherto been carried into effect, without doing more than giving them to the parties, and without costs. But, to render this mode complete, there must be an officer appointed to carry the judgments into effect, and provision must be made to punish thefts, &c. all of which should proceed from the legislative provision of our Government. 'Expenditures in the Creek .Agency. The pay of the agent is fixed by the Secretary of Wat; and a sum limited for the assistants, which is assigned to them by the agent. The limitation has in no instance been exceeded. Quarterly, an estimate is anade, specifying the precise objects' of expenditure; the contingencies certified by a gentleman who pays them, on the order of the agent, and duplicates of the whole signed-by the agent; one of which is-sent onto the Secretary of War, on whom a bill is drawn, as'heretofore advised, at ten days’sight, in favor of the United States’ factor, for the amount. In some eases, and not unl’requently, the principal part of contingencies is paid by the agent, out of the stipend allowed by the United States to the Creeks—such as the keeping of warriors among the Seminoles to watch their movements, the apprehending and punishing horse thief's, and in some instances, the premium of two dollars and fifty cents allowed for all horses delivered to the agent, where it is ascertained that they were stolen by Indians, (except the thief informs against himself) twelve dollars and fifty cents allowed for the delivery of runaway negroes, where it has been ascertained that they have been induced to do so by Indians, and the sending runners to the neighboring Indians, on affairs relative solely to Indians. BENJAMIN HAWKINS. 7th Congress.] 
