No. 6O. [2d Session. PROTECTION OF THE FRONTIERS. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 27, 1795. Department of War, January 26th, 1795. Sir; In pursuance of a resolution of the House of Representatives, of the 21st instant, requesting the President of the United States to “ direct the proper officer to lay before the House a statement of the number of troops that will be necessary to maintain such a line of military posts as it will be expedient to establish, effectually to protect the frontiers of the United States.’’ I submit the following report; and am. 'With great respect, sir, your most obedient servant, TIMOTHY PICKERING, Secretary of I far. The Speaker of the House of Representatives of the United States. Report of the Secretary of JVar on the above-mentioned Resolution. The attempt to form the statement required in the resolution, has been found extremely embarrassing: our situation, at this time, presenting no definite object to which military operations shall be pointed. Although, lately, on our Northwestern frontier, victory attended our arms, and the principal villages of our savage enemies were destroyed; yet it does not appear that these events have produced amongst them a general disposition to make peace. If they continue hostile, a force merely defensive will be insufficient to secure the advantages we have gained. Our most advanced posts are from a hundred and fifty to nearly a hundred and eighty miles from the Ohio. At present we can support them with troops, stores, and provisions, only from that river. For this purpose, a chain of posts must be maintained, besides a very respectable force, to ensure the safety of the convoys. The hostile nations may yet embody in numbers nearly equal to those which opposed our arms in tfie last campaign. Consequently, the convoys should be of strength, not only to resist, but to overcome them; otherwise, the necessary support of the posts may fail, and then they must be abandoned, or left to fall victims to famine or the enemy. But to abandon those posts, would be. in a great measure, to surrender the fruits of the last campaign. It would be a confession of our weakness; and, by encouraging the enemy to persevere, prolong the war. On the frontiers of the Southwestern territory, and of Georgia, there is not yet, indeed, an open war; nevertheless, the continued depredations of the Creeks and Cherokees have rendered it necessary to keep up in the former a small permanent force, and occasionally to call out bodies of the militia. But the representations from that quarter, now before the House, show how inadequate have been the forces for the effectual protection of that frontier. In Georgia, the dangerous situation of its back settlers, as exhibited by the Governor of that State, induced the President to authorize'nim to erect, with his militia, so many stations as, joined with those garrisoned by the Federal troops, formed a chain of posts along its whole extensive frontier, and corps of militia-horse patrolled between them. But, numerous as were the stations and troops, the Governor (an experienced soldier) deemed them unequal to the object of a full defence. Besides our Indian frontier, the sea-coast is to be guarded. The fortifications, now erecting, will require, to aid in completing, and to man them, the greater part of the corps of artillerists and engineers; which seems to have been organized principally for that purpose. In this view of the situation of the United States, while negotiations with the foreign nations who possess adjoining territories arc depending; while a restoration of peace with die Western Indians is uncertain; and while an extension of open war with other and more powerful tribes is impending; it would seem highly inexpedient and unsafe to depend on a permanent force, short of our present military establishment, especially when it is considered that sickness and otlier contingencies will forever make large deductions from its efficient numbers. All which is respectfully submitted. TIMOTHY PICKERING, Secretary of liar. * I 3d Congress.] 
