No. 2. [1st Session. WABASH, CREEKS, CHEROKEES, CHICKASAWS, AND CHOCTAWS. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS AUGUST 7, 1789. Gentlemen of the Senate: The business which has hitherto been under the consideration of Congress, has been of so much importance, that I was unwilling to draw their attention from it to any other subject. But the disputes which exist between some of the United States, and several powerful tribes of Indians within the limits of the Union; and the hostilities which have, in several instances, been committed on the frontiers, seem to require the immediate interposition of the General Government. I have, therefore, directed the several statements and papers, which have been submitted to me on this subject by General Knox, to be laid before you for your information. ... While the measures of Government ought to be calculated to protect its citizens from all injury and violence, a due regard should be extended to those Indian tribes whose happiness, in the course of events, so materially depends on the national justice and humanity of the United States. If it should be the judgment of Congress that it would be most expedient to terminate all differences in the Southern district, and to lay the foundation for future confidence, by an amicable treaty with the Indian tribes in that quarter, I think proper to suggest the consideration of the expediency of instituting a temporary commission for that purpose, to consist of three persons, whose authority should expire with the occasion. How far such a measure, unassisted by posts, would be competent to the establishment and preservation of peace and tranquillity on the frontiers, is, also, a matter which merits your serious consideration. Along with this object, I am induced to suggest another, with the national importance and necessity of which, I am deeply impressed; I mean, some uniform and effective system for the militia of the United States. It is unnecessary to offer arguments in recommendation of a measure, on which the honor, safety, and well-being of our country so evidently and so essentially depend. But, it may not be amiss to observe, that I am particularly anxious it should receive as early attention as circumstances will admit, because, it is now in our power to avail ourselves of the military knowledge disseminated throughout the several States, by means of the many well instructed officers and soldiers of the late army; a resource which is daily diminishing by deaths, and other causes. To suffer this peculiar advantage to pass away, unimproved, would be, to neglect an opportunity which will never again occur, unless, unfortunately, we should again be involved in a long and arduous war. GEO. WASHINGTON. New York, August 7, 1789. Report from Henry Knox, Secretary of War, to the President of the United States, relating to the several Indian tribes. War Office, June 15, 1789. Sir: The time it will require to complete a full statement of the Department of War, induces me to submit to your view, in a series of numbers, such parts thereof as seem to claim an immediate attention. As most of the nations of Indians within the limits of the United States are. at present, discontented, and some of them turbulent, I have conceived it proper to commence, by a statement of the Indian Department. In the performance of this business, I have not barely confined myself to facts, but I have taken the liberty of suggesting such measures as appear to my mind to be necessary for the happiness and reputation of the public. By the ordinance of Congress of the 7th August, 1786, for the regulation of Indian affairs, which is herewith submitted, the department is divided into the Northern and Southern districts. The report on the treaties of fort Harmar, submitted the 23d of May last, will shew the situation of those tribes with whom the United States have formed treaties, since the conclusion of the war with Great Britain. I have now the honor to transmit a paper, No. 1, relative to the Wabash Indians. Were the subsisting disorders with those Indians quieted, and they attached to the interests of the United States, it is not probable that any further troubles with the more distant Indians would soon arise. Number 2, which will be submitted shortly, will shew the situation of the Southern Indians, and contain some observations on the difficulties subsisting between them and the frontier people of the States of Georgia and North Carolina. I have the honor to be, &c. H. KNOX. The President of the United States. No. 1. Report from H. Knox, Secretary of War, to the President of the United States, RELATIVE TO THE NORTHWESTERN INDIANS. War Office, June 15th, 1789. By information from Brigadier General Harmar, the commanding officer ot the troops on the frontiers, it appears that several murders have been lately committed on the inhabitants, by small parties of Indians, probably from the Wabash country. Some of the said murders having been perpetrated on the South side of the Ohio, the inhabitants on the waters of that river are exceedingly alarmed, for the extent of six or seven hundred miles along the same. It is to be observed, that the United States have not formed any treaties with the Wabash Indians; on the contrary, since the conclusion of ihe war with Great Britain, hostilities have almost constantly existed between the people of Kentucky and the said Indians. The injuries and murders have been so reciprocal, that it would be a point of critical investigation lo know on which side they have been the greatest. Some of the inhabitants of Kentucky, during the year past, roused oj recent injuries, made an incursion into the Wabash country, and, possessing an equal aversion to all bearing the name of Indians, they destroyed a number of peaceable Piankesliaws, who prided themselves in their attachment to the United States. 'filings being thus circumstanced, it is greatly to be apprehended that hostilities may be so far extended as to involve the Indian tribes with whom the United States have recently made treaties. It is well known how strong the passion for war exists in the mind ol a young savage, and how easily it may be inflamed, so as to disregard every precept of the older and wiser part of the tribes who may have a more just opinion ol the force ol a treaty. Hence it results, that, unless some decisive measures are immediately adopted to terminate those mutual hostilities, they will probably become general among all the Indian^, northwest of the Ohio. In examining the question how the disturbances on the frontiers are to be quieted, two modes present themselves, by which the object might perhaps be effected; the first of which is by raising an army, and extirpating the refractory tribes entirely, or 2dly by forming treaties of peace with them, in which their rights and limits should be explicitly defined, and the treaties observed on the part of the United States with the most rigid justice, by punishing the whites, who should violate the same. In considering the first mode, an inquiry would arise, whether, under the existing circumstances of affairs, the United States hat e a clear right, consistently with the, principles of justice and the laws of nature, to proceed to the destruction or expulsion of the savages, on the Wabash, supposing the force for that object easily attainable. It is presumable, that a nation solicitous of establishing its character on the broad basis of justice, would not only hesitate at, but reject every proposition to benefit itself, by the injury of any neighboring community, however con-tenipfible and weak it might be, either with respect to its manners or power. When it shall be considered that the Indians derive their subsistence chiefly by hunting, and that, according to fixed principles, their population is in proportion to the facility with which they procure their food, it would most probably be found that the expulsion or destruction of the Indian tribes have nearly the same effect: for if they are. removed from their usual hunting grounds, they must necessarily encroach on the hunting grounds of another tribe, who will not sulfer the encroachment with impunity—hence they destroy each oilier. The Indians being the prior occupants, possess the right of the soil. It cannot be taken from them unless by their free consent, or by the right of conquest in case of a just war. To dispossess them on any other principle, would be a gross violation of the fundamental laws of nature, and of that distributive justice which is the glory of a nation. But if it should be decided, on an abstract view of the question, to he just, to remove by force the Wabash Indians from the territory they occupy, the finances of the United States would not at present admit of the operation. By the best ami latest inhu mation, it appears that, on the Wabash and its communications, there are from 1500 to 2000 warriors. Ail expedition against them, with the view of extirpating them, or destroying their towns, could not be undertaken with a probability of success, with less than an army of 2,500 men. The regular troops oflhc United States on the frontiers, are less than six hundred; of that number, not more than lour hundred could be collected from the posts lor the purpose of the expedition. To raise,, pay,.feed, arm, and equip 1900 additional men, with their necessary officers lor six months, and to provide every (lung in (lie hospital and quartermasters line, would require the sum of 200,000 dollars; a sum far exceeding the ability of (be United States to advance, consistently with a due regard to other indispensable objects. Were the representations of the people ol the frontiers (who hat e imbibed the strongest prejudices against the Indians, perhaps in consequence of the murders of their dearest friends and connexions) only to be regarded, the circumstances before stated, would not appear conclusive—an expedition.however inadequate, must be undertaken. But when the impartial mind of the great public sits in judgment, it is necessary that the cause of the ignorant Indians should be heard as well as those who are more fortunately circumstanced. It well becomes the public to inquire before it. punishes; to be influenced by reason, and the nature of things, and not by its resentments. It would be found, on examination, that both policy and justice unite in dictating the attempt of treating with the Wabash Indians: for it would he unjust, in the present confused state of injuries, to make war on those tribes without having previously invited them to a treaty, in order amicablj to adjust all diflereuees. If they should afterwards persist in their depredations, the United Stales may with propriety inflict such punishment as they shall think proper. But at present, were the measure just, the Union could not command an army for coercion, but at the expense of some great national object. In case no treaty should be held, the events which are rising in rapid succession on the frontiers, must be suffered to take their own course. Their progress and issue will deeply injure, if not utterly destroy, ihe. interests and government of the United States in the Western territory. The estimates ol the Goterrior ol the Western territory herewith submitted, will shew, that, in addition to the property already in his possession, a treaty with the Wabash Indians may be effected for the sum of lti,150 dollars. If additional territory should he the object, it would require the further sum of---dollars. It is, however, to be remarked, that it is very possible that this sum may not effect the object intended. It can he considered only as an experiment dictated by a regard to public justice, which ought in all cases to govern the conduct of a nation. The United States having come into the possession of sovereignty, and an extensive territory, must unavoidably be subject to the expenses ol such a condition. The time has arrived, w hen it is highly expedient that a liberal system of justice should be. adopted for the various Indian tribes within the limits of the United States. By having recourse to the several Indian treaties, made by the authority of Congress, since the conclusion of the. war with Great Britain, excepting those made January 1789, at fort Harmar, it would appear, that Congress were of opinion, that the Treaty of Peace, of 1783, absolutely invested them with the fee of all the Indian lands within the limits of the United States; that they had the right to assign, or retain such portions as they should judge proper. ' But it is manifest, from the representations of the confederated Indians at the Huron village, in December, 1786, that they entertained a different opinion, and that they were the only rightful proprietors of the soil; and it appears by the resolve of the Sd of July, 1788, that Congress so far conformed to the idea, as to appropriate a sum of money solely to the purpose <jf extinguishing the Indiau claims to lands they had ceded to the United States, and for obtaining regular conveyances of the same. This object was accordingly accomplished at the treaty effort Harmar, in January, 1789. i The principle of the Indian right to the lands they possess being thus conceded; the dignity and interest of the nation w ill he advanced by making it the basis of the future administration of justice towards the Indian tribes. The w hole number of Indian warriors south of the Ohio, and east of the Mississippi, may be estimated at 14,000. Those to the northward of the Ohio, and to the southward of the lakes, at about 5,000. In addition to these, the old men, women, and children, may be estimated at three for one warrior, the whole amounting to 76,000 souls. It is highly probable, that, by a conciliatory system, the expense of managing the said Indians, and attaching them to Ihe United Slates for the next ensuing period of fifty years, may, on an average, cost 15,000 dollars annually. A system of coercion and oppression, pursued from time to time, for the same period, as the convenience of the United States might dictate, would probably amount to a much greater sum of money; but the. blood and injustice which would stain the character of the nation, would be beyond all pecuniary calculation. As the settlements of the whites shall approach near to the Indian boundaries established by treaties, the game will be diminished, and the lands being valuable to the Indians only as hunting grounds, they will be willing to sell further tracts for small considerations. By the expiration, therefore, of the above period, it is most probable that the Indians will, by the invariable operation of the causes which have hitherto existed in their intercourse with the whites, be reduced to a very small number. These general reflections have arisen on considering the particular case of the Wabash Indians, respecting whom one observation more may be added. The United States must soon possess the posts within their limits on the lakes. This circumstanse will either awe the Wabash Indians, or, in case of their continuing refractory, enable the Union to operate against them with a much greater prospect of success than at present. All which is numbly submitted to the President of the United States. H. KNOX. Bv the United States, in Congress Assembled.—August 7, 1786. An Ordinance for the regulation of Indian Affairs. Whereas the safety and tranquillity of the frontiers of the United States do, in some measure, depend on the maintaining a good correspondence between their citizens and the several nations of Indians in amity with them: And whereas the United States? in Congress assembled, under the ninth of the articles of confederation and perpetual union, have the sole and exclusive right and power of regulating the trade, and managing all affairs ivith the Indians not members of any of the States; provided that the legislative right of any State within its own limits be not infringed or violated: Be it ordained by the United States, in Congress assembled, That, from and after the passing of this ordinance, the Indian department be divided into two districts, viz. The southern, which shall comprehend within its limits all the nations in the territory of the United States who reside southward of the river Ohio; and the northern, which shall comprehend all tne other Indian nations within the said territory, and westward of Hudson river: Provided, That all councils, treaties, communications, and official transactions, between the superintendent hereafter mentioned tor the northern district and the Indian nations, be held, transacted, and done, at the outpost occupied by the troops of the United States in the said district. That a superintendent be appointed for each of tne said districts, who shall continue in office for two years, unless sooner removed by Congress, and shall reside within, or as near the district for which he shall be so appointed, as may be convenient for the management of its concerns. The said superintendents shall attend to the execution of such regulations as Congress shall from time to time establish, respecting Indian affairs. The superintendent for the northern district shall have authority to appoint two deputies, to reside in such places as shall best facilitate the regulations of the Indian trade, and to remove them for misbehavior. There shall be a communication of all matters relative to the business ol the Indian department, kept up between the said superintendents, who shall regularly correspond with the Secretary of War, through whom all communications, respecting the Indian department, shall be made to Congress; and the superintendents are hereby directed to obey all instructions which they shall from time to time receive from the said Secretary of War. And whenever they shall have reason to suspect any tribe or tribes of Indjans of hostile intentions, they shall communicate the same to the Executive of the State or States whose territories are subject to the effect of such hostilities. All stores, provisions, or other property, which Congress may think necessary for presents to the Indians, shall be in the custody and under the care of tne said superintendents, who shall render an annual account of the expenditures of the same to the board of treasury. And be it further ordained, That none but citizens of the United States shall be suffered to reside among the Indian nations, or be allowed to trade with any nation of Indians within the territory7 of the United States. That no person, citizen or other, under the penalty of five hundred dollars, shall reside among, or trade with any Indian, or Indian nation, within the territory of the United States, without a licence for that purpose first obtained from the superintendent of the district, or one of the deputies, who are hereby directed to give such licence to every person who shall produce from the supreme Executive of any State, a certificate, under the seal of the State, that he is of good character, and suitably qualified and provided tor that employment, for which licence he shall pay the sum of fifty dollars to the said superintendent, for the use of the United States. That no licence to trade with the Indians shall be in force for a longer term than one year; nor shall permits or passports be granted to any other persons than citizens of the United States, to travel through the Indian nations, without their havingpreviously made their business known to the superintendent of the district, and received his special approbation. That, previous to anv person or persons obtaining a licence to trade as aforesaid, he, or they, shall give bond in three thousand dollars to the superintendent of the district, for the use of the United States, for his or their strict adherence to, and observance of, such rules and regulations as Congress may from time to time establish for the government of the Indian trade. All sums to be received by the said superintendents, either for licences or fines, shall be annually accounted for by them with the board of treasury. And be it further ordained, That the said superintendents, and the deputies, shall not be engaged, either directly or indirectly, in trade with the Indians, on pain of forfeiting their offices; and each of the superintendents shall take the following oath, previous to his entering on the duties of his appointment: “ I, A B, do swear, that I will w7ell and faithfully serve the United States in tne office of superintendent of Indian affairs, lor the-district; that I will carefully attend to all such orders and instructions as I shall from time to time receive from the United States, in Congress assembled, or the Secretary of War; that I will not be concerned, either, directly or indirectly, in trade with the Indians; and that, in all things belonging to my said office, during my continuance therein, I will faithfully, justly, and truly, according to the best of my skill and judgment, do equal and impartial justice, without fraud, favor, or affection.” And the superintendent for the northern district shall administer to his deputies, the following oath, before they proceed on the duties of their office: " I, A B, do swear, that I will well ana faithfully serve the United States, in the office of deputy superintendent of Indian affairs, in the noithern district; that I will carefully attend to all such orders and instructions as I shall from time to time receive from the United States, in Congress assembled, the Secretary of War, or the superintendent of the district aforesaid; and that in all things belonging to my said office, during my continuance therein, I wall faithfully, justly, and truly, according to the best of my skdl and judgment, do equal and impartial justice, without fraud, favor, or affection.” And the said superintendents, and deputy superintendents, shall, each of them, give bond, with surety, to the board of treasury, in trust for the United States; the superintendents, each, in the sum of six thousand dollars, and the deputy superintendents, each, in the sum of three thousand dollars, for the faithful discharge of the duties of their office. And it is further ordained, That all fines and forfeitures, wdiich maybe incurred by contravening this ordinance, shall be sued for, and recovered before any court of record within the United States, the one moiety thereof to the use of him or them, who may prosecute therefor, and the other moiety to the use of the United States. And the said superintendents shall have power, and hereby are authorized, by force, to restrain therefrom, all person's who shall attempt an intercourse with the said Indians, without a licence therefor, obtained as aforesaid. And be it further ordained, That in all cases where transactions with any nation or tribe of Indians shall become necessary to the purposes of this ordinance, which cannot be done without interfering with the legislative rights of a State, the superintendent in whose district the same shall happen, shall act in conjunction with the authority of such State. Done, &c. CHAS. THOMSON, Secretary. New York, June 14, 1789. Sir: I have been honored with your letter of the 12th, and, in reply, have to observe, that, by the resolution of Congress, of the 29th of August, 1788, I was directed to repair to the Mississippi, in order to hold a treaty with the Indians, who inhabit the country" upon that river, for the extinguishing their claims to lands, within certain limits, if any such claims existed, and to lay out certain donations of land to the ancient inhabitants. From thence, I was to proceed to Post St. Vincennes, upon the Wabash, and lay out like donations for the inhabitants there; but the instructions contained no directions to make any purchase about the post, from a presumption, I suppose, that a cession had been made there to the crown of France. With the remainder of the goods from former treaties, and the warrants I have received from the board of treasury, there is sufficient, I suppose, in my hands, to defray the expense of the treaty with the Mississippi Indians, exclusive of the provisions. W hat they may amount to, I cannot ascertain, as I am ignorant of the Indian numbers. They are inconsiderable; but an immediate provision for the payment of the provisions, either for that, or any other treaty, is not necessary, the contractors being obliged to furnish all rations that may be required by the United States. Should it be thought proper to treat with the Indians of the Wabash and Miami, a further sum will be necessary, and I have enclosed an estimate of what the- expense would probably amount to. It appears, indeed, of absolute necessity, that the savages should be brought to peace, eithei by treaty, or by force. It is impossible for me to judge what sum would induce them to extend the northern boundary of the last cession to the Mississippi, neither is it very" well known, what nations are the proprietors of the country that would be obtained by that extension. Perhaps a provisional power to make such agreements, and limiting the sum, might not be improper, as the expense of another meeting for that purpose might be avoided, if the proprietors attended at the treaty in contemplation. The stipulations could be made then, and the payment at an alter period. I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, Major General Knox. AR. ST. CLAIR. No. 2. Report from 1L Knox, Secretary of War, to the President of ihc United States, dated I far Office, July fit A, 1789, RELATING TO THE SOUTHERN INDIANS. The Creeks.—This nation of Indians is divided into two districts, the Upper and the Lower Creeks. The former reside chiefly on the waters of the Alabama river, in about sixty towns or villages. The latter on the waters of the Apalachicola river, in about forty tcwns. The Creeks are principally within the limits of the United States, but some of the most southern towns of tlie Lower Creeks, or Seminoles, are within the territory of Spain, stretching towards the point of Florida. The gun-men, or warriors of the whole nation, are estimated at six thousand. Besides the chiefs of the respective towns, the Creeks appear, at present, to be much under the influence and direction of Alexander McGillivray. The father of this person was an inhabitant of Georgia, and adhering to Great Britain in the late war, his property was confiscated by that State. His mother was a principal woman of the Upper Creeks. He hail an English education; his abilities and ambition appear to be great; his resentments are probably unbounded against the State of Georgia, for confisciting his father’s estate, and the estates of his other friends, refugees from Georgia, several of whom reside with lint among the Creeks. He is said to be a partner of a trading house which has the monopoly of the trade of the Cieeks. 'The communications to the Indian country are through the Floridas, under tine protection of the Spanish cdonies. The profits of this commerce centre in Great Britain, and one of the Bahama islands is the intermediate pace of deposite. The State of Georgia is engaged in a serious wir w ith the Creeks; and as the same may be so extended and combined, as to require the interference of the United States, it will be highly proper that the causes thereof should be stated and examined. The first treaty between the State of Georgia and the Creeks, after the conclusion of the war with Great Britain, was held at Augusta, in November. 1783. At this treaty, certain lands on the Oconee were ceded by the Creeks to the State of Georgia. A copy of this treaty is not among the papers of Congress; but the purport, as it respects the boundaries then established, is recited by the Legislature of the State of Georgia, in their report on Indian affairs, hereunto annexed. The second treaty was held at Galpliinton, on the 12th of November, 1785; by which the boundary lines defined by the treaty of Augusta, in November, 1783. were confirmed, and a new boundary line obtained, to extend from the forks of the Oconee and Oakmulgee, to the soiree of the St. Mary’s. A copy of this treaty is hereunto annexed, in the papers marked A.; also, a letter from the commissioners of the United States, and a report of a committee accepted by the Legislature of Georgia, on the 11th of February, 1786. A third treaty was held by the commissioners >f Georgia and the Creeks at Shoulderbone, on the 3d of November, 1786. At this treaty, it would appear that the Creeks acknowledged the violation of the two former treaties recognised, and ratified the former boundaries, aid gave six hostages for the faithful execution of the conditions. On the one side, the Creeks object entirely to the validity of the said treaties, stating that the cessions to the State of Georgia were made by the chiefs of two towns only; whereas, the lands ceded were the property of the whole nation, as will more fully appear by the letters of Alexander McGillivray, marked B, and numbered 1,2, S, and 4. The letter of Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, Joseph Martin, and Lach. McIntosh, Esquires, commissioners of the United States, dated at the Keowee, the 17th of November, 1785, marked A, states, that, as there were only two towns properly repiesented at Galpliinton, instead of about one hundred, the number in the whole nation, they could not treat with them on behalf of the United States. But that, “ the day alter they left Galphin-ton, the agents of Georgia held a treaty with the few Indians then present, and obtained a cession of all the lands south of the Altamaha, and eastward of the line to be run southwest, from the junction of the Oakmulgee and Oconee rivers, till it shall strike St. Mary’s, with a confirmation of the lands ceded to the State by the same towns northeast of the Oconee river, in 1783.” 'File letter of James White, Esq. superintendent of the United States for ihe southern district, and the proceedings' held by him with the Lower Creeks at Cussetahs, will further show the sentiments of the said Lower Creeks, of the said treaties, marked C. On the other side, the Legislature of Georgia, by their committee, 23d October, 1787, marked D, states that the Cherokees, by a treaty made at Augusta, on the 3d of May, 1783, and the Creeks, by the treaty of Augusta, in the succeeding November, both nations made the same relinquishment of the lands on the Oconee, on account of mutual claims which had not before been settled between them. That it was not until a few months after the treaty of Galphinton, that uneasinesses began to be fomented in the nation, and some murders were committed. That this conduct of the Creeks was considered by the government of Georgia as an infraction of the treaties, and they demanded reparation accordingly. That commissioners were appointed, with full powers to inquire into the causes, and restore peace, but with powers, also, if unavoidable, to take eventual measures of defence. That this proceeding of Georgia produced the treaty at Shoulderbone, whereby the violence was acknowledged* the boundaries confirmed, and hostages given. “ That the committee cannot forbear to observe, that, 'luring the course of all these transactions, the communications were made in solemn, open, and ancient form, and the articles of the treaties were mutually respected, until the aggression posterior to that of Galphinton. “ And that, whilst it is admitted on the one hand, that there was no manciple of representation of the parts of the nations known in civilized governments, it cannot be dejiied on the other, that it was such as had been common, and the Indians acknowledged without doubt, and regret jtheir forming a part, and being members of the State.” The committee after stating some circumstances relative to the proceedings of James White, Esq. the superintendent, “report it as their opinion, that the ultimate cahses of the war, was the too sudden interference with the treaties of the State, by which the minds of the Indians wfcrc perplexed; and the impression induced, that, in a war, they should not have the strength of the Union to fear, anil that another disposition would be made of the territory, than that which considers it as part of the State. That representations to tnis effect should be immediately transmitted to Congress, and the support of the Union demanded.” That the papers whereon this statement is fuunded? and the general subject of the said dispute between the State of Georgia and the Creeks, have several times been dismissed and considered in the late Congress. That the report of the committee of Congress, as stated on the journals of the 3d of August, 1787, will show the perplexities of this case. That the subject was further debated in Congress on June 27tli, and decided on July 15th, 1788, will appear by their journals. That, in obedience to the order of Congress of the 15th of July 1788, the Secretary of War made the report marked E. That, in consequence of the resolve of Congress of the 2Gth of October 1787, commissioners were appointed by the States of South Carolina and Georgia. That the time for which the superintendent was elected, expired on the 29th of November, 1788. That, the proceedings of the said commissioners and superintendent, as communicated by the latter, are hereunto attached, mark cd F. That in addition to the information of the superintendent, it appears from the public newspaper, marked G, that the two commissioners from Georgia and South Carolina have given a further invitation to a treaty, to be held at Oconee during the present month. But it also appears from the public newspapers, that, instead of the proposed treaty, parties of Indians have been making inroads into Georgia, and that the outrages committed by them have excited an alarm, which has extended itself to Savannah, the capital of the State. lienee it will appear, from this general statement of facts, 1st. That, hostilities still rage between the State of Georgia, and the Creek Indians. 2d. That the cause of the war is au utter denial, cn the part of the Creeks, of the validity of the three treaties, stated to have been made by them with the State cf Georgia. 3d. That the United States, in Congress assembled, by their resolve of the 15th of July, 1788, have caused it to he notified to the Creeks, “ that, should they persist in refusing to enter into a treaty upon reasonable terms, the arms of the United States shall be called forth for the protection of that frontier.” From this result, the following questions arise: 1st. Whether the circumstance of the commissioners not having received an answer from Alexander MctGil-livray to their letter of November 28th, 178S, and his letter t« Andrew Moor, Esq. of the 4th of January, and to his Excellency the Governor of South Carolina the 26th of February, 1789. (letter B) together with the recent irruption of parties of Creeks into the State of Georgia, anouit to a refusal to treat on reasonable terms, and of consequence form that crisis of affairs in which the arms of the Union are to be called forth, agreeably to the resolve of Congress of the 15th of July, 1788? 2d. Whether the final report of the commissioners is necessay to be received before decision can be made on the : case? or, 3d. Whether, in the present state of public aflitirs, any proper expedients could be devised for effectually quieting the existing hostilities between the State_ of Georgia and tin Creek nation, other than by raising an army? All which is humbly submitted to the President of the Uniteq States. H. KNOX. A. No. 1- Keowee, the 17th November, 1785. Sip.: Agreeable to our appointment, we arrived at Galphinton on the 24th and 28th of October, to meet and treat with the Creeks, having previously procured every thing ncecessarj for this purpose. By the 29th, the chiefs of two towns, with sixty men, arrived, and from them, as well as those we sent to invite the Indians to meet and treat, with us, we received assurances that the chiefs of all the towns youjd certainly come; that they were very much pleased with the intention of Congress, and very desirous of establishing with them a permanent: peace. On the 7th of November, we were informed that some false reports had been circulated through the nation, which had created jealousies among them, and discouraged them from coming;to meet us; and that we had only to expect the Tallessee king, with twenty young men, in addition to those already arrived. _ On the next day, we agreed to meet the Indians, and explain to them the object of our commission, at the same time remarking, we could not treat with so few of their nation, there being but two towns properly represented, instead of about one hundred— the number in the whole nation. As those towns had been always friendly to the United States, we gave them some presents and left them. The commissioners of Georgia visited us, previous to our conference with the Indians, and delivered us the protest marked A, to which we returned the answer marked B. The day. after we left Galphinton, the agents ol Georgia held a treaty with the. few Indians then present, and obtained a cession uf all the lands south of the Alta-maha and eastward of a line to be run southwest from the junction of the Oakmulgee and Oconee rivers, till it shall strike St. Mary's, with a confirmation of the lands ceded to the State by the same towns, northeast of the   Oconee river, in 1783. > i By various informations we have had from the Creek nation, the accounts Colonel Martin brought us from the Cherokees, and a letter wrote by McGillivray, a half breed, to General Pickens, marked C, (which we enclose to shew Congress the ability of this man, who has great influence among his countrymen,) itappears that he is forming a dangerous confederacy between the several Indian nations, the Spaniards, and British agents, with whom he is connected. His resentment is chiefly against the citizens of Georgia, who banished his father, and confiscated a capital property which lie had in that State. There is a capital British company of merchants, engaged, by licence from the court of Spain, to supply all the Indian nations to the southward, with goods, through East Florida, in which company, it is said, McGillivray is a partner, and they have their agents in till the towns from Tennessee, southwardly. We are. with due respect, sir, your roost obedient and humble servants. BENJAMIN HAWKINS, ANDREW PICKENS, JOS. MARTIN, EACH. MHNTOSH. The Honorable Charles Thomson, Esquire, Secretary to the United. States, in Congress assembled. [Note.—The protest, marked A, and the answer marked B, have been taken oft’ the files of Congress by some committee, and never returned.] A. No. 2. ,‘lrticfcs of a treaty concluded at Galphinton, on the 1 L2th day of November, 1785, between the underwritten commissioners, in behaf of the State of Georgia, of the one'part, and the kings’ headmen and warriors in behalf of themselves and all,the Indians in the Creek nation, of the other, on the following conditions: Article 1. The said Indians, for themselves and all the tribes or towns within their respective nations, within the limits of the State of Georgia, have been, and now are. members of the same, (since the day and date of the constitution of the State of Georgia.) Art. 2. If any citizen of this State, or other person or persons, shall attempt to settle any of the lands reserved to the Indians for their hunting grounds, such person or persons may be detained untill the Governor shall demand him or them: and then it shall be lawful for any of the tribes near such offenders, to come and see the punishment according to such laws as now are. or hereafter shall be, enacted by the said State tor trying such offenders _ Art. 3. It shall in no case be understood that the punishment of the innocent, under the ideaot retaliation, shall be practised on either side. Art. 4. If any citizen of this State, or other white person or persons, shall commit a robbery, or murder, or other capital crime, on any Indian, such offenders shall be delivered up to justice, and shall be tried according to the laws of the State, and due notice of such Intended punishment shall be sent to some one of the tribes. Art. 5. If any Indian shall commit a robbery, or murder, or other capital crime, on any white person, such offenders shall receive punishment adequate to such offence; and due notice of such intended punishment shall be given to his honor the Governor. Art. 6. In case of any design being formed in any neighboring tribe against the peace or safety ot the State, which they shall know or suspect, they shall make known the same to his honor the Governor. Art. 7. All white person or persons shall be at liberty, and conducted in safety into the settled parts of the State, when they slrall require it, except such persons as shall come under the restrictions pointed out in the second article. Art. 8. The Indians shall restore all the negroes, horses, and other property, that are or may be among them, belonging to any citizen of this State, or any other person or persons whatsoever, to such person as the Governor shall direct. Art. 9. That the trade with the said Indians shall be carried on as heretofore. Art. 10. All horses belonging to any Indian, that shall be found in the said State, such horses shall be restored to such person, as the head of the tribe, where such Indian may reside, shall direct. Aur. 11. The present temporary line, rs.-erved to the Indians for their hunting grounds, shall be agreeable to a treaty held at Augusta, in the year 1783: and that a new temporary line shall begin at the forks of the Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers; thence, in a southwest direction, until it shall intersect the most southern part of the stream called St. Maiy’s river, including all the islands and waters of the said stream; thence, down the said stream, to the old line; and all the ground without the said new temporary line, when run and completed, shall be reserved to the said Indians for their hunting grounds as aforesaid. In witness whereof, the parties have hereunto affixed their hands and seals, the day and year before written. While the commissioners of the United States were at Galphinton, the commissioners of Georgia copied their draught of the articles intended to be proposed to the Creeks, and which were afterwards the basis of the treaty with the Ghcrokees. B. II. A. No. 3. Georgia: In General Assembly, Saturday, February 11, 178(i. The committee to whom was referred the proceedings of the State commissioners, appointed to attend the continental commissioners to a meeting with the Cherokees and other Indians to (he southward, report: That itappears to yourcominittee, certain commissioners of the United States, in Congress assembled, at Galphinton, did attempt a treaty with the Creek Indians, and did also, at Hopewell, in the State ol South Carolina, enter into a pretended treaty with.some of the Clwrokees, and some parts of other tribes therein named, which said pretended treaty, and all other proceedings that have yet transpired, area manifest and direct attempt to violate the retained sovereignty and legislative right of this Slate, anil repugnant to the principles and harmony of the Federal Union; inasmuch as the aforesaid commissioners did attempt to exercise powers that are not delegated by the respective States to the United States, in Congress assembled: Wherefore your committee recommend the following resolutions: 1st. That the delegates of this State be directed to make a representation of (he conduct of the said commissioners to the United States, in Congress assembled, and to move and contend for an immediate abolition of their powers, as the continuation of such appointment would tend to weaken and destroy that entire confidence in the wisdom and justice of Congress, which this State wishes ever to preserve. 2d. That the delegates he requested to apply for, and immediately send to the Governor, authenticated copies of the commissioners’ instructions, and all proceedings thereon of the said commissioners, in order that such measures may he taken as will most effectually preserve the sovereign, territorial, and legislative rights of ibis State, as well as the rights and privileges to which each citizen is entitled, by the confederation and by the laws of the land. 3d. That all and every act and thing done, or intended to be done, within the limits and jurisdiction of this State, by the said commissioners, inconsistent of the bcforcmcntioncd rights and privileges, shall be, anil the same are hereby declared to be, null and void. 4tli. That the thanks of this House be given to (he Hon. Edward Telfair, anil to John King, anil Thomas Glasscock, Escirs. commissioners on the part ol this State, for their patriotism and vigilance in discharging the duties required of them at the aforesaid meetings; that each of them be allowed three dollars per day, during their actual attendance on the said business; and that the Governor anil Council take order accordingly. Which was agreed to. Extract from the minutes. JAS. M. SIMMONS, Clk. G. Jl. B. No. 1. Little Tali.assie, September 5, 1785. Sm: * I am favored with your letter by Brandon, who, after detaining it near a month, sent it by an Indian a few days ago. lie perhaps has some reasons for keeping himself at a distance from this. He caused old Mr. McQueen to take charge of this letter in answer to yours, he being shortly to set out for Augusta. The notification you have sent us is agreeable to our wishes, especially as the meeting is intended for the desirable purpose of adjusting and settling matters on an equitable footing between the United States and the Indian nations. At the same time, I cannot avoid expressing my surprise that a measure of this nature should have been so long delayed on your parts. When we found that the American independency was confirmed by the peace, we expected that the new Government would soon have taken some steps to make up the differences that subsisted between them and the Indians during the war, arid to have taken them into protection, and confirm to them their hunting grounds. Such a conduct would have reconciled the minds of the Indians, and secured to the States their attachment and friendship, and considered them as their natural guardians anil allies. Georgia, whose particular interest it was to have endeavored to conciliate the friendship of this nation, but, instead of which, I am sorry to observe that violence and prejudice liad taken place of good policy and reason in all their proceedings with us. They attempted to avail themselves of our supposed distressed situation. Their talks to us breathed nothing but vengeance; and, being entirely possessed with the idea that we were wholly at their mercy, they never once reflected that the colonies of a powerful monarch were nearly surroundingus, and to whom,in any extremity, we mightapply for succor and protection; and who, to answer some end of their policy, might grant it to us. However, we yet deferred any such proceeding, still expecting we could bring them to a sense of their true interest; but, still finding no alteration in their conduct towards us, we sought the protection of Spain, and treaties of friendship and alliance were mutually entered into: they to guaranty our hunting grounds and territory, and to grant us a free trade in the ports of the Floridas. llow the boundary or limits between the Spaniards and the States will be determined, a little time will show, as I believe that matter is now on foot. However, we know our own limits, and the extent of our hunting grounds; and, as a free nation, we have applied, as we have a right, and have obtained protection for, so that we shall Say no regard to any limits that may prejudice our claims, that were drawn by an American, and confirmed by a iritish, negotiator. Yet, notwithstanding we have been obliged to adopt these measures for our preservation, and from real necessity, we sincerely wish to have it in our power to be on the same footing with the States as before the late unhappy war; to effect which is entirely in your power. We want nothing from you but justice. We want our hunting grounds preserved from encroachments. They have been ours from the beginning of time, and I trust that, with the assistance of our friends, we shall be able to maintain them against every attempt that may be made to take them from us. Finding our representations to the State of Georgia of no effect, in restraining their encroachments, we thought it proper to call a meeting of the nation on the matter; we then came to a resolution, to send out parties to remove the people and effects from off the lands in question, in the most peaceable manner possible. Agreeable to your requisition, and to convince you of my sincere desire to restore a good understanding between us, I have taken the necessary steps to prevent any future predatory excursions of my people, against any of your settlements. I could wish that the people of Cumberland shewed an equal good disposition to do what is right. They were certainly the first aggressors since the peace, and acknowledged it in a written certificate, left at the Indian camp they had plundered. I have only to add that we shall prepare ourselves to meet the commissioners of Congress, whenever we shall receive notice, in expectation that every matter of difference will be made up and settled, with that liberality and justice, worthy the men who have so gloriously asserted the cause of liberty and independency, and that we shall in future consider them as brethren and defenders of the land. I am, with much respect, sir, your most obedient servant, Hon. Andrew Pickens, Esq. ALEX. McGILLIVRAY. I should be sorry that your interest should suffer in the hands of Brandon, but he has committed so many thefts in horses, and to satisfy the people we have given him up to be made an example of, and I imagine his goods are gone for satisfaction. He is a very unfit person fora trader; as I have pretty well cleared the nation of such kind of people, he must not look for indulgence in these parts. A. McG. B. No. 2. Little Tallassie, 8th JJpril, 1787. Sir: I had the pleasure to receive the letter that you favored me with by Mr. Miller, on your arrival at the Cussetahs. It is with real satisfaction that I learn of your being appointed by Congress, for the laudable purpose of inquiring into, and settling the differences that at present subsist between our nation and the Georgians. It may be necessary for you to know the cause of those differences, and of our discontents, which, perhaps, have never come to the knowledge of the honorable body that has sent you to our country. There are chiefs of two towns in this nation, who, during the late war, were friendly to the State of Georgia,, and had gone at different times to that State, and, once, after the general peace, when the people of Augusta demanded a cession or grant of lands belonging to, and enjoyed as hunting ground by the Indians of this nation, in common, on the East of the Oconee river, which demand was rejected by those chiefs, on the plea that those grounds were hunting lands of the nation, and could not be granted by two individuals: but, after a few days, a promise was extorted from them, that, on their return to their own country, they would use their influence to get a grant confirmed. Upon these men reporting this affair, on coming home, a general convention was held at the Teicki-batiks town, when those two chiefs were severally censured for their conduct, and the chiefs of ninety-eight towns agreed upon a talk to be sent to Savannah, disapproving, in the strongest manner, of the demand made upon their nation, and denied the right of any two of their country, to making any cession of land, which could only be valid by the unanimous voice of the whole, as joint proprietors, in common. Yet, these two, regardless of the voice of the nation, continued to go to Augusta, and other places within that Shite, continuing to make such promises, to obtain presents, our customs not permitting us to punish them for the crime; we warned the Georgians of the dangerous consequences that would certainly attend the settling of the lands in question. Our just remonstrances were treated with contempt, and those lands were soon filled with settlers. The nation, justly alarmed at the encroachments, resolved to use force to maintain their rights; yet, being averse to shedding the blood of a people whom we would rather consider as friends, we made another effort to awaken in them a sense of justice and equity; but, we found from experience, that entreaty could not prevail, and parties of warriors were sent out to drive off all intruders, but to shed no blood, only where self preservation made it necessary. This was in May, 1786. In October following, we were invited, by commissioners of the State of Georgia, to meet them, in conference, at the Oconee, professing a sincere desire for an amicable adjustment of our disputes, and Pledging their sacred honors for the safety and good treatment of all those that should attend and meet them. It not eing convenient for many of us to go to the proposed conference, a few towns, say their chiefs, attended, most of whom, merely from niotives of curiosity, and were surprised to find an armed body of men, prepared for, and professing hostile intentions, than peaceable commissioners. Apprehensions for personal safety, induced those chiefs to subscribe to every demand that was asked by the army and its commissioners; lands were again demanded, and the lives of some of our chiefs were required, as tvell as some innocent traders, as a sacrifice to appease their anger. Assassins have been employed to effect some part of their atrocious purposes. If I fall by the hand of such, I shall fall a victim in the noblest of causes—that of falling in maintaining the just rights of my country. I aspire to the honest ambition of meriting the appellation of the preserver of my country, equally with those chiefs among you, whom, from acting on suen principles, you have exalted to the highest pitch of glory; and, if, after every peaceable mode of obtaining a redress of grievances having proved fruitless, the having recourse to arms to obtain it, be marks of the savage, and not of the soldier, what savages must the Americans be, and how much undeserved applause have your Cincinnatus, your Fabius, obtained. If w ar names had been necessary to distinguish those chiefs in such a case, the man-killer, the great destroyer, &c. would have been the proper appellations. I had appointed the Cussetahs, for all the chiefs of the lower Creeks, to meet in convention. I shall be down in a few days, when, from your timely arrival, you will meet the chiefs, and will learn their sentiments, and I sincerely hope that the propositions that you shall offer us will be of such a nature that we can safe accede to. The talks of the former commissioners of Congress, at Galphinton, were much approved of, and your coming from the w;h.ite town (seat of Congress) has raised great expectations that you will remove the principal, and almost only cause of our disputes, that is, securing to us all our possessions and hunting grounds entire, and clear them ot encroachments. When we meet, we shall talk these matters over. Meantime, I have the honor to be, with regard, sir, your most obedient servant. ALEX. McGILLIVRAY. The Indians that were detained as hostages in Augusta, must speedily be liberated, or hostilities will soon commence, as their relations are uneasy on their accounts. Hon. James White. Esq. Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the United States. B. No. 3. . Little Tallasste, Upper Creeks, January 4th. 1789. Sir: I take this opportunity to write to you, in answer to a letter which you did me the favor to write me in .September last, from Seneca, in which was enclosed a proclamation issued bv Congress, requiring all the whites that are settled on the lands of the Cherokee^, to remove from off them immediately. This measure, together with the talk from the Governor of Virginia, appears to have given much satisfaction to the Cherokees. The Little Turkeyi or Coweta King, with some warriors, relations to the Dragging Canoe, have been to consult me on these subjects, bringing with them all the talks that they had received for some time past. I gave it as my opinion to them, that the talks in question might be safely relied on; that the talk of Congress was a strong one, to their people, who would obey it, and the Governor bwng a principal chief and ruler, he would not speak with a forked tongue; and that, in the ensuing spring, there wo.. Id be a great meeting, for the purpose of concluding a general peace, the terms of which woula be very favorable to them; in the meantime, the chiefs should advise all the young warriors to .attend closely to hunting during the winter, instead of risking their lives for a scalp, which, when obtained, would not purchase clothing for their families; and that, considering them as an oppressed people. 1 had agreed to give them assistance, to enable them to obtain a good peace; but they were not to consider me as engaged to support them in an unjust and an unnecessary war. The people of your State, who complain of our people molesting them, are not rightly informed: for, besides that I always have endeavored to confine the excursions of our warriors to the people with whom we have ground of quarrel, the State of Virginia and its dependencies are very far distant, and I never knew that a Creek had ever been near Kentucky, at least from the nation; there are several who have wives and families among the Cherokees, and constantly reside there? those I cannot answer for. being to be reckoned as Cherokees. It is the custom of a Creek to disregard all connexions and country, and cleave to his wife; those that have wives abroad, never return to their native land. The gentlemen, my friends, dome justice when they inform you that I am desirous of peace. I have been now five years in laboring to bring about one with the State of Georgia, but in vain? more than a twelvemonth after the general peace was spent by us in representing to them, in friendly terms, the cruelty and injustice of their proceedings, of wresting forcibly from us a large portion of our hunting lands, and which were in a great measure necessary for our support; that we were not situated as several other Indian nations were, with immense wildernesses behind us. On the contrary, we were surrounded from west to north, bv the Choctaws, Chickasaws, Cumberland, and Cherokees, and on every other side by the whites, so that our hunting grounds were already very insufficient for our purposes; to all which we were always answered in haughty and contemptuous language, with threats to drive us over the Mississippi; so that, having nothing to hope from their justice or humanity, it was resolved to raise up the red hatchet for self preservation. As our cause was just, so fortune has favored our exertions in driving them from the contested ground. Though the war has reduced them to an extremity of distress, yet their stubbornness of pride is such, they take no measures to retract the conduct which has brought them to it; they have spurned every attempt that Congress has offered at, to accommodate, by its interference, the disputes between us. The new Congress will equally find them obstinate and intractable; the only method they can adopt, will be to leave the Georgians to their fate; and in another season ’tis probable that they will be brought to reason. I shall be glad to be favored with an account, when convenient, soon after the meeting of the new Congress, and in what manner the new constitution is finally settled. Any thing that I can serve you in, pray freely command. 1 remain with regard, your most obedient servant, ALEX. McGILLIVRAY. Hull. Andrew Moor, Esquire, Com7iiissionerfor treating with the Cherokees for State of Virginia. B. No. 4. Utile Tall ass ie, Upper Creek Motion. 26th February, 1789. Sir: Your Excellency’s letter of Gth November, is just come to hand, enclosed in one from the superintendent and commissioners, by which I find that the respectable State of South Carolina, viewing with concern the continuance of the destructive contest carrying on between our nation, the Creeks, and their sister State of Georgia, have been induced, from their good intentions to both, to offer their interference to bring about an amicable adjustment of the disputes subsisting between us, which offer we can have no good reason for objecting to: and as your Excellency, as chief of the State, has stept forward as the mediator, it is very necessary that you. in that capacity, should be informed of the real grounds of such dispute, and from the account which I shall .give you of it, you will readily admit, that we had the best reasons for opposition. Directly after the conclusion of a general peace was announced to us all, the Georgians sent up an invitation to our chiefs to meet them in treaty at Augusta, professing it was with an intention of burying the hatchet, and with it the remembrance of every injury which they had sustained from us in the war of Britain. The call being at an inconvenient season, the proper chiefs not being in the way, a few people who, during the war, pretended to neutrality, attended the call at Augusta, and on conferences then held, the leading people of the upper parts of that State made a demand of a large cession of lands, comprehending our best, hunting grounds, as a compensation for the injuries sustained by them in the war, and which was enforced by bands of armed men, who at the same time surrounded them, threatening them with instant death if it was refused. The two chiefs then present being of the second rank, truly told them that the demand was unexpected, and were unprepared to answer it, and being only two men, could not promise that any grant that they should be forced to consent to make, would be confirmed by the chiefs of the nation, as it was not unknown to the white people that it was necessary that the joint voice, of the whole nation should make and confirm such grants. This reply not satisfying the Georgians, they persisted and renewed their threats; then these men, to escape the threatened danger, consented as far as what concerned them, but could not engage to bind the whole to their act. When these men arrived in the nation, a general convention was immediately called to deliberate on this afi'air; the chiefs of more than forty towns assembled, when they reprobated the transactions of the two inferior chiefs in strong terms, and refused to consent, to any such cession, and desired me to inform the Georgians of the same, and to warn them that, if the threatened encroachments were made, a war would immediately ensue, which I did in a letter to Mr. Houston, the Governor. This is a true account of the transactions of (he first of three'pretended' treaties which the commissioners mention in their letter to me; the second invitation which we received to treat, was made hy Colonel Hawkins and General Pickens, under the appointment of Congress, as they informed me, and mentioned that they had not, at that time, tixed upon any place to meet us; but, when that point was settled, they would give a second notification, and which I never received. Soon after I learned that the Georgians took up the matter, and smuggled a treaty at Galphinton, on Ogeechce, to which place they secretly invited a few of our people, whom they had bribed and secured to their interests, and who they were sure would ngrree to any thing that was asked of them, and there of course a cession was again asked of them, with a large addition. Sometime after, I received a letter from Col. Hawkins, desiring to know my reasons for not meeting at Ogeechce, at the same time remarking, that he did not consider the few-that attended, a proper representation of the Creek.nation; he said nothing to them; the authority of the commissioner of Congress, I expect, will be sufficient evidence to overset any claim that is founded on a grant of this treaty. Another convention protested, through me, in warm terms, to the Georgians, respecting their conduct in offering to make pretensions to cessions of land obtained from ajhw-beggars, who only want to obtain presents. The third invitation which was sent to us to treat, was from (he Georgians only, through their commissioners, at (lie head of whom was Mr. M. Habersham, President of the FiXccutive Council, and he proposes the Oconee river for the place of meeting. In the letter, they “pledged their sacred honor” for (lie safety and welfare of every one that would attend their conferences; but I being so often threatened, and having the worst opinion of the back people, as they are called, did not go, but sent a few Coweta warriors, to report to me on their return. During the conferences of Oconee, an additional cession was demanded, which was strongly opposed hy the Cowetas, and others, for which they were violently insulted by a Colonel Clark, in the presence of the commissioners, who could not prevent it; and, though their sacred honors were pledged for maintaining good order, yet several warriors, of different towns, were forcibly seized upon by armed men, and conveyed to Augusta, more as prisoners than hostages, to be kept as a pledge that my life and six more of leading men, should be taken. Such a conduct convinced the whole nation that it was full time to adopt measures for the general safety. A general   convention was appointed, to be held in May for that purpose, and a few days before it was opened, a Doctor White arrived in the nation, with an appointment of Superintendent of Indian Affairs, from Congress; (lie chiefs assembled, shewed him every attention, and, on account of his arrival, the two men who had given the grants, as before related, were called upon to attend, (for they had not mingled themselves with the others lor shame) that Doctor White should know the truth. He very minutely interrogated those men concerning the foregoing matters, and they gave him the same account of the first treaty, as it is called, and of the rest, as I have done. The Doctor used his best ability to get the chiefs in conven-r tion to consent to the disputed cession, but in vain; on the contrary, the chiefs, by their speaker, the king of (he Cowetas, told Doctor White, that, before they would give more lands, they would rather risk an attempt to resume what the nation had formerly been deprived of. The Doctor, on his going away, required of me a written representation of the causes of our discontents, to be shewn to Congress, which I gave him, and am certain that it is in Ihe possession of that honorable body; the subject of which made part of the deliberations of a committee ordered to sit upon Indian affairs, and to report the same. A printed report of that committee I have now in the house, and, from sentiments contained in it, 1 had great hopes that it would form the basis for accommodating matters between us and the Georgians, and which would be very satisfactory to us. I beg leave next to remark to you, that, if the Georgians, after tlie peace, had conducted themselves to us with moderation and humanity, we should not have fallen out with them for trifles; and they have brought the war on themselves, hy manifesting, at the outset, an unaccommodating and persecuting spirit towards us. Our situation does by no means admit of our giving away our lands; w'e are already closely surrounded, and our hunting grounds much circumscribed* There is the State of Georgia on the east, southeast and southwest by the Spanish Floridas, west by the nations of the Choctaws and Chickasaws, on the north by the Cherokces and Cumberland. We are not situated as the western and northern nations, with immense deserts at our back; all this tells us that we must struggle hard to preserve our hunting grounds, and perish to a man in its defence: for where can we go to possess ourselves of new ones? Such forcible considerations with us, may weigh nothing in the minds of those who think that Indians are only animals fit to be exterminated; and this is a language which I know is held in many places in your country; hut let us be w hat we may, let it be attempted when it will, it will be found no very easy enterprise. I have given your Excellency a very circumstantial account of the origin of.the contest between us and (he Georgians, from which you will find, that the Georgians have no well founded cause of quarrel with us, and that they can have no just claim to your assistance; for, to support them in this contest, is to side with injustice and oppression; a reproach which I firmly believe that the respectable State over which you preside will not subject its magnanimity and honor to. “ Very far am I, sir, from spurning at your offered mediation; hut the letter of the commissioners puts it out of my power, or rather makes it of no .effect, as they declare that it is impossible for them to comply with our requisition, to restore to us the territory usurped from us by the Georgians,” wishing us to “reconsider the matter, as the Georgians’ claims are founded on three treaties signed by our headmen and warriors.” The treaties alluded to have been faithfully reported to you. One of the new commissioners, General Pickens, formerly by letter acknowledged tome, that lie was in Augusta at the time the first treaty, as it is called, was held, and the manner in which a consent to a cession was extorted was very unfair. The General, as a gent leman, will not deny his assertion. 1 cannot take upon myself to engage to meet the commissioners to enter into an investigation of this subject; it will be attended with no good elfect; the claims will be endeavored to be maintained, and we shall be as firm in attempting to overthrow it, and disagreeable, if not bloody consequences would be the result of such conferences. 1 understand your Excellency very well when you say, that you are not unprepared fora change of circumstances; that is, we shall, or must, purchase peace of. the Georgians, at the expense of sacrificing our rights, properties, and life itself, or you are resolved to join that State in hostility against us. The commissioners also say that Congress is resolved to do justice to Georgia. All this has the most formidable appearance. I by no means make light of the great power which thus menaces: if ’tis determined .asl suspect it is the case, to attempt ata conquest of our country, we will be found as determined to oppose it. Spain is bound by treaty to protect and support us in our claims and properties; we shan’t want for means of defence, but still I hope, for I earnestly desire, that your influence and power will be used to set every matter to rights in a peaceable manner, rather than to exercise die calamities of war. I am returned, a month or two since, from a tour through the principal of the Lower towns and Seminoles, which I made for the purpose of urging them to a strict observance of the truce; and I believe I can venture to assure your   Excellency, that no complaints will be made for any breaches of it throughout the winter. Ihave the honor to be, with.most respectful consideration, Your Excellency’s most obedient servant, ALEX. MeGILLIVRAY. His Excellency Thomas Pinckney, Esq. Governor of the State of South Carolina. C. No. 1. ' Fayetteville, May 9Ath. 1787. Sir: _ _ Being lately returned from the Creek nation, which occasioned the alarm in Georgia last summer, I do myself the honor ot sending you an account of the state offhose Indians. The invasion which threatened that State had subsided ere my arrival; and first appearances seemed to promise tranquillity; for hostages had been given by some of the Indians to give satisfaction, and enlarge the boundary of the State. I soon discovered these hostages were but of imaginary consequence; they were taken from the Cusitash, a town not only without imputation of offence on this occasion) hut at all times attached to the white'people in a sin- eular manner. My tour to the nation convinced me, that these men answered no other purpose by their detention, than to alienate the minds of such of the Indians as might be favorably disposed; they have since been dismissed, all but a youth; who, in his impatience of confinement, put himself to death. The further Creeks who had insulted the State, continue in the same disposition; and if their hatchet has been hitherto restrained it has been through their respect to the United States. Their dispositions had been favorably inclined by the liberal sentiments of the former commissioners from Congress, and they had got information that there was an agent now coming to them from that honorable body. This withheld their resentment to the State of Georgia. They have all along been avowedly opposed to the new settlements of the white people. The sentiments of the Isower towns seemed not so well known till I went out: but at a full meeting of these latter, they also protested against what they termed the Georgian encroachments, wnich they declared they would repel by force. From a sketch of the proceedings at that meeting, (paper No. 1) you may see that the veiy Indians, said to have made the grants, were the first to accuse the State of having extorted land from them under pretence of cessions. All their expressions, indeed, were mingled with respect for the power that had delegated the superintendent to whom they addressed their bilk. “ llut "there was a third party, (tlie Georgians) they said, which evidently meant injustice and oppression.;’ Tim meeting, upon the whole, concluded so unfavorably, that there was room to apprehend an immediate invasion. To that, however, a temporary stop was put by an idea,of their influential Chief, McGillivray. In this there was something so singular, that perhaps I may be excused for relating it circumstantially. The following, therefore, was nearly the address of that Indian Chief: “Notwithstanding that, as the guardian of the Indian rights, I prompt them to defend their lands, yet I must declare I look upon the United States as our most natural allies. Two years I waited before I would seek for the alliance I have formed. 1 was compelled to it. I could not but resent the greedy encroachments of the Georgians; to say nothing of their scandalous and illiberal personal abuse. Notwithstanding which, I will now put it to the test whether they or myself entertain the most generous sentiments of respect for Congress. If that honorable body can form a government to the southward of the Altamaha, I will be the first to take the oath of allegiance thereto; and in return to the Georgians, for yielding to the United States that claim. I will obtain a regular and peaceable grant of the lands on the Oconee, on which they have deluded people to settle, under pretence of grants from the Indians, you yourself have seen how ill founded. However, if this takes place, 1 will put this matter out of dispute for them. 1 will give you to the first of August for an answer.” I hope I shall be excused for relating this unexpected proposal in his own words, as nearly as I can recollect; his motives were probably inclination as well as interest. I could discover that his natural bias is not towards his Spanish allies, and he is a trader of a company that imports largely, from which the government of l’ensacola exacts an exorbitant impost. On the other hand, he would not only expect a more moderate duty through the Altamaha, but the Indian country is more accessible through that way. The strength of these Indians is about 6,000 gun-men, mostly well armed with rifles; they extend down the waters of the Alabama, and Apalachicola rivers, along to the point of Florida, through the Spanish territories; through which they could have a convenient retreat in case they were forced by an expedition against them. It is beyond a doubt that they receive every encouragement, from the jealous policy of the Spaniards, against us; from thi£ source they are. already provided with ammunition, maga/.ines of which are dispersed through their towns, and reserved for a public occasion. 1 am well informed, that when the Creeks were threatened from Georgia, the Spanish influence, in favor of those Indians, was very active with the Choctaws. With what conveniency the United States could carry on a war with the Creeks, I cannot determine; but I may be permitted to remark, that the State of Georgia, only in holding a partial treaty with some of them, last autumn, was obliged to have recourse to a paper medium, which is already depreciated 400 per cent.; and it was with great difficulty that (he troops raised lor this Indian business could be kept together till it terminated in the unsubstantial manner it did. The causes that excite an unfriendly disposition in the Indians, piny in part be gathered from Mr. McGillivray’s letter, which comes enclosed to you. Besides, there are the following, among other causes: The natural reluctance of the Indians to part with any of their lands: for, to use their own expression, they look on their lands as their blood and their life, which they must tight for rather than part with. 2d. Because, in obtaining the new purchase, a sufficiently general consent of the nation was wantingj and even that partial consent extorted by threats, as they pretend. 3d. The white people on the frontier continuing their encroachments; they pursue their surveys into the Indian country, and destroy the game there. Much also of the Indian animosity may be ascribed to (lie instigations of Mr. McGillivray, who is said to be in Spanish pay, and entertains a personal resentment to (lie State of Georgia. To this may be added habits of enmity contracted during the war, and their connexion with the British. In like manner, the Spanish influence now succeeds to that. 1 have sent you the letter from Mr. McGillivray, not only as it may serve to give some idea of the character of the man, hut also, as it contains a state of Indian complaints. The two papers (No. 2 and f>) from the Legislature and Executive of the State of Georgia, will help to shew in what manner that Government lias received the institution of a superintendent within the claim of their jurisdiction. Permit me to enclose, also, a letter to McGillivray, and a talk to the Lower Creeks; you will please to judge if any of the contents may be proper to oiler to the attention of Congress; it appeared necessary for me to mention at least the proposal, as above, from McGillivray. I am, with the. greatest respect, sir. your obedient and humble servant, "JAMES WHITE. The Honorable Major General Knox. C. No. 2. Sir: Cassetash, .Qpril 4. 1787. 1 flattered myself I should have been able in person to deliver you the enclosed. Unfortunately, the decline of my health has disappointed ine in that expectation. It is with difficulty, indeed, that I have reached thus far; but I am encouraged oy reflecting, that if our efforts are successful in removing the misunderstanding which seems to have taken place between the people of Georgia and some part of the Creek nation, we shall have rendered good offices, perhaps, equally to both. That this can be effected, 1 the more readily hope, as each party seems to entertain an inclination to avoid the further effusion of human blood on the occasion. I assure you, sir, the better and more moderate people among us, appear to wish (here may be no cause to proceed to extremes. As for the United States, the very nature of their Government is averse to violence; and if, through the ties of the. confederation, there is a necessity to turn the force of the continent into this quarter, it will not he without regret that there is occasion for the disagreeable measure. In like manner, it is with pleasure I perceive by your letters, that the Indians only wish their rights may not be violated. Let both parties, therefore, condescend a little. For my part, the very small share of persuasion I possess among the white people, shall be exerted for so good a purpose, as, indeed, it has not been hitherto neglected; your more powerful influence among this people cannot certainly take place to a better end; matters may De amicably settled. It will prove a mutual advantage. 1 confess, among the herd of white people, there are many who may be ripe for precipitating themselves into measures as injurious to others, as destructive to themselves. The same, no doubt, among tne Indians. To restrain this temper, is the duty of more sober reflection. As for the occasion of these animosities, which I am sorry has subsisted, the territory of the State is, I own, in my opinion, amply extensive; and this consideration is a security for the Indians, that there will be no similar ground for complaint in future; as it cannot be an object with Government to disperse its subjects still more widely, while there is so much internal room for cultivation; I can take upon me to assure you that measures are adopted with strict severity for curbing the licentiousness of any who m.ght be disposed togive offence to this people. On the other hand, the white people are not without heavy complaints. They allege that the assassination in cold blood of their unsuspecting fellow citizens, can scarcely be atoned for—barbarities which may, indeed, raise the indignation of a civilized people; but, as you well know, it requires a different spirit to bring them to any terms, so you will be the first to discountenance these marks, not of the soldier, but the savage. With respect to the subject that produced these enormities, if I may be permitted to remark without the imputation of partiality, it is obvious that, as the Creeks have no written laws or customs, it was to be supposed the people of Georgia would in reason view that purchase as good which they were to make from the people who were in the indisputed possession and use—the case of your Lower towns—however, as the subject of grievances is at all times a tender one, 1 am sorry if I have not touched it with a finger sufficiently delicate. Let us rather turn our views to the means of future peace and happiness. For this purpose, I am anxious for an early meeting, and I hope I am not deceived in thinking you will heartily concur in endeavors of so humane a tendency. As I propose going to the northward as soon as I see this business in any regular train? it would do me pleasure to convey any word to your correspondent Mr. II. who thinks of you with sentiments of singular esteem, and who is a man of a benevolence and philanthropy expanded beyond party and national contractedness. I am. with great esteem, your obedient servant, JAMES WHITE. The Honorable Alexander McGileivray, Esq. One of the Chiefs of the Creek nation. [For the answer to this letter, vide 13.] C. No. 3. ‘ At a meeting of the Lower Creeeks.—April 10, 1787. Friends and Brothers: The occasion that hrings me here to see you, is, I believe, partly of the same nature as that for which you have met together. But before I enter upon the business, I cannot help expressing the pleasure I feel at seeing so many cf our particular friends assembled. The Lower towns of the Creek nation have always shown a moderation and a prudence, which I feel and admire. If this disposition is continued, it will establish such a friendship and commerce, as will be infinitely better than quarrelling and bloodshed. There are many present who are already informed that I am sent here by the great council which, in peace and war, directs the affairs of all the thirteen united nations of white men, of which the Virginians, your neighbors, make a very small part. I come now' from the centre of their government; at the distance from here of a whole moon’s journey, on strong horses. Brothers: The Virginians of Georgia, who form one of the thirteen fires of our great council, complained, at the meeting last autumn, that their country was attacked, and their people killed by some bad men of the Creek nation. They demanded assistance, if due satisfaction was not given against the offenders. But the old and wise men of the great council, the Congress, before they would .send out a strong army to assist in killing their brothers, the Indians, with whom they would rather be at peace, wished first to inquire into the matter, and see if all things could not be amicably settled. For this purpose they have sent me out. Now, Brothers, from peace may we not all reap advantage? There can be none from spilling each other’s blood. The Master of Breath lends us that breath but for a little while; why then should we snatch it from one another sooner than he designs? For this reason, 1 hope both parties will be moderate. Perhaps it hath been a little p the fault of both parties that any of the human blood hath been spilt on the occasion; I hope that now. each will yield a little to the other. "When our friends of the Creek nation, who are now at Augusta, come up, they will tell you how much I inculcated this to the white people; I was happy to find them disposed to it, except a few of their mad young men, who were too apt to be disposed to war; but their nation will not be rigorous in their demands; they have presents in waiting for the Indians, who, I hope, will go down and receive the goods. I am convinced /^that this nation will not, in the end, lose any thing by cpnfirming the grant of such lands as many of the respectable men of the nation have thought might be spared, and have already granted; which gift it would look unmanly to retract, if it could be done, but it cannot. Brothers: I have carefully avoided to mention any old cause of quarrels, and I hope there will be none for the future. You will find that the headmen among the Virginians have lately made provision for severely punishing any of their bad folks, who shall disturb their friends the Indians. I will not trouble you further, but to mention one thing, which concerns us all, and which I feel from my heart: the red people and the white are equally interested in it. We are countrymen; we live in the same land; we breathe the same air; we should be brothers. The Kings and people who live over the great water, wall wish to subdue us all. They will use cunning and force. Perhaps at tins very time there are men employed among you to set you against us. It is not so long since, but you must remember how one of these Powers made violent efforts of this kind, even upon us, the white people, their children. But to tell you what is done by others of them to people of your color, towards the mid-day sun, would fill you with horror. Ought we not, therefore, to grasp one another with a strong arm of friendship, the more easily to repel these foreigners? Go down, then, and receive the presents which are kept for you as marks of friendship, when you run the line, as you have agreed. You will be assured that every care has been taken by the Virginians to prevent your receiving any offence; as you, I flatter myself, will also do by them. For my part, when I return from whence I came, I shall have the pleasure to tell the great council of Congress this; then they, far from sending an army into the Creek nation, will exert themselves to give trade, and the comforts of life, to you and your families. This will make the chain of our friendship brighter, and, indeed, will be better for us all. Before I make an end, 1 must inform you that our friend Chewocleymicho, and his companions, the hostages, V are in good health and spirits. I have sent down to request they may be brought up, that it may not appear hard to keep our friends too long from their relations. But I hope the time passes away agreeably with them: for when I left them, they had nothing to do but to drink rum and be merry. If there is any just cause of complaint, I now beg it may be known, that I may use my best endeavors to find a remedy. All we have to request is, that you go and receive your presents, and attend at running the line, according to your agreement at the treaty. C. No. 4. Proceedings oj the meeting of the Lower Creeks.—April 10, 1789. / 7 * ? Present: the principal chiefs of the lower towns; also, the Tallassee, or Half-way-house king; and from the further Creeks, Alex’r McGillivray. Of the white people, besides the superintendent of Indian affairs, the two State commissioners, Messrs. Barnard and Galphin. Mr. McGillivray opened the business, by telling the Indians “they knew for what purposes this meeting was called: lie regretted it had not been earlier, that their sentiments respecting the white people’s settling their lands, might have been certainly known; that the Virginians (/. e. Georgians) hail falsely persuaded the rest of the white people they had purchased those lands from them: there was now a gentleman come out to inquire into this business; that he came from a different quarter, and would be a good witness to the truth. He (McGillivray) had no doubt they would treat him with the highest respect, and with every attention to what he might have to say to them/’ He then requested the superintendent to put any questions, or make any proposals he thought proper. During the talk of the superintendent, the Indians observed a singular decorum and attention, till he came to request them to go down and run the line; at which they interrupted, by asking if the white people wanted to make any more of them prisoners (i. e. hostages.) In answer to the talk, the TallassfiS-king spoke first, lie said, that “he wasglad the superintendent had come out, that he might make known hiscomplaints, of which he had many. He had always been a friend to the white people; that, alter the war, he was invited to Augusta, where he expected to be treated like a friend; instead of which, the white-people, their long knives in their hands, insisted on his making a cession of land, which he had no right to do; but that, after three days’ importunity, he was obliged to consent, on condition the nation would agree to it.” The Hallowing king of the Cowetas seemed principally to undertake to speak for the Indians in general. He expressed their thankfulness to die superintendent for coming so great a journey, with the good intention of settling the quarrel between them and the Georgians. .If the matter rested between them and Congress, no doubt it could be amicably concluded; but there was a third party, who had no mind to do justice. He gave an historical account of the progress of the white people, from even before their establishment to the southward of the Savannah, as he had seen himself, or been informed by older men. But, says he, “ these last strides tell us they never mean to let their foot rest; our lands are our life and breath: if we part with them, we part with our blood. We must light for them.” The superintendent then endeavored to show the difficulty, nay, the impossibility of evacuating the lands on which people had settled, after buying them, in the opinion that they were granted by the Indians, in atonement for the many unprovoked injuries the State had sustained. He adduced many reasons to make it probable the. Tallassee king hail made the grants unconstrained. He promised them every security should be given them against all future encroachments; and he offered to take oft several conditions of the late treaty, that might seem to bear too hard. But they insisted, the great grievance was taking their land; and that they could not dispense with. When they were desired to declare if nothing would do but relinquishing the lands on the Oconee, they answered, that, or war. The superintendent took his leave, assuring them of his good wishes to the nation: and that lie would always use his endeavors in obtaining for them whatever might lie fair and reasonable; but that lie was sorry to think their demands in the present case were neither. Mr. .McGillivray’s proposal was made next day. D. No. 1. Augusta, Geo. 15th November, 1787. Sin; I do myself the honor to enclose to your Excellency a report of a committee of the General Assembly of this State, respecting the Creek Indians. It so fully informs your Excellency of the unavoidable necessity there is fur a war with that nation, that little is left for me to say on the subject. In my letter to our delegates, of the 9th of August, I inform them of the murders committed by the Indians, and by their answer, it appears the letter was laid before Congress, since which time our frontiers have been the scene of blood and ravages; they have killed thirty-one of our citiy.ens, wounded twenty, and taken four prisoners; they have burnt the court house and town of Greensburgli, in the county of Greene, and a number of other houses in different parts of the country. The Assembly, fully convinced that the State never can have a secure and lasting peace with that perfidious nation, until they have severely felt the effects of war, have ordered three thousand men to be raised, and given the Executive power to call forth fifteen hundred more, should the first not be adequate. The arming and equipping these troops will be attended with such expense, that the aid of the Union w ill be required, in addition to our exertions, and I flatter myself the United States will grant such assistance as will enable us to prosecute the war with vigor, and establish us in the blessings of peace. I would also take the libertj of remarking, that I have reason to think the Creek Indians are supplied with arms and ammunition from the Spanish government of West Florida, and whether it may not be proper for Congress officially to remonstrate against such supplies being granted them, whilst engaged in a war with us. I have the honor to be. with respect, &c. GEORGE MATHEWS. I). No. 2. House of Assembly, Tuesday, the 2Hd October, 1787. The House proceeded to take into consideration (he report of the committee, to whom was referred the message of his Honor the Governor, of the 18th instant, together with such parts of the despatches accompanying the same, as relates to the Creek Indians: and the same being read and amended, w as agreed to by the House, and is as follows: “The committee, consisting of General Clarke, Mr. Telfair, Mr. Joseph Habersham, Mr. Seagrove, and Mr. Walton, to whom were referred the papers marked No. 1, accompanying the Governor’s message of the 18th instant, respecting Indian affairs, report: ‘‘That, in examining the letters and documents committed to them, they have necessarily been led toa reference to the treaties and principal transactions with the I ndians, w hich have taken place since the Revolution and the establishment of peace with Great Britain. And they find that, on the. thirty-first day of May, in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three, the Clierokees, by a treaty held at Augusta, among others, agreed to and subscribed the following clause: “ ‘ Clause 3d. That a new line shall be drawn, without dalay, between the present settlements in the said State, and the hunting ground of the said Indians, to begin on Savannah river, where the present line strikes it; thence, up the said river, to a place on the most northern branch of the same, (commonly called Keowee) where a northeast line, to he drawn from the top of the Ocunna mountain, shall intersect; thence, along the said line, on a southwest direction, to the top of the said mountain; thence, in the same direction, to Tuegola river; thence, to the top of the Uurrahee mountain; thence to the head or source of the most southern branch of the Oconee river, including all the waters of the same; and thence, down the middle of the said branch, to the Creek line. And that, on the first day of November following, by a treaty also held at Augusta, among others, the Creeks agreed to anil subscribed a similar clause, for establishing the same line for their hunting grounds. And botli nations made the. same relinquishment, on account of mutual claims which had not before been settled between them; and this boundary was again acknowledged and continued at another treaty, held with the Creeks at Galphinton, the 12th day of November, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, and extended from the confluence of theOconeeand Oakinulgee rivers, to the source of St. Mary’s. That it is true, that, some few months after the holding of this latter treaty, some uneasinesses began to be fomented in the nation, and some murders were committed. This was considered and declared to be an infraction of the treaty, and reparation was demanded. It was made a serious object of Government, and the Legislature being convened, our domestic situation and our relative one with the Union, were considered with all possible attention and respect. Commissioners were appointed, with full powers to inquire into the causes, and to restore peace; but with power also, if unavoidable, to take eventual measures of defence. This proceeding produced another treaty, which was held at Shoulderbone, on the third of November, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-six, whereby the violation was acknowledged, the boundaries contained in the former treaties again recognized, and ratified, and seven hostages were pledged for the faithful execution of the condition. Your committee cannot forbear, here, to observe, that, during the course of all these transactions, the communications were made in solemn, open, and ancient form, and the articles of the treaties were mutually respected, until the aggression posterior to that of Galphinton. And that, whilst it is admitted on the one hand, there was no principle of representation of the parts of the nation known in civilized government, it cannot be denied on the other, that it was such, as had been common; and the Indians acknowledged, without doubt, and regret their forming a part, and being members of the State. Peace being thus restored by the treaty of Shoulderbone, but before the articles were yet carried into full effect, the State received the appointment of a superintendent of Indian Affairs, by the Congress of the United States for the southern department, and on the 15th January, in the present year, the same was acknowledged by the following resolutions of the Legislature: “ ‘ That this House have a due sense of the attention of Congress to the affairs betw een this State and the Indians within its territory. Resolved. That his Honor the Governor be requested to communicate to the said superintendent, that the Government ot this State, on the former part of the last year, received certain advice, that it was the intention of the Creek Indians to make war against the white inhabitants of the same; and that a short time after they did actually commit hostilities. “ ‘ That, in consequence thereof, and agreeably to the articles ot confederation and perpetual union, which this State holds as the rule of its good faith, and as tne evidence of its portion of sovereignty of the Union, measures were taken, which had for their object, the present security of the State,'and the restoring of peace and tranquillity, by the most expeditious and certain means; and that, under Providence, the measures have been attended with the desired success. “ ‘ That, immediately after the measures before mentioned were determined on, the delegates of this State were directed to make full representation of the same to Congress, with the motives which compelled the State to the same, without the delay which would unavoidably have arisen from the remote distance of the State from the residence of Congress, which no doubt has been done accordingly.’ “ And afterwards, a committee was appointed to confer with the said superintendent on the subject of his mission, and on the 6th of February they reported, and of which the following are extracts: “ ‘ Your committee report, that they have conferred with the honorable the superintendent of the United States, and have laid before him the papers and instructions committed to their care, to which he has been pleased to return the following answer: “ ‘Gentlemen of the committee for Indian Affairs, accept my thanks for your polite communication of the different materials in your possession, to assist in acquiring an idea of the situation of Indian affairs in this district. The not having been engaged in this line till very lately, will hardly permitme to remark on the subject as you request. I will only express my satisfaction, in observing the moderation, as well as spirit, with which this State pursued her plan of checking the savage violence on the late occasion. The report I have to make to the United States in Congress, taking its complexion from these circumstances, will probably induce them to a more cheerful participation of the expense. “ ‘ The spirit and prudence of the State will, no doubt, farther dictate means of future tranquillity, as well as those of invigorating the hands of the superintendent of Indian Affairs, so far as is conducive to the execution of his office, within the limits this State. “ ‘ I wish to do myself the honor of assuring the honorable the Legislature, that, as they may think it advisable for me, in my official capacity, to be present at making the temporary line, I will cheerfully attend to that, or any other measure they will favor me with, pointing out in the line of my duty; and that, in every official transaction, 1 shall observe a most sacred respect to tne rights of the State of Georgia. “ ‘ I am, with great respect, your humble servant, JAS. WHITE.’ “ The same committee having reported the expediency of new regulations for Indian Affairs, a bill was brought in for that purpose, and being carried into effect, a board of commissioners were appointed, of which the said snper-intendant was one. The commissioners, having convened, entered upon the duties of their office; and it was expected that the Indians would be down some time in the spring on tne fulfilment of the Shoulderbone treaty. That, in the mean time, the appointment of commissaries, with some other arrangements, were made, and the superintendent determined to visit tne nation. When there, lie wrote to the Governor, from the Buzzard-roost? on the 12th of March, stating the appearances of mischief with some of the Indians, the probable good effects of his mediation, and of the giving up the hostages, which he recommended. It was also said; ‘ there is no doubt but the Upper Creeks may be reconciled to the boundary as wished;’ and by a letter from Mr. John Galphin, one of the commissaries, written at the same time, and on the same sheet, lie says ‘ I saw Mr. McGillivray lately, who says he only waits for Doctor White, and, if he comes, he will have the line run between the Indians and the Georgians by the first of May;’ and he also advised that the hostages should be given up. Upon the foundation of these letters, the surrender of the hostages was agreed to, and two of the principal ones went on with the answers, and the others were to accompany the commissioners. “But that, on the 13th of April following, another letter, from the superintendent to the Governor, dated from the Cussctahs, advises to prepare for war, in any event; adding, that his personal safety was assured to be in danger, should he threaten the nation with the force of fhe Union; and upon his return to Augusta, on the 23d of April, in a farther address to the Governor, lie ascribes the suspension ot hostilities between the Indians and the State, to \ propositions communicated to him by Mr. McGillivray, for a new State to be laid off, south of the Altamaha, and mentions that he had acceded to a truce until the first of August. _ And here ends the knowledge of your committee, of transactions with, or by, the superintendent. It was but a little while, however, before several murders were committed on our frontier, and which have been repeated, from time to time, until mutual hostilities have at length taken place on the whole length of our borders and a war, by the savages, is now raging with all its horrors. “ And here, too, the task of your committee becomes distressingly difficult. As lovers of their country, and as servants of the State, it is equally their desire, and their duty, to be true and to be just; and, while they wish to treat the servants of the Union with the strictest respect, they ought to guard our Government at home against the improper imputation of wrong. They therefore report it as their opinion, that the ultimate causes of the war were the too sudden interferences with treaties of the State, by which the minds of the Indians were perplexed, and the impression induced, that, in a war with theState, they should not have the strength of the Union to fear; and that another disposition would be made of the Territory, than that which considers it as part of the State. That representations to this effect should be immediately transmitted to Congress, and the support of the Union demanded. “ That, in the meantime, the most vigorous and decisive measures betaken, by the Government of this State, for suppressing the bloody violences of the Indians. For which purpose, your committee advise, that a law be passed, as speedily as possible, for raising and forming magazines of arms, ammunition, stores, and provision in kind, and for enlisting of men for the protection of the State.” Extracts from the minutes. JAS. M. SIMMONS, Clk. G. A. \ E. No. 1. The Secretary of the United States for the Department of War, in obedience to the order of Congress of the 15th instant to report a plan for the protection ot the frontier of Georgia, agreeably to the principle of the resolve of Congress of the 21st of July, 1787, reports: That he conceives it is intended the protection to be afforded the State of Georgia, should be'complete, in case the Creek Indians should persist in refusing to enter into a treaty on reasonable terms, and to comprehend all operations offensive, as well as defensive, that may be deemed necessary for the full accomplishment of the object. That unless rigorous exertions be made in the first instance, calculated to terminate effectually the contest, in one campaign, the United States will hazard the event of being drawn into a tedious, expensive, and inglorious war. That the strength of the Wabash Indians, who were principally the object of the resolve of the 21st of July, 1787, and the strength of the Creek Indians is very' different. That the said Creeks arc not only greatly superior in numbere. but are more united, better regulated, and headed by a man whose talents appear to have fixed him in their confidence. That your Secretary humbly apprehends the regular troops of the Union on the Ohio were considered as the basis of the before recited resolve, ot the 21st July, 1787. That the militiaintended to have been drawn forth were to have acted as auxiliaries to the said regular troops, and that all the arrangements were to lave been made under the direction of the commanding officer of the said troops. That the case is widely different on the frontiers of Georgia, no troops of the United Sbites being there, noi is it easily practicable to remove, any considerable body from the Ohio, were the measure expedient in other respects. That this difference of circumstances will require a different and more extensive arrangement for the protection of the frontier of Georgia than any that were contemplated by the aforesaid resolve of the 21st of July, 1787. That the frontier of Georgia may be protected either by a large body of militia, detached from time to time, or by a corps of troops regularly organized and enlisted for a certain period. 1'hat a consideration of the expense and irregularity of detachments of mere militia, compared with the economy and vigor of a corps of troops properly organized, would evince the great superiority and advantage to be derived to the public by an adoption of the organized troops. That, from the view of the object your Secretary has been able to take, he conceives that the only effectual inode of acting against the said Creeks, in ease they should persist in their hostilities, would be by making an invasion of their country with a powerful bodv of well regulated troops, always ready to combat and able to defeat any combination of force the said Creeks could oppose, and to destroy their towns and provisions. Your Secretary humbly conceives, that any interference on the part of the United States with less force and energy, would cherish the hostilities of the Creeks instead of extinguishing them. That he conceives the operation herein stated would require an army of two thousand eight hundred non-coin-missioned officers and privates of the different species of troops, to he raised for the term of nine months. That the said troops should he commanded by one major general, and one brigadier general, to be appointed by Congress, who should also appoint an inspector and quarter master to said troops. That the pay and emoluments of said officers be fixed by Congress. That the organization of the troops should be as follows: Three regiments of infantry, of seven hundred each; one regiment of cavalry, of five hundred and sixty: one corps of artillery of one hundred and forty. 'That if Congress should approve of these numbers, they might be apportioned as follows: Ceorgia.—One regiment of infantry, ..   700 Five companies of cavalry, of 70 each,................................ - 550 ----1050 South Carolina.—One regiment of infantry,...................................................700 Two companies of artillery, of 70 each,....................................140 ---- 840 North Carolina.—One regiment of infantry,...................................................700 ‘Three companies of cavalry,...............................................210 ---- 910 2800 That all the regimental officers be appointed by the said States, respectively, according to the proportions to be specified by the Secretary of War. 'lhat. the said troops should be mustered, and inspected, in the manner to be directed by the. Secretary of War, which musters should he considered as essential vouchers in the settlement of the accounts of the troops. That the said troops should he paid by the States in which they are respectively raised, according to the rates of pay established for the troops of the United States. That suitable clothing, to the value of ten dollars, he allowed each non-commissioned officer and private, who should enlist for the said term of nine months, which, with tents, the necessary camp equipage, and wagons or other means of transportation, agreeably to the proportions to be specified by the Secretary of War, should be furnished to the troops, by the States in which they shall lie raised. 'That the States of North and South Carolina should also subsist their quotas respectively until their arrival at the place of rendezvous to he appointed by the commanding officer. That the rations and forage of said army should be provided by contract by the Slate of Georgia, while acting within the said State, and also for the (juntas of South anil North Carolina until they should return to the |>laees of dismission within the said Stales respectively. That the issues of the rations of provision and forage, should lie cheeked in the manner to be directed by the Secretary of War, and for every ration of provision allowed accordingly the United States should be charged a sum not exceeding-------parts of a dollar, and for every ration of forage not exceeding---parts of a dollar. That the amount of pay, transportation, and subsistence of said troops, should lie settled in the manner and forms to be previously established by the Board of Treasury, and the same, when completed, should be passed to the credit of said States, on the existing requisitions, according to the amount they may have respectively furnished. That as it is highly probable that the said States may be deficient in arms, accoutrements, and ammunition, the same be furnished out of the arsenals of the United States, and be transported by the Secretary of Wrar, by water, to such ports within the saidSfates as may he most convenient, and addressed to the executives of the same. Tfiat ten pieces of light field artillery, with their necessary apparatus, and a suitable quantity of ammunition be also transported by the Secretary of War to Savannah in Georgia, for the purposes of the said expedition, addressed to the major general who may be appointed for the expedition. That the expenses of every species, which would be incurred for the various objects of the said army, for nine months, may be estimated at four hundred and fifty thousand dollars. All which is humbly submitted to Congress. H. KNOX. War Office, 26th July, 1788. F. In Congress. October 26th, 1787. Instructions to the Commissioners for negotiating a treaty ivith the t ribes of Indians in the Southern Department, for the purpose of establishing peace between the United States and the said tribes. Gentlemen: Several circumstances rendering it probable that hostilities may have commenced, or are on the eve of commencing, between the State of North Carolina and the Cherokee nation of Indians, and between the State of Georgia and the Creek nation of Indians, you are to use every endeavor to restore peace and harmony between the said States and the said nations, on terms of justice and humanity. The great source of contention between the said States and the Indian tribes, being boundaries, you will carefully inquire into, and ascertain, the boundaries claimed by the respective States; and although Congress are of opinion that they might constitutionally fix the bounds between any State and an independent tribe of Indians, yet, unwilling to have a difference subsist between the General Government and that of the individual States^ they wish you so to conduct the matter that the States may not conceive their legislative rights in any manner infringed, taking care, at the same time, that whatever bounds are agreed upon they may be described in such terms as snail not be liable to misconstruction and misrepresentation, but may be made clear to the conceptions of the Indians, as well as whites. The present treaty having for its principal object the restoration of peace, no cession of land is to be demanded of the Indian tribes. You will use the utmost care to ascertain who are the leading men among the several tribes—the real head-men and warriors; these you will spare no pains to attach to the interest of the United States, by removing, as far as may be, all causes of future contention or quarrels; by kind treatment, and assurances of protection; by presents of a permanent nature; and by using every endeavor to conciliate the affections of the white people inhabiting the frontiers towards them. You will encourage the Indians to give notice to the superintendent of Indian affairs of any designs that may be formed by any neighboring Indian tribe, or by any person whatever against the peace of the United States. You will insist that all prisoners, of whatever age, sex, or complexion, be delivered up, and that all fugitive slaves belonging to citizens of the United States be restored. F. No. 1. Sir: Winnsborough, 25th June, 1788. I beg leave to lay before you the steps taken by the commissioners to bring about a treaty with the Creek Indians, agreeably to the resolves of Congress. A talk was sent to that nation the 29th of March last, addressed to Mr. McGillivray, and the head men and warriors, urging the necessity there was to treat, and in the most pointed terms insisting, as a first principle, that every hostile procedure should instantly cease. A Mr. Whitfield w as the bearer; he is a respectable character, and /has formerly traded with them; he writes us that the Indians are highly pleased with what Congress has done, and willing to treat on the principles of justice and equity; on that ground they wjll meet the superintendent and commissioners; in the interim, all hostilities to cease. This, I have the pleasure to inform you, is the case at present, and the sooner it can be eflccted the better, as it is the wish of the Indians that the treaty be held as speedily as possible. The above accounts I laid before the Executive of the State of Georgia, who agreed with me in opinion, that the 15th September next is as early as this matter can be begun on. The reason is obvious; the State of North Carolina not complying with the resolves of Congress, in forwarding the needful, norisit to be expected that they intend it, (see a copy of the Governor’s letter enclosed) and even supposing they had. upon a general calculation the sum allowed by Congress would have been too small to carry into effect a treaty with the Creeks alone, considering the greatness of their nation; presents, I make no doubt, arc expected by them. The goods on hand from the last treaty amount to not more than £400, and many of them consist of perishable articles, which of course have suffered. The two commissioners, Generals Pickens and Matthews, with myself, made an estimate a few days ago at Augusta, a copy of which you have herewith. As these gentlemen, as wrell as myself, calculated on the lowest scale, I make no doubt you will think with me, that a further supply is necessary; there is every reason to believe there will be present from one thousand to fifteen hundred Indians,and each Indian, General Pickens (who has been on similar occasions of this kind before) assures me, at such a time, which cannot well be denied them, expects double rations. Upon the whole, I trust, on a matter of such consequence to the States, Georgia in particular, that Congress will give it a reconsideration, and make such provision as they conceive best on this business. The treaty, as I before mentioned, will take place on the 15th September next, therefore no time ought to be lost. I beg leave further to observe, that my commission as superintendent expires the 29th of August; it will be necessary to prolong the time, if it is the wish of Congress to continue to be represented in the southern department. I shall conclude, with assuring you, that the States of South Carolina and Georgia will contribute every thing in their power towards facilitating the treaty under the auspices of Congress; before whom I beg you will lay the purport of this without delay. They may depend on my utmost exertion? in forwarding a plan so highly necessary. I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, RICHARD WINN. General Knox, Secretary of War. F. No. 2. Sir: Edenton, 19th March, 1788. The resolution of Congress of 26th October, to which yon refer in the letter you did me the honor of addressing to me on the 18th day of February last, did not come to me till after the adjournment of the Assembly; and as I considered that the settling the boundary between this State and the Indians a subject of too much importance for me to act in, without the direction of the Legislature, I laid aside the consideration of it till since I had the[honor of receiving your Excellency’s letter. I yesterday laid all the papers relatingto this business before the Council of State, for their consideration, who concurred with me in opinion that the powers of the Executive department of this State did not extend so far as to comprehend all the objects contained in the instructions sent forward by Congress, for the government of the commissioner to be appointed by this State, and though the resolution of Congress, passed as early as the 26th of October, no hostilities have hitherto been committed on the inhabitants of this State by the Cherokees, nor have we any intimation from the inhabitants of the frontier that any such hostilities are at present apprehended. I have not, therefore, appointed a commissioner to treat with the Cherokees. Should the States of South Carolina and Georgia be of opinion that the co operation of this State can, in any manner, facilitate the negotiation with the Creeks, we will be ready to adopt any measure that may have a tendency to promote the peace and security of die State of Georgia, at any time when they may think proper to favor us with an intimation in what manner we can be useful to them. I have thenonorto be, with the highest consideration and respect, sir, &c. SAML. JOHNSTON. His Excellency the Governor of South Carolina. F. No. 3. Dr. An Estimate of Money necessary to be advanced, by the Southern States for carrying on a Treaty with the Creek Indians. Or. None expected. The commissioners ot' South Carolina and Geor- j ays-s actual service 60 days gia, are supposed to be in each, or perhaps longer. It is supposed that the shortest treaty will hold 20 days; therefore, it will take the men 10 days to< §o and return from the place where the treaty is to e held. General Pickens says, at the last treaty with the f Cherokees, there were 1500 Indians—a nation much ; inferior to the Creeks. This representation may be''1, greater. So says Mr. Whitfield. L No person can be got to go to the Indians under') four dollars per day Mr. Whitfield has been out now about three months. The goods and provisions I will be transported a considerable distance; houses ' must be built to receive the public stores; ten or twelve wagons will be wanted. Two linguisters must be employed; one on the side') of the commissioners, the other lor the Indians. V Commissaries must also be employed The commissioners think tne presents ought to') be as considerable as possible, as the Indians expect > them so. j To the connnmissioncr of N. Carolina. To the commissioner of South Carolina, £70 0 0 To the commissioner of Georgia, - - TO 0 0 One major, 30 days, « IS*. - - - 19 10 0 Two captains, 30 days, a 10s. - - SO 0 0 Four lieutenants, 30 days, a 7s.  - 42 0 0 100 privates, 30 days, a Is. Gd. - - 225 0 0 Rations for the above, a Gd. per day each, 85 5 0 Rations for 1000 Indians, 20 days, a 9d. To money .advanced to persons going to, and from, the nations, with talks, and to expresses to other places, - .......................... To wagon hire, transporting the goods and provisions to the place where the treaty is to be helu, and the building two rough houses for the reception of goods, and for the accommodation of the commissioners, - To two linguisters, commissaries, and money for supporting the commissioners’ table, - To presents necessary to be given the Indians, - Total, £ s. d. 140 0 0 401 15 0 750 0 0 150 0 0 200 0 0 50 0 0 600 00 0 By money advanced by North Carolina,* By do. advanced by South Carolina, By do. advanced by Georgia By amount of goods supposed to be on hand, - - - - - ’ - Deficiency now wanting to carry the treaty into eftect, ....................... £2,291 15 0 £ d. 466 13 4 466 13 4 400 0 0 958 8 4 N 00 VO P5 O to K ts * 00 ► © © H X ■ K jc £2,291 15 0 Tliis calculation made at Augusta, in the State of Georgia, the 13th day of June, 1788, by the Commissioners, and signed Non*. RICHARD WINN. NS F. No. 4. Winnsborough, August 5, 1788. Sir; By talks received from the head men and warriors of the Cherokee nation, dated the 30th June last, I am given to understand, that a party from North Carolina (called Franklin State) with Servier at their head, came over and destroyed several of their towns, killed near thirty of the Indians, made one prisoner, and obliged the remainder to fly with their families to some of the Dower towns for protection. Notwithstanding these outrages,, there are, at this present time, near thirty of their towns in friendship with the white people, whose wish is to remain so, as their talks run continually, for a lasting peace to be established between them and the whites. The Overhills, the other part of the nation, where the above affair happened, seem determined for wrar, of which I shall make the Governor of North Carolina acquainted. The daily encroachments made on the territories of this set of people, is such as to induce them, through me, to lay their distressed situation before Congress, which this opportunity gives me the honor of now doing, presuming they will see with me, the real necessity there is for an accommodation taking place with this nation, and order the necessary supplies accordingly, for carrying the treaty into effect. I must beg leave to add, that, could I have been supplied with the needful, I should have called this nation to a permanent treaty long ere this. I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, RICHARD WINN. Sir: This moment General Pickens’ letter came to hand, which I have taken the liberty to enclose to you. R. WINN. General Knox, Secretary of War. F. No. 6. Sir: Wixnsborough, August 8, 1788. The gentleman who was sent to the Creek nations, with talks from the commissioners, has returned with answers which appear to be friendly. The Indians are willing to come to a treaty next month, therefore, the 15th day is set for that purpose; the meeting will he held on the Tugelo river, at the house of a Mr. Lachland Cleave-iand,on the Georgia side, in consequence of which, hostilities have ceased on both sides. 1 make no doubt the wish of Congress will be fully answered, provided the Assembly of Georgia repeal a law, which, in some measure, militates against the resolves of Congress, in carrying into effect the treaty with that nation. The Assembly are now sitting on the business, which, I hope, will have the desired effect. I have the honor to be, sir, your humble servant, RICHARD WINN. General Knox, Secretary of War. F. No. 7. Winnsborough, October 14, 1788. Sir: I have had the honor of receiving your several letters, with the duplicates of each, enclosing the different resolves of Congress, of July 15th, August 4th, and 14th, respecting Indjan affairs, and shall at all times be happy, through you, to lay before that honorable body such information as offers in that department. From several conferences with the commissioners, relative to the Creek Indians, and opening a correspondence with McGillivray, who is their head mail, we were led to believe, that our negotiations would terminate in a peace between that nation and the State of Georgia; and agreeably to what I before informed you, had actually appointed the time and place for holding a treaty, not doubting, when we met, to get over every obstacle in bringing it to an i'sue. However, not having the supplies necessary in time, and receiving a letter (see No. 1, enclosed) from the Governor of Georgia, we wrote to McGillivray, and the head men and warriors, to postpone the treaty until the spring of next year; to this we have had no answer as yet, but have received a letter from him (see No. 2, enclosed) wherein he insists, as a leading principle, upon having the boundaries the same as they were when the State of Georgia was a British province; these terms of treaty he mentions in his first letter to the commissioners, but neither they nor myself imagined this would operate in his breast, or with the Indians, as a barrier to the treaty, when we produced the different articles of peace entered into since, with the bounds prescribed, and mutually agreed to by both parties. (See a copy of our letter, to which No. 2 is an answer.) It evidently appears by liis last, if we are to expect peace with these Indians, it must be on his own terms. From these considerations, we may think it our duty to reply in a different manner to what we have; as soon as we have an answer to our last, respecting the postponing the treaty, I shall do mysell the honor of transmitting you a copy of it. Before I quit the subject of the Creek Indians, it will be necessary to inform you (in order to make the Governor of Georgia’s meaning appear more clear) that the Georgians have, at this time, a law existing, wherein they have given as bounty land to iheir soldiers, a large tract of country which belongs to the Indians. This I remonstrated to the Executive of that State; and this was another motive for the treaty’s being postponed, as such a law should be repealed before an accommodation could take place. With due respect, I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, RICHARD WINN. The Honorable General Knox, Secretary of War. F. No 8. Augusta, (Georgia) August 14, 1788. Gentlemen: The disagreeable and unhappy situation of our State affairs is such, that I am sorry, on this occasion, to be under the necessity to declaim against then- inability ot carrying into effect the business fully, of the proposed treaty with the Creek nation of Indians. In order to obviate the many difficulties and insufficiency that appeared in the operation of the said treaty, I did, with the advice of the Executive, call the Legislature to convene in Augusta, the 22d ultimo, but without effect; and the Executive have it not in their power to make any appropriations. I have, and will continue to exert myself, in endeavoring to obtain a credit from the mercantile line, either on public or private faith, and, if successful, will give you early notice thereof. But in this I doubt. I would, therefore, (if Congress does not appropriate a further sum for carrying on the said treaty, as the superintendent, I presume, represented the whole to that honorable body) most seriously recommend, that you endeavor all in your power to have the said treaty postponed if possible. I promise you the sight of the business shall not be put off, but every preparation in our power shall be exerted. You have to urge, on your parts, the reason for postponing the treaty to be, that of the change of Government, and of other matters; that I dare say would be sufficient, particularly to Mr. McGillivray, who is a sensible, intelligent man. If possible that the same could be postponed until the spring of the next year, it would be well; but at any rate, for two or three months. This matter would be best managed by the person you appoint to go to the nation, who ought to be a sensible man. I shall engage that peace be observed by the citizens of this State, against the Creek nation, as far as is in my power to enforce; you will please, also, to urge the observance of the same on their parts, against the citizens ol this State. 1 flatter myself, gentlemen, taking a review of our situation, that you will do all in your power to obtain peace with the Indians within your district, and the citizens of the United States. 1 have the honor to be. with every sentiment of respect, your most obedient humble servant, GEO. HANDLEY. Hon. Richard Winn, Esq. Superintendent, and The Hon. Geo. Mathews and Andrew Pickens, Esqrs. Commissioners of Indian Affairs. F. No. 9. Fort Charlotte, July 16, 178S. To Alexander McGillivray, Esquire, and others. the Chief Men and fVarriors of the Creek nation. This day your letter was opened, which you were pleased to address to us, a9 also the talks of the Hallowing King, of the Lower, and Mad Dog. of the Upper Creeks, in answer to the one sent you by Mr. Whitfield. We are happy to find that you are willing to meet us in treaty, so as to convince the world that your conduct, and the leading men of the Indians, is such as to dispose you to do that which is right and just. On such grounds, we are equally Milling to meet. You mention you expect a requisition will be made by us to the people of Georgia, to retire from the Oconee river, within the bounds claimed under the British Government. This we are not authorized to do, but will write to the Governor of Georgia, requesting him to issue his proclamation that no further trespasses be committed, and that all hostilities do cease. We make no doubt you will lose sight of all matter of little weight, and bring fully into view the grand object of the treaty, agreeably to the resolves of Congress, so as to restore peace and harmony once more between the citizens of Georgia and the Creek Indians, on the principles of justice and humanity; as we do firmly assure you ’tis what we ardently wish. As to the time and place for holding the treaty, this power was fully vested in the superintendent and the Executive of Georgia, and they had, previous to any advice received from Mr. Whitfield, (except his letter of May 15th) appointed the 15th September next, the day on which the treaty" is to begin, on the river Tugoolo, the dividing line between South Carolina and Georgia, at the house of Laeldand Cleayeland, on the Georgia side, at which time and place we hope to meet you and the Creek chiefs as brothers. We wish to see every thing conducted in the greatest friendship. W t conclude, thanking you for your polite attention to Mr. Whitfield, and shall be disposed to make you a like return in future. We have the honor to be, your obedient servants, RICHARD M INN, Superintendent. ANDREW PICKENS, Commissioner for South Carolina. GEORGE MATHEWS, ( Commissioner for Georgia. Gentlemen : F. No. 10. Little Tallasske, \2th August, 1788. I have received your letter of the 16th July, this day. It is with equal surprise and concern, that I learn from you that the honorable the Congress has not authorized you, its commissioners, to give us a full redress of our complaints, and to give us full satilaction in what concerns our territory, w hich the Georgians are attempting to wrest from us forcibly; all which we were taught to expect from the justice and humanity ol that honorable body, from the measure adopted by them in sending Doctor White among us, to be fully and truly informed of the cause of the war between us and Georgia. We had great expectations that we should soon experience the good effects of it, in having the causes of our discontents removed; and more particularly, on Mr. M hitlield’s coming here, we did so firmly believe that we were on the point of obtaining a satisfactory peace, that we were eager to meet you and conclude one; but your letter discovers to me that nothing has been done, and all is yet to do. It was expected that the requisition which I made to vou for removing the Georgians from the disputed lands, was to be considered by you as it was meant by us, as an indispensable preliminary to form the basis on which the treaty of peace was to be concluded. I feel much pleasure in your approving of the leading sentiments as expressed in my letter by Mr. Whitfield, and it is with regret that I remark, that our enemy does not manifest an equal disposition with us, to terminate the war, by agreeing to equitable terms of peace; and, as we ask no concession from them as the price of peace, so they ought not to demand any on our side. When I next meet the chiefs, which w ill be early in September. I will explain to them the contents of your letter. Meantime I answer you, as well knowing that they w ill not consent to treat, unless they see their requisition enforced. I have the honor to be, with most respectful consideration, your most obedient servant, alex’r McGillivray. To the Hon. Generals Richard Winn, Andrew Pickens, and George Mathews, Commissioners appointed by the honorable the Congress, to treat with the Southern Nations of Indians. F. No. 11. Wi nnsrorough, 8//1 Deeember, 1788. Sir: 1 do myself the honor to enclose you a copy of McGillivray’s last letter to the commissioners and myself, together with our answer, by which you will discover, if the Indians evade coming to a treaty, they mean war, and will, in my opinion, come down in great force against the State of Georgia. On the receipt of his letter, which never came to hand till the 15th of last month, though dated so early as the 15th of September, I immediately directed a meeting of the commissioners at Hopewell, when it was agreed on, that the treaty could not take place sooner than next May, or June, as it was thought necessary the Indians should have time to consult, and finally determine on the last talk sent them, which is the answer alluded to, wherein we expressly request their reply to be pointed and decisive, and that it be despatched to us as soon as possible. Should they do this, it w ill give Congress and the Georgians timely notice to prepare for the worst, or otherwise, as it may happen. Not long since, a fort, between French Broad and Holston rivers, was taken by the Cherokees and Creeks. Ten persons were killed, and about thirty were made prisoners. The war is still carried on between North Carolina and the Cherokees. By a talk I lately held with one of the chiefs of that nation, he says, “ notwithstanding what has happened between them, their principal men wish for peace; that they are now holding a great talk among their head men and warriors, the result of which was not determined, but he thinks they would gladly bury the hatchet. I have every reason to believe that McGillivrav is trying to unite the two nations, the Creeks and Cherokees. The South Carolina and Georgia commissioners think, with me, that, if the State of North Carolina would send forward their commissioner with the supplies, a treaty might be effected with the Cherokees, before a junction with the Creeks could take place. Sir, with regard, I have the honor to be, your most obedient servant, RICHARD WINN. The Honorable Major General Knox, Secretary of War. F. No. 12. Litti.e Tallassee, 15th September, 1788. Gentlemen: I have received your letter of 28th of August, wherein you desire that the proposed treaty between us may be deferred until the spring of the next year; the reasons you give us for that measure are good, and to which we do agree? hoping that anew Congress, acting on the principles of the new constitution of America, will set everything to rights between us on the most equitable footing, so that we may become real friends to each other, settling on the same land, and having but one interest. We expected that, upon Mr. Whitfield’s return, a truce of arms would have been directly proclaimed in Georgia, and can’t account for tne delay of that measure; and in fact, there has been no observance of it on their part, from June till now. They have been driving and plundering our hunting camps of horses and skins, &c. and it is only lately, that a Coweta Indian brought me a paper, which he found fastened to a tree near to Flint river, which, upon a close examination, I find to be a threatening letter directed to me. It is wrote on the back of an advertisement, with gunpowder; a part of it rubbed out as it dryed, and with the carriage. The writing says something of the war, and your savage subjects, and an establishment of peace you must “not expect, until all our damages are made good at the treaty, and satisfaction we will have for our grievances,” from all which, I foresee great difficulty in the attempt to preserve strict suspension of hostility. I can only assure you, that we shall regulate ourselves by the conduct of the Georgians, and act according to circumstances. The writing I mention, is signed Jam. Alexander, 5th August, 1788. The Cherokees are daily coming in to me, complaining of acts of hostility committed in the most barbarous manner by the Americans, and numbers are taking refuge within our territory, who are permitted to settle and build villages under our protection. Such acts of violence, committed at the time that the Congress, through you, is holding out to the whole nations and tribes, professions of the most friendly nature, makes it appear to all, that such professions are only deceitful snares to lull them into a security, whereby the Americans may the more easily destroy them. Be not offended, gentlemen, at the remark; 'tis true that it is universal through the Indians, lam, with great respect, gentlemen, vour humble servant, ALEX. M’GILLIVRAY. The Honorable Generals Richard Winn, Andrew Pickens, and George Mathews, Commissioners for treating ivith the Southern. Nations of Indians. F. No. 13. Hopewell on Keowee, Nov. 28th, 178S. Sir: Your letter of the 12th August and 15th September are now before us. With regard to the former, wherein you mention nothing has been done, and all is yet to do, give us leave to tell you, that every thing in our power has been done, in order to bring forward a treaty, and, under the authority of Congress, to give you full and ample redress in what concerns your territory. At the same time we must observe, that that honorable body Mill not lose sight of doing equal justice to the State of Georgia, whose claim to what you call the disputed lands, is confirmed by three different treaties, signed by your head-men and warriors. Therefore, we earnestly recommend you and tne chiefs seriously to consider, under these circumstances, how impossible it is for us to comply with your requisition, relative to removing the people from the Oconee lands; this can only be the business of the treaty, after a lull investigation of the right of claim. In answer to your last, where you so pointedly attack that body under whom we have the honor to act, we cannot be silent, least it should be tortured into a conviction of guilt. Narrow and illiberal indeed must be that mind, that could lor a moment suppose, that Congress, after withstanding one of the greatest Powers of Europe, with her allies, together with almost the whole of the Indian tribes combined, should at this day have recourse to base artifice, in order to accomplish the ruin of a few Indian tribes, while she is enjoying the blessings of peace at home, and an honorable name among the nations of the world. We have already enclosed you the Governor of Georgia’s proclamation, dated July the 31st, last, for a truce of arms, which has been as strictly adhered to as possible; and any thing that has happened in violation of it, had you been more explicit, and mentioned the time and place where the Indians’ horse ; and skins were plundered, strict inquiry might have been made, and the offenders punished. If we tale a view of the conduct of the Indians on your part, we have more right to complain: we daily hear of the most cruel depredations, committed by the Creeks on the Georgians; the man you allude to, (Alexander) we are credibly informed, was in pursuit of a party of Creeks that had stole twelve horses from Green county, and notwithstanding we have had every assurance given us, that hostilities should cease. The Governor of Georgia has lately handed us a list of the different counties thathave recently suffered, to wit: Liberty County, between 25 and 30 negroes, and several large stocks of cattle. Effingham, one man killed. Wilkes, from 6 to 10 horses plundered. Greene, from 21 to 27 horses do. Washington, 6 horses do. Franklin, from 16 to 20 horses do. One man wounded. We must add to the above list, a pair of fine dun geldings, taken from General Martin, about a mile from his plantation, by some of the Coweta Indians, while he was acting under Congress as agent for the Cherokees and Chickasaws. The Seminolean Indians are likewise doing a deal of mischief; we know not whether they belong to any part of the Creeks, but wish to be informed. From these violations committed, whatcan the Union expect, unless a stricter compliance on your part is observed in putting a stop to hostilities? We are wel[assured, Congress Mill not look on in silence, and see any part of the Union robbed of its citizens. Enclosed you will find a late resolve of Congress, and a proclamation relative to the Cherokees. Itis our sincere wish that you will meet us the eighth day of June next, at the place appointed before;but should this appear to you at too distant a period, a month sooner will be no object with us in holding a treaty. In the interim, we fully assure you nothing shall be wanting on our parts, in the observance of a strict suspension of arms, on a presumption that you will act in like manner. We request that you will consult the head men and warriors, on this occasion, and send us a pointed and decisive answer, signed jointly, as soon as possible. ’  We are, sir, with due respect, your obedient servants, i’. RICHARD M INN, ANDREMr PICKENS, GEORGE MATH EM'S. To Alexander McGillivray, Esq. and the head men and warriors of the Creek nation. F. No. 14. Winnsborough, Dec. \9th, 1788. Sir: Since I had the honor of writing you last, I have received by express, from the Governor of North Carolina, that the Legislature of that State has appointed a John Steele, Esq. commissioner on Indian Affairs, and voted their quota, agreeably to the resolves of Congress. They have also requested the Governor to issue his proclamation, that hostilities do cease against the Cherokees. and to send a talk to Mr. McGillivray, that it is their wish to be at peace with the Creeks. These steps being taken on the part of North Carolina, there is not the least doubt of a friendly treaty taking place with the Cherokees, which persuades me will lead to one with the Creeks. The Executive of that State think the la>t of May the best time for holding a treaty. I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, RICHARD WINN. Hon. Maj. Gen. Knox. - F. No. 15. Winnsborough, March 1, 1789. Sir; I think it necessary to inform you, that a treat} will take place with the Cherokee Indians, the third Mondav in May next, at the upper war-ford on French broad river, in the neighborhood of Swananno, State of North Carolina. The Creek Indians, 'tis supposed, will also treat; they are now holding a great talk in their nation, the result of which is not yet come to hand. I have the honor to subscribe myself, your most obedient servant, RICHARD WINN. The Honorable Major General Knox. G. A talk, lately sent by the Commissioners of Indian affairs in the Southern Department, to the Creeks'1 correspondent. To the Head-men, Chiefs, and Warriors, of the Creek Nation. We last year appointed a time and place for holding a treaty with you, to establish a lasting peace between you and us, that we might again become as one people; you all know the reasons why it was not held at that time. We now send you a talk, inviting you to a treaty on your bank of the Oconee river, at the rock landing. We wished to meet you at that place on the 8th of June, but, as that day is so near at hand, you might not all get notice. We therefore shall expect to meet you on the 20th of June. We have changed the place of meeting from that of the last year; so that none of you should have reason to complain; it is your own ground, and on that land we wish to renew our former trade and friendships, and to remove every thing that has blinded the path between you and us. We are now governed by a President, who is like the old King over the great water; he commands all the warriors of the thirteen great Fires. He will have regard to the welfare of all the Indians; and, when peace shall be established, he will he your father and you will be his children, so that none shall dare to tin you harm. We know that lands have been the cause of dispute between you and the white people; bu t we now tell you that we want no new grants; our object is to make a peace, and to unite us all under our great chief warrior and President. who is the father and protector of all the white people. Attend to what we say; Our traders are very rich, and have houses full of such goods as you used to get in former days? it is our wish that you should trade with them, and they witli yon. in strict friendship. Our brother, George Galphin, will carry you this talk; listen to him; he will tell you nothing but truth from us. Send us your answer by him. ANDREW PICKENS, II. OSBORNE, Commissioners of the United Stales for Indian affairs, in the Southern Department. April 20, 1789. G. No. 1. Augusta, August 9, 1787. Gentlemen: From a wish that you may be informed, and through you the honorable the Congress of the United States, of the situation of this State with the Creek Indians, I do myself the pleasure to enclose you two talks I have received from that nation, with my answers thereto, from which it appears there is reason to expect this State will be compelled to engage in a war with them. It would ill become a free people, and more particularly those of Georgia, to give satisfaction for the warriors that have been killed for murders committed on our peaceable inhabitants, in violation of the most solemn treaties entered into with us, as this State had experienced many and repeated injuries from that nation, during the late tear with Great Britain, such as killing our inhabitants and plundering us of our property, all of which we were willing to sacrifice rather than continue the war a day longer than the United States wished to crown the Union with peace. That you may be as well informed as the nature and situation of matters will admit, it is needful that I should inform you, that, from letters I received from James White, Esq. agent for Indian affairs for the southern department, dated last March and April, there was some reason to think the Indians were not perfectly for peace; and, on his return to the State, he informed me that they had assured him that no hostilities should be committed or injury done to this State before August, or until they received an answer from Congress or him; but, in direct violation of this promise, they did, ontlie 29th day of May, in the county of Greene, kill and scalp two of our men, and carried off a negro and fourteen horses. A party of militia crossed the Oconee river in pursuit of the murderers fell ii\ with some Indians of that nation, and killed twelve, which, from the first talk I received, appear to be of the Lower towns, and the murderers from the Upper Towns, which is the distinction they make. From their talk I thought we were to have peace; as they remark, it was impossible for us to tell whether it was the Upper or Lower Creeks that had done the murder, or been killed by our men. Their talk of the 27th of July insolently demands the officer that commanded the party, and as many of his men to be delivered to them as will make satisfaction for the twelve warriors they have lost. Candor compels me to say, when I think of this insolent demand, the repeated alarms they have given our frontiers, and the injury the State sustains from them, that I feel my blood run warm in my veins, and a just impulse to chastise them for their insolence and perfidy, and think it my indispensable duty, if they commit hostilities on this State, to take the most effectual means in iny power for the defence of the same, by carrying the war into their country, or such other measures as maybe most for the safety and happiness of the inhabitants of this country. I have live honor to be, with much respect and real esteem, gentlemen, your most obd’t serv’t, GEO. MATHEWS. G. No. 2. Cussetahs, June 14, 1787* \ The beloved man from Congress was here, and we had talk with him; what was agreed upon there, did not answer; then Mr. McGillivray came over here, and matters were settled. Mr. White and Mr. McGillivray came upon terms, and it was told to them, and they agreed to it, till such time as Col. White sent an answer back. We then thought that matters were settled, and we did nothing but mind our business. Mr. McGillivray promised to acquaint tne Upper Towns of this, and for them to lie still. We then expected that Mr. White would inlorm the State of Georgia of this, and tell them that we were their friends. We minded nothing but our hunting; we always talk together, and always agreed, and promised that if any thing happened we would not go on rashly, but let one another know our grievances. You always promised that the innocent should notsufier for the guilty. You certainly knew us; we were always among the houses; we did not know of the Upper Towns doing any mischief, nor did we think that our friends would kill us for what other bad people did. You could not think that it w’asany of the Lower Towns did you any mischief, when we were at your houses and living with you in a manner that you might be sure it was not us. We knew nothing of these bad people going out to do any mischief, or we would have sent you word; and we don’t think but you must have known that we were your friends, or we should not have been among you a hunting; and hope you will send us an answer, and tell us the reason that you have killed your friends for what other people did. It is not the rule of the Indians to acquaint you of this, but to take satisfaction; but we were always your friends, and we will not take rash steps, unless you will throw us away and not have us for friends. We always were your friends, and will be, let what will happen, is the reason we lie still, although we have lost nine of our people innocently; but still we wont take rash steps. We must have an answer immediately, that we may know what to do. Hope you will consider us, the Lower Towns, to be your friends. We look upon all white people as one, and suppose you look upon all Indians as one, is the reason you have killed your friends, who were your friends in the time of war, and are yet. We have had a meeting lately with the Northward Indians. We told them, and so did Mr. McGillivray, that we had settled matters with the Virginians, and could not go to war. The Oakgees went, unknown to any of the rest of the towns, and killed some of your people: not as many as you killed of your friends; but we wont take rash steps, as we are your friends; and we would be glad of an answer, to know what to do. We have told you the number killed; we have a number of people out a hunting; we don’t know but there is more killed innocently; but we will lie still, and hope you will send us an answer: it shall be received as friends to us still, as we look upon you as friends still. We are sure that you must have been sensible that it was not the people that was among you did the murder. It was your rule that the innocent should not sufl'er for the guilty. Hope you will send an answer, that we may know what to do. We speak the voice of the whole Lower Towns, ami hope you will consider us as friends. We hope you will send us an answer, and a white flag with it, that we may still be friends; and we will have all the towns together, and hear your answer; and then we will be friends again. No person need be afraid to come up, as the whole nation will be acquainted with this. Who brings an answer will bring a white (lag, upon a pole, in Ins hand. We shall wait for an answer, and nothing shall be done to you, no hurt whatever. The talk you sent to Mr. Barnard, by John Galphin, he delivered to Mr. Barnard a good while ago, two days after he arrived, which we have not yet heard, nor seen Mr. Barnard, as he has not come to town yet to tell us the talk. We hope you will consider us as friends, as you are sensible we are your friends: for, when the English ofl’ered us great presents to go and kill you, we told them we would not; that you were our friends and brothers; we were born in one land, and we were your friends and brothers, and will be to the last day, though you have not treated us as friends; but it might be a mistake; and hope, my friends, that you will not delay an answer, but let it come up with speed. There is a fellow down there belonging to our town, the Cussetahs, we hope he wont be hurt, but let him and John Galphin’s negro, that he went down with, if you are afraid to send up, if you will send up the talk by John Galphin’s negro and the Indian that is there, if you will be so good as to send them safe over the Oconee, then we shall be good friends, and try to keep the path white between us. You will likewise appoint somebody to give out the talks up here, and let a man be here constantly, that when there are any bad people who wants to do mischief, that they can send word down to alarm the settlements, so that we may then live like brothers; and let us try to keep peace, for peace is better than war. We can’t blame you for taking satisfaction, if you had not taken satisfaction from those people wrho were at the houses with you everyday; and if it is done in a mistake, we must try and take satisfaction from those bad people that went down and did the first mischief. However, I hope you will send us a good talk as soon as possible; the sooner it comes the better for both parties, that we may take one another by the hand again, and see one another once more in friendship, as we always will. By the request of the Lower Creeks, the two chiefs, the Hallowing King of the Cowctas, and the Fat King of the Cussetahs. JOHN GALPHIN. JAS. DOUZEAZEAUX, Interpreter. G. No. 3. To the head-men and ivarriors of the Lower Creeks.—29th June, 1787. Friends and Brothers: Your friendly talk we have just received by our commissary, Mr. Barnard, and are very sorry to be informed that some of your people, our friends, should have been killed through mistake by our warriors, to revenge the murders of some of our peaceable inhabitants. Yourselves must be fully convinced that our people have not been the aggressors in this instance. As soon as the murders were committed by the Indians, our warriors crossed the river, and unfortunately fell in with your people. It was impossible then to distinguish whether you were our friends or enemies. W e never knew, until we received your talk, by whom our people were murdered, whether by Upper, or whether by Lower Creeks. We have repeatedly assured you it was our desire to be at peace with the whole of your nation. We still have the same wish, notwithstanding what has passed. Brothers: Remember the caution we now give you: should any acts of hostilities be in future committed against our people, or should any property be taken from them, be assured it will be impossible to prevent our warriors from doing themselves justice. Our great council are to meet in a day or two, previous to which, had we not received your talk, a large army would have been sent into your nation. What consequences would have attended this, you are capable of judging. We have sent orders to our warriors not on any pretence to cross the Oconee river. We wish you to give your people the same instructions. This will be the means of preventing any disputes in future. Brothers: Should the conduct of the Upper Creeks render it necessary to march an army into the. nation, be assured we will consider your towns as friends and brothers, and treat you as such. Brothers: If you have the friendship for us you express, it is your duty to keep a watchful eye on the conduct of those who you may suppose have a wish or desire to disturb our friendship. Mr. Barnard or Mr. Galphin are always among you. If you hear of any mischief intended against our settlements, it is your duty to inform one or both of them of it immediately. This you are particularly bound to observe by an article of the last treaty, entered into with our commissioners at Shoulderbone. You acknowledged that the beloved man of the Upper creeks, Mr. McGillivray, made a promise to our beloved man who was sent from the White town, that no mischief whatever should be done. After having this assurance, our people considered themselves safe, and looked upon all the Indians of your nation as friends and brothers. Have you not often entered into the most solemn engagements with us? And have not you as often violated them? What liad our people to expect, when they saw their peaceable countrymen murdered? They determined to take satisfaction for the repeated injuries they had received, and it was with great difficulty that we, the grand council, could prevent our young warriors from marching in a body into the heart of your nation. From your late conduct, and nn OO ihe assurance you have given us in your talk, rest satisfied that, we consider you, the Lower towns, as ourbest friends and brothers; and if you do not long continue to hold fast the chain of our friendship, it will not be the faults ol the white people. You express a wish in your talk to have one of your people, who has been some time at Mr. Galphiivs, sent to you. We have inquired lor him, and find he has been gone several days, and hope he is now safe among you. Mr. Barnard. who is always with you, will carefully attend to all talks that we may send, and deliver them out to you as soon as they arrive among you. Brothers: We really regret the loss of your innocent people who have lately been killed. It is your duty as men mid warriors to do yourselves justice, by taking satisfaction of the persons who were the cause of it. In doing this, we shall be lully convinced of your brotherly love and friendship towards us. Brothers: It is our wish to see you and the Upper Creeks one people; but should they continue to create differences between you and us, and you should think yourselves unable to take satisfaction, we will, as all friends and brothers ought to do, be ever ready to give any assistance you may require. G. No. 4. In a meeting of the IjOiver Creeks in the Cussetahs, 27 th July. 1787. — Talk of the Fat King to his honor Governor Matthews and the Council. Friends and Brothers: The talk you sent us in answer to ours, by your commissary, Mr. Barnard, we have seen this day; and. as that talk is not satisfactory to our people, we have agreed upon to send you this one more. Friends: ’Tis not we that have lurgot the talks at Shoulderbone, but you. Among other things, it was proposed by you, and agreed to by us, that no hasty revenges should be taken in future by either side; and in the late affairs tis you that have been rash: for when the injury was done to you, you did not wait but for a little while and look around you to find out from whence the blow came, but fell directly upon our people, your real friends, who were daily among your houses, and whose persons you well knew, and some that were taken, declared themselves and towns to you, which you disregarded; it might have been from people of another nation for what you knew at that time. Friends: You ought not to think of making us accountable for any measures of the Upper towns, our brothers. They had two men killed hist summer, and they can answer for themselves. They went against you unknown to Sir. G. or us, and he did not mean to break the promise he made to Mr. White, as he had declared to the w hole nation, and a talk from him is still expected by us. Friends: You must give us immediate satisfaction, life for life, an enual number for twelve of our people destroyed by you. The leader of these mad people that did the mischief, and so inanv of his people, should iall for satisfaction; (’tis our custom to give it) then the tears of the relations of the dead will be dried up, and our hearts not continue hot against you: for it is m vain that you call us friends and brothers, and don't consider and treat us as such; and as you wish the chain of friendship to be kept bright between us, we expect you will not fail to give us the desired satisfaction, as we should have given you had we been in lault. When you do this, you will then send a gentleman into our land to renew friendship, as we have often gone into yours for such purposes. A. MeGILLIVUAY. In twenty days from the date that Mr. Gal [thin sets out, we shall expect the return <>1 Mr. Galphin. G. No. 5. To the Fat King and other head-men of the Lower Creeks.—7th dingiest, J 787. W hen we received your talk by Mr. Barnard, our commissary, we considered you as friends and brothers. In the. one you now send us, there appears to be much reason to suspect you of deceit, and that you were then, as well as now, secretly our enemies. Whether this sudden change has been ow ing to the duplicity of your beloved man Mr. Gill ivray, or whether you assume this conduct, it matters not. On what principle can you demand satisfaction ? Your warriors w ere killed for the murder of our innocent inhabitants, committed by your nation, in direct violation of the most solemn treaties entered into with us. M e wished, and still do wish, we could forget llie many and repeated injuries you have done ns during and since the late war with Great Britain. It is in vain to talk of satisfaction. Dili you not, last summer, kill six of our peaceable frontier inhabitants? and did you not, at Slioulder-boue, engage to have an equal number of your men put to death for them? Have you done ibis? No! Did you not, just before we received your last talk, murder two ol our people on the Oconee? And did you not, also, at the very time Mr. Barnard was down from you, kill two white men? Have you complied with a single article of the treaties of Augusta. Galphiutoii, and Shoulderbone? No! Instead of complying with your several engagements, you have repeatedly murdered our innocent people, burned their houses, and carried on-their property. Ail these outrages we have submitted to, rather than enter into a war with you. Your conduct towards us long since has authoriz.ed our putting Haines to your tow ns. and indiscriminately killing your people; but a wish to be at peace w ith you, and to spare the effusion of human blood, has prevented this. Now open your ears wide, and hear what we tell you: .Should any act of hostility, or depredations, be committed on our people by your nation, be perfectly assured we will not hesitate to do ourselves ample justice, by carrying war into your country, burning your tow ns, and staining your land w ith blood. You will then be compelled lo fly for refuge to some other country. It now rests with you, whether we engage in war or not; if we do, remember yourselves are answerable for the consequences. The hatchet once lifted is not easily buried. General Knox. Secretary of I Far, to the President of the United States. War Office, July ‘2.8th, 1789. Sir: Having examined the report of the commissioners for treating with the Southern Indians, dated (lie 3t)(h of June last, and the papers accompanying the same, I have the honor to observe: That it is the opinion of the said commissioners, that the Creek nation of Indians are, generally, disposed to enter into a treaty with the United States, for the purpose of establishing a permanent peace. That it is of great importance that the favorable dispositions of the said Orecek nation should be embraced immediately, in order to terminate, by an equitable peace, the disturbances and hostilities which have for some years past existed on the Southern frontiers. That the said commissioners having been appointed by the States of South Carolina and Georgia, in consequence of the resolves of the late Congress, of the 20th of October, 1787, it may be considered that their powers expired with the late confederation. That, therefore, it may be proper to institute a commission, to consist of three persons, to be appointed conformably to the constitution, w ho should be invested with full powers to inquire into, and decide on, all causes of com- plaint between the citizens of the United States and the Southern nations and tribes of Indians, and to negotiate and conclude with them, firm treaties of peace, on principles consistent with the national justice and dignity of the United States. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, sir. your most obedient humble servant, II. KNOX. The President of the United States. Georgia, Rock Landing, on the Oconee river, June 30th, 1789. Sir: Agreeably to the appointment of the Executive of North Carolina, under the act of Congress of the 27th of October, 1787, we attended at the Upper War-ford, on French Broad river, from the 25th of last month, to the 7th instant, in order to meet, in treaty, the chiefs and head men of the Cherokee Indians, but as they did not attend on or before that day, we found it necessary to repair to this place, as the Executive of the State of Georgia had " appointed the 20th of this month for treating with the Creek Indians. A treaty with the Creeks appearing to us to be of the greatest importance, we sent to the Cherokees a talk. No. 1. A. / On our way to this place, we met several of the Cherokee head men, at Seneca, who gave us the fullest assurances that no hostilities or depredations should be committed by any of their people, against the citizens of the United States, until a treaty should be held; and we have every reason to confide in their promises. Some late depredations which were committed by the Creeks on the frontiers of this State, so alarmed their chiefs, that they returned home after having been a few days on their journey to this place. The talks No. 1, and 2; Mr. M’Gillivray’s letter, No. 3; Mr. George Galphin’s,letter, No. 4; Mr. John Galphin’s letters, No. 5, 6 and 7; and Mr. M’Gillivray’s letter. No. 8; will explain to your excellency their reasons. We have now with us, Mr. John Galphin. a chief speaker of the Lower Creeks; the White Bird King, or the Great King; with sixteen other Indians. They will return to the nation to-morrow, with our general talk, No. 9, and our letter to Mr. M‘Gillivray, No. 10. The great scarcity of corn, for upwards of eighty miles around us, was our principal reason for postponing the Creek treaty so long; by the middle of September we shall be aided with the new crop. We are nappy to inlorm your Excellency, from good authority^ that the Creeks are, very generally, disposed for peace. We are well assured, that all the head men of that nation, with upwards of two thousand Indians, will attend the treaty in September, and we have the fairest prospects of establishing a permanent peace with the Creeks, on such terms as will be pleasing to the Indians, satisfactory to the State of Georgia, and honorable to the Union. In justice to the State of Georgia, we cannot conclude this letter without expressing our entire satisfaction in the conduct of her government; they have cheerfully advanced several thousand dollars, to enable us to meet so large a body of Indians, in a manner suitable to the importance of the occasion. We have the honor to be, your Excellency’s most obedient and very humble servants. ANDREW PICKENS, II. OSBORNE. His Excellency George Washington, President of the United States. No. 1. A. Upper War-ford, on French Broad river, 7tli June, 1789. To the Head-men, Chiefs, and H'arriors, of the Cherokee Nation. Friends and Brothers: Agreeable to our appointment with you, we met at this place, expecting to have the pleasure of meeting you, to settle all disputes that have subsisted between you and the white people. We have waited here for you j twelve days, and we are now obliged to go and meet the Creeks, on the Oconee, on the 20th of this month, so that we can stay no longer. We are, therefore, under the necessity of postponing the treaty with you till some other time that will be appointed and made convenient for both parties. We are sorry to find that the people of Cumberland have reason to complain; many of those people have been killed by the Indians. You all know that the people of Cumberland make no encroachments upon your lands; the line was settled at Seneca, and the people of Cumberland do not go over it. We hope none of vour people are concerned in such mischief, as it would interrupt the good intentions of Congress towards your people. We expect you will put a stop to all such proceedings against any of our people, until we meet you in treaty, when we have no doubt of settling all matters to your satisfaction. In token of our friendship, we send you a string of white beads. ANDREW PICKENS, JOHN STEELE, II. OSBORNE. No. 1. A talk from the Head-men and Chiefs of the Lower Creek nation, to the Commissioners of the United States, of Indian affairs, in the Southern Department.—May 2.3d, 1789. We received your talk by Mr. George Galphin, but at that present time we were not able to give you an answer, in consequence of a great meeting and a talk being concluded by Mr. McGillivray, and the vvhole nation, in consequence of the encroachments of the Georgians on our hunting grounds. Orders were given out for our warriors to be in readiness to turn out in respect to their lands. We then first sent runners every where to stop and turn back all parties they could come up with, until we could hear from Mr. McGillivray, and have his advice in the matter. There are some people, we believe, gone on, the consequence of which we cannot be accountable for, as they were gone before your talk came in; but I hope there will be no blood spilt; your delay in not sending up vour talk sooner, is the reason of it: had vour talk come a little sooner, it might have been a great deal better. We nave been informed you w ould send a talk to us, but its not coming, we did not know what to do. Now we have sent to Mr. McGillivray to know when he will appoint the time for setting off to meet you at the place you appointed. Mr. Galphin is gone to settle this matter with him; he w ill bring you word when it will be agreed on by the chiefs of the Lower Creek nation. No. 2. A Talk from the Chiefs, Head-men, and Warriors, of the Ijyiver Creek Nation.—1st June, 1789. The day is coming at last, that I hope we shall see you our fathers, friends, and brothers again, as we used in friendship, and renew all our former friendships. It was never our intention to be against any white people. We now come to take you by the hand, with a clear and willing mind, and with an intent to remove all things that had shut our path so long, and to renew our former trade in friendship once more. We have always received your talks friendly, and sent you our talks again; letting you know always our grievances, and the reasons why this long dispute; but we now nope all will be forgot, and we now come to make our talks firm again, as we did when we first took white people by the hand. As we were all made by one master of breath, although put in different parts of the earth, he did not make us to be at variance against each other; but it has happened, by the bad doings of our mad people, on both sides. When we first met the white people, at the sea side, we did not meet in arms, but with a desire of being further acquainted with each other; until the great encroachments of our lands raised us. which has occasioned the late troubles among us. You are sensible that, at our first meeting at the sea side, for the benefit of trade, we gave our land as far as the water ebbed and flowed, and, by frequent request, granted as far as possible, reserving our hunting grounds: for what will be the use of goods brought amongst us, ii’ouryoung men have not hunting ground to kill game, to purchase the goods brought to us? We never met together yet to explain our grievances, but we told them to the beloved man, Col. White, who came here to us, and he promised to lay all our talks, that we gave him, before the Congress, and that we should have redress and justice done us. Now we rest with hopes that you will do the. same by us, as we expect you have the same talks. We received your invitation, and do expect that, when we meet, all past grievances will be forgot, and laid a-oneside, and then renew our friendship once more, to the satisfaction of all our people. Mr. George Galphin will acquaint you of every particular. This is all we have to say, until we shall take you by the hand, as our fathers, friends, and brothers. James Df.rezeaux, Interpreter. No. 3. Little Tallassf.e, 18th 3Iay, 17S9. Dear Sir: I have this moment received your letter, enclosing a talk of im itation to the chiefs and warriors of the nation to meet the commissioners of Congress the 20th June next. 1 wish that you could have been up. while I was in the Lower towns; the great fatigue which I have undergone this spring, prevents my seeing the Lower chiefs on the occasion. I nave received a letter from the commissioners and superintendent last winter, in which they declared, in the most pointed and unequivocal terms, that it was impossible to make the restitution of territory the basis of a peace between us and Georgia, which we demanded as a first measure to be complied with by them, to lead the way to a lasting peace. At our late convention. I explained the letter to the chiefs, who were much dissatisfied at the declaration, and observed, that it was in vain to talk of peace while an obstacle of such magnitude was suffered to remain in the way of it, on the part of the Georgians; and the warlike preparations, which you notice in your letter, are carrying on to make another trial to accomplish by force, what can't be obtained by peaceable methods. Our excursions, hitherto, have been made with no other viewr than to warn the Georgians to desist from their injustice, and to induce them to listen to reason and humanity. It is well known, that.il any other was our motive, that our force and resources are equal to effect their destruction. Or. the present occasion, the chiefs, having sent for my opinion and advice. I have wrote to them, to be explained by Mr. Dere/.eaux. I have left the matter to their own choice: if they agree to meet, I will likewise go, though T have the best reasons against it. Yet apprehensions for personal security shall not deter me from fulfilling the duty which I owe my country. 1 am. sir. vour humble servant. ALEX. McGILLIYItAY. Mr. Geo. Galpimn, at Cussetahs. No. 4. Lower Creeks. May 27, 1789. Gentlemen: 1 have to acquaint your honors, that, on my arrival in the Creek nation. I found it in a very bad situation to bring about a treaty. I at fir.-t began to despair of having it in my power to effect any of the business I came on, as the whole Upper and Lower Creeks, down as far as the Seminoles, were ready fitted oil' to go out to war; and would have been started, if I had been but four days later, on the frontiers of Georgia. Upwards of three thousand would have been out, and intended to have drove Ogechee from the mouth to the head, w hich I fear they would have effected, after viewing the frontiers in such an unprepared state, and the Indians going on at such a surprise. 1 was told, by many of the Indians, that, if any one else had come at such a time but myself, they never should have returned back. The cause of their setting out on such a general excursion, was by consent of Mr. McGillivray, after a general meeting of the chiefs and head men of the whole Upper and Lower Creeks: and, being informed by him that they were not to have their lands on the Oconees restored to them again, he acquainted them that the Spaniards had provided for them, for the purpose of defending their rights to their lands, fifteen hundred stand of arms, and forty thousand weight of ammunition. This, he told me. was what the Governor or commandant at Pensacola told him, was what they had orders to do by orders from their king. On hearing of this great supply, the Indians were much exalted, and, 1 believe, would have turned out to a man. except the Cussetahs, who seemed much against it. which was happy for me on my business, or i could have done nothing. On my arrival at the Cussetahs, I met with Mr. Barnard, who had been at Mr. McGillivray’s talk, and had been trying all he could to put a stop to their lash proceedings, till an express was sent down, with an oiler of peace on any conditions, as any thing that could be done to prolong the time, until new's could have been got down, to have warned the frontiers from such a destruction as must have ensued, would have been better than to have it gone on. Mr. Barnard's otters could not avail, as the Indians seemed determined to prosecute what they begun. Mr. Barnard’s life and property were immediately threatened, and every exertion possible made use of, to prevent his going off; or sending down news to Georgia of what was going forward. At my meeting Mr. Barnard at the Cussetahs, I handed him Lis honor the Governor's letter, likewise General Twiggs’, and communicated the whole of my business to him. lie acquainted me with every matter respecting the present situation of affairs, and gave me every advice he thought necessary to effect my business, and then left me to my brother John to complete it, as he told me he dared not be seen to concern with me, at that time, at the risk of his life, which I found to be the truth. My brother, having a good deal of influence in the Cowetas, through our connexion there, which was the most strenuous for mischief, I set him to work on them, and myself with the Cussetahs. We, in two days, got them to stop all that were on the move, till we could write Mr. McGillivray. They agreed to wait till they heard his answer. After finding out the true situation of affairs, and. according to my instructions from you, I wrote a letter acquainting him fully with my business with the chiefs of the nation, and from whom I was sent; and, as head of the nation, gave him every security, if lie attended the treaty, that no molestation would by any means take place, but that every respect w ould be shown him, w hich I hope your honors will take every step to secure, that my promises to him and the rest of the heads may not be violated. After my letter, he left the determination of the business on hand to the heads of the Cussetahs and Cowetas, who, after seeing his answer, consented to treat. He, at the same time, gave them to understand, that, if they were inclined to a treaty, he would likewise attend, and, by what I can plainly see, there is no measure to belallen upon, to settle the present cause of dispute, without his voice. Even if a treaty could be called without his consent, it could not be a general one; therefore it would only be leaving matters in the same disagreeable situation that they are now in, and leaving the frontiers still open to perpetual violation. His attendance will put the matter effectually out of every kind of jeopardy, one way or other. I am now at Mr. Barnard’s, on Flint river, forwarding to you this express. I likewise sent my brother off, before I left the town, to Mr. McGillivray, to know exactly when he and the rest of the heads would wish to meet. I set off again for the Cussetahs to-morrow, and, on the return of iny brother, I shall, in a few days, set out for Augusta, where I hope, by the time I get there, you will nearly effect every preparation necessary for a treaty at the Rock Landing. 1 shall be particular in ascertaining every necessary intelligence, which I hope in a short time to be able to communicate to your honors in Augusta. Till then I remain, with due respect, Your honors’ most obed’t humble serv’t, GEO. GALPHIN. P. S. I have enclosed Mr. McGillivray’s answer to me for your perusal, and likewise a talk from the whole of the Lower Creeks. G. G. The Hon. And’w Pickens and H’v Osborn, Esq. Commissioners for Indian Affairs in Southern Department, at Augusta. No. 5. Cowetas, 2Sd May, 1789. Sir: I bake the liberty of writing to your honor of the situation of this our country. When my brother arrived here, we had just had a full meeting of all the chiefs, and had long waited for talks, but never received any. A John Tarvin arrived from Augusta, who we expected we should have some talks by, but had none;, there were a few private letters for Mr. McGillivray, but nothing of consequence. The chiefs then thought it was not the Georgians’ intention to make a peace, on which many turned out; and the day my brother arrived, there were not less than two thousand under arms. I gave him my assistance, and stopped all; and immediately sent to Mr. McGillivray, who acted the same. There might be small parties out that were gone so far. that it was out of our power to stop them: they turned out before your talks came up to this country. 1 hope tnat the small damages, which may be done by them, will be overlooked; if not, perhaps we shall not agree, as it cannot be accounted for, when they were in the woods before your talks came to this country, and I hope all will be looked over. I am sorry it was not more in my power to assist my brother, owing to a bad state of health I have been ip. for some time past; but, finding that he must fill I through with his business, if I did not assist him, though I rode about with him in great pain; and yesterday had a meeting of the Lower towns, from which you will see the talks. I found it necessary to go up to the Upper towns, and see Mr. McGillivray, as it was needless to have a treaty with part of the nation, and not the whole. It may, perhaps, detain the time longer; but the business will be well done. I had been told that his honor the Governor wrote to Mr. Barnard; am surprised that his honor is not more acquainted with business of this country, than to think that Mr. Barnard’s influence could be of any service to that country. I believe him to be a friend of the State of Georgia, but I must take the liberty to acquaint you that Mr. Barnard cannot do any tiling here more than a trader, nor is it in his power. You will get the fullest information of this country by my brother George, and a treaty, you may rely on, we will try, if possible, to be at the time appointed:: but, if we should not, you must wait a few days longer, as this is an extensive country, and business cannot be done in a day or two. It will be necessary that every preparation be made, for we will try to make a lasting peace; and, for that intention, I will try to bring the chiefs of the whole nation. We may be in number, that will come down, about two or three thousand, and hope that you will be in readines for the reception of that number. I must now give some small remarks of the usage I have had in the State of Georgia. When I was only seventeen, the Assembly, under some pretence, robbed me of better than forty thousand acres of land, a precedent not to be equalled in all the annals of history. I then settled store on the Oconee river, and, being alarmed that the Indians were likely to do mischief, Captain Kemp, with several of the neighbors, requested I would go to the nation to know the certainty, and, if possible, to prevent so shocking a scene. On my way up, I met and passed them; no sooner out of sight, I got round them, and gave the inhabitants timely notice, though my horse tired, and had to travel on foot forty miles, a fatigue I was but little accustomed to. They might, had they been possessed of one spark of gratitude, reckoned that information atemporal salvation. I leave the judicious part, for I think there must be some, to judge their gratitude, when, at that very juncture, they burned my house, robbed me of better than two hundred Sounds sterling, to induce me to believe it was the Indians; and repeatedly threatened my life, from no motive, I now of, but of saving them. Had the men who made application tne smallest idea of justice, they would not have suffered me to be treated as I was. Soon after, the commissioners made application to me to bring the Indians to a treaty; it was hardly possible for me to be zealous to serve a people who had so unjustly injured me, and were continually declaring they would take my life. However, to induce me to undertake it, and exhaust the remains of my shattered fortune, they seemed so point out steps that would retrieve my lands, and my own foolish credulity once more permitted me to comply with their request. The inhabitants were still swearing vengeance against me. I then did not think my life safe; I was then obliged to seek refuge in this, iny own country, where I was in some safety; and I have laid out of my own pocket better than eighty pounds sterling in purchasing the prisoners that were brought here, and risque my life to save theirs. All this I have done to serve the Georgians. I will write you more satisfactory than at present, as I am now in a great hurry. You may be in preparation for a treaty; and have the honor to be, sir, Your most obed’t servant, JOHN GALPHIN. The Hon. Henry Osborne, Esq. Commissioner of Indian Affairs, Augusta. No. 6. Cowetas, June 1st, 1789. Sir: In my last letter to you, 1 mentioned where I was going; to the Upper towns? in order to see Mr. McGilli-vrav, and have justarrived, and completed the business that my brother came on, which he must have fallen through with, had I not assisted him. I have settled every matter for him, and will be ready to start from this place, with all the Lower towns, the 13th of this month. I expect to be joined with all the Upper Creeks, and our chief speaker, Mr. McGillivray, the tenth of this month. We shall have all the chiefs of the whole nation with us. I can just tell your honor, that there will be more chiefs at this treaty, than ever was at a treaty yet, in order to settle every dispute. Matters may be settled on good terms, but we cannot come upon any terms unless every dispute is settled on a good footing; particularly that of mine, concerning ray lands, which were taken from me when I was under age. I should once have thought myself happy of being a citizen in the State of Georgia, but it was withheld, and I must now look upon myself a chief in the whole of the lower towns, as they have now given me the honor of settling their business for them. In my last, I gave you my reason for leaving the State of Georgia, but I would still wish every matter could be settled on good terms for a peace: for no man has taken more pains than I have. I make no doubt there have been some people on the frontiers killed lately, but we have lost twelve in number; I think that may be upon a balance for what are lost on the frontiers. 1 will try to be down by the time appointed; it will be very necessary that all white people, who have no business, should be ordered away, as they generally give more disturbance than any others; and for no person to come on this side of the river, as the Indians are a jealous people, and hope every method will be taken to Keep people back that have no business there, if not we shall return: for the people of Georgia always bully than treat with the Indians, but I hope such steps will not be taken now. I remain sir, vourobed’t servant, - JOHN GALPHIN. The Hon. Henry Osborne, Esq. Commissioner of Indian Affairs, Augusta. No. 7. Rock Landing, 24th June, 1789. Gentlemen: I arrived hereyesterdav. and meeting Mr. Hrian, the interpreter, this morning, he informed me of seeing a Mr. Whitehead on his way from the nation, who did not altogether give him a true account of us, but I can assure you that I have it in my power to settle every matter amicably and satisfactorily to both parties. I shall wait at this place until I get an answer to return with, as your honors will find, by my instructions, that I can settle every tiling agreeably. I have the honor to be, gentlemen, your most obedient servant, JOHN GALPHIN. The honorable Board of Commissioners for Indian Affairs. Sir: No. 8. Cowetas, 16th June, 1789. Upon receipt of this letter, you are requested by the chiefs to proceed to the proposed place of meeting at the Rock-landing, on the Oconee river, where, if you meet with the commissioners, you are to inform them, that the chiefs have resolved to put olftlie meeting for the present, for the following reasons: That when the talk of invitation arrived here, the whole body of warriors were in arms, owing to the commissioners' letter of last winter, ready to turn out. but the chiefs being ever ready to listen to just terms of peace, they agreed to meet the commissioners to treat as they requested: but some parties having early gone out, could not be stopped, and they having returned within a few days of the appointed time for the chiefs setting out for the Rock Landing, and having done mischief in killing several people, the body of the people stopped the chiefs from proceeding to the Oconee, apprehensive that they might sustain injury and insult from the people of that country. The chiefs are willing to treat at a time when, a few months having passed over, each other’s minds will be more cool, and can talk over matters with calmness and temper; mean time they wish to have an answer from the commissioners, upon what grounds they intend to conduct the treaty on. They apprehend that some demands will be made, to which (hey cannot agree, and they don’t wish to meet them to quarrel, but rather desire, when they do meet, to treat of peace, to do it in a peaceable manner, and to conclude a peace on terms that may make it a lasting one. Washing you a good journey, remain with esteem and regard, Your most obedient servant, ALEX. M’GILLIVRAY. P. S. Assure the commissioners that every exertion will be made by the chiefs to keep things quiet, which may be depended on. Mr. John Galphin, in the Cowetas. No. 9. To the Head-men. Chiefs. and Warriors, of the Creek nation. Rrothers: Rock Landing, on the Oconee, June 29th, 1789. We came to this place expecting to meet you agreeably to our invitation, which we sent to you by Mr. George Galphin. We are sorry any thing should have happened to prevent your coining. We have heard your reasons from your chief speaker, Mr. McGiilivray. with which we are satisfied. Wre have consulted your beloved man, Mr. John Galphin, and have fixed the time for meeting you all at this place, to be the 15th of September next. We hope you will be punctual in coming, that all disputes may be settled, and we may again take you by the hand as friends and brothers. As a mark of your good intentions, we shall expect all the prisoners in the nation, both whites and blacks, will be sent to this place as soon as possible, where one of us will remain to receive them. We have strictly charged our people not to cross over to your side of the Oconee, and we expect your people will not come on (his side, except at this place, before the time for holding the treaty. We shall expect that all your people w ill be prohibited from committing any kind of depredations against ours, so that peace may be preserved, and all of ns meet at the appointed time, as friends and brothers. ANDREW PICKENS, II. OS HORNE. No. 10. Rock Landing, June 30th, 1789. Sir: We have received your letter to Mr. John Galphin, and are very sorry we could not have the pleasure of seeing you at the time appointed; but as we have fixed a time agreeable to your wish, we hope nothing will prevent your being present on the 15th of September next. It is our wish and desire to make a firm and lasting peace. o;i liberal terms, with all the chiefs of the nation. One of us will remain at this place to have every thing prepared for the treaty, and to receive as many of the prisoners as can be sent dow n before that period. You w ill oblige us much by using your influence on this subject, as it will havea very happy effect in this country, and tend to promote a good understanding between the Indians and our people; we expect all the prisoners that cannot be sent immediately, will be brought to the treaty. There are few tilings vex the people of this country so much, as having their horses stolen; we w ish, and have no doubt, but you will put a stop to that practice in future, and that you will order as many of the stolen horses as can be found in the nation, to be sent to us. Mrs. Girerdeau, a widow lady of Liberty county, was plundered by a party of your nation in August last, and eight negroes taken off. She has five young children, and the negroes were the bulk of her and their property; feeling for the widow and orphans, we have granted her eldest son permission to accompany Mr. Galphin to the nation. We recommend him to your humanity in the strongest terms, and reauest vou to afford him every necessary assistance in regaining the property: he will return by this route, and we shall be nappy to have an opportunity of rendering you a similar service, either in a public or private capacity. We have spoken very freely to Mr. Galphin, he will give you every necessary information, and do away any doubts that may have remained on your mind. It would give us great satisfaction to have some private conversation with you and him, prior to the public talks; we doubt not but all matters may be so settled between us, as will make the treaty both easy and agreeable to all parties. ■ For your satisfaction, we enclose you a resolve of the Executive of this State, and an order of the Governor thereon. It is our wish that no people whatever, belonging to the United States, should be disturbed or injured either in their persons or property, till all matters are finally settled between us. We are, sir, your obedient and very humble servants, ANDREW PICKENS, H. OSBORNE, To Alexander McGillivray, Esq. _ Commissioners. Chief Speaker in the Creek Nation. In Council, Augusta, June 19th, 1789. To the end that no interruption or personal interference may take place, between the honorable the commis   sioners and the Indians, in the progress of the treaty at the Rock Landing, it is unanimously ordered, in the most express terms, that no person or persons whatsoever, do approach the treaty ground, or cross over the Oconee to the south side, during the time of holding the same, or within ten days thereafter, without special permission from the commissioners, for that purpose; and any breach of this order will be punished with the utmost severity. Extract from the minutes. J. MERIWETHER, S. E. C. Council Chamber, June 19th, 1789. In pursuance of the above order of Council, the Governor and Cominander-in-chief orders and directs, that the officers of the militia, guard to the commissioners, and of the State troops, do see, at their respective stations, that the same be not violated: and any neglect herein, will be deemed a breach of duty, and punished accordingly. GEORGE WALTON. No. 3. General Knox, Secretary of War, to the President of the United States. THE CHEROKEES. This nation of Indians, consisting of separate towns or villages, are seated principally on the head waters of the Tennessee, which runs into the Ohio. Their hunting grounds extend from Cumberland river along the frontiers of Virginia, North and South Carolina, and part of Georgia. The frequent wars they have had with the frontier people of the said States, have greatly diminished their numbers. The commissioners estimated them, in November, 1785, at2,000 warriors^ but they were estimated, in 1787. by Colonel Joseph Martin, who was well acquainted with them, at 2,650; but it is probable they may be lessened 9ince, by the depredations committed on them. The United States concluded a treaty with the Cherokees, at Hopewell, on the Keowee, the 28th of November, 1785, which is entered on the printed journals of Congress, April 17th, 1786. The negotiations of the commissioners on the part of the United States, are hereunto annexed, marked A. It will appear, by the papers marked B, that the State of North Carolina, by their agent, protested against the said treaty as infringing and violating the legislative rights of that State. By a variety of evidence which has been submitted to the late Congress, it has been proved that the said treaty has been entirely disregarded by the white people inhabiting the frontiers, styling themselves the State of Franklin. The proceedings of Congress on the first ol September, 1788, and the proclamation they then issued on tliis subject, will show their sense of the many unprovoked outrages committed against the Cherokees. The information contained in the papers marked C, from Colonel Joseph Martin, the late agent to the Cherokees, and Richard Winn, Esq. will further evince the deplorable situation of the Cherokees, and the indispensable obligation of the United States to vindicate their faith, justice, and national dignity. The letter of Mr. Winn, the late superintendent, of the first of March, informs, that a treaty will be held with the Cherokees on the third Monday of May, at the Upper War-ford, on French Broad river. But it is to be observed, that the time for which both he, and Colonel Joseph Martin, the agent to the Cherokees and Chickasaws, were elected, has expired; and, therefore, they are not authorized to act on the part of the Union. If -the commissioners appointed by North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, by virtue of the resolve of Congress of the 26th of October, 1787, should attend the said treaty, their proceedings thereon may soon be expected. But as part of the Cherokees have taken refuge within the limits of the Creeks, it is highly probable they will be under the same direction, and, therefore, as the fact of the violation of the treaty cannot be disputed, and as the commissioners have not power to replace the Cherokees within the limits established in 1785, it is not probable, even if a treaty should be held, as stated by Mr. Winn, that the result would be satisfactory. All which is humbly submitted to the President of the United States. H. KNOX. War Office, July 7th, 1789. A. No. 1. Hopewell, on the Keowee, 2d December, 1785. Sir: We enclose to your Excellency a treaty which we entered into on the 28th ultimo, with all the Cherokees at this place. We had invited the Chiefs only of the respective towns, but they having some reason to expect ill treatment from some disorderly people in that part of the westward of North Carolina, where the exercise of an independent government has lately been assumed, were under the necessity ot bringing their young warriors, their wives and children, who were most exposed, to be protected, so that from this nation we have had nine hundred and eighteen. Previous to entering into the treaty, we, with interpreters who understood the Cherokee language well, explained the occurrences of the late war, with the extent of territory ceded to us by the King of Great Britain. We also explained every article of the treaty, so that they could comprehend it perfectly. After it was signed, they expressed their obligations to the United States of America for taking them under protection, and treating them with such unexpected justice. The agents of Georgia and North Carolina attended the treaty, as will appear by their protest, herewith enclosed. The commissioners, in establishing the boundary which is the chief cause of all the complaints of the Indians, were desirous of accommodating the southern States, and their western citizens, in any thing consistent with the duty we owed to the United States. I We established the line from forty miles above Nashville on the Cumberland, agreeable to the deed of saty to I Richard Henderson & Co. as far as the Kentucky ford? thence to the mountain six miles south of Nolichuckey, agreeable to the treaty in 1777, with Colonel William Christie, William Preston, and Evan Shelby, on the part of Virginia; and Waitstill Avery, attorney general, Colonel Robert Lanier, William Sharp, and Joseph Winston, on (he part of North Carolina; thence by agreement, south, to the North Carolina line, and to the South Carolina Indian boundary; thence to the Tugelo river, the treaty at Dewit’s corner in 1777, with States of South Carolina and Georgia; thence, over the Currahee mountain, to the south fork of Oconee, the treaty at Augusta, of 1783. The line from Duck river is now given by the Cherokees to accommodate the people of Nashville, and others, south of the Cumberland, (which river is the southern boundary of the lands sold to Richard Henderson & Co.) as it would be difficult to remove them, as well as very distressing to the citizens. There are. some few people settled on the Indian lands, whom we are to remove, and those in the fork of French Broad and Holston, being numerous, the Indians agreed to refer their particular situation to Congress, and abide their decision. We told them there were too many for us to engage positively to order off, although they had settled expressly against the treaty entered into by Virginia and North Carolina with the Cherokees in 1777. The commissioners know not what is best to be done in this case. They see that justice, humanity, and good policy, require that some compensation should be made to the Indians for these lands; but the manner of doing it probably would be difficult. However, a small sum we think could be raised on the unlocated lands, as well as from those already settled; and which, if appropriated to the purpose of teaching them some useful branches of mechanics, would be of lasting advantage. Some of the women have lately learnt to spin, and many of them arc very desirous that some method should be fallen on to teach them to raise flax, cotton, and wool, as well as to spin and weave it. We have required the aid of the agent of North Carolina, and the commissioners of Georgia, in the execution of the treaty, and we foresee that difficulties will frequently arise, and, indeed, render it ineffectual, if these two States should refuse their co-operation. We have given the Indians some presents, but our stock was so small, compared with the number of Indians, and their naked distressed condition, that the dividend was trifling indeed. We told them that we invited and expected the head-men and warriors only; that the object of our commission was altogether for their benefit, and we had made provision accordingly. The Spaniards and the French from New Orleans are making great efforts to engross the trade of the Indians; several of them are on the north side of the Tennessee, and well supplied with proper goods for the trade. The Governor of New Orleans, or West Florida, has sent orders to the Chickasavvs to remove all traders from that country, except those who had or should take the oath of allegiance to the Catholic King; and also, had apppointed ten traders, who were down after goods, when our informant, a man of respectability, left that country. We sent a very intelligent, honest man, with our invitation to the Choctaws and Chickasavvs, to treat with us, and he brought us assurances from them, that they would attend the treaty; and some of the former set out before he left the Chickasaw nation, but none of them have as yet arrived, and we cannot account for it, unless we give credit to reports, which contradict, expressly, all assurances of their attachment to the United States, and joy on the first notification of the resolution of Congress, appointing commissioners to treat with them, and receive them into the favor and protection of the United States. The Cherokees say that the Northern Indians have their emissaries among the Southern tribes, endeavoring to prevail on them to form an alliance offensive against the United States, and to commence hostilities against us in the spring, or next fall, at the farthest; they also say, that, not only the British emissaries are for this measure, but that the Spaniards have extensive claims to the southward, and have been endeavoring to poison the minds of the Indians against us, and to win their affections, by large supplies of arms, military stores, and clothing. We are at a loss what to do, to complete the object of our commission; the sum to which we are limited, is already, by our disappointments and expenses attendant thereon, so diminished, that we are unable to fix on any place, and therefore must, await the further order of Congress. We have, for the information of Congress, collected, as near as may be, the number of Indians in the four South- ern States, and we find the gun-men of the Cherokees, ..... 2,000 The Upper and Lower Creek nation, from an agent who resided seven years in their towns, and employed by John Stewart, for the purpose, ------- 5,400 The Chickasavvs, --------- 800 The Choctaws, --------- 6,000 14,000 There are, also, some remains of tribes settled among these, as Shawanecs, Eutchees, &c. &c. At a moderate calculation, we may reckon the women, the children, and the old men, unfit for hunting, to four times the, number of gun-men. We have the honor to be, with due respect, &c. BENJAMIN HAWKINS, ANDREW PICKENS, JOSEPH MARTIN, His Excellency Richard Henry Lf.e, Esq. LACH’N MclNTOSH. President of Congress. A. No. 2. 1. Augusta. 2. Natchez. 3. Oconee river. 4. South fork of Oconee. 5. Broad river. 6. Carahee mountain. 7. Savannah river. 8. Keeowee river. 9. SiIndah river. 10. Mississijipi river. It. The rivt-r above the fort, calltd Kaskaskia by the Indians. 12. Tennessee river. 13. Ocochuppo river. 14. Muscle Shoals. 15. Chickasaw Claim. 16. Ocuiniee Mountain. 17. Mountain six miles S. of Nolichueky. 18. French Broad river. 19. Nolichueky river. 20. Hobtou river. 21. 1 ong island of Holston. 22. Clinch r*ver. 23. Po.vell river. 24. Martin's Station. 25. N.ishville. 26. Cumberland. 27. Wabash, or Enemy river. 28. Ohio river. 29. Falls. 30. Kentucky river. 31. Fort Pitt. 32. Henderson’s Range for his horses and cattle, within the circle. This map is copied from one drawn by the Tassel, and some other of the head-men of the Cherokees, to describe their territorial claims. It is not known whether the line from the mountain, six miles south of Nolichueky, will touch the North Carolina line to the east or west of the South Carolina Indian boundary; but it is supposed to be to I lie west. Keeowee, 28Ih of November, 1785. A. No. 5. Hopewell ox Keowee, the 18th November, 1785. The commissioners of the United States, in Congress assembled, to treat with the Cherokees, and all other Indians southward of them, within the limits of the United States, assembled. Present: Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, Joseph Martin, and Laughlin McIntosh; from the State of North Carolina; the honorable William Blount, Esq. who produced his commission, as agent, for that State. 'I'lie commissioners ordered a return to be made of the Indians, and there were five hundred. The head-men and warriors having informed, that the present representation of their tribes was not complete, but would be so in a few days, it was agreed to postpone treating with them until the whole representation should arrive. November 21. The head-men and warriors of all the Cherokees assembled. Ordered, that the interpreters inform the Indians that commissioners will meet them to-morrow at 10 o’clock, under the bower erected for that purpose. November 22. The commissioners assembled. Present: Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, Joseph Martin, and Laughlin McIntosh. From the State of North Carolina. William Blount, agent. From the State of Georgia, John King and Thomas Glasscock, commissioners. From all the tribes or towns of the Cherokees, the head-men and warriors. James Madison, Arthur Coody, interpreters. The commissioners delivered the following address to the Indians: Head-men and warriors of all the Cherokees: We are the men whom you were informed came from Congress to meet you, the head-men and warriors of all the Cherokees, to give you peace, and to receive you into the favor and protection of the United States; and to remove, as far as may be, all causes of future contention or quarrels. That you, your people, your wives and children, may be happy, and feel and know the blessings of the new change of sovereignty over this land, which you and we inhabit. We sincerely wish you to live as happily as we do ourselves, and to promote that happiness as far as is in our power, regardless of any distinction of color, or of any difference in our customs, our manners, or particular situation. This humane and generous act of the United States, will no doubt be received by you with gladness, and held in grateful remembrance, and the more so, as many of your young men, and the greatest number of your warriors, during the late war, were our enemies, and assisted the Ring of Great Britain in his endeavors to conquer our country. You, yourselves, know, that you refused to listen to the good talks Congress sent you; that the cause you espoused was a bad one; that all the adherents of the king of Great Britain are compelled to leave this country, nevermore to return. Congress is now the sovereign of all our country, which we now point out to you on the map.* They want none ol your lands, or any thing else which belongs to you; and as an earnest of their regard for you, we propose to enter into articles of a treaty perfectly equal, and conformable to what we now tell you. If you have any grievances to complain of, we will hear them, and take such measures, in consequence thereof, as may be proper. We expect you will speak your minds freely, and look upon us as the representatives of your father and friend, the Congress, who will see justice done you. You may now retire, and reflect on what we have told you, and let us hear from you to-morrow, or as soon as possible. November 23. Present as yesterday. After sitting some time in silence, the Tassel of Cliota arose, and addressed the commissioners as follows: I am going to let the commissioners hear what I have to say to them. 1 told you yesterday I would do this today. I was very much pleased at the talk you gave us yesterday; it is very different from what I expected when I left home; the head-men and warriors are also equally pleased with it. Now, 1 shall give you iny own talk. I am made of this earth, on which the great man above placed me, to possess it; and what I am about to tell you, I have had in my mind for many years. This land we are now on, is the land we were fighting for, during the late contest,! and the great man made it for us to subsist upon. Y ou must know the red people are the aborigines of this land, and that it is but a few years since the white people found it. out. I am of the first stock, as the commissioners know, and a native of this land; and the white people are now living on it as our friends. From the beginning of the first friendship between the white and red people, beads were given as an emblem thereof: and these arc the beads I give to the commissioners of the United states, as a confirmation of our friendship, and as a proof of my opinion of what you yesterday told us.—[A string of white beads.] The commissioners have heard how the white people have encroached on our lands, on every side of us that they could approach. 1 remember the talks I delivered at the hong Island of Holston, and I remember giving our lands to Colonel Christie and others, who treated with us, and in a manner compelled me thereto, in 1777. I remember the talks to Colonel Christie, when I gave the lands at the mouth of Cloud's creek, eighteen springs past. At that treaty, we agreed upon the line near the mouth of Lime Stone. The Virginia line, and part from the month ol Cloud’s creek to Cumberland mountain, near the gap, was paid for by Virginia. From Cloud’s creek, a direct line to the Cliimney-top mountain, thence, to the mouth of Big Lime Stone, on Noli-chuky, thence, to the first mountain about six miles from the river, on a line across the sun, was never paid for by the Carolina which joins the Virginia line. 1 wish the commissioners to know every thing that concerns us, as I tell nothing but the truth. They, the people of North Carolina, have taken our lands for no consideration, and are now making their fortunes out of them. I have informed the commissioners of the line I gave up, and the people of North Carolina and Virginia have gone over it, and encroached on our lands expressly against our inclination. They have gone over the line near Little River, and they have gone over Nine-mile Creek, which is but nine miles from our towns. 1 am glad of this opportunity of getting redress from the commissioners. It Congress had not interposed, I and my people must have moved. They har e even marked the lands on the bank of the river near the town where I live; and from thence, down in the fork of the Tennessee and Holston. 1 have given in to you a detail of the abuse and encroachments of these two States. We shall be satisfied if we are paid for the lands we have given up, but we will not, nor cannot, give up any more—I mean the line I gave to Colonel Christie. I have no more tu say, but one of our beloved women has, who has born and raised up warriors.—[A string of beads.] The War-woman of Cliota then addressed the commissioners: 1 am fond of hearing that there is a peace, and I hope you have now taken us by the baud in real friendship. I have a pipe and a little tobacco to give the commissioners to smoke in friendship. 1 look on you and the red people as my children. Your having determined on peace is most pleasing to me, for I have seen much trouble during the late war. 1 am old, hut I hope yet to bear children, who will grow up and people our nation, as we are now to be under the protection of Congress, and shall have no more disturbance.—[A string, little old pipe, and some tobacco.] 'l’lie talk I have given, is from the young warriors I have raised in iny town, as well as myself. They rejoice that we have peace, and we hope the chain of friendship will never more be broke.—[A string of beads.] The commissioners to Tim Tassel.—We want the boundary of your country; you must recollect yourselfand give it to us, particularly the line between you and the citizens, with any information you have on that subject. If necessary, you may consult your friends, and inform us to-morrow, or as soon as possible with conveniency. Tassel.—I will let you know the line to-morrow. 1 have done speaking for this day. Unsuckanail, of Ncw-Cusse, in the middle settlement.—I speak in behalf of kmve, New-Cusse, and Watoge. I am much pleased with the talks between the commissioners and the Tassel, who is the beloved man of Cliota. I remember the talks given out by you yesterday. 1 shall always, 1 hope, remember, that if we were distressed in any manner, we should make our complaints to tlie commissioners, that justice may be done. There are around us young men ami warriors, who hear our talks, and who are interested in the sucees ol this treaty, particularly as their lands are taken from them, on which they lived entirely by limiting. And I hope, and they all anxiously hope, it is in the power of the commissioners to do them justice. The line mentioned by the beloved man of Cliota, is in truth, as he expressed it; 1 remember it. and it was formerly our hunting grounds. The encroachments on this side of the line have entirely deprived us of our hunting grounds; and I hope the commissioners will remove the white people to their own side. This is the desire of the three towns I speak for; the settlements I mean are those on Pigeon river and Swananno. It was the desire of the commissioners that the Indians should tell all their grievances, and I hope they will do justly therein. When any of my young men are hunting on their own grounds, and meet the white people, they, the white people, order them off ana claim our deer.—[A string of white heads. ] Chescoenwhee.—1 am well satisfied with the talks of this day; I intended to speak, hut as the day is far spent, I will decline it til! to-morrow. I will go home and consider on it. * We used McMurray’s map, and explained, with great pains, 1 he limits of the United States, as well as the occurrences of the late war; ami we believe they comprehend us. Some of the Indians had visited the Six Nations; some had been up the Wabash and down the Miami, to lake Erie; and others had been at fort Pill, the Natchez, Pensacola, St. Augustine, Savannah, Charleston, and Williamsburg. B. H. ! Hopewell is fifleen miles ahnve.lhe junction of the Keowee and Tugalo; it is a seat of General Pickens, in sight of Seneca, an Indian lown at die commencement of the late war, inhabited by one hundred gun-men, but at present a waste. Dewit’s corner is forty miles east of this, and that was the eastern Indian boundary, till the treaty of 1777. B. II. November 24t/i, 1785. Present as yesterday: Tuckasee.—I remember the talks when I made peace. I have appointed Chescoenwhee to speak for me to-day. Chescoenwiiee.—I rejoice that the commissioners have delivered their talks to the head-men of the different towns. I am in hopes that these our talks will always remain unbroken. What you hear from the representatives of the towns, the young warriors will invariably adhere to. I am in hopes it is now in the power of the commissioners, from their talks of yesterday and the day before, to see justice done to us; to see that we may yet have a little land to hunt upon; I was sent here to settle all matters respecting my country, and being under the protection of the United States, I shall return satisfied: we have been formerly under the protection of Great Britain, and then, when I saw a whiteman, I esteemed him a friend, and I hope that the commissioners of Congress will see that times may be as formerly. I wish what I say may be deemed strictly true? for so it is, and that I may be always looked on as a friend to the thirteen United States, and that they will see justice done me. The talks of the commissioners are the most pleasing to us, as they do not want any lands. Formerly, when I had peace talks, the first thing the white people expressed, was a desire for our lands._ I am in hopes you will adjust and settle our limits, so that we may be secured in the possession of our own I will abide by what hitherto has been said on this subject, but cannot cede any more lands.—[A string of beads.] I am in hopes the commissioners will deliver to us our prisoners who are in their lands. Neither the commissioners, nor any of the citizens of the United States, can suppose that we can be at peace on their account; they arc our own flesh and blood, and we desire them out of your country. I am in hopes of seeing them with the assistance of the commissioners, they have been long detained, and we often were promised by colonel Martin that we should see them. One of them was taken from Talksoa, three girls and one boy from Erejoy, and one boy from Tuckareechee; we do not know how old they are; we are a people who do not know how to count by years; they are in North Carolina, and were taken by an army from thence. Oonanootee.—1 am to deliver the talks in answer to what I heard at Oostanawie. I was sent down from dif-erent towns to receive the talks of the commissioners, and to be governed by them. I do expect, by the time I return home from the commissioners, the young men of the towns of our nation will be there to hear me repeat what you have or shall say to me. I was told by all of them, when I set out, that they expected I would return with good talks. It was the desire ot the commissioners, that we should tell all our grievances; the encroachment on our hunting grounds is the source of all ours, and I hope they can and will take measures to see justice done in our land. I have attended to the talks of the commissioners, and our beloved men, and I sincerely wish they mav always abide by them. I am in hopes it is in your power to see our distresses redressed, and that you will order oft' the people who are settled on our lands, and protect for us our hunting grounds.—[A string of beads.] I wish the commissioners to take in hand the case of the traders in our country, and settle what respects them during the late war, so that they may not be seized on and plundered by bodies of armed men as they pass to and from the nation. I am come down as one to make peace with the commissioners of the United States of America, and I hope the traders may pass through the country. I wish the commissioners would prevent such acts of injustice as robbing the traders; several of them have been plundered in Georgia and South Carolina, and their lives endangered it they should attempt to recover their property. As for my part; I mean to keep the path clear for the traders, as far as our line, and I hope the commissioners will do the same on their part. Here are the chiefs of all our nation, who hear me; the traders have been out for goods, and returned without any, having been robbed, and I hope it will not be the case again. I sincerely desire that our talks and complaints may go up to Congress, that they may know how we are distressed about our country. I have delivered the talks to the commissioners, and laid the beads on the beloved table, and as to my part of the country, 1 will keep the path clear. Tasset..—We have said all we intend to day if the commissioners; have any thing to say, we will hear it, and answer them. Commissioners.—We want the boundary of your country, particularly to the northward and eastward; this we told you yesterday; when we can agree upon the bounds of the lands, we mean to allot to you, we will prepare the draught of a treaty on the plan we mentioned to you in our address. Tassel.—I expected to give the bounds of our country, but it is too late in the day, and I will do it to-morrow. November 25. Present as yesterday. The head-men, after some conversation together, requested the commissioners to give them some paper and a pencil, and leave them to themselves, and they would draw the map of their country. Novanber, 26. Present as yesterday. The head-men produced their map, and the Tassel addressed the commissioners as follows: I will give the bounds of the land as far as I claim. Colonel Martin is present, and heard our talks at the long island of llolston, and he knows every thing I shall say to be true. The line which I have marked, begining on the Ohio, above Kentucky, aud running thence to where the Kentucky road crosses Cumberland River, thence to the Chimney-top mountain, and by the mouth of Big Limestone to the mountain, six miles south of Nolichucky, is justly our boundary with the white people. The Indians from the middle settlements will extend the line, and shew their claim. I know that Richard Henderson says he purchased the lands at Kentucky and as far south as Cumberland, but he is a rogue and a liar, and if he was here I would tell him so. He requested us to let him have a little lands on Kentucky river, for his cattle and horses to feed on, and we consented, but told him at the same time, he would be much exposed to the depredations of the Northern Indians, which he appeared not to regard; provided we gave our consent. If Attacullaculla signed his deed we were not informed of it; but we know that Oconestuto did not, and yet his name we hear is to it; Henderson put it there, and he is a rogue. Commissioners.—You know Colonel Henderson, Attacullaculla, Oconestoto, are all dead; what you say may be true; but here is one of Henderson’s deeds, which points out the line, as you have done, nearly till it strikes Cumberland, thence it runs down the waters of the same to the Ohio, thence up the said river as it meanders to the beginning. Your memory may fail you; this is on record, and will remain forever. The parties being dead, and so much time elapsed since the date of the deed, and the country being settled, on the faith of the deed, puts it out of our power to do any thing respecting it; you must therefore be content with it, as if you had actually sold it, and proceed to point out your claim exclusive of this land. Tassel.—I know they are dead, and I am sorry for it, and I suppose it is now too late to recover it. If Henderson were living, I should have the pleasure of telling him he was a liar; but yon told us to give you our bounds, and therefore we marked the line; but we will begin at Cumberland, and say nothing more about Kentucky, although it is justly ours. Commissioners.—You must also make provision, if practicable, for the people settled at Nashville, and for such other bodies of people, if numerous, as may be within what you nave pointed out as your claim. Our object in treating with you is to fix a permanent boundary, and to keep our faith in whatever we promise you; and you must not expect from us any promise, which we know cannot be done but with great inconveniency to our citizens. The Chickasaws, we are informed by Colonel Martin and the agent of North Carolina, claim the lands at Nashville, and they are content that the people should live there, and you must mark a line for them. Tassel and Tuskegatahee.—We understand you perfectly; we wish to postpone this matter if the Chickasaw-, would come; it is a kind of common right in all the Indians, and they had no right of themselves to give it. Commissioners.—We have now no expectations that the Chickasaws will meet us, and you know the necessity of having the treaty completed, that we may, as early as possible, put a stop to the encroachments you complain of, if they do exist. Tassel and Tuskegatahee.—We know the necessity of completing the treaty, and we will mark a line for the white people; we will begin at the ridge between the Tennessee and Cumberland, on the Ohio, and run along the same till we get around the white people, as you think proper. We will also mark a line from the mouth of Duck river to the said line, and leave the remainder of the lands to the south and west of the lines, to the Chickasaws; we will, from the ridge, go to Cumberland, and up the same to where the Kentucky road crosses the same. Colonel Christie run the remainder of the line with us, as we have marked it, and he said we were at liberty to punish, or not, as we pleased, any person who should come on our side to violate the treaty; but this we have not done, and the white people have come over it a great way, as we have told you. In the fork of French Broad river and llolston. there are three thousand souls. This is a favorite spot of land, and we cannot consent to their having of it; and they must be removed. There are some few settled on other parts, whom the commissioners, we hope, will remove. We cannot mark a line round the people on French Broad; those lands are within twenty-five miles of Our towns, and we prize them highly. The people have settled there several springs past, and they ought to be removed. Commissioners.—We expect some sort of provision will be made for these people, and you had better think seriously of it; they are too numerous for us to engage to remove. You say they nave been there for a long time, and ought to have been removed; while you were under the protection of the King of Great Britain, he ought to have removed them for you, but he neglected it. and we cannot stipulate positively to do any thing respecting them, unless you choose to mark around them; for the present they must remain as they are; all the others you mention shall be removed. Tassel.—I have shown you the bounds of my country on my map which I drew in your presence, and on the map of the United States. If the commissioners cannot do me justice in removing the people from the fork of French Broad and llolston, 1 am unable to get it of myself. Are Congress, who conquered the King of Great Britain, unable to remove those people? 1 am satisfied with the promises of the commissioners to remove all the people from within our lines, except those within the fork of llolston and French Broad; and I will agree to be content, that the particular situation of the people settled there, and our claims to the lands, should be referred to Congress, as the commissioners may think just, and I will abide by their decision. Unsuckanail.—I and my people arc to extend their line, and, although our claims are well founded to a large portion of the mountains, which arc of little advantage to any but hunters, and of great value to them, yet I am willing to extend the line to the southward until we come to the South Carolina Indian boundary; and we have a right, formed on the treaties at Dewit’s corner, and at Augusta, to make that line, as far as the south fork of Oconee, our boundary against the white people. November 28th, 1785. The commissioners assembled. Present: Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, Joseph Martin, and Laugldin McIntosh. From the State of North Carolina, William Blount, agent. From the State of Georgia, John King and Thomas Glasscock, commissioners. The head-men and warriors of all the Gherokees. James Madison and Arthur Goody, sworn interpreters. Major Samuel Taylor, Major Wiliam Hazzard, Captain commandant John Cowen, John Owen, and George Ogg. merchants, with several other reputable characters. The commissioners produced a draught of a treaty, on the plan they originally proposed to the Indians, which was read, and interpreted to them with great attention, so that they agreed that they perfectly understood every article, and would with pleasure unanimously sign the same: accordingly, two copies were signed by the commissioners and all the head-men, the one for the United States, and the other for the Gherokees. Previous to signing, the agent from North Carolina, and the commissioners of Georgia, delivered their protests against the same. After the treaty was signed, sealed, and witnessed, the commissioners told the head-men that Congress, from motives of humanity, had directed some presents to be made to them for their use and comfort; and that, on the next day, they would direct the presents to be distributed accordingly. November 29. Present as yesterday. The commissioners ordered a return of the Indians, and there were nine hundred and eighteen, and goods to the amount of $1,311 10-90 were distributed among the head-men of every town. The Indians having expressed a desire to say something farther to the commissioners, they attended accordingly. Tassel.—I will now inform you of some farther complaints against your people. I remember the treaty with Colonel Christie,and in all our treaties, that we reserved the Long-island of llolston for ourselves, as beloved ground, to hold our treaties on. I remember the commissioners yesterday, in an article of the treaty, demanded all their property and prisoners. I am now going to make my demand: I desire that Colonel Martin may be empowered to find and get our prisoners; he is our friend, and lie will get them for us. I am now done my talks, and I hope the commissioners will be as good as their promise yesterday in the treaty. The white people have taken so much of our lands, we cannot kill as many deer as formerly. The traders impose on us greatly, and we wish our trade could he regulated, and fixed rates on our goods. Our traders are frequently robbed when coming to, and going from, our nation. John Benge was, among others, robbed of about .£150 sterling’s worth of leather, in the State ot Georgia. Tuskegatahee.—I am not a chief, but will speak for my country; I shall always pay great regard to what I have heard respecting the treaty, as well as what may be sent us from Congress hereafter; and as I am within the limits of the United States, 1 shall always expect tneir protection and assistance. Our young men and warriors liave heard what is passed. I expect, as our boundaries are ascertained, Congress may be informed of them; and that, as peace is now firmly established, and we are all friends, we may be allowed to hunt on each other’s lands without molestation. On my part, being in peace and friendship with you, I shall feel myself safe wherever I go. Many of your people on Cumberland and Kentucky lose their horses in our lands, and, should we find them, I wish Colonel Martin to receive them. Nowota.—I am fond to hear the talks of the beloved men of Congress, and of ours. You commissioners remember the talks, and I shall always endeavor to support the peace and friendship now established. I remember your talks by Colonel Martin, and I promised to be attached to America; but, until the present, I was afraid to be in your country. 1 am now perfectly happy, as you are to protect us. Your prisoner at Chickamoga, I will deliver you. Formerly, Captain Commeron saw justice done to us in our land; he is gone, and I now depend on the commissioners. II any thing depends on me to strengthen our friendship, I will faithfully execute it. You are now our protectors. When I go and tell to those of our people who could not come to hear your talks, what I have seen and heard, they will rejoice. I have heard your declarations of a desire to do us any service in your power; 1 believe you, and in confidence shall rest happy. Commissioners.—We will give you provisions for the road, and wish you may be happy. We will send up to Congress all our talks. B. No. 1. Hopewell on Keowee, November 22, 1785. Gentlemen: Having yesterday had the honor to lay before you my commission, as agent on the part of North Carolina, I now consider it iny duty to call your attention to the following extract from the constitution of that State, which was agreed to and published to the world on the eighteenth day of December, in the year 1776. “The property of the soil in a free government, being one of the essential rights of the collective body of the people, it is necessary, in order to avoid future disputes, that the limits of the State should he ascertained with prevision; and as the former temporary line between North and South Carolina was confirmed and extended by commissioners appointed by the Legislatures of the two States, agreeable to the order of the late King George the second, in council, that line, and that only, should be esteemed the southern boundary of this State, that is to say; beginning on the sea-side,ata cedar stake at or near the mouth ofLittle River (being the southern boundary of Brunswick county) and running from thence a northwest course, through the boundary house which stands in thirty-three degrees fifty-six minutes, to thirty-five degrees north latitude, and from thence a west course so far as is mentioned in the charter of King Charles the second, to the late proprietors of Carolina. Therefore, all the territory, seas, waters, and harbors, with their appurtenances, lying between the line above described, and the souih line of the State of Virginia, which begins on the sea-shore in thirty-six-degrees thirty minutes north latitude, and from thence runs west, agreeable to the said charter of King Charles, are the right and property of the-people of this State to be held in sovereignty.” And to remark to you, that, years after, the State of North Carolina was received into, and signed the articles cf confederation. I have the honor to be, your most obedient humble servant, WM. BLOUNT, Agent for North Carolina. Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, Joseph Martin, and Laugiilin McIntosh, Esquires, Commissioners for negotiating with the Southern Indians. B. No. 2. Hopewell on the Keowee, November 28, 1785. Gentlemen: The State of North Carolina have at this time a law in force and use, allotting the lands contained in the following bounds to the Cherokee Indians: “Beginning on the Tennessee river, where the southern boundary of the State of North Carolina intersects the same nearest the Chickamoga towns; thence, up the middle of the Tennessee and Holston livers, to the middle of French Broad river; thence, up the middle of the said French Broad river; (which lines are not to include any island to the mouth of Big Pigeon river) thence, up the same, to the-head thereof; thence, along the dividing ridge between the waters of Pigeon river and Tuckasegee river, to the said southern boundary; tnencc, west with the said boundary, to the beginning.” Should you, by treaty, fix any other boundaries than the before mentioned, within the limits of the said State of North Carolina, between the said Cherokee Indians and her citizens, that State will consider such a treaty a violation and infringement upon her legislative rights. The lands contained within the limits of Davidson county, which begins on Cumberland river, where the northern boundary of the said State of North Carolina first intersects the same; thence, south forty-five miles; thence, west to the Tennessee river; thence, down the Tennessee, to the said northern boundary; thence, east with the said boundary to the beginning, have been appropriated by the State of North Carolina, to the payment of the bounties of land promised to the officers and soldiers of the continental line of that State; and it is said that the militia in that county are in number about seven hundred; and the State of North Carolina have sold to her citizens, for a valuable consideration, several millions of acres of the land, situate, lying, and being bet ween the Mississippi, and the line as fixed by Colonel Christie, and others, in the year 1777, and without the limits of Davidson county, on which land several thousands of people are settled. I have the honor to be, your most obedient humble servant, WM BLOUNT, Agent for North Carolina. Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, Joseph Martin, and Laugiilin McIntosh, Esquires, Commissioners for treating with the Southern Indians. COPY OF COLONEL BLOUNt’s PROTEST. Hopewell on Keowee, November 28, 1785. The underwritten agent, on (he part of the State of North Carolina, protests against the treaty, at this instant, about to be signed and entered into, between Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, Joseph Martin, and Laugh!in McIntosh, commissioners on the part of the United States, and the Cherokee Indians on the other part, as containing several stipulations which infringe and violate the legislative rights of the State. WM. BLOUNT. A COPY OF THE COMMISSIONERS’ ANSWER TO COLONEL BLOUNt’s LETTERS AND PROTEST. Sir: Hopewell on Keowee, 28th November, 1785. We received your letters, of the 22d of November, with an extract from the constitution of your State, declarative of the limits thereof; of the 28th, enclosing an abstract of an act allotting certain lands to the Indians of the Cherokee nation, and your protest of the same date, against the treaty entered into between the commissioners of the United'States of America and all the Cherokees; which we shall transmit to Congress. We enclose two articles of the treaty to you, which, w e hope, as agent of the State of North Carolina, you will take measures to see executed, so far as the same respect the citizens of that State, or the faith of the commissioners pledged for the restoration of the prisoners now held there. We are informed that the late Governor Martin made an unsuccessful effort to restore them, and that there are five, three girls and Two boys, in the possession of General McDowel and Colonel Miller. We are certain that a steady adherence to the treaty alone, can ensure confidence in the justice of Congress, and remove all causes of future contention or quarrels. The local policy of some .States is certainly much opposed to federal measures, which can only, in our opinion, make us respectable abroad and happy at home. We are, with due respect, sir, your most obedient and most humble servants, B. HAWKINS, A. PICKENS, J. MARTIN, L. McINTOSH. The Honorable William Blount, Esquire, , Agent for North Carolina. N. B. The two articles enclosed are the second and fourth. C. No. 1. Winnsborougii, October 15. 1788. Sir'I do myself the honor of writing you the different occurrences respecting the people on the frontiers of North Carolina, and the Cherokee Indians, transpired since my last. In consequence of hearing that several outrages had been committed by the people of Franklin, (formerly called the new State) upon the Cherokees. I despatched a letter to the Governor of North Carolina, to put a stop to any further hostilities, as it was the wish of Congress to carry into effect a treaty with that nation. Not receiving an immediate answer from him. and having reason to believe these depredations continued. 1 sent a copy of the enclosed, addressed to the officers commanding on the frontiers of that State, which I hope will be attended with every good consequence. You will also find enclosed a copy of a letter I have lately received from the Governor: on comparing these, it will point out to you the similarity of our itleas relative to the establishment of peace in that quarter, previous to the late resolution of Congress coming to hand. I shall avail myself of the earliest opportunity of making known to the Executive of North Carolina, the further supplies granted by Congress for carrying the treaty into effect, which I hope may take place without the trouble and expense of marching troops from the northward, urging the Governor to send on their commissioner with the needful, and to name the time and place. The answer, with their determination, you may rely on having transmitted you as soon as possible. I beg leave further taobserve. I have enclosed to the Cherokees the proclamation of Congress, and at the same time, requested a suspension of hostilities should take place. I have the honor to be. with esteem, sir, your most humble servant. RICHARD WINN. The Honorable General Kxox, Secretary of Jfrar. P. S. Your favor of the 4th September, enclosing the proclamation of Congress, with the duplicate. 1 have to acknowledge, since writing the above. Friends and Brother Soldiers: C. No. 2. \\ lNNSBORoucH, 29th August, 1788. 1 write this to you in behalf of the United States, to intreat you to desist from any further hostilities against The Cherokees, as it is the wish of Congress to be at peace with every tribe of Indians whatever; and as they have directed me to secure that peace by a permanent treaty, vour own gootl sense must convince you how impossible it will be for me to effect it while these outrages on both sides exist. Resides, what have we not to apprehend, if it is not put a stop tor A junction may take place with the Southern Indians, and, both united, may involve the innocent lives of thousands: perhaps when, by a well-timed peace, nothing of the kind could ever happen. I have daily expected an interference between you and the Indians would have taken place, front the Governor of North Carolina; but as I have received no accounts from him of that nature, 1 cannot, consistent with my duty to the Union, hear of these unhappy dissensions continuing, without emotion: therefore, let me again, in the most friendly manner, exhort you to a suspension of arms till such times as I hear from Congress, to whom I have wrote for further supplies to facilitate a treaty as soon as possible, at which time, 1 am convinced, all grievances will be adjusted. The Indians I shall write to, to the same purport, and as I have been at a deal of pains to get proper persons to bear to both parties my ideas on the matter, 1 hope it will he attended with every good consequence, by your religiously observing, on both sides, a strict neutrality till the treaty is brought about. Any further information you can receive from Captain Baker, who is the bearer of this, and who is a gentleman I particularly recommend to your notice. \Y ishing to hear from you as soon as possible. I am, friends and brother soldiers, your obedient servant, RICHARD WINN. To General Martin and others. The commanding officers and inhabitants beyond the mountains. C. No. 3. Si r; KDENTON, 31s/ .August, 1788. The information which you did me the honor to favor me with in your letter of the ninth, had reached me some time past. 1 had given orders fora process to issue to apprehend Sevier, and had directed the commanding officer on the frontier to pursue a line of conduct similar to that pointed out in your letter. It gives me pleasure to find that your ideas in this particular so intimately correspond with the measures I have adopted to restore and preserve the peace of the frontier. 1 am, with sreat respect, sir. your most obedient servant. SAMUEL JOHNSTON. To Richard Winn. Esquire, Superintendent of Indian .Affairs for the Southern department. ('. No. 4 Winnsborougk, December 13/A, 1788. Sir: Notwithstanding I have received no late accounts from Congress, 1 judge it necessary to continue giving every information that occurs, relative to the Indians of this department. Since I wrote you last, the enclosed talk from the head-men and warriors of the Cherokee nation, came to hand, which fully points out their disposition to come to a friendly treaty. 1 have urged the same to the State of North Carolina, trusting they will send forward their commissioner and supplies. Should this step not be taken, and that State still continue to do them injury, I fear the disappointment of the Indians will be attended with had conse-sequences, as, in all probability, the Union may be involved in a bloody and unnecessary war, whereas a well timed peace would prevent it. Sir, 1 have the honor to be. with respect, your obedient serv ant. RICHARD WINN. The Honorable Major General H. Knox, Secretary of Tl’ur. C. No. 5. .A talk from the head-men and warriors of the Cherokee nation, at a mating held at Ustinaire, the beloved town, HOth November, 1788, addressed to the honorable Richard Winn, Esquire, superintendent of the southern department, in answer to a talk sent by him, dated the 12th October, 1788. Friend andBrotiier: We received your talk, likewise the resolves of Congress, dated 1st September, 1788, likewise a copy of a letter from the Governor of North Carolina to you, and the proclamation from Congress, all which affords us much satisfaction that we have in you a real friend, who tells us the truth, and endeavors to do us justice. It likewise gives us much satisfaction to hear from Congress and Virginia. Brother: You have opened our eyes and likewise our hearts. The talks we received from you, pleases us imtch; that Congress is determined to have our hunting grounds open, so that our young men may hunt and kill deerto pur-l chase goods ot our traders, to clothe ourselves and families. Our hunting grounds were very small, now it gives us the greatest satisfaction that they will be soon enlarged, as appears by the proclamation from Congress. It likewise gives us much satisfaction, that we have a view of returning from the woods where we have been driven, and once more settling again in our old towns, which we propose to do, when we are certain that the white people have quitted our hunting grounds. Brother: It affords us much satisfaction that a friendly talk will soon take place. You informus you have wrote to the Governor of North Carolina, to fix a time and place for that purpose; at that time we will talk overall matters and smoke the pipe of friendship. The head-men anil warriors from the middle settlement, were on their way to Ustinaire, but being informed that it was good talks, and that white beads and tobacco were sent from Ustinaire to all the towns in the nation, they went back, fearing that some of their young men might go out again and do mischief: the headmen are determined to put a stop to all hostilities, and for the time to come, to live like brothers and friends as long as the sun shines and water runs. The following talk comes from the Little Turkey; Friend and Brother: Your talk I have heard, which gives me the greatest satisfaction, likewise all our beloved men in my part of the nation. It is a talk from you, our great beloved brother, who, I am informed, is appointed by Congress to see justice done us: we have now heard from our beloved brother from New York, likewise from Virginia, which now opens our eyes and our hearts, for they are the men we must abide by. Your talks are good, and your friendships we look on sincere, for the good of our land. I have seen the resolves of Congress, likewise the proclamation, lor all the white people settled on our hunting grounds to go oft' without loss of time. Friend and Brother: I have the satisfaction to inform you, that Alexander McGillivray, chief of the Creek nation, has taken your talks, likewise the talks from Congress and Virginia, and means to hold them fast, and when they meet, will take his white brothers by the hand as we do, and hopes to live in peace and friendship as long as the grass grows and the water runs. A copy of this talk you will please to send to Congress and Virginia; it will he two moons before every thing can be settled to your entire satisfaction, because some of our beloved men are out a hunting. As for the prisoners, it is impossible to send them to Seneca at this time, because they are scattered through the nation, but they shall be restored to their friends as soon as possible; we shall have all of them collected together; orders are given out that they may be used well, that my people should not be reflected upon hereafter for using their prisoners ill: this you will please to acquaint their friends, and hope they will make themselves easy for a short time. Friend.and Brother: We must inform you that we look upon the white people that live inthe new State, very deceitful; we have experienced them, and are much afraid of them; we are now obliged to keep spies out continually on the frontiers, tearing they will return and do us an injury as they did before. Friend and Brother: We must inform you, that there are some Creeks out and some of our people, that are not yet come in; if any mischief should be done, that is contrary to our desire; but on their return will all be stopt, and all hostilities cease against the' white people, and the path made white. We must inform you that several talk's that have been directed to the head-men and warriors at Ustinaire, have been opened before we received them. Your last talk came under cover to Mr. Gegg, and by him delivered in the square at Ustinaire, to our beloved men. We do not approve of any person opening any talks that come from our white brothers, except Mr. Gegg, who explains them to us, or our linguister, James Carry. The boy we had prisoner at Coosawatchee, we are informed, is delivered to Jesse SpearSj in order that he may be conveyed down to Seneca; the girl is not yet come to her friends, but we presume she is in the land. We now have finished our talk; in token ot friendship and peace, we have enclosed a string of white wampum. Yellow Bird, I'he Little Turkey, Chickhesaltee, Thigh, Dick, Coivetthee, Glass, Dragon Canoe, ■ The Jobber’s Son, Bear coining out of a hole. Killy Geshee, Humming Bird, Jill Chestnut, Hanging Maw, The Warrior Nephew, Tool Warrior Noltley, Second Man, Badger, Norrawahee, Prince, Watts. C. No. 6. Long Island, IIoslton River, \51h January, -1789. Sir: I had the honor to receive two letters from your office, bearing date the 22d of August last past, one by way of Virginia, the other North Carolina, enclosing sundry resolves ol Congress, also proclamations: they came to hand the 9th day of October last—that day being appointed by the field officers of Washington district, to meet and concert some plan for carrying an expedition against the Cherokee Indians, which was agreed on in the following manner: Resolved, That fifteen hundred men be immediately draughted out of Washington district; that,each captain of a company see their men well armed, and ten days’ provision for each man. Before the council rose, your despatches came to hand, which I immediately laid before them, which put a final stop to any further proceeding on that head. The next morning I sat out for my plantation in South Carolina, where some of the Indians had retreated to, in order to escape Mr. Sevier, with a view to send some runners of them through their nation and collect their chiefs together; that I would meet them at any place they might desire, and lay before them several resolves of Congress, which would be very satisfactory to them, also a letter from the Governor of North Carolina. But on my way thither, at Major Taylor’s, at Seneca, was informed, a few hours before my arrival there, two gentlemen from Virginia, by order of Government, had called two of the Indian chiefs there, and had done some business with them, and the Indians set out for their nation. On which, I despatched a runner after them, and brought them back, and read to them the resolves of Congress, and the proclamation. On which, the Hanging Maw rose up and took me by the arm, and said, by this hold, I will settle all further quarrels; you and myself are always the men that make peace. When our young men differ, we are the men that make every thing straight; I will instantly go to my nation, and put a stop to war; you shall shortly hear from me. The talks we then had together, I sent them with a copy, which I expect has come to your hand long before now. The next talk I had, I enclosed you, No. 1. I then despatched a messenger to Eastewley, requesting some of the chiefs, of my acquaintance, to come to my plantation, where we might talk face to face. They attended accordingly. I then and there read to them the several resolves of Congress, to me directed, also the proclamation, and impressed on their minds the justness of Congress for their safety, also the consequence that might attend to those regardless of that power. After which, William Elders, one of their chief warriors, rose up and spoke, which you will see in No. 2. After he had finished his talk, he tell? me. his nation was for peace, and was desirous of returning to their old towns; but that they had no way ol sustenance; that while they lived out in the hunting ground, they could get meat, and those that went to the Creeks could yet corn; that he feared they must all join the Creek Indians or perish. 1 then asked him if they could get corn if they all would return to their old towns? His answer was, they most certainly would, if the white people were moved off their lands. 1 then told him I would,at nn own expense, furnish Citico. a town I formerly lived in, and would lay a statement of their distressed situation before Congress: perhaps they might take pity on them, which seemed to have a wonderful effect on this warrior. In a short time after, several old women from that town, applied to me for salt to purchase corn with from other towns. All of whom I furnished, and sent them back well pleased. In the intermediate time, I went over to a plantation I had in Georgia; the. evening of my arrival at that place. 1 was attacked by a party of Creek Indians. In the skirmish, my overseer was badly wounded; 1 was obliged to take to the house, leaving them masters of the field ; they took off my horses, with several others, leaving one of their warriors dead on the ground. 1 am well assured that, with prudent means, we may hav e the Cherokee Indians our friends: hut it is to be feared there is a party that has such a thirst for the Cherokee land.', they will take every measure in their power to prevent a treaty. You will observe, in the talks sent on in October last, that the Hanging Maw said, all hostilities should cease. Before he reached the nation, 400 Creek Indians were come out, were joined by 1200 Cberoke^s, bad marched against the frontiers, and had stormed a fort and took 28 prisoners before the runners overtook them. The whole frontier country seemed then to be in their power. The then hostile Indians had several companies of horse, equipt from the Creek nation, commanded bj v\ bite men front that quarter. As soon as runners overtook them, and informed that Congress had sent to them, they returned, leaving a letter addressed to Mr. Sevier and myself, saying they were then on their own ground, and did not intend to go any farther; that the prisoners they should take care of; that they did not wish to spill any more blood; that they would allow the people thirty days to move off their lands. After which the superintendent sent to them to meet him at Hopewell or Keowee, which they did; two of the commissioners met also, who gave the Indians the greatest reasons to believe all hostilities between them and the white people would cease; the Indians went off well pleased; but, a few days after, when all the Indians were ordered out by their warriors to make their winter's hunts, that war was no longer to be dreaded by them, being" well assured by the commissioners of the same, Mr. Sevier went to one of their towns, took off 29 prisoners, and plundered the town; which actings of Sir. Sevier made great confusion again, but by the early interposition of General Pickens and some others, that affront was allayed, alleging those Indian prisoners taken by Mr. Sevier were to exchange lor those taken by them. Another misfortune happened shortly after that: a party of men went to where some Indians were hunting, under a color to trade with them for furs, which they had at their camp, took an advantage, and shot two of the Indians dead, and plundered their camp. 1 fear no regulations to confirm a peace, so much the desire o! the well-disposed citi'/.en, will take place with the arrival of the. troops ordered by Congress. I have promised to see. the Indians'again some time in April next; if Congress thinks proper to semi on any talks to them, I think it will be of essential service towards forwarding the treaty. Any commands you will honor me with, will meet me at my seat at fort Patrick Henry, Long Island, Ilolston river, Sullivan county, North Carolina. 1 have the honor to be, your most obedient and most humble servant, . JOS. MARTIN. The Hon. H. Knox, Secret ary of liar, \ or, in tils absence, the next in command. C. No. 7. si AT( van - A Talk from the Head-men and Warriors of the Chcrokees, noir met at their beloved town of Ustinaire, 1 her, 1788, addressed to Brigadier General Marlin. Friend and Brother: We hear that you arc at Tascola, and that you are the great warrior of North Carolina and the new State. Your people provoked us first to war, by settling on our lands and killing our beloved men; however, we have laid by the hatchet, and are strongly for peace. Now we have heard from our brother, also from Congress, likewise the Governor of Virginia, who tells us that the people settled on our hunting grounds shall be removed without loss of time, which gives us great satisfaction. As we told you before, w e are strongly for peace; we do not want any more war; we hope you wilt keep your people now at peace, and not to disturb us as they nave done. When these people move, we shall all be friends and brothers. There are a great many Creeks out: if they should do your people any injury we hope you will not lay the blame on us. for all our head-men and warriors will prevent our young people lor the future to do the white people any injury, but they expect they w ill move off their land. The talk from Congress, and the talk likewise from the Governor of Virginia, we have taken fast bold of, and will remember, because they are good, and strongly desirous to live in the greatest friendship w ith their red brothers. We should be glad to receive a talk from you, if it is a good one, and for hereafter to live in peace and friendship. We desire you will let our friends and brothers in North Carolina hear this talk, which we hope will be the means to procure that peace and friendship we so strongly desire. We are your friends and brothers. The Badger, Thigh, 'The. Crane. Pumpkin Cine, Bloody Fellow, Chesmtt, Jobber's Son. Hanging Maw, Killygiskee, The Lyin Fawghn, Yellow Bird, < The Englishman, Sc. Bear coming out of the tree, Pine Log, Cxi November 1788. Dear Sir: I send you a talk from the head-men and warriors met at Ustinaire, on the 1st instant, which I hope will give you satisfaction, and prevent a war. I should always be glad to receive a line from you. 1 am, dear sir, your most obedient humble servant, THO. GEGG. C. No. 8. Brother: We have been long acquainted with you, and know yon to be our friend: but what is the reason Congress has not moved those jieople from off our lands before now? You were one of the beloved men that spoke for Congress at Keowee three years ago; you then said the people should move off in six moons from that time: but near forty moons are past and they are not gone yet. . We well remember, whenever we are. invited into a treaty, as observed by us at that time, and bounds are fixed, that the w hite "people settle much faster on our lands than they did before. It must certainly be the case, they think we will not break the peace directly, and they will strengthen themselves and keep the lands. You know this to be the case. You told us at the treaty, if any white people settled on our lands we might do as we pleaseil with them. They come and settle close by our towns, and some of the Chicainoga people came, contrary to our desire, and killed a family; and the white people caine and drove us out ol our towns, and killed some cl our beloved men, and several women and little children, although we could not help what the Chicamoga people does. You know that well. We are now like wolves, ranging about the woods to get something to eat. Nothing to be seen in our towns but bones, weeds, and grass. But, for all this, we will lie still; we will not do any more mischief if the white people will slop. I am but a boy, but my eyes are open, and wherever I turn them, many young men turn with them. I here give you this string ot white beaus, as a token of my friendship to you; also I present you with a string in the name of your brother John Watts; he says he holds you fast by the hand, but he cannot see you yet, as he is in great trouble about his uncle. But the Corn-tassel will come to your house towards the spring, and stay a great while with you. as it will be very hungry time's with him then. WILLIAM ELDERS. C. No. 9. Fort Patrick Henry, Sullivan Co. N. Carolina, February 2, 1789. Sir: I have certain accounts that some designing men on the Indian lands have assembled themselves to the number of fifteen, and call themselves a convention of the people, and have entered into several resolves, which they say they will lay before Congress; one of which resolves is, to raise men by subscription to defend themselves,, as the Legis’-lature of North Carolina refuses to protect them on the Indian lands, but, on the contrary, have directed and ordered those people off the Indian lands. A certain Alexander Outlaw by name, I am informed, is to wait upon Congress on behalf of this new plan. I think it my duty to say the truth of him: Shortly after the murder of the Corn-tassel and two other chiefs, this said Outlaw collected a party of men and went into an Indian town called Citico, where he found a few helpless w omen and children, which he inhumanly murdered, exposing their private parts in the most shameful manner, leaving a young child, with both its arms broke, alive, at the breast of its dead mother. These are facts well known and cannot be denied in this country. Mr. Outlaw has done every thing in his power to drive the Indians to.desperation, although I find some complaint by the said Outlaw against me, for carrying on an expedition against the Cherokee Indians without orders from Government. I have once stated that matter to you, but, least that may not have come to hand, I beg leave to state the facts to you.' In the month of May last, a boat, richly laden, was going down Tennessee to Cumberland, the crew'were decoyed by the Chicamoga Indians and Creeks together, all of which crew were killed and taken prisoners; after w hich doings,'the Corn-tassel informed me of the cruel murder they had committed, also the repeated murders and robberies they were constantly committing on the frontiers of Cumberland and Kentucky, also on the Kentucky road, in company with the Creeks. There-was not the least hopes of reclaiming them as long as they lived so far detached from their nations. That the Corn-tassel had talked to them until he found it was of no use; that he, with the other chiefs, advised and thought it best to go against them and burn their towns, by which means they would return to their.allegiance; that then they would have it in their power to govern them. This the Indian chiefs urged in the strongest terms, which account I laid before the Executive of Nortb Carolina, who advised that peace should be ofiered them, and, if refused by the Indians, that then the principal officers of "Washington district should pursue such measures as to them should appear most likely to put a stop to those merciless Indians on the frontiers and roads. It was unanimously agreed to march against Chicamoga, but by no means to give offence to the Cherokees. which lias been a means of uniting the Chicamoga Indians to the other Indians. It will now be our own fiiplts if we do not make all that race of Indians our friends. So great the thirst for Indian lands prevails, that every method will be taken by a party of people to prevent a treaty with the Indians. They are now laboring to draw some of the Indians to a treaty, as they may purchase their country:' this party say, if they can purchase of the' Indians, they will have it without the consent of any other power; that the Indians have an undoubted right to it. and not Congress; that if they could only prevail on a few of the lower class to come into their scheme, they would get conveyances-made and contend for the right. This I have heard from them. I this moment have received a talk from the Chickasaw Indians, which I enclose you. I have the honor, with much respect, to be, vour most humble and most obedient servant, JOS. MARTIN. ’I’he Honorable II. Knox, Secretary of liar, or, in his absence, the next in command. C. No. 10. W tnxsbokou’gh, March 1, 1789. Sin: I think it necessary to inform you, that a treaty will take place with the Cherokee Indians, the third Monday in May next, at the Upper M ar-ford, on French Broad river, in the neighborhood of Swananno, State of North Carolina. The Creek Indians, Jtis supposed, will also treat; they are now holding a great talk in their nation, the result of which is not yet come to hand. I have the honor to subscribe myself, vour most obedient servant,. RICHARD WINN. The Honorable Major General Knox. No. 4. Gen. Knox, Secretary of TFar, to the President of the United States. THE CIIIcivASAWS. This nation of Indians were estimated by the commissioners, in 1785,at800 warriors; other opinions make them amount to 1200. The lines of their territory between the Cherokees and Choctaws, do not appear precisely fixed. Their limits, established by the treaty hereafter mentioned, are bounded on the north by the ridge which divides the waters running into the Cumberland, from those running into the Tennessee. The Mississippi on the west, the Choctaws and the Creeks on the south, and the Cherokees on the east. The United States formed a treaty with the Chickasaw nation, at Hopewell, the 10th of January, 1786, which was entered on the journals of Congress, April 17th, 1786. By this treaty, they acknowledge themselves to he under the protection of the United States, and of no other sovereign whosoever. A tract of land is reserved for a trading post, to the use and under the Government of the United States, of a circle ot five miles diameter, at the lower post of the Muscle Shoals, at the mouth or junction of the Ocochappo with the Tennessee. The land transportation from the head of the Ocochappo, to the head of the most northerly part of the Mobile river, is said not to exceed thirty-five miles. The distance of this nation from the frontier settlements being so great, is the principal reason that no complaints have been made of the encroachments of the whites. In the year 1787, they sent one of the warriors of their nation to Congress, to represent the distressed situation of the Cherokees; and that, unless the encroachments of the whites were restrained, they should be obliged to join the Cherokees; and, also, to enforce the establishment of trade agreeably to the treaty. THE CHOCTAWS. This nation of Indians were estimated by the commissioners of the United States, at 0,000 warriors; other opinions state them at 4,500 or 5,000. Their principal towns or villages are on the head waters of the Pascagoula and Pearl rivers. They are mostly to the northward of the 31st degree of latitude; but some of them are to the southward of it, within the territory of Spain. Both the Chickasaws and Choctaws are represented as candid, generous, brave, and honest, and understanding each other’s language. The commissioners of the United States concluded a treaty with the Choctaws at Hopewell, on the 3d of January, 1786, and the same is entered on the journals of Congress, the 1 Oth of April, 1786. Bv this treaty, the Choctaws acknowledged themselves to be under the protection of the United States, and of no other sovereign whosoever. And three tracts, or parcels of land, each of six miles square, for the establishment of trading posts, are reserved to the use of the Government of the United States, at such places as they shall think proper. The distance of the Choctaws has also prevented, hitherto, those encroachments which have been complained of by the Cherokees. - In the year 1787, thev sent Tobocah, one of their great medal chiefs, to Congress, principally in order to solicit the establishment of trade. All which is humbly submitted to the President of the United States. „ H. KNOX. War Office, 7th day of July. 1789. No. 1. Seneca ox Keowee, December 30, 1785. Sin; The commissioners have been much longer executing the duties of the commission, than they at first had any idea of. As I informed vou from Charleston, of the last of September, we were under the necessity of postponing the time of meeting, both at Galphinton and this place, one month later than the original appointment, that the Indians might have full time, and that all delays be avoided. Accordingly, the commissioners. Air. Perry excepted, met at Galphinton, the 24th and 28th of October; and although we had had assurances that the chiefs of the Creek nation would meet us there, yet, from some cause, not clearly known, we were met only by the representatives of two towns who had been friendly to us. This disappointment was the more unexpected, as we knew a majority of the nation to be pleased with our invitation, and very anxious of establishing witli us a permanent peace; perhaps I might attribute it to the intrigues of the neighboring Spanish officers, and to Alexander McGillivray, a half breed, of great abilities and consequential rank in iiis nation, and who has lately had permission to form connexions with, and establish British commercial houses for the supply of the Indians. lie is also an agent of Spain, with a salary of six hundred dollars per annum, paid monthly. We did not think proper to enter into a treaty with die heads of these towns only, and after explaining to them the object of the United States, we dismissed them, with a few presents, as they had been friendly to us must of the late war. The commissioner.-, of Georgia attended, and protested against every thing we had done, or should do, founded on our commission,  “ except in such cases only, as may, or shall lead to continue principles of friendship, and to explain the'great occurrences of the late war." And after we left Galphinton, the agents of that State entered into a treaty with the Indians then present, and obtained from them a cession of all the lands south of the Altamalia, and eastward of a line to be run southwest from the junction of the Oconee and Oakmulgee, until it shall strike St. Mary’s, with a confirmation of the cession northeast of the Oconee in 1783. The 17th November we arrived here, and were met in a few days by nine hundred and eighteen Cherokees, with whom, on the 28th, we entered into a treaty. They were anxiously desirous of being under the protection of the United States, thereby to be secured in the possession of their hunting grounds from the avidity of land speculation. They had for some time past lost all confidence in promises made them by the neighboring States, as well as the citizens thereof. They saw their situation with despondency, until they were informed of the humane and liberal views of Congress: and then, with joy and gladness, they embraced the protection we offered them, and I believe would have submitted their fate to the decision of the United States without a negative. Colonel William Blount, as agent for North Carolina, is with us, and he has entered a protest against the treaty, and the commissioners of Georgia were, present, and gave us a second protest, which, with the treaty, and all our proceedings thereon, 1 shall send forward as early as practicable. The 4fh instant, the commissioners agreed to adjourn, and report their proceedings; and Joseph Martin and Laughlin McIntosh set out for their respective homes, leaving Mr. Pickens and inyselCto discharge the Indians, to wind up every thing, and close the report. The ninth, we received advice from Captain Woods, that the chiefs of the Choctaws were on the way, and would be here in this month. Mr. Martin hearing of it, returned on the 27th: but Mr. McIntosh was so far on his way home, as to prevent his haying advice in time, although I wrote for him immediately on the receipt of the information. The Choctaws arrived on the 26th, after a fatiguing journey of seventy-seven days, the whole of them almost naked. The Creeks endeavored all they could to prevent their coining, by false information, stealing of horses. &c.: but they have apparently a rooted aversion to the Spaniards and Creeks, and are determined to put themselves under the protection of the United States. This day, we shall commence our negotiations with them; we should have done it sooner, but the Chiefs told us they were so naked, thev must first receive some clothing; and we yesterday gave to eighteen, coats in the uniform of the late army, with other necessaries to dress them, and we foresee that there are no difficulties to oppose: but that in a few days we shall finish our treaty with them. Some of the Chickasaws are here, and the representation from the nation expected to arrive every day: and the same spirit actuates them as the Choctaws, so that, in a few days, our negotiations will be complete, except with the Creeks, and all difficulties respecting them removed. On the article of expense, we have had our fears, aud knowing the sum to which we were limited would be exhausted too soon, unless we contracted our original plan, we were under the necessity of dismissing our guard three weeks past, and do our business without one. ' This opportunity does not admit our writing farther. We are, witli-due respect, sir, your most obedient servants, BENJAMIN HAAVKINS, ANDREW PICKENS, The Honorable Charles Thomson, Esq. No. 2 Hopewell, 4th of January, 1786. Silt: The 28th of November, we had the honor to enclose your Excellency the treaty we entered into with tiie Cherokees, and all the papers respecting the same. At that period, we did not suppose we should be able to meet any other of the tribes this winter. A few days after, we received an express from Colonel John Woods, informing us of the approach of the Choctaws, and they arrived here on the 26th. They had been on the path from the lGth of October, and had experienced great difficulties from the. badness of the way, the scarcity of clothing and provisions. and the frequent interruptions of the Creeks by stealing their horses, and we were, from motives of humanity, at their arrival, under the necessity of clothing the whole ot them, as the weather was very cold, and they were nearly naked, before we commenced our negotiations with the chiefs. The third instant, we concluded a treaty with them, which we enclose to your Excellency, with our journal and other papers respecting the same. The Indians seem to comprehend very well every article, and we have taken great pains to explain it to them, as well as the. humane views of Congress towards all the tribes of Indians within the United States of America. We had some difficulty in finding out how we should ascertain the bounds of the lands allotted to the Choctaws, and could not fix them other than as in the third article; and knowing the avidity of land speculation would take any possible advantage, we fixed on the 29th of November, 1782, the day before the signing of our preliminary articles with Great Britain, that being, as we conceived, the earliest period in our power. The Indians were well satisfied with the treaty, and with the treatment they met with, and expressed their gratitude for it. But. we could perceive their strong hankering after presents could not be abated, by the prudent method we adopted of clothing them comfortably, or by our liberality in the treaty. They are the greatest beggars, and the most indolent creatures we ever saw, and yet honest, simple, and regardless of any situation of distress. Their passion for gambling and drinking is very great; we have had instances of their selling blankets at a pint of rum each, and gambling them away, when they had no prospect of replacing them, and knew they must return this winter five hundred miles to their nation with a shirt only. They were very little accustomed to travelling, arid we should not have had'them here, had we not supplied them with provisions on the road. And that they may return without starving, through indolence, we were necessitated to pack up sqme- proper goods, and put them under the care of the interpreter and the four chiefs, for the purpose of procuring provisions. The Spaniards were desirous of preventing them from meeting us; and Mr. McGillivray, by their order, took pains to stop them as they passed through the Creeks. But they were determined to go to Congress, rather than not form some connexion with us. They have strong regard for the British, and an exalted idea of the military prowess of the United States; and they urge, that as the latter conquered the former, they are the fittest persons on earth for them to apply to for protection. The chiefs produced their medals and commissions, and were, very desirous of exchanging for those under the United States. They were also desirous of having three stand of colors, for their upper and lower-towns, and six villages, and an agent to superintend their business. Captain John Woods is recommended by two of their chiefs, and lie is a man of some enterprise and ability, but much addicted to strong drink. He came in with the Indians, and has been at much trouble with them. We have appointed John Pitchlynn our interpreter of the Choctaw tongue. We have told him that we did not know whether Congress warnld annex any salary to such an appointment; he is a very honest, sober young man, and has lived twelve years in the nation, anti is much respected by the chiefs as an interpreter, i /The presents we have given the Indians, and the goods for the purchase of provisions, amount to L,k§!_ dollars. ' We have the honor to be, with sincere, esteem, sir, your Excellency’s most obedient humble servants, ■ BENJAMIN HAWKINS, ANDREW PICKENS, JOS. MARTIN. His Excellency John Hancock, Esq. President of Congress. No. 5. Hopewell, 14//i January, 1786. Sir: - . Wc have the honor to enclose to your Excellency, a treaty we entered into with the Chickasaws on the 10th instant. They had been as long on the path as the Choctaws; but coming through the Cherokees, wrere better supplied with provisions, and experienced less difficulties, except from the villanous practice of horse stealing, which has taken deep root among them as well as the Creeks. —- Wc found no difficulty in our treaty with these Indians, who are the most honest and well informed, as well as the most orderly and best governed of any we have seen. The trading posts reserved to the use of the United States, are situated in the most convenient place within the whole of their lands. It is within sixty miles of their towns, and one hundred of the Choctaws’ upper towns. The lands on the north side of the river are very fit for cultivation and for grazing. Through the whole of our negotiations, we have paid particular attention to the rights and interests ot the United States, as far as our abilities could comprehend them, regardless-of the protests of the adjoining States against us. Finding, from the delays of the Indians, and the particular circumstances attending the negotiations, that our expenses would exceed the. sums we had provided for, and even the sum to which we were restricted by Congress, and without completing the object of our commission, we were necessitated to discharge our guard early in December, and meet the Indians without them, and curtail every expense that could possibly be avoided; and yet, after all, they have exceeded our wishes. By this treaty, the boundary of the lands allotted to the respective tribes is closed on every side, from the south fork of Oconee, around northerly and westwardly; and we verily believe, that, if the adjoining States were disposed to carry the treaties into effect, the Indians would be happy in the new change of sovereignty, and in constant amity with us. ,^-The Chickasaws will leave us to-morrow. We have given them presents amounting to six hundred and thirty -nine and three-fifths dollars, including some goods for the purchase of provisions. The Choctaws left us on the 12th. The commissioners of Georgia returned home after the treaty with the Cherokees. The agent of North Carolina continued with us, and we. enclose his letter and protest. Wc have the honor to be, with sincere esteem, sir,-vour Excellency’s most obedient humble servants, BENJAMIN HAWKINS, ANDREW PICKENS, JOS. MARTIN. No. 4. Hopewell, the 7th January, 1786. The Commissioners Plenipotentiary of the United States in Congress assembled, appointed to treat with the Cherokees, and all other Indians southward of them, within the limits of the United States, assembled. Present: Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, and Joseph Martin. From the State of North Carolina, William Blount, Esq. Agent, and James Cole, Interpreter. The commissioners were informed that the leading chiefs of the Chickasaws, with fheir followers, had arrived, and were desirous of seeing the commissioners and entering upon their business as early as practicable. That they had been long on the path, and detained by the. villany of the Cherokees, some of whom had stolen several of their horses. They were introduced, and expressed a most friendly disposition towards the United States, and an earnest desire of entering into a treaty of peace and protection with them. The commissioners, after explaining the object of their commission, informed the chiefs that they would, on Monday, or as early as would be convenient for them, enter upon the business. 9th of January. Present as on the 7th. The leading chiefs attended at 10 o'clock, and, after some friendly conversation, the commissioners addressed the leading chiefs as follow, viz: Leading Chiefs who represent the Chickasaws: We are the commissioners plenipotentiary from the United States, in Congress assembled, who sent an invitation to you, the leading chiefs, who represent the Chickasaws, to meet us at this place, to give you peace, and to receive you into the favor and protection of the United States, and to remove, as far as may be, all causes of future contention or quarrels. That you. your wives, and your children, may be happy, and feel and know the blessings of the new change of sovereignty over this land which you and we inhabit. This humane and generous act of the United States will, no-doubt, be received by all the Chickasaws with joy and gladness, and held in grateful remembrance, particularly as it flows unsolicited from their justice, their humanity, and their attention to the rights'of human nature. On our own parts, we sincerely wish you to live as happily as we do ourselves, and to promote thathappiness as far as in our power, regardless of any distinction of color, or of any difterences in our customs or manners, or particular situation; and as a proof of the sinceritv,of our declarations, we propose to enter into articles of a treaty, as equal as may be. conformable to what we now tell you. ' After this address, the chiefs were told, that, at some future period, the occurrences of the late war, and the extent of territory within the United States, would be fully explained to them. To which Piomingo replied, he wished to hear every thing intended to be communicated to him. prior to his talks. The whole was accordingly explained, and, apparently, to their satisfaction and comprehension. The draught of the treaty was also explained, with which they seemed to acquiesce most heartily. The leading chiefs then, in turn, addressed the commissioners. Piomingo.—The period has arrived that I have visited you to see you, and to regulate even; thing that respects us. These beads are our credentials of peace and friendship, and two of us have come to bring the talks of the nation. These white beads are of little value but in our nation, where they are kept even by our children, with veneration, as tokens of peace and friendship. When I take you by the hands, the day will never come, that discord will break my hold. Although I may not be eloquent, yet I wish my talks to be as much esteemed as if I was, it being my sincere desire that what I say should be construed most friendly. My talks are not long, and I hope, when you see these beads, you will remember my friendship.—[Eight strands of beads.] M iNGATUSitKA.—The day is come when I have met you to talk with you, and I am well pleased; r.nd now you shall hear what I have to say. I have come to see you, and you are not strangers to us; you are a white people I claim ns our eldest and first brothers. These beads in my hand are a token of friendship, and I hope friendly ideas will arise in your minds whenever j ou see them. My predecessor loved you white people in his time, and I mean to do the same. Our two old leading men are dead, and we two come as their successors in business, with the same friendly talks as they had, which were always friendly. Although our old king and leading man is dead, we wish their friendly talks may live, and be remembered with you as with us, and lor that purpose we come to renew them. I hope, when your children and our children grow up, they will remember the old peace and Iriendship of this day, and strictly adhere to it. This is the day I have come to see you, and I have been informed of the peace of the United States of Aine riea with all nations, and I am glad of it, and wish sincerely it may long continue. The substance of my talks is done, and when we red people talk, we give beads as a proof of friendship, and I give these. My talks are short and true; when people are prolix, they sometimes are false.—[A string of beads. ] Piomingo.—1 now represent Satopoia. lie is a particular man; when he gives his word or acquiescence, he never lets go, and this is his belt: he and I are related; our sentiments are the same; our talks are short, but his token of friendship is great.—[A broad belt of wampum.] Our talks arc done, our predecessors are dead, and we come and give in our talks; and now we will hear further from you. Mingatushka.—The great man of our nation who wore this medal I show you. is dead, and I am his nephew and a leader. On the death of this great man, he left a daughter, who took care of this medal, and she judged it was proper, when’I came, that I should bring it, that you might see it, and know such a thing belonged to our family; and accordingly, she and her mother sent it. Piomingo.—You see this now, (pointing to the medal) it was worn by our great man; he is dead; his daughter sent it for you to see it. 1 take place, as head leading warrior of the nation, to treat with all nations. Commissioners.—We are glad you remember with pleasure the virtues of your old and worthy predecessors; and we are pleased that the daughter of one of them has sent us this medal, with the reasons for so doing; in return, we will give you some present lor her. As you are well pleased with the draught of our treaty, we shall prepare two copies thereof, to be signed to-morrow, the one for you, and the other for the Congress. When the first article was read, the chief Piomingo said he had no prisoners of ours in his nation, or property of any kind. To the reservation in the third article, he at lirst seemed much opposed, but, on being assured by the ^ commissioners, that they were not desirous of getting his land, and that all that would be necessary for the United States, as a trading post, would be live or six miles square, he readily acquiesced, and marked the article in the map, describing its diameter to be five miles, and remarked, at the same time, that the lands on the north of the river were fine for cultivation and grazing, and he would have no objection to our using what we might think proper for the convenieney of traders. 19th of January. Present as yesterday. The commissioners produced two copies of the draught agreed on, and a map of the lands in question, partly drawn by themselves, and partly by the Indians, and, instead of agreeing to the line between the respective tribes, they (lotted only with black ink, which the chief observed, and said he wished Congress would point out his lands to him; he wanted to know his own. The line was then extended, as in the third article, and the commissioners told the chiefs that they must agree with the neighboring tribes respecting their boundary, and that then Congress would send a white man to be present with the Indians, and see them mark it. » 'flic treaty was then read over again,and every article explained with great attention,and the Indians acquiesced with them; and, at the close, the commissioners asked if they comprehended the whole, and were willing to sign; they answered yes, and that it was all straight, meaning it was proper and satisfactory to them. It was then signed; but, previous thereto, the agent of North Carolina delivered a letter to the commissioners, referring them to his former letters to them, respecting the constitutional claims of North Carolina, to all the lands within the bounds described in their bill of rights. He also gave in his protest against the treaty. The commissioners informed the chiefs, that, on to-morrow, in pursuance of the humane and liberal views of Congress, they would make them some presents for their use and comfort. 11 th of January. Present as yesterday. It being very wet and rainy, the chiefs postponed receiving the presents till to-morrow. In the evening, the principal warrior, Piomingo, visited the commissioners, and addressed them as follows, viz: “I am now going to inform you of the situation of the white people in our land. There are a great many of them who have numerous stocks of cattle and horses, and they are not traders, or of any advantage to us; and, when a white man comes, they, without our permission, or even asking of it, build a house for him, and settle him among us. I do not wish to be cross to them, or do them any injury; and I desire they may go in peace with their stocks to their own lands. Such people as they, are of no use to us; on the contrary, very injurious. If they were traders, I should be pleased at their being with us. They are not those in our towns only, who have stocks, but some are settled out thirty or forty miles, who keep cattle and horses; and, if an Indian horse or colt should get among their stocks, they brand him, and claim him, to the injury of the owner. . Some pedlars come, also, to us, who are a pest, as they steal more than they purchase of our horses. If we had merchant traders, who would set down with us and trade properly, I should be pleased with it; such men would be a valuable acquisition to us, as they would supply us our necessary wants, in exchange for our property. You, the commissioners, have told me that we shall be properly supplied with goods, and I depend on their promise; such men‘as come properly to trade with us, will'be very welcome, and any tiling we have is at their service. But the class of settlers we now have are a pest, and I wish they would go with their property to their own lands, and enjoy it. Commissioners.—Your remarks are very proper, and we have, in an article of the treaty, provided against a repetition of the abuse, and you will have the right to punish these, if you think proper. We shall send the treaty, and all our talks witli you, to Congress, and they will issue a proclamation, warning the white people of their danger, and this will be, by some person, communicated to the chiels of all the Southern tribes. When you return, you may, by our interpreter, communicate the article of the treaty respecting these people, that they may see their situation. 12th of January. Present as yesterday.—Piomingo addressed the commissioners as follows: The people I complained of last night, I imagine will not pay attention to what I say respecting their removal; and I wish (hat Colonel Martin would come and see them removed. * My talk is a short one. I am only desirous that Colonel Martin may come and adjust every thing between the red people and white people. The Chickasaw chiefs had also informed the commissioners that, on the way hither, they saw two companies of Creeks going to Cumberland to plunder the citizens, and, very probably, to get some scalps. That Piomingo represented to them the injustice of the act, as well as their folly, and expressly told them that the white people on Cumberland and their property were equally dear to him with his own: and that, although the Creeks were numerous, compared with the Chickasaws, yet, if they continued to rob and plunder on his lands, his own, or the hunters and traders of the white people, he would take such steps as would be proper. The commissioners then distributed presents among the chiefs and Indians, amounting, including the goods to purchase provisions, to----dollars. They were perfectly satisfied with the presents, and the treatment they met, and expressed their gratitude for it, and prepared to set out to their own nation. In the evening the Cherokees gave the chief a proof of their ingenuity in robbing of packs as well as stealing horses. Two of them robbed the chief of all his presents, and the goods given to purchase provisions, and within sight of the Chickasaws. The commissioners issued a proclamation, ottering a reward for the goods and the robbers, and sent runners to the neighboring towns to proclaim the same, as well as to cal) on the chiefs to interpose immediately, and apprehend the robbers, and send them to Hopewell to be punished. 15/7; January. The chief of Chetugoh, with three young men, brought the goods, and informed the commissioners that they had pursued the robbers, and endeavored to apprehend them,   but could not. They came up with them, and fired at them, and wounded one. . The commissioners paid the reward, and told the chief that they had done very properly, and that, in future, he should be noticed for his attention to this order, and prompt execution' of it. Gen. Knox, Secretary of ff'ar, to the President of the United States, in continuation. The report of the 23d of May, 1789, on the treaties at fort Hannar. by the Governor of the Western Territory, and the paper Number 1, of the Indian Department, contain such a general statement of the circumstances relative to the Indian tribes, within the limits of the United States, northwest of the Ohio, as will probably render their situation sufficiently understood. The numbers two, three, and four, comprehend a general view of the nations south of the Ohio. But the critical situation of affairs between the State of Georgia and the Creek nation, requires a more particular consideration. In discussing this subject, it will appear that the interest of all the Indian nations south of the.Ohio, as far as the same may relate to the whites, is so blended together as to render the circumstance highly probable, that, in case of a war, they may make it one common cause. Although each nation or tribe may have latent causes of hatred to" each other, on account of disputes of boundaries and game, yet when they shall be impressed with the idea that their lives and lands are at hazard, all inferior disputes will be accommodated, and an union as firm as the six Northern nations may be formed by the Southern tribes. _ . ■ Their situation, entirely surrounded on all sides, leads naturally to such an union, and the present difficulties of the Creeks and Cherokees may accelerate and complete it. Already the Cherokees have taken refuge from tiie violence of the frontier people of North Carolina within the limits of the Creeks, and it may not be difficult lor a man of Mr. McGillivray’s abilities to convince the Choctaws and Chickasaws that their remote situation is their only present protection; that the time must shortly arrive when their troubles will commence. In addition to these causes, impelling to a general confederacy, there is another, ol considerable importance—the policy of the Spaniards. The jealousy that Power entertains of the extension of the United States, would lead them into considerable expense to build up, if possible, an impassable barrier. They will, therefore, endeavor to form and cement such an union of the Southern Indians. Mr. McGillivray has stated that Spain is bound by treaty to protect the Creeks in their hunting grounds. Although it may be prudent to doubt this assertion for the present, yet it is certain that Spain actually claims a considerable part of the territory ceded by Great Britain to the United States. These circumstances require due weight in deliberating on the measures to be adopted respecting the Creeks. Although the case of the Creeks will be a subject of legislative discussion and decision, it may be supposed that, after due consideration, they will, in substance, adopt one or the other of the following alternatives, to wit: 1. That the national dignity and justice require that the arms of the Union should be called forth in order to r chastise the Creek nation of Indians, for refusing to treat with the United States on reasonable terms, and for their hostile invasion of the State of Georgia; or, 2. That, it appears to the Congress of the the hostdities between the State of Georgia that purpose there be a bill brought in to authorize the President of the United States to appoint three commissioners to repair to the State of Georgia, in order to conclude a peace with the said Creek nation and other nations of Indians to the southward of the Ohio, within the limits of the United States. Supposing that any measure similar to either of the said alternatives should be adopted, it may be proper to examine info the manner which they are to be executed. The most effectual mode of reducing the Creeks to submit to the will of the United States, and to acknowledge the validity of the treaties, stated to have been made by that nation with Georgia, would be by an adequate army, to be raised and continued until the olyects of the war should be accomplished. When the force of the Creeks is estimated, and the probable combinations they might make with the other Indian nations, the army ought not to be calculated at less than 5,000 men. This number, on paper, would not, probably, United States that it would be highly expedient to attempt to quiet and the Creek nation of Indians, by an amicable negotiation, and for afford, at the best, more than 3.500 effectives. The delays and contingencies inseparable from the preparations and operations of an army, would probably render its duration necessary for the term of two years. An operating army of the above description, including all expenses, could not be calculated at less than one million five hundred thousand dollars annually. A less army than the one herein proposed, would probably be utterly inadequate to the object, an useless expense, and disgraceful to the nation. In case the second alternative should be agreed upon, the negotiation should be conducted by three commissioners, with an adequate compensation for the trouble of the business, as an inducement for proper persons to accept the trust. The commissioners should be invested with full powers to decide all differences respecting boundaries, between the State of Georgia and the Creek Indians, unconstrained by treaties said to exist between the said parties, otherwise than the same may be reciprocally acknowledged. The commissioners also should be invested with powers to examine into the case of the Cherokecs, and to renew with them the treaty made at Hopewell in November 1785, and report to the President such measures as shall be necessary to protect the said Cherokees in their former boundaries. But all treaties with the Indian nations, however equal and just they may be in their principles, will not only be nugatory but humiliating to the sovereign, unless they shall be guarantied by a body of troops. The angry passions of the frontier Indians and whites, are too easily inflamed by reciprocal injuries, and are too violent to be controlled by the feeble authority of the civil power. There can be neither justice or observance of treaties, where every man claims to be the sole judge in his own cause, and the avenger of h s own supposed wrongs. In such a case, the sword of the republic only, is adequate to guard a due administration of justice, and the preservation of the peace. In case, therefore, of the commissioners concluding a treaty, the boundaries between the whites and Indians must be protected by a body of at least five hundred troops. The post which they should occupy should be without the limits or jurisdiction of any individual State, and within the territory assigned to the Indians, for which particular provision should be made in the treaties. All offences committed by individuals, contrary to the treaties, should be tried by a court martial, agreeably to a law to be made for that purpose. By this arrangement, the operation of which will soon be understood, the Indians would be convinced of the justice and good intentions of the United States, and they would soon learn to venerate and obey that power from whom they derived security against the avarice and injustice of lawless frontier people. Hence it will appear, that troops will be necessary in either alternative—an army in case of an adoption of the. first; and, after all the success that could reasonably be expected, by means thereof, a corps to be continued and stationed oil the frontiers, of five hundred men. In ca.-e of the adoption of the second, the corps of five hundred only will be wanted, provided proper treaties can be effected. But, in any event of troops, the subject must necessarily be considered and determined by Congress. The disgraceful violation of the treaty of Hopewell, with the Cherokees, requires the serious consideration of Congress. If so direct and manifest contempt of the authority of the United States be suffered with impunity, it will be in vain to attempt to extend the arm of Government to the frontiers. The Indian tribes can have no faith in such imbecile promises, and the lawless whites will ridicule a government which shall, on paper only, make Indian treaties, and regulate Indian boundaries. The policy of extending trade, under certain regulations, to the Choctaws and Chickasaws, under the protection of military posts, will also be a subject of Legislative deliberation. The following observations, resulting from a general view of the Indian department, are suggested with the hope, that some of them might be considered as proper principles to be interwoven in a general system, for the government of Indian affairs. It would reflect honor on the new Government, and be attended with happy effects, were a declarative law to be passed, that the Indian tribes possess the right of the soil of all lands within their limits, respectively, and that they are not to be divested thereof, blit in consequence of fair and bona tide purchases, made under the authority, or with the express approbation, of the United States. As the great source of all Indian wars are disputes about their boundaries, and as the United States are, from the nature of the government, liable to be involved in every war that shall happen on this or any other account, it is highly proper that their authority and consent should be considered as essentially necessary to all measures for the consequences of which they are responsible. No individual State could, with propriety, complain of invasion of its territorial rights. The independent nations and tribes of Indians ought to be considered as foreign nations, not as the subjects ol any particular State. Each individual State, indeed, will retain the right of pre-emption of all lands within its limits, which will not be abridged; but the general sovereignty must possess the right of making all treaties, on the execution or violation of which depend peace or war. Whatever may have been the conduct of some of the late British colonies, in their separate capacities toward the Indians, yet the. same cannot be charged against the national character of the United States. It is only since they possess the powers of sovereignty, that they are responsible for their conduct. But, in future, the obligations of policy, humanity, and justice, together with that respect which every nation sacredly owes to its own reputation, unite in requiring a noble, liberal, and disinterested administration of Indian affairs. Although the disposition of the people of the States, to emigrate into the Indian country, cannot be effectually prevented, it may be restrained and regulated. It may be restrained, by postponing new purchases of Indian territory, and by prohibiting the citizens from intruding on the Indian lands. It may be regulated, by forming colonies, under the direction of Government, and by posting a body of troops to execute their orders. As population shall increase, and approach the Indian boundaries^ game will be diminished, and new purchases may be made for small considerations. This has been, and probably will be, the inevitable consequence of cultivation. It is. however, painful to consider, that all the Indian tribes, once existing in those States now the best cultivated and most populous, have become extinct. If the same causes continue, the same effects will happen; and, in a short period, the idea of an Indian on this side the Mississippi will only be found in the page of the historian. How different would be the sensation of a philosophic mind to reflect, that, instead of exterminating a part of the human race by our modes of population, we had persevered, through all difficulties, and at last had imparted our knowledge of cultivation and the arts to the aboriginals of the country, by which the source of future life and happiness had been preserved and extended. But it has been conceived to be impracticable to civilize the Indians of North America. This opinion is probably more convenient than just. That the civilization of the Indians would be an operation ol complicated difficulty; that it would require the highest knowledge of the human character, and a steady perseverance in a wise system for a series of years, cannot be doubted. But to deny that, under a course of favorable circumstances, it could not be accomplished, is to suppose the human character under the influence of such stubborn habits as to be incapable of melioration or change—a supposition entirely contradicted by the progress of society, from the barbarous ages to its present degree of perfection. While it is contended that the object is practicable, under a proper system, it is admitted, in the fullest force, to be impracticable, according to the ordinary course of things, amt that it could not be effected in a short period. Were it possible to introduce among the Indian tribes a love for exclusive property, it would be a nappy commencement of the business. 8 * This might be brought about by making presents, from time to time, to the chiefs or their wives, of sheep and other domestic animals: and if, in the lirsl instance, persons were appointed to take charge, and teach the use of them, a considerable part of the difficulty would be surmounted. In the administration of the Indians, every proper expedient that can be devised to gain their affections, and attach them to the interest of the Union, should be adopted. The British Government had the practice of making the Indians presents of silver medals and gorgets, uniform clothing, and a sort of military commission. The possessors retained an exclusive property to these articles; and the Southern Indians are exceedingly desirous of receiving similar gifts from the United States, for which they would willingly resign those received from the British officers. The policy of gratifying them cannot be doubted. Missionaries, of excellent moral character, should be appointed to reside in their nation, who should be well supplied with all the implements of husbandry, and the necessary stock for a farm. These men should be made the instruments to work on the Indians; presents should commonly passthrough their hands, or by their recommendations. They should, in no degree, be concerned in trade, or the purchase of lands, to rouse the jealousy of the Indians. They should be their friends and fathers. Such a plan, although it might not fully effect the civilization of the Indians, would most probably be attended with the salutary effect of attaching them to the interest of the United States. It is particularly important that something of this nature should beattempted with the Southern nations of Indians, whose confined situation might render them proper subjects for the experiment. The expense of such a conciliatory system may be considered as a sufficient reason for rejecting it; But, when this shall be compared with a system of coercion, it would be found the highest economy to adopt it. The commanding officers of the troops on the frontiers of the Southern and Northern districts, as they possess the sword, should be the Indian agents, and for which they should have a consideration. Every article given to theTndians should be accounted for, and witnessed by two commissioned officers. The commanding officer should not receive any presents from the Indians, but, in every respect, conduct towards them in the most friendly and just manner. All which is humbly submitted to the President of the United States. H. KNOX. War Office, July 7, 1789. 1st Congress.]
