No. 26. [1st Session, NORTHWESTERN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO CHE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY SO, 1792. The Speaker laid before the House a letter from the Secretary of War. transmitting, pursuant to the directions of the President of the United States, copies of the official communications which have passed between the Executive of the United States and the Governor of die State of Pennsylvania, upon the subject of the temporary defensive protection of the frontiers of that State. No. 1. Letter from the Governor of the State of Pennsylvania to the President of the United States. Philadelphia. 22d December. 1791. Sir: I have the honor to enclose, for your information, a copy of a representation which has been made to me by the inhabitants of the town of Pittsburg, expressing their apprehensions of an invasion by the hostile Indians; ot the accumulation of the enemy’s numbers: and stating the defenceless condition of the frontiers of Pennsylvania. I am, sir. &c. THO. MIFFLIN. Representation from the inhabitants of the town of Pittsburg, dated Sir: Pittsburg, 11//? December, 1791. In consequence of the late intelligence of the fate of the campaign to the Westward, the inhabitants of the town of Pittsburg have convened, and appointed us a committee, for the purpose of addressing your Excellency. The late disaster of the army must greatly affect the safety of this place. There can be no doubt but the enemy will now come forward, and with more spirit, and greater numbers, than they ever did before, for success will give confidence, and secure allies. We seriously apprehend that the Six Nations, heretofore wavering, will now avow themselves; at least, their young men will come to war. Be that as it may, the Indians at present hostile, are well acquainted with the defenceless situation of this town. During the late war there was a garrison at this place, though, even then, there was not such a combination of the savage nations, nor so much to be dreaded from them. At present, we have neither garrison, arms, nor ammunition, to defend the place. If the enemy should be disposed to pursue the blow they have given, which it is morally certain they will, they would, in our situation, find it easy to destroy us; and, should this place be lost, the whole country is open to them, and must be abandoned. The satety of this place being an object of the greatest consequence, not only to the neighboring country, but to the United States, as it is the point of communication to the Westward, and the proper depository of their magazines, it must be of the greatest consequence to preserve it. We state these tilings to your Excellency as the executive authority of the Government, that, if any thing can be done by your Excellency towards our immediate defence, it may be done; if not, your Excellency will communicate our situation to our State Legislature, or to the General Government, as it may seem expedient or proper. Having the highest confidence in your Excellency’s good disposition towards the citizens of this State in general, and those of this place in particular. We are, your Excellency’s obedient humble servants, A. TANNEHILL, JAMES O’HARA, JOHN McMASTERS, JOHN IRWIN, „ WILLIAM TURNBULL, JOHN WILKINS, Jun. INDIAN AFFAIRS. [1792. No. 2. The President of the United States to the Governor of the State of Pennsylvania. December 23, 1791. Sir: , I have received your Excellency's letter of yesterday, enclosing a copy of a representation to you from the inhabitants of Pittsburg, relatively to their apprehensions in consequence of the late defeat of the troops under Major General St. Clair. 'I can, with great propriety, assure your Excellency, that it is my earnest desire that all the exposed parts of the frontiers should be as effectually protected, at the general expense, as the case may require. I shall direct tire Secretary of War to confer with your Excellency upon this subject, and to inform you of such measures as have been directed, and are in train of execution. < I have the honor, &e. No. 3. The Secretary of War to the Governor of the State of Pennsylvania. 26th December. 1791. S,r: I have the honor, in pursuance of the orders of the President of the United States, to state to your Excellency the measures which are at present in train of execution, for the defensive protection of the western parts of Pennsylvania, to wit: first. That, on the sixteenth day of the present month, orders were issued to Major Craig to construct, immediately, a block-house at fort Pitt, and to surround it with pallisadoes, so as to contain about one hundred men. Secondly. On the same day directions were given, that a party, of a commissioned officer and thirty-four noncommissioned and privates, should remain at fort Pitt, from two companies, part of which had been stationed at fort Pitt, from the twentieth of October to the fifteenth instant, at which time they were under orders to descend the Ohio. That it is, however, to be expected, that the said two companies may have departed from fort Pitt previously to the receipt of this order, unless prevented by the ice. Thirdly. That, on this day, will march from this city, a detachment of about one hundred and twenty non-commissioned officers and privates, besides commissioned officers. Part of these'will be stationed at fort Pitt, and detachments posted at such other places, on the Ohio and upper parts of the Alleghany, as to be most conducive to the general safety of these parts. _ _ Fourthly. The lieutenants of the counties of Westmoreland, Alleghany, and Washington, will be authorized to call out such a number of scouts, or patrols, at the expense of the General Government, as they shall judge proper; not, however, exceeding eight in number to each of the said counties. These scouts are to be of the best hunters, or woodsmen, and, as an inducement to such to perform the service, they will be allowed the high pay of five-sixths of a dollar per day, the price usually given on the frontiers of Virginia for said service. I hope, sir, that these arrangements will be satisfactory to your Excellency, and effectually answer the purpose for which they are designed. I have the honor to be. See. No. 4. The Governor of the State of Pennsylvania to the President of the United Stales. 29th December, 1791. Sir: ■ I have the honor to enclose, for your information, a copy of a second memorial, which has been transmitted to me by the inhabitants of the frontier counties of Pennsylvania. In my communication to the Legislature, upon this subject, I have suggested the propriety of furnishing the militia with an immediate supply of arms and ammunition; and my instructions to the Lieutenants of the several exposed counties will be, to co-operate, in case of an emergency, with the officers of the Federal Government, conformably to the plan.of defence which the Secretary of War has described to me by your directions. I am, with perfect respect, &c. Memorial from the inhabitants of the counties of JVestmorehmd, it'ashington. Fayette, and Alleghany, to the 1 Governor of Pennsylvania. To his Excellency Thomas Mifflin, Esq. Govern' r of the State of Pennsylvania: Sir: We have the honor to address you, in behalf of the counties of Westmoreladd. Washington, Fayette, and Alleghany, respecting the present defenceless state of their frontiers, now exposed to the cruel ravages of a powerful and savage foe. The late defeat of the army under General St. Clair, has given rise to the most serious apprehensions to the inhabitants of those counties, who, being entirely unprotected, as well as destitute of arms and ammunition for defending themselves, now look up to your Excellency as the Executive arm of the Government, to ward off those dangers wTiich threaten them, as well as the Commonwealth in general. Your Excellency is well aware of the great extent of our frontier; and, when you consider the high degree of spirit which the. savages, animated by two successive victories, entertain, you may more easily conceive, than we can describe, the fears which pervade the breasts of those men, women, and children, who are more immediately subject to their barbarities and depredations.' Had the people a sufficiency of arms in their hands, they might, in some measure, defend themselves until the General Government, to whose care the common defence is entrusted, should adopt efficient steps for that purpose. At the same time, we beg leave to state to your Excellency, what occurs to us as the most speedy and effectual mode. When the extent of country to be protected is taken into view, we conceive that eight hundred effective men will not be deemed more than sufficient. They should be active partisans, under experienced officers, and provided with good rifles, to suit the grand object of meeting the enemy upon equal terms; of scouting, and giving the alarm when needful. Such a body should have encouragement proportioned to the pnee of common labor in this country, which averages at fifty shillings per month, as the pay allowed to the troops of the. United States would not be a sufficient inducement to able bodied men, possessing the requisite qualifications. We suggest these general ideas from our knowledge of local circumstances, which they who are at a distance, unacquainted with the actual situation of the AVestern country, cannot so well perceive. It is not our wish to enter into a minute detail, being convinced that your Excellency is not only fully acquainted with, but feelingly alive to, those impressions, which a state, such as ours must give rise to; nor can we apply to any person more proper than yourself, to procure that assistance which it requires. In the mean while, we hope, from your attention, that a quantity of arms and ammunition, of good qualify, will he forwarded to the several county lieutenants, to be distributed among the most active men of the militia of these counties, who at present can make but a partial and feeble defence if attacked. They have been draughted throughout the last summer, and those of Westmoreland even until now. This is attended with great inconvenience, and is particularly harassing to this part of the State: and the officers, as well as men. taking their tour promiscuously, are not as well adapted to an active and hazardous service, as a select corps who have confidence in one another. If nothing else can be done, we trust your Excellency will give orders for calling out the militia of the other counties, which, at least, may afford a temporary relief. We have the honor to be, sir. with the greatest respect, your Excellency's humble and obedient servants, CH ARLES C AMPBELL. ? On behalf of the county JOHN YOUNG, 5 of Westmoreland. ALEXANDER ADDISON. 7 JAMES MARSHALL. ABSALOM BIRD, G. BLAQKNEY. DAVID BRED1CK, EDWARD COOK. Z A DOCK SPRINGER, JAMES PAULL, PRESLEY NEVILLE, JAMES O'HARA, EDWARD BUTLER. JOHN WILKINS, JOHN McM ASTERS*. ISAAC CRAIG, joiin McDowell. Pittsburg, 21-s'/ December 1791. yjf'ushinvton. J I Fayette. yMlcghany. No. 5. The Secretary of Jl’ar to the Lieutenants of the counties of Westmoreland. Meghany. and Washington, in the State of Pennsylvania—29//; December. 1791. Sir: The President of the United States, having duly considered the present apprehension* ol the counties lying upon the Ohio, and the just causes thereof, arising from the late disaster to the troops under Major General St. Clair, is desirous of affording, at the expense of the United States, all the protection which the nature of the case may require, and the public means will admit. A considerable detachment of recruits, for the regular troops, has marched for fort Pitt. These troops will lie posted in such a manner, on the upper parts ol the Ohio, as will best conduce to the safety ol the inhabitants. But, in addition to this arrangement, you. as lieutenant of the county of ----. will he permitted to call into service, such a number of the most expert hunters or woodsmen, to serve as scouts or patrols, in order to alarm the inhabitants on the approach of any danger, not exceeding, however, eight in number, lor the county ol----. It will depend upon you to make a proper choice of these scouts, for which you will be both responsible with your character to the people of your county, who may he exposed by an injudicious choice, and to the United States, who will pay the money. And. as an inducement for suitable characters to perform the service, the I nited States will pay such scouts the great pay of five-sixths of u dollar per day. in lieu of ail charges or expenses whatever. The service of said inert must be proved in the manner hereinafter mentioned, to wit: On their entrance into service, they must he mustered in your presence by a justice of the peace, and sworn to the faithful discharge of their duty. In the muster then taken, the ages, names, and residence, of the said scouts, must be taken, and whether married or single. At the expiration of their services, they must be again mustered, and sworn that they have faithfully performed service for the number of days mentioned, and in the district specified. An account is then to be made by you. of the said service, which account must be supported by the muster rolls aforementioned, certified by you, and transmitted to this office for examination ami payment, accompanied by a power from you to receive the money. You will please to acknowledge the receipt of this letter, and transmit me an account of your proceedings thereon. No. G. The Secretary of War having, in obedience to the orders of the President of the United States, taken into con- -ideration the memorial of the inhabitants of the frontier counties of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, to the Governor thereof, dated the 21st ultimo, together with the letter of the Governor thereon, respectfully reports: That, in the present case it is unfortunate, and it ina\ be equally or more so in others which may arise, that the United States are destitute of a general militia law. The frontiers require protection, and ought to have it amply imparted to them in the present moment. But no other expedient presents itself in this exigence, but requesting the Executives of the States, that have exposed counties, to call out such numbers of militia as may affiird the the necessary aid. If the militia, so to be called out, should be for a short period, a considerable portion of the time would be wasted in repairing to. and returning from, the places to be. defended, unless all should be taken from the frontier parts, which would be unequal and oppressive. It would seem, therefore, most proper, then, that the militia to be called out at the general expense, should he for a period of six months, unless discharged sooner, if circumstances should permit. That the existence of these circumstances would depend upon the despatch that regular troops should he raised and inarched to the frontiers, and upon other considerations at the time.of their arrival, relative to the enemy. That the following arrangement seems necessary for,the frontiers of Pennsylvania: 1st. That, in addition to the detachment of regular troops now on their march to fort Pitt, and the scouts permitted ro the counties of Westmoreland, Washington, and Alleghany, it might he proper to add, if the Governor should judge the measure essential, such a number of scouts for the county of Fayette, as he may deem propel-, not exceeding the proportion to the other before mentioned counties, their relative situations being duly considered. Silly. That the Governor be further allowed, if lie judge the measure expedient and essentially necessary, to organize and call into service, for a period of six months, a certain number ot militia, at the expense of the General Government, in the same manner as the Governor of Virginia has called into service militia, for the protection of the frontiers of said State. That these militia be paid and subsisted at the expense of the United States, under such regulations as the Secretary of War shall direct, in order to prevent irregularities. That the number so to be called into service, be such as may be equal oil an average, to about one company for each of the frontier counties, so as to correspond as nearly as maybe, to the defensive protection of Virginia. The increased pay, however, cannot be allowed, unless by a special act of Congress: and no good reasons exist, for urging a higher pay for mere militia, than for the regular troops. Indeed, as the latter have clothing allowed, and the tormer none, it would appear reasonable, that the militia employed under the General Government should have an allowance for this object. But in order thereto, it would be necessary that Congress should first make a law for the purpose. Should they think proper so to do, the monthly cost of clothing for a regular soldier might be added to the pay of the militia, which would increase it nearly to five dollars per month, which, perhaps, is fully sufficient for any species of militia, excepting the scouts. It is presumed that Governor St. Clair will make an arrangement for the protection of the French settlements at Gallipolis. The settlement at Marietta will be protected by a company of regular troops. All which is humbly submitted to the President of the United States. H. KNOX, Secretary of TVar. War Department, 1 si January, 1792. No. 7. War Department, 3d January, 1792. Sir: The President of the United States lias received and considered the memorial of the inhabitants of certain western counties, dated, Pittsburg the 21st ultimo, which you transmitted to him on the 31st of last month. I am again directed, sir, to assure your Excellency, that it is the desire of the President of the United States that all reasonable and effectual protection be aftbrded the exposed parts of the frontiers, which the nature of the case may require. That, if it should be your judgment, to the measures already ordered, and of which I informed you on the 26th ultimo, that an arrangement of the following description should be added, lie will consent thereto, in behalf of the United States. That scouts be permitted to Fayette county, in such proportion to the other exposed counties, as you shall judge proper. That a number of such militia of the State, not exceeding two hundred and twenty-eight, non-commissioned and privates, and commanded by such officers as you shall think proper, be called into service, on the pay and rations established by the United States, and stationed at such places on the Alleghany and Ohio, and other parts of the frontiers, so as best to defend the exposed parts, according to your judgment and the county lieutenants’. That these militia be organized into three companies, and a captain, lieutenant, and ensign, and four sergeants, four corporals, two music, and sixty-six privates. That they be engaged for as many months as you shall judge proper, not exceeding six months, to be discharged sooner, if circumstances shall permit. That these militia be under the orders of the respective county lieutenants, being designed for defensive protection only. That such persons as you shall direct, furnish the rations, provided the same do not exceed eight cents. That the proofs, both of the supplies and services, to be such as shall be prescribed by me, in order to prevent either irregularity or abuse. That, tor both the services and supplies, payment will be made by the United States, upon the adjustment of the accounts, according to the forms which may be directed. I request your Excellency’s opinion on this additional arrangement, which, if satisfactory, may be carried into immediate execution. I have the honor to be, &c. H. KNOX, Secrelaiy of TVar. IIis Excellency the Governor of Pennsylvania. No. 8. Philadelphia, 3d January, 1792. Sir: In consequence of the distressed situation of the western counties of this Commonwealth, and with a view to co-operate in the design of the Federal Government, which you observe, in your letter of the 10th of March, 1791, was, to make the most effectual provision for the defensive protection of the frontiers, by calling into service, at the expense of the United States, such proportions of the militia as the nature of the case might require, I issued instructions to the lieutenants of the counties of Washington, .Westmoreland, Alleghany, Fayette, and Huntingdon, for draughting a competent force from the militia under their respective commands, to act as rangers against the hostile Indians. 'The expense incurred upon this_occasion, has. in part, been defrayed out of a sum appropriated by an act of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania. But I think it proper at this time to inquire, how far the State will be re-imbursed from the treasury of the Union, as the object seems clearly to be comprehended tvithiu the idea of general defence. You will be pleased, therefore, sir, to favor me with an explanation on this ground, that I may be enabled to render an accurate statement to the Legislature, as well respecting the past, as future expenditures, in the same service. I am, sir, your most obedient, &c. THOMAS MIFFLIN. To Henry Knox, Esqr. Secretary of TVar. No. 9. Sir: War Department, Jammy 3d, 1792. In answer to you Excellency’s letter of this date, I have the honor to observe, that I conceive the General Government are responsible for the pay and subsistence of the militia, called out in pursuance of the authority of the President of the United States, vested in certain county lieutenants of this State, by the letter to them of the 10th of last March, provided, that the rules therein prescribed, as well for the proofs of the service and the price of the ration, shall have been observed, and the accounts thereof duly settled at the pay office of the Department of War. And as appropriations therefor have been made by Congress, no further delay of payment will take place, than may be required for the settlement of the accounts. I have the honor to be, &c. » II. KNOX, Secretaiy of War. His Excellency the Governor of Pennsylvania. No. 10. Philadelphia, January 5, 1792. Sir: I have received your letter of the 3d instant, containing a proposition from the President of the United States, respecting additional measures to be pursued under the authority of the State Government, but at the expense of the Union, for the more effectual defence of the frontiers of Pennsylvania; and I beg you to assure the President, that, for the attainment of so desirable an object, I shall be happy to carry into effect the arrangement which is suggested, and which I have, with that view, submitted to the consideration of the General Assembly, whose interposition will be requisite to render the powers of the Executive commensurate with the plan. As soon as a legislative decision takes place, I will again address you upon the subject? and, in the mean time, I shall take the preparatory steps, conformably to the ideas which you have expressed, and of which you will be pleased to communicate my approbation to the President. I am. Sir, with great respect, &c. THO. MIFFLIN. Henry Knox, Esq. Secretary of JFar. No. 11. The Governor of Pennsylvania to the Secretary of JFar. Philadelphia, 25d January. 1792. Sin: The General Assembly of this Commonwealth having passed an act for the immediate defence of our western frontiers, I have enclosed, for the. information of the President of the Cnited States, a copy of that law. together with a copy of the instructions which I have transmitted to the lieutenants of certain counties, on the subject. As it is my intention, on this occasion, to conform, as nearly as possible, to the propositions that are contained in your letter of the 3d instant, and the explanation which you afterwards gave of their meaning and extent, you will be pleased to furnish me with a statement of the proofs which will be sufficient to establish the claim for supplies and services, and the forms that will be required in the adjustment of the accounts at your office. I shall, from time to time, communicate to the Executive of the Federal Government, any important information that I may receive from the frontiers; and it will afford me sincere pleasure, if, upon a plan, strictly defensive, the corps of inilitia engaged under the authority of the State shall be found a useful auxiliary to the force employed under the authority of the Union, for the general purposes of the war. I am. Sir. &c. An Act to provide for the immediate defence of the frontiers of this Commonwealth. Whereas it appears necessary, at this time, to make some effectual provision in aid of the measures of the Federal Government, for the protection of the frontiers of this Commonwealth, which are exposed to imminent danger from the Indians now at war with the United States: Sec. 1. Be it therefore enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in General Assembly met. and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, That the Governor shall engage, lor the term of six months, unless sooner discharged, a number of active and experienced riflemen of the militia of this Commonwealth, not exceeding two hundred and twenty-eight non-commissioned officers and privates, and station the same at such places, and in such proportions, as shall, in his judgment, be best calculated to protect and defend the western frontiers of this Commonwealth: and he shall organize the men, so to be engaged, into three companies, over which he may, it need be, appoint and commission one major; and each company snail consist of one captain, one lieutenant, and one ensign, to be appointed and commissioned by the Governor, four sergeants, four corporals, two musicians, and sixty-six privates, to be engaged as aforesaid. Sec. 2. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid. That the pay of the commissioned officers, respectively, shall be the same as the pay allowed to the commissioned officers ol corresponding rank in the service ot the United States; and there shall he allowed tn such of the militia as shall be engaged as aforesaid, a bounty, which, being added to the amount of the pay allowed, or to be allowed, by the United States, to non-commissioned officers and privates in their service, as shall render the pav of the said inilitia equal to the sum of sixty shillings per month to each sergeant, fifty-five shillings per month to each corporal, and fifty shillings per month to each private and musician. See. 3. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the sum of four thousand five hundred pounds be appropriated for carrying into etfiect the foregoing objects of this law, of providing the necessary arms and ammunition, and of defraying the other necessary incidental expenses for the defence of the frontiers aforesaid; which sum shall be paid by the State treasurer, upon die warrants ot the Governor, out of the funds appropriated by law to pay the expenses of Government; and an account of the disbursements thereof, or of any part thereof, shall be laid by the Governor before the General Assembly, at the next ensuing session. Circular letter from the Governor of Pennsylvania to the Lieutenants of the counties of I Pest mo reland, ff asking- ton, Payette, and Alleghany, dated January 20, 1792. Gentlemen: Upon the repeated applications of the inhabitants of the western frontiers of Pennsylvania, the Executive of the Federal Government was induced to propose to me. a plan of defensive operation, for the protection of the counties which are exposed to immediate danger; and the Legislature having given their sanction to the proposal, agreeably to the terms of the enclosed act, it becomes my duty, as well as disposition, to carry it into effect with all possible energy and despatch. You will perceive that the general militia law has been suspended, in some respects, in order to answer the present emergency, particularly in the mode of raising the intended force, w hich is by engaging active and experienced riflemen, wherever they can be obtained, and not by draughting in classes from the militia of the respective counties; in the mode of appointing the officers, which is immediately by the Executive, and not upon the election of the people: in the period of service, which is for six months, and not for two; and iri the rate of pay, which is liberally estimated by the price of labor, and not by the military allowance established for the troops of the Federal Government. I am desirous, however, that, as far as it is practicable, the men engaged under the authority of this law should still be considered, and act as a select corps of militia, and therefore I shall, from time to time, convey duplicates of my instructions to the commanding officer, through the medium of the lieutenants of the several counties comprehended in the description of the western frontiers. As the first step towards organizing the proposed corps, I now transmit commissions for the officers, which you will be pleased immediately to deliver, with instructions to engage seventy-six men, of the description, and upon the terms mentioned in the act, for each of the companies to which they are respectively appointed, making, in the whole, two hundred and twenty-eight active and experienced riflemen of the militia, and to deliver regular weekly returns to the. major, (whose commission is likewise transmitted) until the number of engagements shall be completed. The men, it is to be observed, must be engaged for the period of six months, unless sooner discharged, commencing on the first day of March next: and it may be stipulated, that each man, armed w ith his own rifle, such as the captain of the company may approve, shall be allowed two dollars for the use of it. during the period oj his engagement, and a reasonable equivalent if it is lost or destroyed in the public service. The companies being filled, are to be stationed, in the first instance, under the general direction of the major, at the following places: 1st Company.—The first company shall be stationed at the southwest corner of Washington, between the heads of Wheeling and Duncard creeks, ranging thence to the Ohio. 2d Company.—The second company shall be stationed at the mouth of Great Beaver, and ranging thence to fort Crawford, by the heads of Pine Creek. 3d Company.—The third company shall be stationed at the Kittaningranging, thence up and down the river. Under the inspection and management of Colonel Clement Biddle, who acts on this occasion as quartermaster general for the State, a competent supply of arms and ammunition will be immediately forwarded to Pittsburg; at which place a proportionate distribution will be made and sent to the respective frontier counties, ltis expected that great care will be taken to ensure the return of the arms at the expiration of the present service, and to prevent the loss or waste of ammunition. I have also entered into a contract with John Wilkins, jun. for supplying the corps with rations, at the rate of-eight cents per ration, and I am persuaded lie will do honor to the confidence which is reposed in him. You will be pleased, gentlemen, to maintain a punctual correspondence with the commanding officer of the proposed corps, and to render him every aid in your power, consistent with a plan of defensive operation, which you will remember is the sole purpose of these arrangements; though, if any unforeseen emergency should occur, they are not to preclude the general exertion of the militia for repelling actual hostilities, agreeably to the instructions contained in my letter of the 18th March, 1791. The proofs that will be sufficient to establish the claim for supplies and services, and the forms that will be required in the adjustment of the accounts at the office of the Secretary of War, will be stated to you in the course of a few days; and, in the mean time, relying upon your zeal, discretion, and patriotism, I deem it unnecessary to add more than an earnest wish that you would, by every means, facilitate the engagements of the men for the present service, and render the interference of the Government honorable and effectual. I am, gentlemen, &c. List of Officers appointed to command the three defensive companies of active and experienced riflemen of the Militia, agreeably to the act, entitled “ An Act to provide for the immediate defence of the frontiers of the' Commonwealth. *'The Major, George M‘Cullay. First Company.....The Captain, James Paul, The Lieutenant, Henry Enochs, The Ensign, Jeremiah Long, -   . -Second Company....The Captain, Samuel Smith, - The Lieutenant, Daniel Hamilton, The Ensign, William Jones, - Third Company.____The Captain, John Guthrie, The Lieutenant, William Cooper, The Ensign, Samuel Murphy, . Quartermaster General, Contractor for rations, Fayette. Washington. do do do'' - Alleghany. Westmoreland. do do Clement Biddle. John Wilkins, jun. 2nd Congress.] 
