NO. 191 TREATIES WITH THE OSAGE, SAC, AND FOX TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 6, 1823. [To the Senate:	WASHINGTON, January 6, 1823. I transmit to the Senate, for their advice and consent as to the ratification, treaties which have been made with the Osage and Sac and Fox tribes of Indians, in execution of the provision contained in the act of the last session entitled “ An act to abolish the Indian trading establishments.” JAMES MONROE. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, January 4, 1823. I transmit, herewith, for the consideration of the President, treaties concluded with the Osage and Sac and Fox tribes of Indians since the last session of Congress, for the extinguishment of the treaty obligations on the part of the United States to keep up trading-houses for their, benefit. I have the honor to be your obedient servant, J.	C. CALHOUN. To the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. Articles of a treaty entered into and concluded at the United States factory on the Marie Decinc Agency, by and between Richard Graham, agent of Indian affairs, authorized on the part of the United States for that purpose, and the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the tribes of Great and Little Osage Indians, for themselves and their respective tribes, of the other part. Whereas, by the second article of the treaty made and entered into between the United States and the Great and Little Osage nation of Indians, concluded and signed at Fort Clark, nn the Missouri, on the tenth day of November, one thousand eight hundred and eight, it is stipulated that the United States shall establish at that place, and permanently continue at all seasons of the year, a well-assorted store of goods, for the purpose of bartering with them on moderate terms for their peltries and furs: Now we, the said chiefs, warriors, and headmen, in behalf of our said tribes, for and in consideration of two thousand three hundred and twenty-nine dollars and forty cents, to us now paid in merchandise out of the United States factory by said Richard Graham, on behalf of the United States, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, do exonerate, release, and forever discharge the United States from the obligation contained in the said second article above mentioned; and the aforesaid second article is from the date hereof abrogated and of no effect. In witness whereof, the said Richard Graham, and the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the Great and Little Osage tribes, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals this thirty-first day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-two. R. GRAHAM. [Signed, also, by the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the Great and Little Osage tribes.] Articles af a treaty entered into and concluded at Fart Armstrong, by and between Thomas Forsyth, agent of Indian affairs, authorized an the part of the United States for that purpose, of the one part, and the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the united Sac and Fox tribes, for themselves and their said tribes, of the other part. Whereas, by the ninth article of the treaty made and entered into between the United States and the Sac and Fox tribes of Indians, concluded and signed at St. Louis, in the district of Louisiana, on the third day of November, one thousand eight hundred and four, it is stipulated, in order to put a stop to the abuses and impositions which are practised upon the said tribes by the private traders, the United States will, at a convenient time, establish a trading-house or factory, where the individuals of the said tribes can be supplied with goods at a more reasonable rate than they have been accustomed to procure them: Now we, the said chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the said tribes, for and in consideration of the sum of one thousand dollars, to us now paid in merchandise out of the United States factory by said Thomas Forsyth, on behalf of the United States, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, do exonerate, release, and forever discharge the United States from the obligation contained in the said ninth article above recited; and the aforesaid ninth article is, from the date hereof, abrogated and of no effect. In witness whereof, the said Thomas Forsyth and the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the Sac and Fox tribes, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals this third day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-two. THOMAS FORSYTH, United States Indian Agent. [Signed, also, by the chiefs, warriors, and headmen of the Sac and Fox tribes.] 17th CONGRESS.]	
