NO. 144 [TREATIES WITH THIRTEEN TRIBES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 10, 1816. To the Senate of the United States:	DECEMBER 10, 1816. 1 lay before the Senate, for their consideration and advice as to a ratification, treaties concluded with the several Indian tribes, according to the following statement: A list of Indian tribes with whom treaties have been made since the last session of Congress, viz: Weas and Kickapoos.—Treaty concluded at Fort Harrison, between Benjamin Parke and the chiefs and headmen of those tribes, June 4, 1816. Ottawas, Chippewas, and Pattawatamies.—Treaty concluded at St. Louis, between Governors Clark and Edwards, and Colonel Chouteau, and the chiefs and headmen of those tribes, August 24, 1816. Winnebagoes.—Treaty made by the same persons on the part of the United States, and the headmen of this tribe, at St. Louis, Jone 3, 1816. Sacs of Rock river.—Treaty made by same, at St. Louis, May 13, 1816. Sioux composing three tribes—the Sioux of the Leaf, the Sioux of the Broad Leaf, and the Sioux who shoot on the Pine Tops.—Treaty made and concluded by the same, at St. Louis, June 1, 1816. Chickasaws.—Treaty made by General Jackson, David Meriwether, Esq., and Jesse Franklin, Esq., and the headmen of that nation, at Chickasaw council-house, September 20, 1816. Cherokees.—Treaty made by General Jackson, David Meriwether, Esq., and Jesse Franklin, Esq., and the headmen of that nation, at Turkeytown, October 4, 1816. Choctaws.—Treaty made by General John Coffee, John Rhea, and John McKee, Esqrs., and the headmen and warriors of that nation, at the Choctaw trading-house, October 24, 1816. JAMES MADISON. TREATY WITH THE CHEROKEES. To perpetuate peace and friendship between the United States and Cherokee tribe or nation of Indians, and to remove all future causes of dissension which may arise from indefinite territorial boundaries, the President of the United States of America, by Major General Andrew Jackson, General David Meriwether, and Jesse Franklin, Esq., commissioners plenipotentiary on the one part, and the Cherokee delegates on the other, covenant and agree to the following articles and conditions, which, when approved by the Cherokee nation, and constitutionally ratified by the Government of the United States, shall be binding on all parties: ARTICLE 1. Peace and friendship are hereby firmly established between the United States and Cherokee nation or tribe of Indians. A.RT. 2. The Cherokee nation acknowledge the following as their western boundary south of the Tennessee river: Commencing at Camp Coffee, on the south side of the Tennessee river, which is opposite the Chickasaw Island; running from thence, a due south course, to the top of the dividing ridge between the waters of the Tennessee and Tombigbee rivers; thence, eastwardly, along said ridge, leaving the head waters of the Black Warrior to the right hand, until opposed by the west branch of Will’s creek; down the east bank of said creek, to the Coosa river, and down said river. ART. 3. The Cherokee nation relinquish to the United States all claim, and cede all title, to lands lying south and west of the line as described in the second article; and, in consideration of said relinquishment and cession, the commissioners agree to allow to the Cherokee nation an annuity of $6,000, to continue for ten successive years, and $5,000, to be paid in sixty days after the ratification of the treaty, as a compensation for any improvements which the said nation may have had on the lands surrendered. ART. 4. The two contracting parties covenant and agree that the line, as described in the second article, shall be ascertained and marked by commissioners, to be appointed by the President of the United States; that the marks shall be bold; trees to be blazed on both sides of the line, and the fore and aft trees to be marked with the letters U. S.; that the commissioners shall be accompanied by two persons, to be appointed by the Cherokee nation; and that-said nation shall have due and seasonable notice when said operation is to be commenced. ART. 5. It is stipulated that the Cherokee nation will meet General Andrew Jackson, General David Meriwether, and Jesse Franklin, Esq., in council, at Turkeytown, Coosa river, on the 28th of September instant, there and then to express their approbation, or not, of the articles of this treaty; and if they do not assemble at the time and place specified, it is understood that the said commissioners may report the same as a tacit ratification, on the part of the Cherokee nation, of this treaty. In testimony whereof, the said commissioners, and undersigned chiefs and delegates of the Cherokee nation, have hereto set their hands and seals. Done at the Chickasaw council-house, this fourteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixteen. ANDREW JACKSON, DAVID MERIWETHER, JESSE FRANKLIN. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headmen of the Cherokee nation.] TREATY WITH THE CHICKASAWS. To settle all territorial controversies, and to perpetuate that peace and harmony which has long happily subsisted between the United States and Chickasaw nation, the President of the United States of America, by Major General Andrew Jackson, General David Meriwether, and Jesse Franklin, Esq., on the one part, and the whole Chickasaw nation in council assembled, on the other, have agreed on the following articles, which, when ratified by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States, shall be binding on all parties: ARTICLE 1. Peace and friendship are hereby firmly established and perpetuated between the United States of America and Chickasaw nation. ART. 2. The Chickasaw nation cede to the United States (with the exception of such reservations as shall hereafter be specified) all right or title to lands on the north side of the Tennessee river, and relinquish all claim to territory on the south side of said river, and east of a line commencing at the mouth of Caney creek, running up said creek to its source; thence, a due south course, to the ridge path, or commonly called Gaines’s road; along said road, southwesterly, to a point on the Tombigbee river well known by the name of the Cotton Gin Port; and down the west bank of the Tombigbee to the Choctaw boundary. ART. 3. In consideration of the relinquishment of claim and cession of lands made in the preceding article, the commissioners agree to allow the Chickasaw nation $12,000 per annum for ten successive years, and $4,500, to be paid in sixty days after the ratification of this treaty into the hands of Levi Colbert, as a compensation for any improvements which individuals of the Chickasaw nation may have had on the lands surrendered; that is to say, $2,000 for improvements on the east side of the Tombigbee, and $2,500 for improvements on the north side of the Tennessee river. ART. 4. The commissioners agree that the following tracts of land shall be reserved to the Chickasaw nation: 1. One tract of land for the use of Colonel George Colbert and heirs, and which is thus described by said Colbert: Beginning on the north bank of the Tennessee river, at a point that, running north four miles, will include a big spring about half-way between his ferry and the mouth of Cypress, it being a spring that a large cow-path crosses its branch near where a cypress tree is cut down; thence, westwardly, to a point four miles from the Tennessee river, and standing due north of a point on the north bank of the river, three miles below his ferry on the Tennessee river; and up the meanders of said river to the beginning point.”	. 2. A tract of land two miles square, on the north bank of the Tennessee river, and at its junction with Beach creek, for the use of Appassan Tubby and heirs. 3. A tract of land one mile square, on the north side of the Tennessee river, for the use of John McCleish and heirs; the said tract to be so run as to include the said McCleish’s settlement and improvements on the north side of Buffalo creek. 4. Two tracts of land, containing forty acres each, on the south side of Tennessee river, and about two and a half miles below the Cotton Gin Port, on the Tombigbee river; which tracts of land will be pointed out by Major Levi Colbert, and for the use of said Colbert and heirs. It is stipulated that the above reservations shall appertain to the Chickasaw nation only so long as they shall be occupied, cultivated, or used by the present proprietors or heirs; and in the event of all or either of said tracts of land so reserved being abandoned by the present proprietors or heirs, each tract or tracts of land so abandoned shall revert to the United States as a portion of that territory ceded by the second article of the treaty. ART. 5. The two contracting parties covenant and agree that the line on the south side of the Tennessee river, as described in the second article of this treaty, shall be ascertained and marked by commissioners to be appointed by the President of the United States; that the marks shall be bold; trees to be blazed on both sides of the line, and the fore and aft trees to be marked with the letters U. S. That the commissioners shall be attended by two persons to be designated by the Chickasaw nation, and that the said nation shall have due and seasonable notice when said operation is to be commenced. ART. 6. In consideration of the conciliatory disposition evinced during the negotiation of this treaty by the Chickasaw chiefs and warriors, but more particularly as a manifestation of the friendship and liberality of the President of the United States, the commissioners agree to give, on the ratification of this treaty, to Chinnubby, king of the Chickasaws, to Tishshomingo, William McGilvery, ArpasarShtubby, Samuel Seely, James Brown, Levi Colbert, Ickaryoucullaha, George Pettygrove, Immartarharmicko, Chickasaw chiefs, and to Malcolm McGee, interpreter, one hundred and fifty dollars each, in goods or cash, as may be preferred; and to Major William Glover, Colonel George Colbert, Captain Rabbitt, Hoparyeahoummar, Immoukelourshsharhoparyea, Hoparyeahoullartir, Tushker- hopoyea, Hoparyeahoummar, jun., Immoukelusharhopoyyea, James Colhert, Coweamarthlar, and Ulachouwar- hopoyea, military leaders, one hundred dollars each; and, as a particular mark of distinction and favor for his long services and faithful adherence to the United States Government, the commissioners agree to allow to General William Colbert an annuity of one hundred dollars for and during his life. ART. 7. Whereas the chiefs and warriors of the Chickasaw nation have found, from experience, that the crowd of pedlars who are constantly traversing their nation from one end to the other is of a serious disadvantage to the nation; that serious misunderstandings and disputes frequently take place, as well as frauds, which are often practised on the ignorant and uninformed of the nation, therefore it is agreed by the commissioners on the part of the Government, and the chiefs of the nation, that no more licenses shall be granted by the agent of the Chickasaws to entitle any person or persons to trade or traffic merchandise in said nation; and that any person or persons whomsoever, of the white people, who shall bring goods and sell them in the nation, contrary to this article, shall forfeit the whole of his or their goods, one-half to the nation and the other half to the Government of the United States. In all cases where this article is violated, and the goods are taken or seized, they shall be delivered up to the agent, who shall hear the testimony and judge accordingly. This article was presented to the commissioners by the chiefs and warriors of the Chickasaw nation, and, by their particular solicitation, embraced in this treaty. In testimony whereof, the said commissioners and undersigned chiefs and warriors have set their hands and seals. Done at the Chickasaw council-house, this twentieth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixteen. ANDREW JACKSON, D. MERIWETHER, .	J. FRANKLIN. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Chickasaw nation.] TREATY WITH THE WEAS AND KICKAPOOS. Articles of a treaty made and entered into at Port Harrison, in the Indiana Territory, between Benjamin Parke, specially authorized thereto by the President of the United States, of the one part, and the tribes of Indians, called the Weas and Kickapoos, by their chiefs and headmen, of the other part. ARTICLE 1. The Weas and Kickapoos again acknowledge themselves in peace and friendship with the United States. ART. 2. The said tribes acknowledge the validity of, and declare their determination to adhere to, the treaty of Greenville, made in the year seventeen hundred and ninety-five, and all subsequent treaties which they have respectively made with (he United States. ART. 3. The boundary line surveyed and marked by the United States of the land on the Wabash and White rivers, ceded in the year eighteen hundred and nine, the said tribes do hereby explicitly recognise and confirm, as having been executed conformably to the several treaties they have made with the United States. ART. 4. The chiefs and warriors of the said tribe of the Kickapoos acknowledge that they have ceded to the United States all that tract of country which lies between the aforesaid boundary line on the northwest side of the Wabash, the Wabash, the Vermilion river, and a line to be drawn from the northwest corner of the said boundary line, so as to strike the Vermilion river twenty miles in a direct line from its mouth, according to the terms and conditions of the treaty they made with the United States on the ninth day of December, in the year eighteen hundred and nine. In testimony whereof, the said Benjamin Parke, and the chiefs and headmen of the said tribes, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals, at Fort Harrison, in the Indiana Territory, the fourth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixteen. B. PARKE. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and headmen of the Wea and Kickapoo tribes.] TREATY WITH THE SACS OF ROCK RtVER. A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded between William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Sacs of Rock river and the adjacent country, of the other part. Whereas, by the ninth article of the treaty of peace which was concluded on the twenty-fourth day of December, eighteen hundred and fourteen, between the United States and Great Britain, at Ghent, and which was ratified by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, on the seventeenth day of February, eighteen hundred and fifteen, it was stipulated that the said parties should severally put an end to all hostilities with the Indian tribes with whom they might be. at war at the time of the ratification of said treaty, and to place the said tribes inhabiting their respective territories on the same footing upon which they stood before the war: Provided, They should agree to desist from all hostilities against the said parties, their citizens or subjects, respectively, upon the ratification of the said treaty being notified to them, and should so desist accordingly: And whereas the United States being determined to execute every article of the treaty with perfect good faith, and wishing to be particularly exact in the execution of the article above alluded to relating to the Indian tribes, the President, in consequence thereof, for that purpose, on the eleventh day of March, eighteen hundred and fifteen, appointed the undersigned William Clark, Governor of Missouri Territory, Ninian Edwards, Governor of Illinois Territory, and Auguste Chouteau, Esq., of the Missouri Territory, commissioners, with foil power to conclude a treaty of peace and amity with all those tribes of Indians, conformably to the stipulations contained in the said article, on the part of the United States, in relation to such tribes: And whereas the commissioners, in conformity with their instructions in the early part of last year, notified the Sacs of Rock river and the adjacent country of the time of the ratification of said treaty; of the stipulations it contained in relation to them; of the disposition of the American Government to fulfil those stipulations, by entering into a treaty with them conformably thereto, and invited the said Sacs of Rock river and the adjacent country to send forward a deputation of their chiefs to meet the said commissioners at Portage des Sioux, for the purpose of concluding such a treaty as aforesaid between the United States and the said Indians; and the said Sacs of Rock river and the adjacent country having not only declined that friendly overture, but having continued their hostilities, and committed many depredations thereafter, which would have justified the infliction of the severest chastisement upon them; but having earnestly repented of their conduct, now imploring mercy, and being anxious to return to the habits of peace and friendship with the United States; and the latter being always disposed to pursue the most liberal and humane policy towards the Indian tribes within their territory, preferring their reclamation by peaceful measures to their punishment by the application of the military force of the nation: Now, therefore, The said William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners as aforesaid, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors as aforesaid, for the purpose of restoring peace and friendship between the parties, do agree to the following articles: ARTICLE 1. The Sacs of Rock river and the adjacent country do hereby unconditionally assent to, recognise, re-establish, and confirm the treaty between the United States of America and the united tribes of Sacs and Foxes, which was concluded at St. Louis on the third day of November, one thousand eight hundred and four, as well as all other contracts and agreements heretofore made between the Sac tribe or nation and the United States. ART. 2. The United States agree to place the aforesaid Sacs of Rock river on the same footing upon which they stood before the war: Provided, They shall, on or before the first day of July next, deliver up to the officer commanding at Cantonment Davis, on the Mississippi, all the property they or any of their tribe have plundered or stolen from the citizens of the United States since they were notified as aforesaid of the time of the ratification of the late treaty between the United States and Great Britain. ART. 3. If the said tribes shall fail or neglect to deliver up the property aforesaid, or any part thereof, on or before the first day of July aforesaid, they shall forfeit to the United States all right and title to their proportion of the annuities which, by the treaty of St. Louis, were covenanted to be paid to the Sac tribe; and the United States shall forever afterwards be exonerated from the payment of so much of said annuities as, upon a fair distribution, would fall to the share of that portion of the Sacs who are represented by the undersigned chiefs and warriors. ART. 4. This treaty shall take effect and be obligatory on the contracting parties, unless the same shall be disapproved by the President and Senate of the United States, or by the President only; and, in the mean time, all hostilities shall cease from this date. In testimony whereof, the said William Clark, Ninian Edwards, hnd Auguste Chouteau, commissioners as aforesaid, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors as aforesaid, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals this thirteenth day of May, one thousand eight hundred and sixteen. WILLIAM CLARK, NINIAN EDWARDS, AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. [Signed, aléo, by the chiefs and warriors of the Sacs of Rock river and the adjacent country.] TREATY WITH THE SIOUX. A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded between William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors, representing eight bands of the Sioux, composing the three tribes called the Sioux of the Leaf, the Sioux of the Broad Leaf, and the Sioux who shoot in the Pine Tops, on the part and behalf of their said tribes, of the other part. The parties being desirous of re-establishing peace and friendship between the United States and the said tribes, and of being placed in all things and in every respect on the same footing upon which they stood befoie the late war between the United States and Great Britain, have agreed to the following articles: ARTICLE 1. Every injury or act of hostility committed by one or either of the contracting parties against the other shall be mutually forgiven and forgot. ART. 2. There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States and all the individuals composing the aforesaid tribes; and all the friendly relations that existed between them before the war shall be, and the same are hereby, renewed. ART. 3. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their tribes, respectively, do by these presents confirm to the United States all and every cession or cessions of land heretofore made by their tribes to the British, French, or Spanish Governments, within the limits of the United States or their territories; and the parties here contracting do, moreover, in the sincerity of mutual friendship, recognise, re-establish, and confirm all and every treaty, contract, and agreement heretofore concluded between the United States and the said tribes or nations. ART. 4. The undersigned chiefs and warriors as aforesaid, for themselves and their said tribes, do hereby acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign whatsoever. In witness whereof, the commissioners aforesaid, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors as aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals this first day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixteen, and of the independence of the United States the fortieth. WILLIAM CLARK, NINIAN EDWARDS, AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the aforesaid tribes of Sioux.] TREATY WITH THE CHOCTAWS. James Madison, President of the United States of America, by General John Coffee, John Rhea, and John McKee, esquires, commissioners on the part of the United States duly authorized for that purpose, on the one part, and the mingoes, leaders, captains, and warriors of the Choctaw nation in general council assembled, in behalf of themselves and the whole nation, on the other part, have entered into the following articles, which, when ratified by the President of the United States, with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be obligatory on both parties: ARTICLE 1. The Choctaw nation, for the consideration hereafter mentioned, cede to the United States all their title and claim to lands lying east of the following boundary: Beginning at the mouth of Ooktibbuha, the Chickasaw boundary, and running from thence down the Tombigbee river until it intersects the northern boundary of a cession made to the United States by the Choctaws, at Mount Dexter, on the 16th November, 1805. ART. 2. In consideration of the foregoing cession, the United States engage to pay to the Choctaw nation the. sum of six thousand dollars, annually, for twenty years; they also agree to pay them in merchandise, to be delivered immediately on signing the present treaty, the sum of ten thousand dollars. Done and executed in full and open council at the Choctaw trading-house, this twenty-fourth day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixteen, and of the independence of the United States the forty-first.	JOHN COFFEE, JOHN RHEA, JOHN McKEE. [Signed, also, by the mingoes, leaders, captains, and warriors of the Choctaw nation.] TREATY WITH THE WINNEBAGOES. A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded between William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of that portion of the Winnebago tribe or nation residing on the Ouisconsin river, of the other part. Whereas the undersigned chiefs and warriors, as well as that portion of the nation which they represent, have separated themselves from the rest of their nation, and reside in a village on the Ouisconsin river, and are desirous of returning to a state of friendly relations with the United States, the parties hereto have agreed to the following articles: ARTICLE 1. Every injury or act of hostility committed by one or either of the contracting parties against the other shall be mutually forgiven and forgot; and all the friendly relations that existed between them before the late war shall be, and the same are hereby, renewed. ART. 2. The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and those they represent, do, by these presents, confirm to the United States all and every cession of land heretofore made by their nation to the British, French, or Spanish Governments within the limits of the United States or their territories; and also all and every treaty, contract, and agreement heretofore concluded between the United States and the said tribe or nation, as far as their interest in the same extends. ART. 3. The undersigned chiefs and warriors as aforesaid, for themselves and those they represent, do hereby acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign whatsoever. ART. 4. The aforesaid chiefs and warriors, for themselves and those they represent, do further promise to remain distinct and separate from the rest of their tribe or nation, giving them no aid or assistance whatever, until peace shall also be concluded between the United States and the said tribe or nation. AIIT. 5. The contracting parties do hereby agree, promise, and oblige themselves, reciprocally, to deliver up all prisoners now in their hands (by what means soever the same may have come into their possession) to the officer commanding at Prairie du Chien, to be by him restored to the respective parties hereto, as soon as it may be practicable. In witness whereof, the commissioners aforesaid, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors as aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals this third day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixteen, and of the independence of the United Slates the fortieth. WILLIAM CLARK, NINIAN EDWARDS, AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Winnebago tribe.] TREATY WITH THE OTTAWAS, CHIPPEWAS, AND PATTAWATAMIES. A treaty of peace, friendship, and limits, made and concluded between Ninian Edwards, William Clark, and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of said States, of the one part, and the chiefs and warriors of the united tribes of Ottawas, Chippewas, and Pattawatamies residing on the Illinois and Milwalky rivers and their waters, and on the southwestern parts of Lake Michigan, of the other part. Whereas a serious dispute has, for some time past, existed between the contracting parties relative to the right to a part of the lands ceded to the United States by the tribes of Sacs and Foxes on the third day of November, one thousand eight hundred and four, and both parties being desirous of preserving an harmonious and friendly intercourse, and of establishing permanent peace and friendship, have, for the purpose of removing all difficulties, agreed to the following terms: ARTICLE 1. The said chiefs and warriors, for themselves and the tribes they represent, agree to relinquish, and hereby do relinquish, to the United States, all their right, claim, and title to all the land contained in the beforementioned cession of the Sacs and Foxes which lies south of a due west line from the southern extremity of Lake Michigan to the Mississippi river. And they moreover cede to the United States all the land contained within the following bounds, to wit: Beginning on the left bank of the Fox river of Illinois, ten miles above the mouth of said Fox river; thence, running so as to cross Sandy creek ten miles above its mouth; thence, in a direct line, to a point ten miles north of the west end of the Portage, between Chicago creek, which empties into Lake Michigan, and the river Des Pleines, a fork of the Illinois; thence, in a direct line, to a point on Lake Michigan, ten miles northward of the mouth of Chicago creek; thence, along the lake, to a point ten miles southward of the mouth of the said Chicago creek; thence, in a direct line, to a point on the Kankakee, ten miles above its mouth; thence, with the said Kankakee and the Illinois river, to the mouth of Fox river; and thence to the beginning: Provided, nevertheless, That the said tribes shall be permitted to hunt and to fish within the limits of the land hereby relinquished and ceded, so long as it may continue to be the property of the United States. ART. 2. In consideration of the aforesaid relinquishment and cession, the United States have this day delivered to said tribes a considerable quantity of merchandise, and do agree to pay them, annually, for the term of twelve years, goods to the value of one thousand dollars, reckoning that value at the first cost of the goods in the city or place io which they shall be purchased, without any charge for transportation; which said goods shall be delivered to the said tribes at some place on the Illinois river not lower down than Peoria. And the said United States do moreover agree to relinquish to the said tribes all the land contained in the aforesaid cession of the Sacs and Foxes which lies north of a due west line from the southern extremity of Lake Michigan to the Mississippi river, except three leagues square at the mouth of the Ouisconsin river, including both banks, and such other tracts on or near to the Ouisconsin and Mississippi rivers as the. President of the United States may think proper to reserve: Provided, That such other tracts shall not, in the whole, exceed the quantity that would be contained in five leagues square. ART. 3. The contracting parties, that peace and friendship may be permanent, promise that, in all things whatever, they will act with justice and correctness towards each other; and that they will, with perfect good faith, fulfil all the obligations imposed upon them by former treaties. In witness whereof, the said Ninian Edwards, William Clark, and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors of the aforesaid tribes, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals this twenty-fourth day of August, one thousand eight hundred and sixteen, and of the independence of the United States the forty-first. NINIAN EDWARDS, WILLIAM CLARK, AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU. [Signed, also, by the chiefs and warriors of the Ottawas, Chippewas, and Pattawatamies.] GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 3, 1816. Difficulties having arisen in surveying the public lands upon the Wabash, from the vague terms in which boundaries of the cession have been described, or from the interested and improper views of some of the chiefs of the various tribes from whom the cession was obtained, the President has determined to remove them by amicable discussions and explanations, and by giving them an equivalent for the claims or pretensions which they still set up to some part of the lands in question. To accomplish this desirable object, he has directed mb to place at your disposition the sum of five thousand dollars, over and above their annuities, which you are authorized to distribute to them for the purpose of conciliating the various tribes from whom the purchase was originally made, and such other tribes as may be present who lay any species of claim to these lands. It is not judged expedient to suffer the validity of the treaties which made the cession to be in any manner called into question; but if there is no difficulty of obtaining a general recognition of them on the part of all the tribes, it may not be improper to reduce their acknowledgment into the form of a treaty, attended with the accustomed solemnities. In the communications which you make to them, they must be distinctly made to understand that this measure, has proceeded alone from the justice, moderation, and friendly disposition of the President towards them. It is of great importance that they should be thoroughly convinced that the liberality of the President in this case has not proceeded from any apprehension of their arms. The difference between the strength and resources of the United States, compared with the whole body of Indians, must convince the reflecting part of their warriors that apprehension of Indian aggression can never enter into the views of the President in negotiating with them. Nothing could be more fatal to the Indian race than an impression of this nature. At the same time, it is desirable that they should be deeply impressed with the views of justice, moderation, and benevolence by which the councils of the President are regulated towards his Indian neighbors. The President relies upon your zeal, talents, and discretion in conducting this negotiation, and making those impressions upon the Indian chiefs which are equally necessary to their own welfare and to the interest of the United States. The people of the Indiana Territory have petitioned the President to make an effort to extinguish the Indian title to a district of country lying contiguous to the land in question. Whilst the President is disposed to gratify the wishes of the petitioners, and is solicitous to promote the growth and prosperity of the Territory in which they reside, he is unwilling to press the Indian tribes for cessions of land which they are not disposed to sell. Their dispositions upon this point may be sounded, but importunity is to be avoided. ■	I have the honor to be, &c. WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD. P. S. As the goods which have been ordered on for the annuities of the Indian tribes who are to be convened on the 22d instant will not arrive in time, you are authorized to draw upon the Department for the amount specified in the foregoing instructions. W. H. C. BENJAMIN PARKE, and FIDELIO C. SHARP, Commissioners to hold a treaty with certain tribes of Indians at Fort Harrison, Ind. T. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 7,1S16. Your several letters on the subject of Indian negotiation have been received, and submitted to the President. The idea of obtaining cessions of land from distant tribes of Indians, as the consideration for granting them annuities, as has been done with those more immediately in our neighborhood, has been deliberately examined. Considering the vast extent of country to which the Indian title has been extinguished, and which is now ready to be offered for sale and settlement, the public interest, so far as the demand for land is in question, does not require any additional cessions from the Indians. The situation of particular States or Territories may render it expedient to extinguish the Indian title to certain districts of country, with the view of making the settlement more compact, or for other local purposes. Cessions from distant tribes cannot be considered desirable in any point of view. Our settlements are already extended greatly beyond what the public interest requires. The propensity of our frontier settlers to spread over the surface of every cession, however distant, affords an additional inducement to decline them. Should this disposition be restrained by the timely vigilance of the Government, the lapse of time between the cession and the actual settlement will, as in the case of the lands now surveying on the Wabash, give rise to disputes with the tribes making the cession, or with their neighbors who may have conflicting claims to the lands. Every offer of this kind must, therefore, be declined. It maybe expedient to engage to make them annual presents, according to the number and character of their respective tribes. Perhaps the better mode will be to give them assurances that their situation will be correctly represented to the President, who will direct that an allowance shall be made to them, annually, according to their numbers and wants. As the validity of the Illinois cession is contested by some of the Indian tribes who have used it as a hunting ground, the President has directed me to instruct you to use your best endeavors to quiet these claims. This may be done by giving them presents in consideration of their relinquishment of their supposed right to the land in question, or it may be effected by the stipulation to pay them an annual stipend proportioned to the colorable title which inky be supposed to exist. Should the nations who originally ceded the lands set up any kind of claim to it, their demands should be promptly repelled; but presents may be given them in case of their acquiescence in the original cession. As this cession is very extensive, and greatly exceeds the demands for lands in that quarter, and would withal, if settled, produce the necessity of establishing another Territorial Government, and give rise to a small settlement in the Indiana Territory, separated by an immense distance from the inhabited parts of the Territory, the President has deemed it expedient to offer, as an equivalent for the relinquishment of any conflicting claim to those lands, the recession of such parts as lie north of the northern line of the State of Ohio, extending westwardly to the Mississippi river, and east of the western boundary uf the Indiana Territory. In tendering this cession, a reservation for a military post at the month of the Ouisconsin, including both banks of the river, must be made, and such other reservations for the same object as your knowledge of the country to be receded may render necessary. The relinquishment of all Indian title to the lands south and west of the lines above defined, in consideration of the proposed recession, will be more acceptable to the President than if obtained by purchase. Considering the extent of the country proposed to be receded, there is every reason to believe that the various tribes exhibiting claims to it will readily acquiesce in the proposition. Should the proposition he rejected, you will then proceed to the discussion of the consideration which it will be proper to give them. The slight degree of information possessed by the Department precludes any precise instruction as to the amount of the consideration which ought to be given. This is left to your discretion. It is conceived that you had better err on the side of liberality, taking into view the nature and validity of their respective claims. Twenty thousand dollars have been ordered to St. Louis, to be placed at your disposition, to be distributed in presents to the various tribes with whom you may have to treat. This sum is exclusive of the consideration which you may find it necessary to promise for the purpose of quieting Indian claims to the Illinois purchase. Should the tribes inhabiting the country between the cession and the southwestern’margin of Lake Michigan present themselves, you are required to sound their disposition to cede a district of country which will connect the lake with the Illinois purchase. This cession would be of immense importance, and should be obtained, if practicable, at any expense, either of recession or purchase. In all other cases, importunity to cede is expressly interdicted. It is not known whether any other tribes claiming the margin of the lake will attend the approaching negotiation. The instruction's given on the ground that they may possibly attend. I have the honor to be, &c. WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD. Messrs. CLARK, EDWARDS, and CHOUTEAU, St. Louis. GENTLEMEN:	'	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 27, 1816. Your communication of the 29th ultimo has been received, and submitted to the President. The conduct of the Cherokees, in referring their dispute with the Osages to the decision of the officers of the United States, deserves and has received the decided approbation of the President. Under all the circumstances of the case, the course which you have adopted seems to be judicious, and such as will most probably produce the desired effect.	■ If you have not already adopted measures necessary for convening the chiefs of those tribes as well as of the Quapaws, it is deemed expedient that steps should be promptly taken to effect that object. If the Quapaws have claims to the lands ceded to the United States, and it should appear that their claim is well founded, it should he admitted; or an equivalent given for it, either by the payment of a gross sum, by an annuity for a term of years, or in perpe,tuity. Perhaps an annuity for a certain number of years will be the most eligible mode. Whilst negotiating with the Osage tribe, provision should be made for running the lines of the cession made by them to the United States.	(If it is thought expedient, as you have intimated, to change the boundaries of that treaty, it will be necessary to explain to this Department, without delay, the nature and effect of the change contemplated, and the reasons which are supposed to require it.	• It is deemed by the President inexpedient to obtain cessions of land from the Indians which are not required for settlement. Experience has proved the extreme difficulty of preventing persons from making settlements upon the most remote points of every cession before the land is offered for sale, by which the whole frontier is rendered utterly inadequate to its protection against Indian warfare. The adjustment of the Cherokee claim to the settlements they have made under the permission given them by Mr. Jefferson will necessarily occ.upy your attention. It is difficult to give precise instructions upon this subject. In deciding upon it, you must keep in view the fact that the Cherokee nation refuse to make any cession of their lands in consideration of the settlements which have been assigned to their countrymen. This may have proceeded, 13 E in some degree, from a knowledge that no lands had' been specifically assigned to the Cherokee emigrants by the United States. In any arrangements of this kind, there ought to be an express provision that an assignment should not be binding upon the United States, unless the same extent of country should be ceded by the Cherokees who have not emigrated, ur at least an extent of country equal to what the emigrants would be entitled to upon an equal partition of their lands, according to their relative numbers. In arranging the various interests which will have to be considered in the negotiations which you are authorized to enter into with the Osages, Quapaws, and Cherokees, the President has implicit confidence in your discretion, and in your zeal for the public service. I have the honor to be, &,c. WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD. To WILLIAM CLARK, NINIAN EDWARDS, and AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU, St. Louis, Ztf. T. SIR:	ST. LOUIS, June 30, 1816. We have the honor to inform you tbat.we are now endeavoring, by all the means in our power, to effectuate the objects authorized by your instructions of the 27th ultimo, in relation to the Cherokees and Osages. The principal cause of hostility between those tribes is, that the latter suppose the former to have settled upon their lands; which, indeed, would appear to be the case, if any published map that we have seen is to be relied upon. This is, however, generally thought to be a matter of considerable doubt and uncertainty; and General Rector, (the public surveyor for this and the Illinois Territory,) judging from lines which be has heretofore caused to be run, entertains a different opinion. It is evident, therefore, that no satisfactory adjustment can take place until the fact in controversy can be ascertained by running the line of the Osage purchase from the Missouri to the Arkansas. For this purpose we have made, application to General Rector, who has promised to have the line run as soon as the Osages can be notified to attend, agreeably to the treaty between them and the United States. He, however, having no instructions upon the subject, and knowing that that line could not be run for the price usually allowed for surveying, would not undertake it without our previously agreeing to be eventually responsible for all necessary expenses, and an adequate compensation to the gentleman to be employed. We, therefore, hope that such instructions and authority may be given to him as has been usual heretofore in similar cases. Our former suggestion, that an alteration in the line of the Osage cession might be expedient, was made under the impression that the settlements of the Cherokees might be found to be on the Osage lands; and as their improvements are considerable and really valuable, and have been made upon land pointed out to them by a public agent of the Government, we thought it would be just to make such a purchase, if it should be found to be necessary, as would include their settlements; but if this measure (supposing those Indians to be actually on the land of the Osages) should not be deemed advisable by the President, it will then be a question for his consideration whether good faith does not require that the Government, with whose apparent approbation they settled, should take immediate measures for their removal from the lands of the Osages, and, in that event, whether some compensation ought not to be made them for the losses they would thereby sustain. The Quapaws are said to claim the lands on the south side of the Arkansas, including a part of the Cherokee settlements; and have the same dispute with the Cherokees on that side which the Osages are supposed to have on the north side. As your letter seems to forbid any purchases of lands from the Indians which are not required for settlement, we should be happy to receive the President’s instructions upon the above-mentioned cases as early as possible. Referring to your letter of the 7th ultimo, we beg leave respectfully to suggest it as our opinion that you are mistaken in supposing that any part of the Illinois purchase lies within the Indiana Territory, and that the quantity of land contained in that cession, “ which lies north of the northern line of the State of Ohio, extending westwardly to the Mississippi river,’’will fall greatly short of your expectations, as will appear by Governor Edwards’s map, which we understand has been transmitted to you, and which we think more correct than any other that has been made of thaï country. We have thought it our duty to make these suggestions from a belief that our instructions, in part, have been predicated upon a misapprehension; of which it is best, at all events, that you should be informed. We shall, however, use our best endeavors to execute the President’s wishes upon the subject. We have the honor to be, most respectfully, sir, your most obedient servants, WILLIAM CLARK, NINIAN EDWARDS, The Hon. SECRETARV OF WAR.	AUG. CHOUTEAU. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, August 13, 1816. Your communication of the 5th of July has been submitted to the President, and I am instructed to inform you that you are authorized to accept of the property which has been delivered up by the Sacs of Rock river as a fulfilment on their part of those stipulations of the treaty relative to the delivery of property. I have the honor to be, Ac. GEORGE GRAHAM, Chief Clerk. Messrs. CLARK, EDWARDS, and CHOUTEAU, Commissioners, fyc., St. Louis. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, September 17, 1816. Your letter of the 30th of June last has been received and submitted to the consideration of the President. It is expedient, in every point of view, that the line of the Osage purchase should be run and marked from the Missouri to the Arkansas. You are hereby authorized to engage to pay such extra expenses fur running that line as shall appear to you to be reasonable and just, limiting the same by a maximum which shall not be exceeded in any event. The importance of accomplishing this service without delay renders it necessary that your engagements should be definitive, without consulting the Department upon the maximum to be determined. Economy ought to be strictly adhered to, which is too frequently departed from in every transaction in which the Government is concerned. Upon the subject of an eventual cession from the Osages or Quapaws becoming necessary to secure the Cherokee emigrants in their possessions, no precise instructions can be given. Those settlements were made upon an understanding which has never been fulfilled, or even acknowledged, by the Cherokee nation since that period. On the contrary, when urged upon that point last winter, they rejected the idea of exchange of lands in consideration for those upon which their emigrant brethren had settled, and said that they should be compelled to return and lire with the nation. They even refused to consider them as entitled to any part of the annuities payable to the Cherokees. This subject has been referred to the commissioners now holding a treaty in the Chickasaw nation with the four southern tribes. Should the condition upon which the settlements upon the Arkansas were founded be recognised by the nation, it will then become the duty of the United States to provide permanently for those emigrants by securing them in the peaceful enjoyment of their possessions. Should the nation, however, persevere in the sentiments by which their deputation was animated last winter, all obligation on the part of the United States is extinguished. To their own nation they must look for indemnity for any losses which they may sustain in consequence of their emigration. The United States cannot be bound if the conditions on the other part are violated. The result of the pending negotiation will remove all doubt on the subject, either by releasing us from all obligations, or by defining the extent of the duties imposed upon us in relation to the settlers upon the Arkansas. It is very probable that the Illinois cession may not extend eastwardly as far as the Indiana line, but it is so laid down in our maps. It is highly probable that Governor Edwards’s map of the Illinois Territory may be more correct than those in our possession, especially in the delineation of the lower part of the river of that name; but there is reason to believe that even that map does not afford materials sufficiently accurate to form any conclusive opinion upon as to the extent of the cession either eastwardly or northwardly. If that cession can be extended to the southern or western margin of Lake Michigan, by relinquishing that which lies north of the northern line of Ohio, reserving certain military sites, there can be no doubt of the utility of such an exchange. The views of the President on this subject have undergone no change. If Governor Edwards’s map is accurate as to the mouth of Fox river, there will be but little probability of extending the cession to the shores of the Michigan, in consideration of the relinquishment of our title to the northern extremity of the Illinois purchase. If this should be found impracticable, anv exchange which will tend to render our acquisitions in that quarter more compact, and at the same time bring us nearer the lake shore, will be acceptable to the President. The determination to purchase land only when demanded for settlement will form the settled policy of the Government. Experience has sufficiently proven that our population will spread over any cession, however extensive, before it can be brought into market, and before there is any regular and steady demand for settlement; thereby increasing the difficulty of protection, embarrassing the Government by broils with the natives, and rendering the execution of the laws regulating intercourse with the Indian tribes utterly impracticable. I have the honor to be, <fcc. WM. H. CRAWFORD. General WILLIAM CLARK, Governor N. EDWARDS, and AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU, Esq. Commissioners, ice., St. Louis. Sin;	WASHINGTON CITY, April 17, 1816. The undersigned consider it their duty to draw the attention of the Executive to the situation of the State of Tennessee, which they have the honor to represent, in regard to the Indian claim still existing to lands within its chartered limits. The western section of the State, embracing its whole width from north to south, and from the Mississippi to the Tennessee river, and towards the southern part of the State across the latter river to the river Elk, containing about eight millions of acres, is claimed by the Chickasaw Indians; none of whom, it is believed, reside thereon, and few, if any, use it even as hunting grounds, as the game is understood to be chiefly destroyed. A great portion of this tract was granted by the State of North Carolina to individuals more than twenty-five years ago, whose rights are guarantied to the holders by the act of cession made by that State of the territory now composing the State of Tennessee to the United States. The undersigned forbear to dwell on the great inconvenience and loss which individual claimants experience by being deprived of the use and benefit of their lands for so many years, as well as the risk they run of losing them entirely on account of not being able to identify their boundaries, by reason of the landmarks being destroyed by time and accidents. . The southeastern section of the State, extending across the Tennessee river, and reaching to the heart of the present settlements, containing nearly four millions of acres, a part of which has also been granted to individuals in the manner above stated, is claimed by the Cherokees, few of whom reside thereon, especially north of the Tennessee river, and the game is said to be so destroyed as to be of little or no value. Thus circumstanced, nearly half her territory incumbered with Indian claims, and excluded from settlement, the State of Tennessee has looked with anxiety, but at the same time with confidence, to the National Government, in the expectation that it would in due time adopt the requisite measures to effect the extinction of those claims, and thereby give expansion to her settlements, as well as enable individuals to get possession of their just rights. During a state of war with a powerful enemy, when the undivided resources of the nation as well as the attention of the Government might be required to vindicate her rights and avenge her wrongs, Tennessee forbore to press he.r claims on this head; but, on the return of peace, the restoration of our affairs to their usual tranquillity, and of our finances to a flourishing condition, she feels herself authorized to bring the subject to the immediate view of the General Government, that it may receive the consideration to which it is conceived to be justly entitled. The undersigned, therefore, entertain the hope that, for the purpose of effecting the extinction of those Indian claims, (an object so much desired by the State they represent,) it may accord with the Executive views of propriety to direct such treaty or treaties to be held with the Chickasaw and Cherokee nations of Indians as the occasion may require, and at such times and places as may be considered most convenient to the parties concerned. The undersigned have the honor, &c. G. W. CAMPBELL, JOHN WILLIAMS, S. POWER, - B. H. HENDERSON, N. CANNON, '	J. THOMAS, W. G. BLOUNT, J. B. REYNOLDS. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 4, 1816. The uncertainty of the boundaries of the Creek cession to the west has rendered it necessary to hold treaties with the Choctaw and Chickasaw nations for the adjustment of the dividing line between the United States and those tribes. For this purpose, General John Coffee, John Rhea, and John McKee, esquires, have been authorized to negotiate with the former of those tribes. To effect the same object with the Chickasaws, the President has appointed General Andrew Jackson, the honorable Jesse Franklin, of North Carolina, and yourself. By the next mail you will receive more precise instructions upon the measures preparatory to the opening of the negotiation, and, in due time, those which shall regulate yotir conduct in effecting the object confided to your management.	I have the honor to be, &c. •	WM. H. CRAWFORD. General DAVID MERIWETHER, Athens, Georgia. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, July 1, 1816. . Lest any mistake should be committed in relation to the. point called the Flat or Shining Rock in the Cherokee and other Indian treaties, it is proper to inform you that it is on Bear creek; and this is the corner of the Chickasaw possessions, according to the evidence produced by that nation. From this point their line, according to the same evidence, runs to the Long Leaf Pine, which falls into the Black Warrior. I have the honor to be, &c. WM. H. CRAWFORD. WILLIAM BARNETT, Huntsville, Mississippi Territory. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, July 5, [3,] 1816. The difficulty of satisfactorily arranging with the Chickasaw deputation, during their visit to Washington, the western boundary of the cession made by the Creek Indians to the United States in 1814, arising as well from the nature of the evidence produced, as from the uncertainty always found in the definition of Indian boundaries, has induced the President to determine upon holding a treaty for the purpose of definitively settling all territorial controversies with that nation. To this course the President has the more readily inclined, from the consideration that the powers of the deputation, though ample for the particular object contemplated, were, so far as the question of territory was concerned, specially limited to the settlement of boundary according to existing rights. In treating directly with the nation, whose power is unlimited, the question of boundary may be equitably arranged by mutual concessions of the lands in controversy, or by the relinquishment of all claims by the one party for a consideration to be paid by the other, proportioned to the extent of the country in dispute, and to the nature of the evidence by which the title is supported. The evidence in the present case, depending wholly upon tradition, unconnected with records, or charts, or marked lines, cannot be expected to convince either of the parties of the nullity of their respective titles. From this view of the subject, it is manifest that the controversy can be adjusted only by a spirit of conciliation and compromise, or by an appeal to force. Justice and sound policy equally forbid that this appeal should be made or provoked by the United States. The consideration that the weakness of one of the parties may insure submission to whatever decision shall be made, without regard to its correctness, so far from releasing the other from the obligations of justice, makes a forcible appeal to its magnanimity, which cannot be disregarded without loss of national character. This consideration, however, does not require that the just rights and true interests of the nation should be impaired, much less sacrificed. The great value of the possessions of this tribe, compared with the smallness of its population, and the manifest interest which it has to increase its annuity by the sale of a part of its lands, will justify the Government in pressing the claim which it derives from the Creek cession, with the view to obtain the relinquishment of their claim to the lands in dispute for a fair consideration. It is believed that the true interests df both parties will be promoted by the adoption of this policy. The President expects that the negotiation confided to your discretion will be conducted upon these principles. In conformity with this view of the subject, your efforts will be at first directed to obtain the relinquishment of the Chickasaw title to the lands claimed by them, which are understood to be comprehended within a line running from the Flat or Shining Rock, on Bear creek, to the ridge dividing the waters which fall into the Black Warrior from those of the Tombigbee river; thence, along the ridge, to a point due east of the mouth of Tibby creek; thence, directly to the mouth of that creek; thence, up the Tombigbee river, to the Cotton Gin Port; thence, along the line run by General Coffee, to its intersection of the Cherokee line defined by the late treaty. The importance of the territory comprehended within these limits is not to be estimated by the intrinsic value of the lands. The title to the territory in question gives us the undisputed navigation of the Tombigbee river to the Cotton Gin Port, which is the highest point of unobstructed navigation upon that river; it being expected that the negotiations set on foot with the Choctaw nation will terminate in the acknowledgment of the Tombigbee river as the boundary between that tribe and the United States. Considering the importance of the navigation of this river, in every point of view, no consideration which it may be necessary to give will be considered exorbitant which does not very far exceed the rate at which purchases of Indian lands have been heretofore made. Should it be found necessary to give a very unusual price, the reason for giving it should be fully explained, in order to preclude the expectation that like prices will be given hereafter for lands differently situated. Should you succeed in obtaining this relinquishment, various other objects will demand your attention. The agent of the Cherokee nation has been directed to renew to'that tribe the offer made to their deputation last winter, to purchase their claim to the lands lying west of the Chickasaw old fields, and which are also claimed by the Chickasaws. He has also been directed to effect the purchase of all the Cherokee lands lying north of the Tennessee river, if the nation is disposed to make the sale. Should these offers be rejected, he has been directed to urge the nation to give to the deputation which shall be sent to the Chickasaw treaty full power to treat upon these subjects. In either event, you are required to make every proper exertion to obtain from them, jointly or severally, as the circumstances may require, the cession of this district of country. The difficulty of settling the conflicting claims of these two tribes will probably facilitate the execution of the first part of the duty here enjoined. The little value of the Cherokee lands lying north of the Tennessee river will probably render the second part more easy. As these cessions will connect the settlements of Tennessee with those upon the Gulf of Mexico, and as this connexion is considered an object of great importance to the general interests, you will, in fixing the price, be governed by the rules prescribed in the preceding case. Should your efforts in this respect be unsuccessful, or should the Cherokees not only have refused the offers di rected to be made by the agent, but also have refused to invest their deputation with the necessary authority upon these subjects, you will endeavor to obtain, by convention, the free navigation of Bear creek, with an authority to construct a road from the highest navigable point upon that stream to the Cotton Gin Port, on the Tombigbee river, and also such other roads as your knowledge of the localities of the country shall induce you to think necessary. Perhaps the best mode of disposing of this subject will be to provide, generally, for the opening of such roads through that part of the Indian country as the President shall, from time to time, judge necessary. The toll to be received at the ferries or bridges to be established, not only upon these roads, but upon those already in use, • should be regulated by treaty, in order the more effectually to guard against unjust exactions, and the vexatious disputes which necessarily result from them. The extinguishment of the Chickasaw title to the lands lying in the Great Bend of the Tennessee river has long been an object of desire to the inhabitants of the western parts of Tennessee and Kentucky. The fertility of the soil, and the excellent navigation which that river affords from the foot of the Muscle Shoals to its junction with the Ohio, render the acquisition of this tract of country of great importance to the United States. The advantages of a natural boundary such as the Tennessee river should not be entirely overlooked by either of the parties. Under this view of the subject, the President has determined that an effort shall be made to obtain from the Chickasaw nation the cession of this valuable body of land. The consideration to be given for this cession is submitted to your discretion, with the single observation, that, as the inducements to make this purchase are believed to be inferior to those which operate in tbe case of the lands lying between the Tennessee river and the Creek cession, it is expected that the price of the latter will be lower than the former, the comparative extent and value of the tracts being kept in view. It is probable that you will not be able to accomplish all these objects at the approaching negotiation. The extent and value of the cessions which you are directed to obtain, if practicable, so far exceed those which have been heretofore made by that nation, that there is some reason to apprehend that the feelings of the chiefs may be shocked at the policy which these demands may be supposed to disclose. Under these circumstances, it is with some degree of reluctance that the President feels it necessary to direct that propositions be made to them for the purchase of that part of their hunting grounds lying within the State of Kentucky. Respect to the feelings of that State, manifested by their Senators and Representatives in an application for that purpose, requires that an effort should be made to accomplish their wishes, unless the disposition of the nation should be discovered to be so adverse to it as to render it, in your opinion, injudicious to urge the subject. If the cession shall be obtained, the purchase money will have to be paid by the State of Kentucky. The validity of the treaty will, therefore, depend upon its ratification by that State. If, in the progress of your negotiations, it shall be discovered that any one of the cessions directed to be obtained can be more easily effected than another, you are authorized to change the order in which they are to be pressed, except the cessions lying south of the Tennessee river. It is possible that the cession of the lands lying in the State of Kentucky may be more easily obtained than that of the lands in the Bend of Tennessee, as those lands are more distant from the Chickasaw settlements. The same consideration may possibly induce that nation to cede a tract of country lying immediately south of the Kentucky line, and extending from the settlements to the Mississippi river, in lieu of the lands lying in the Bend of the Tennessee. If the Cherokees cede their lands lying north of the Tennessee, a part of the consideration will have to be paid by the State of Tennessee. It is expedient that the proportion be fixed by the treaty, which will be valid only upon the ratification by the United States and by the State of Tennessee. Your knowledge of the relative value of the lands belonging to the parties will enable you to apportion the consideration to be paid equitably between them. Although the cessions which you are required to obtain, if practicable, excite well-founded apprehensions that the views of the Government will not be fully realized, yet there are many considerations which, when properly understood and duly appreciated, forcibly unite in recommending, on the part of the Chickasaws, an acquiescence in the demands which you are required to press. Their deputation, in their recent visit to this place, have requested that English schools may be established among them, for the purpose of more effectually introducing the arts of civilized life, and of forming the habits necessary to that state of being. They all united in ascribing the little progress which had been made by them in the arts of husbandry to their incapacity to obtain ploughs, and the other necessary instruments and utensils. A cession of a considerable portion of their unoccupied lands, while on the one band it will attest the sincerity of their desire, will, on the other, tend to hasten the accomplishment of that desirable object. On the one hand, it will diminish the temptation to waste in the chase the time which could be more profitably employed in husbandry, and, on the other, furnish the means of prosecuting their agricultural labors with the greatest success. Blessed with a fertile soil, a mild and salubrious climate, and supplied with the necessary implements of husbandry, a slight degree of labor will be sufficient to procure them not only the necessaries but the comforts of life. Ease and comfort cannot fail to produce a considerable increase in their population, and rapidly destroy all reliance for subsistence upon the chase. Until the propensity for the chase be checked, until the enterprise of the nation receive a different direction, great and beneficial changes in their situation cannot be expected. Their chiefs are capable of understanding this reasoning. If they are sincere in the desires which they have expressed, of aspiring to the honorable character of American citizens, they will use their influence with the nation to make the cessions required of them. If the cessions are obtained, the payment of the consideration should be regulated by the progressive improvements contemplated to result from the receipt of annuities sufficient to supply them not only with all the utensils of agriculture, but with many of the comforts of civilized life. At present, they are poor and destitute of almost every thing necessary to render them comfortable. Their immediate wants may be supplied in the form of presents, whilst their future necessities will be regularly supplied by the payment of a yearly stipend. In determining the amount of this stipend, the compensation for each cession may be put in the form of an annuity, decreasing every ten or five years, in the proportion of ten, eight, six, four, and three, and to cease altogether at the end of fifty years, when it may be presumed civilized habits will have rendered this resource unnecessary. Should a longer term be absolutely insisted on, the lowest annuity may be protracted; but it is extremely desirable to avoid a perpetuity, unless it be essential to the accomplishment of the main object. If, contrary to this well-founded expectation, the tribe, instead of advancing in the arts of civilization, should retrograde, and dwindle in its population, the diminished rate of its annuity will probably continue to bear nearly the same proportion to its wants as when first stipulated. In every point of view, therefore, it is desirable that the annuity agreed upon should be greatest during the first years of its enjoyment, and that it should gradually diminish to a small amount, if not entirely cease, at a given period of time. This system will be favorable to the extinguishment of their title to such portion of their unsettled lands as may become indispensable to tbe United States in the progress of their population. In the management of the various and delicate interests involved in the negotiation confided to your discretion and talents, the President places the most unbounded reliance. A variety of considerations and arguments, which it is impossible to embrace in these instructions, will necessarily arise from the discussions in which you will be engaged, which, judiciously wielded, will enable you to remove the objections urged by the nation, and secure a compliance with the views of the Government. Your authority to make presents pending the negotiation, and after its termination, is limited only by your discretion, subject to t^e rules laid down in relation to the consideration to be given for each particular cession. After having secured as many of the objects confided to your care in this negotiation as can be obtained without exciting the jealousy or alarming the fears of the nation, you are required to use your best endeavors to settle in an amicable manner all disputes between the Indian tribes represented in the negotiation, relative to their respective boondaries. If it is believed by you to be expedient that the boundaries to be settled should be marked under the authority of the United States, provision to that effect may be made in the convention which you are authorized to make upon that subject, if it be not objected toon the part of the Indians. In the event of a stipulation of this nature, one or more of the topographical engineers will be employed, according to the circumstances of the ease. I have the honor to be, &c. WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD. Major General ANDREW JACKSON, General DAVID MERIWETHER, and JESSE FRANKLIN, Esq. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, July 5, 1816. On the 3d instant I had the honor to forward to Nashville the instructions for the government of your conduct in the negotiatiôn upon which you are required to enter with the Chickasaw nation, and with such deputation as may be sent for that purpose by the Cherokees. (The views of the President having been fully developed in these instructions, I have but little to add in this letter. It is expected that your conduct will be conciliatory, and calculated to inspire the nation with a just sense of the equity and magnanimity of the conduct of the Government towards them. From the extensive powers with which you are vested, the most beneficial consequences are anticipated; the wants of the Indians, and the conflicting claims of the Chickasaws and Cherokees, cannot fail to facilitate the accomplishment of the first two objects of your instructions. Should the others fail, although it will be the subject of regret, yet the interests of the nation will not be sensibly affected by it. In relation to these questions, you will press or relax your efforts to secure any one of them a preference to another, according to the dispositions manifested by the Indians. It is impossible to decide, before the experiment is made, whether they will be more disposed to cede the lands in the Bend of Tennessee in preference to the northern extremity of their possessions. It is necessary to observe that the claim of the Cherokees to the lands lying in the Bend of Tennessee have been relinquished to the United States.	_ The treaty of the 28th of November, 1785, held by Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, James Martin, and Lachlan McIntosh, recognises the Cherokee claim to those lands; and the treaty held a few months afterwards by the same commissioners with the Chickasaws does not exclude them in the definition of Chickasaw boundary. The letters patent, signed by General Washington, then President, in the year 1794, is the first recognition of their title to the lands in question. It is presumed that you will be able to procure copies of those treaties; if not, they will be forwarded to you. Enclosed is evidence furnished by the Chickasaw nation, which shows that the Flat or Shining Rock referred to in some of our Indian treaties, and which is one of their corners, is a point different from the Long Leaf Pine, and that it runs from the one to the other. The Chickasaw deputation have complained of their want of confidence in Colonel Cocke, the present agent, and have requested that another might be sent to them. There is some reason to doubt whether the deputation have correctly represented the willof the nation in this ease. The President is desirous of ascertaining the truth, and has directed me to instruct you to inquire into the fact before you close the negotiations. It is desirable that this part of your duty should be executed with a proper regardto the feelings of Colonel Cocke. It is necessary that the agent should possess the confidence of the nation; if he has lost it, the public interest requires that another agent should be selected. In this measure, the reputation of the preceding agent will not be involved, as the inquiry is simply to ascertain whether he possesses the confidence of the nation in a sufficient degree to be useful to the Government. I have the honor to be, &e. WM. H. CRAWFORD. Major Gen. ANDREW JACKSON, General DAVID MERIWETHER, and JESSB FRANKLIN, Esq. SIR:	’	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, July 5, 1816. Since my letter of the 24th of May, it has been determined to make a more strenuous effort to obtain the lands lying between the Cherokee line and the Tennessee river, both from the Chickasaws and Cherokees, than was at that time, contemplated. In consequence of this determination, you are authorized to suspend the removal of the settlers upon those lands until the result of the negotiation with the Chickasaws shall be known. This delay will at least give them time to make their crops, and provide for the next year’s subsistence. I have the honor to be, tec. WM. H. CRAWFORD. Major Gen. ANDREW JACKSON, Nashville, Tennessee. FRIEND AND BROTHER:	CHICKASAW AGENCY, July 17,1816. I yesterday received your letter, dated at Nashville, July 7th, and am.very glad to hear of your return from the Seminoles, bot am sorry to find that you were in bad.health. You inform me that you have been appointed by our father the President of the United States to act as a commissioner to treat with the Chickasaw nation for the purchase or exchange of land; in answer to which I beg leave to inform you that, at a council held at my house on the 13th instant, the subject of selling or exchanging land was discussed, and it was determined by the chiefs then present that the Chickasaw nation had no lands to sell or exchange whatever. I have also to state that the warriors of this nation have been very much dissatisfied with the chiefs ever since the treaty held with you in 1816, on account of the land then sold by them. The Chickasaw nation will, however, be very happy to meet you, and to hear what you have to say to them, at whatever time yon may think proper to appoint; but the chiefs would wish the place of meeting to be somewhere in the centre of the nation, as the warriors would not like any treaty to be held on the frontier. Respecting the time appointed by you for my coming to see you at the mouth of Cypress, I am sorry to say that the time is too short, as I am this day to set out on a journey to the Choctaw nation, where I shall be five or six days, for the purpose of settling our boundary line with the Choctaws. I would rather you would fix the time of meeting for the 5th of August, (if convenient to you,) when I shall be at the mouth of Cypress, > and I expect some of the headmen will be there too, as I shall invite them to go with me; we can there arrange the time and place for holding the treaty with the nation. In answer to what you say relative to the money due the nation as stipulated by the treaty, I have to inform you it has not been received, and the nation are daily looking anxiously for it. We have been told that, upon the return of Col. Butler, the money will be immediately paid us through the hands of our agent, Col. Henry Sherburne, who is now with us. 1 have now only to express my best wishes, tec. JAMES COLBERT, Major Gen. ANDREW JACKSON.	United States Interpreter. SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, DIVISION OF THE SOUTH, NASHVILLE, July 19, 1816. Your letter of the 5th instant, and (he instructions of the same date which are to govern the commissioners in the treaty ordered to be held with the Chickasaws, are this moment received. I have, by express, ordered Captain Allen to suspend the order of the 27th of May, for the removal of the intruders and destruction of their improvements, until further ordered.	. The instructions to the commissioners are ample, and I have a sanguine hope that the Cherokees, under present circumstances, will yield, for a moderate compensation, all claim to the lands south of the Tennessee, so important for national defence and the protection of our frontier. I have very little doubt but the Chickasaws will also feel it their interest and policy to surrender all claim to the lands south of the Tennessee included within the lines run by General Coffee, for a very moderate sum; however, as far as my exertions and influence can be useful, they will be employed to obtain this all-impurtant object. I suppose the agent for the Chickasaws has been instructed to convene the chiefs on the 1st of September, and to lay in supplies for them during the convention. I take this for granted, as there is nothing said on this subject by you. I also presume that a secretary is to be allowed to the commissioners, with the usual salary. I am, &c. ANDREW JACKSON. Hon. WM. H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of War. SIR:	HEAD-QUARTERS, DIVISION OF THE SOUTH, NASHVILLE, July 20, 1816. From a full consideration of the instructions by which we are to be governed in holding the treaty ordered with the Chickasaws, it may be necessary, in the course of (he negotiation, to make the chiefs some presents; it is therefore necessary to be advised from what source they are to be drawn, and also out of what fund the contingent expenses are to be paid, and by whom the necessary supplies for the commission are to be furnished. With respect, &c. ANDREW JACKSON, Major General, Hon. WM. H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of War.	Commanding Division of the South. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, August 5, 1816. Your letters of the 19th and 20th ultimo are received. Mr. Franklin will probably be with you before the receipt of this. From General Meriwether we have received no answer to the several communications that have been made to him. Mr. Cocke, the Chickasaw agent, was advised on the 26th of June that the commissioners would meet at the Chickasaw council-house on the 1st of September; and Major Colbert, who was then here, informed us that abundant supplies of provisions could be furnished by the nation. I shall write to Mr. Cocke, who will be charged with procuring the supplies of provisions, by this mail. As it was doubtful whether goods at this season could be transported in time for the treaty, none were ordered. The commissioners are authorized to draw on (his Department for such sums as may be found necessary, either on account of contingent expenses, or on account of such presents as they may think proper to make to the chiefs. Some particular articles might be procured at Nashville, but I suspect that money would generally have more influence among those Indians than goods. The commissioners will appoint their own secretary, who will be allowed five dollars a day, exclusive of his necessary expenses. A regular commission will be forwarded to you this week; it has been delayed as well on account of the uncertainty of your acceptance, as from an expectation of hearing by every mail from General Meriwether. Should he not accept, Mr. F. Sharp, of Kentucky, will be appointed to fill (he vacancy. No delay, however, will be occasioned by such a change, as the commissioners are authorized to act jointly or severally. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM, Chief Clerk. Gen. ANDREW JACKSON. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, September 10, 1816. Enclosed you will receive an extract of a letter from the agent of the United States in the Cherokee nation, from which it is conjectured you will receive some aid in accomplishing the objects of your mission. It is presumed that Colonel Meigs has furnished you with the infurmation which it contains, as it will necessarily have some influence upon the negotiations with which you are charged. The commissioners for running the lines of the Creek cession have represented that the Chickasaw nation have remonstrated against the running and marking of the line designated in the Cherokee convention as infringing upon their rights.	. Although it is manifest that they have no interest in the matter, as the Cherokee claim to the lands north of that line will not receive any additional force from that event, nor the Chickasaw claim to the south of it be in any degree weakened, yet, as the negotiations with which you are charged may make the running of a part of that line unnecessary, they have been directed to postpone their operations until the result of your efforts shall be known. They have also been instructed to run and mark any line connected with the Creek purchase which may be made necessary by the treaty or treaties which you may conclude, without waiting for further directions from this Department. To enable them to fulfil this duty with the least possible delay, you are required to furnish them with a definition of the lines which it shall be their duty to run pursuant to their instructions. It will be proper to stipulate for the attendance of Indian commissioners for the purpose of marking the lines, and that immediately after the termination of the negotiations. I have the honor to be, &c. General A, JACKSON,	,	WM. H. CRAWFORD. General D. MERIWETHER, and J. FRANKLIN, Esq., Commissioners, fyc., Chickasaw Agency. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, September 10, 1816. Your communication of the 13th ultimo, covering the address of the Chickasaw nation remonstrating against running the line designated by the Cherokee treaty, has been received. Although it is not conceived that the running of that line can in any degree affect the claims of that nation, whatever they may be, yet, as it is probable that the result of the negotiations now pending in the Chickasaw nation may change the line in question, there is no urgent necessity for completing it at this lime. Should these negotiations terminate without effecting that line, you, or either of you, will proceed to run and mark the line without further delay. Should the commissioners succeed in obtaining the cessions which they are instructed to demand, you will, upon due notification thereof, run such lines south of the Tennessee as are in any degree connected with the Creek cession, as may be defined in the treaty or treaties which may be formed by them. They will be instructed to furnish you with the definition of the lines which you are to run, with the least possible delay. Perhaps your attendance at the place of negotiation may be useful, especially as it will prevent the loss of time in receiving the information necessary for the government of your conduct, and may secure a prompt attendance on the part of the tribes concerned at the running of the lines. What is the distance to the Flat Rock recognised by the Cherokees? What the probable course of the line from the Ten Islands to that point? Any information on any subject connected with this line, the nature of the soil, and face of the country through which it will run, will be acceptable. I have the honor to be, &c. WM. H. CRAWFORD. P. S. The authority to run these lines contemplated in the foregoing letter is to be understood as joint or several, for the purpose of avoiding unnecessary delay. W. H. C. WM. BARNETT, Esq. and General JOHN COFFEE, u Commissioners for running the line of the Creek cession. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, September 12, 1816. The extracts mentioned in the postscript to my letter of the 11th instant, not being prepared at the closing of the mail, are now forwarded, together with an extract from a letter from this Department, under date of the 27th May, 1816, to the commissioners to whom the complaints of the Cherokees on the Arkansas have been referred. The bearing of these papers upon the negotiations in which you are engaged is so obvious as to require no explanation from me. Should an arrangement be made, founded upon the principle of exchange as contemplated by Mr. Jefferson and the Cherokee emigrants, a cession adjoining the settlements of Georgia may possibly be obtained. A part of the lands ceded by the Cherokees to the State of Georgia in the treaty of 1783 was relinquished by the treaty of 1790; a considerable portion of which has never been receded, and none of it regularly. That part, at least, ought to be receded; and, if the cession could be extended to the Chattahoochie, it would not be more than what the State had a right to expect. This, however, is mentioned rather as what is expected than what is attainable. General Meriwether, one of the commissioners, is fully acquainted with all the circumstances, and will give the explanations which may be necessary, should there be a prospect of obtaining a cession. I have the honor to be, &c. To ANDREW JACKSON,	WM. H. CRAWFORD. DAVID MERIWETHER, and JESSE FRANKLIN, Commissioners, fyc. SIR:	CHICKASAW COUNCIL-HOUSE, September 20, 1816. In a communication to you of the 4th instant from Generals Jackson and Meriwether, you were advised of the Big Warrior’s having sent a runner to this nation, excusing himself and the chiefs of the Creek nation from attending at this convention, but ioviting the four southern tribes to assemble at Turkeytown on the 1st of October next. It was stated that this was believed to be, in combination with the Cherokees, to defeat the objects of this conference; and that, to counteract it, George Mayfield, accompanied by a Creek chief, had been sent on a second mission to the Creek nation, to invite their attendance, and bring on, if possible, the upper chiefs of said nation. The Cherokee delegates arrived here on the 6th instant, and on the 8th Generals Jackson and Meriwether held a conference with the chiefs of the Chickasaws, Cherokees, and Choctaws, for the substance of which, as well as the proceedings of the subsequent meetings, you are respectfully referred to the journal that will be forwarded you. As was anticipated, much difficulty was encountered in negotiating with the Chickasaws; the conference being held with the whole nation, every individual had to be consulted; and the chiefs, together with the agent, seemed more anxious to maintain their popularity, than to promote the views of Government, or the best interests of the nation they ruled. Much embarrassment was occasioned by your letter of the 16th of April to the agent having been read tn the Chickasaws previous to the arrival of the commissioners, and the interpretation given it. The charter from General Washington was supposed unobjectionable, and an idea prevailed that it would be supported in preference to any other title. Generals Jackson and Meriwether, the two commissioners present, (Jesse Franklin, Esq. not having arrived,) believing that no Creek title to territory actually occupied and settled could be impaired by any charter to which the Creeks did not give their assent, deemed it an act of justice and sound policy, and absolutely necessary to the correct discharge of the duties assigned them, to examine the testimony on which the conflicting claims of the three parties were founded. They accordingly proceeded to take all the evidence offered, which has been recorded in the journal for your information. From that testimony, it appears that the Creeks were the earliest settlers of this section of country; that they were found here by the other nations on their first arrival; that they continued in possession until 1813, when they were driven away by the American troops. It also appears, from the declaration of the whole Chickasaw nation, that the Cherokees never had any land adjoining them on the south side of the Tennessee river, and that the Creeks were always their neighbors; that the Chickasaws never complained of Creek encroachments while settled at Cold Water, but permitted the Creeks to remain in peaceable possession until destroyed by General Robinson in 1786, but that the moment a settlement was attempted on Bearcreek, Pio- mingo notifies the intruders to remove, or he will destroy them, and takes part of their goods for rent. (See Gordon’s testimony.) It further appears that the Creeks were in possession not only of Cold Water, but had settlements on the Tennessee, a little below Flint, on Tarchccunda creek, and at Thompson’s creek; at Black Warrior, a very old town; and at Littlcputche, on Caney creek, near Will’s creek, the lower boundary of lands stated to have been loaned by the Creeks to the Cherokees. From this collective testimony, and a belief that possession is the best, if not the only substantial evidence of Indian title, the commissioners then present (Generals Jackson and Meriwether) expressed their conviction of the Creek claim being the strongest, in an address to the council on the 12th instant, and then made proposals to the Chickasaws and Cherokees, as will be found recorded in the journal. The Cherokees, on the 14th, made a communication in writing, refusing to yield any lands on the north side of the Tennessee, but proposing to cede their claim to the disputed territory on the south for certain considerations, which were acceded to, embodied in the form of a treaty, and duly executed and signed by all the commissioners, (the Hon. Jesse Franklin having previously arrived.) As the Cherukee delegates seemed doubtful as to the extent of their powers, this treaty has been concluded subject to the ratification of the Cherokee nation, and it is provided that the said nation shall meet the commissioners on the 28th instant at Turkeytown, to express their approbation or not. In concluding the treaty with the Cherokees, it was found both wise and politic to make a few presents to the chiefs and interpreters. The execution of the treaty with the Cherokees alarmed and seemed to irritate the Chickasaws, and the death of a principal chief (the Factor) appeared to distract their councils. Confusion amongst them was visible. When solicited for an answer to the propositions made them on the 12th instant, they invariably begged time to deliberate. It was soon found that a favorable result to the negotiation was not to be anticipated, unless we addressed ourselves feelingly to the predominant and governing passions of all Indian tribes, i. e. their avarice or fear. Our instructions pointed to the former, and forbade the latter; we therefore were compelled, not from choice, but from instructions, to apply the sole remedy in utir power. It was applied, and presents offered to the influential chiefs, amounting to $4,500, to be paid on the success of the negotiation. This measure seemed to produce some sensible effect. Time was asked for reflection; the chiefs that had left the ground were sent for; and we have this day concluded a treaty that secures to the West a free and uninterrupted intercourse with the low country. Independent of the accession of a rich and large body of lands to the United States, the objects otherwise obtained by this treaty are of incalculable political advantage to our country. We have obtained a connexion of Tennessee with the low country; the free use and navigation of the Coosa, Black Warrior, and Tombigbcc rivers; and, what is truly grateful to the human mind, prevented the destruction of many of our red brethren, and possibly a civil war; secured the affections of the population of the South and West to the present administration; and restored that confidence that formerly existed between the rulers and the people. If the annuity given has been larger than usual, it is not more than proportionate to the benefits obtained. We have drawn upon the Department of War for the amount of those presents distributed to the principal chiefs, and which could not appear on the treaty. Secrecy was enjoined as to the names. Secrecy is necessary, or the influence of the chiefs would be destroyed, which has been, and may be useful on a future occasion. The chiefs will accompany the drafts, which we have no doubt will be duly honored and paid. The land within the State of Tennessee, and ceded by this treaty, being within (he congressional district, and all the vacant lands beintt the property of the United States, we did not conceive it necessary to make any discrimination. We did not consider it of any importance, when compared with the value of the cession in a political point of view; and we were more particularly urged to the measure from a belief that an adjustment between the United States and this State was practicable, and the ratification of the treaty thereby not hazarded by a reference to a State Legislature. Finding the jealousy of the Chickasaw Indians aroused when we obtained the cessions embraced in the treaty, we did not think it prudent to urge them on the other points of our instructions; we conceived it not prudent, and of course did not name it to them. Agreeably to our instructions, we put to the council the question whether their agent had the confidence of the nation. On this day the question was answered by Tishomingo—that they did not want their present agent, and gave this as the full sense of the whole nation. The chiefs have spoken to us this evening to say to you that they want an agent sent them from the East, capable of doing justice to their red and white brethren. The enclosed petition of James Colbert and Turner Brashears, Indian interpreters, is referred for your consideration. We remain, <fcc. ANDREW JACKSON, ) D. MERIWETHER, > Commissioners. Hon. WM. H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of IFar.	J. FRANKLIN, ) To the Commissioners of the Chickasaw and Choctaw Nations, appointed by the President of the United States to treat with the said nations. Your petitioners beg leave to state to you the grievances under which we labor, as interpreters of the said nations. That, whereas we are daily called on to do business with the agent of our nations by the natives thereof, and are constantly more or less crowded with companv, the support of whom is a very considerable tax upon us, the sala- 14 E ries which we receive from the Government of the United States is not more than sufficient to defray this unavoidable expense. We therefore request of the commissioners to take into consideration the aforesaid grievances, and to give to the United States a just view of our situation, and to request of the Government to afford to us such further allowance as will cover this expense, and thereby enable us to save our present salaries as a support for our families, and a compensation for our loss of time front our homes and attention to business. We hope that this request will be deemed just and right by the commissioners, and that they will use their influence in our favor as far as they may deem proper, which will be thankfully acknowledged by Your friends and obedient servants,	. JAMES COLBERT, TURNER BRASHEARS. SIR:	CHICKASAW AGENCY, September 22, 1816. The treaty with the Chickasaws has terminated in a manner beneficial to the United States, every way highly gratifying to all the good people of the western country, and removes many causes of discontent which unjust intrusion had created among the Indians. I assure you I should have been extremely happy to have had it in my power to concur with General Jackson in every thing that appertained to my duty as agent for the United States, and I willingly indulge the hope that neither he nor you will attach blame to me for an honest difference in opinions, which only happened as to the time and manner proper for me to impress on the minds of the Indians the benefits and advantages that would result to them from the terms offered them by the commissioners of the United States. After the propositions were made by the commissioners, an admirable letter, written by Colonel Meigs to the Cherokees, was publicly read. His advice well became that of a father and a friend. It declared to them, in the strongest terms, how much it was their duty and interest to grant to the United States all the country the President wanted. I then thought it a proper time to rise in public council and declare my concurrence with every sentiment contained in Colonel Meigs’s letter, and, at the same time, to tell the Chickasaws that the doctrine was not new to them, and that their agent had on many occasions made known in their councils that the President and Secretary of War most be listened to and obeyed by them, for that they never would desire them to do any thing but what would be for the benefit of all their children. The commissioners and the whites then withdrew, and left the Indians in council, when Major General Jackson, without apprizing me of his desire, observed to me that he thought at that time I ought to bave pointed out to the Indians the special advantages that would result from the terms offered them. I answered him, “ Advice, when asked for, was better received, more respected, and generally more relied on, than opinion given before sought for.” He replied, with a strong verification, “that the Indians were then in council, and that they would not ask my advice.” I answered him in terms equally positive, affirming “ that I knew I had the entire confidence of the nation, except Tishomingo and James Colbert, and that the council would call on me for my advice and opinion.” While thus in conversation with the general, the council sent Levi Colbert and William McGilvery to solicit my attendance for the purpose of asking my advice, which offered me a favorable opportunity to deliver what was, and still is, my real opinion, which was as follows: As the commissioners had, from examining all the evidence that had been offered for their consideration, declared it to be their opinion that the Creek claim was the best and strongest to the land sooth of Tennessee and east of the line run by General Coffee, that it was, therefore, my opinion that interest and prudence united should induce the Chickasaws to make the best terms they could respecting that land, and that the land north of the Tennessee river had long been a place of contention, and that a liberal price was offered for it; that, if they refused the offer made, I did not think it probable they would ever get a better; that accepting the offer would renew and perpetuate the good understanding which so happily existed, and that a refusal might by possibility be the means of discord, and, finally, some event might happen which would produce a worse state of things; and, therefore, my opinion and advice was decidedly in favor of the policy of accepting the offer, and thereby removing all causes of difference and discontent which might growr into disturbances of a more serious nature; that the now President was kind and liberal in his offers; that none could tell what would happen in future. I will claim no honor from these sentiments; they embrace the universal opinion. But I do aver, protest, and declare, that the Chickasaws, as a nation, have at all times expressed the most sincere friendship for me, and in every council publicly declared their unbounded confidence in me. Tishomingo and James Colbert are the only Indians in this nation who appear to have any dislike to me. The first cause of Tishomingo’s dislike proceeded from the wild disorder he suffered to take place by a party commanded by him when I had formed the nation into four divisions for the purpose of issuing to them provisions, while distributing the goods sent as presents and as an annuity. I ordered four beeves to be killed, and directed that one should be given to each division. Tishomingo’s party, in a rude and impertinent manner, seized upon the whole. The others apprized me of the outrage; I applied to him, and informed him mildly, but positively, that I would not suffer such disorder. He answered he could not help it, and said his men would do as thev pleased, appearing rather to countenance than discountenance their conduct, for which I severely rebuked him. When I proceeded to parcel out the goods, and had formed the Indians under his command for the purpose of receiving their rateable part of annuity and presents, a number of them changed their positions, and drew several times. This fraud was likewise discovered by the other Indians, and complained of, as well as seen and corrected by me. About the 1st of January last past, the storehouses of the United States near the Chickasaw Bluffs were broken open in the night-time, by a party of Chickasaw Indians, and a considerable quantity of peltry stolen out of them. Mr. Rawlings, the factor for the United States at that place, informed me of the burglary, and I called upon the chiefs to have the fellows punished; and I, in a letter addressed to the Secretary of War, advised him of the demand I had made. You will see Tishomingo’s speech on that occasion, stating that the Indians who had committed that felony had left the nation, (which statement he knew was not true, and that those Indians were then living on Cold Water and in his neighborhood.) No person that has travelled the road in the year 1815 from Nashville to Natchez has been a stranger to the complaints which travellers frequently made of having their horses stolen and hid out by Indians on that road, in the neighborhood of the Good springs and Brown’s swamp. This unpleasant state of things, in my opinion, ought to have met my disapprobation; at least, that the idea of exemplary punishment should have been holden out by the agent of the United States, you may see, as well by the deposition of James G. Neely as by that of George Maxwell, which are now in tbe War Office, and whose reputations and families do not rank behind any in the United States for eandor, probity, and good morals. This assertion would be verified by the honorable Samuel Powell, the honorable William G. Blount, and all the Representatives in Congress from the State of Tennessee who know them. The other causes of dislike, when known, have equal claim to your approbation, the esteem of my Government, and the confidence of the Chickasaw nation. James Colbert, William Colbert, and others, their confederates, being desirous of engrossing all the trade of this nation, demanded that I should drive all the traders trading under regular license out of the nation. This demand was also made by Tishomingo in council, early last spring, when I informed him that the power exclusively belonged to Congress to regulate trade with foreign nations, among the several States, and with the Indian tribes. He then said his young men might steal the traders’ goods—that is, he might steal them—and that then I would want him branded, (alluding to the recommendation I had given to him and the rest of the chiefs to whip and brand the Indians that had broken open the houses and stolen the peltry of the United States at the Chickasaw Bluffs.) I answered him that I hoped he was an honest man, but that if he would steal, I certainly had rather see him punished than an ignorant young man; for that he ought to set good examples to his young men, and not encourage, countenance, or excuse men who had stolen the property of the United States or of travellers; and that complaints were frequently made to me of travellers’ horses being hid out by Indians to get money for feeding them; and that if he did not, I would put a stop to it, for that such conduct might, if not prevented, occasion the loss of good men on both sides. I then inquired of him if there were any horses in the possession of the Indians that belonged to the white people, and ordered, if there were, they should be given qp. I then obtained the delivery of nine horses, some of which the Indians gave up with great reluctance. When the delegation of the Chickasaws was about to set out to Washington city, objections were made by a number of Indians against Janies Colbert going as an interpreter of the United States. I thought it advisable, and most likely to silence all clamor, ro direct him to go on with the delegation. On the 17th April, the king, headmen, and warriors met at the old council-house, where it was named that James Colbert was going to take on Wigton King with him—a man that the Indians generally, and particularly Tishomingo, had requested the agent to order out of the nation for malconduct; at which time it was said that King and James Colbert’s views were to join in bringing out goods, and Colbert was to cause all the traders to be drawn out of the nation, and that they were to engross the entire trade themselves. All this Colbert denied in the most positive terms, and said that no man of Wigton King’s character should travel in company with him. James Colbert, at the same time, in presence of the King and the other chiefs, as well as in the presence and hearing of Mr. George Maxwell, declared his love for and confidence in the agent, calling me his father and his friend, and said I had done more for the benefit of the nation than all the agents they ever had. Major General Jackson, after he had made known the [lowers of the commissioners, inquired of the Indians in council whom they depended on to transact their business? Tishomingo then, in full council, informed the commissioners that their agent could write, and knew how to manage their cause, and that they would rely on him to do it. The commissioners do know that 1 arranged their evidence and managed their cause much to their satisfaction, without neglecting the views and interests of the United States, or departing, in any instance, from those principles of justice and liberality which it is the pride and glory of the Government of the United States to administer. Could I, for convenience, with pleasure, be as ready as some are to change with the popular sound to defame the best of men, and condemn the best of measures, because I did not know their objects, or had neither patience nor prudence to wait for information, I might be the beloved friend of discord, join the popular clamor, and retreat, like the editor of the Clarion, with disgrace to himself and friends. My errors may be many, but my enemies appear to be strangers to them; for every thing they charge me with, all who know me will affirm is directly opposite to my very nature, and contrary to the practice of all my life. I am sorry to name, that, when General Jackson informed me he was merely to ask a question whether the nation had confidence in me, and that I could have no opportunity to justify my conduct, or to show that I had done my duty; and that the offender, or, I may say, the prince of offenders, was to arraign my conduct, and act in the capacity of accuser, witness, and judge, who held the power and had the will to speak his own unjust prejudices, and declare them as the voice of the nation, without being able to show a single reason why—I certainly have several times solicited an inquiry into my public conduct while agent; I repeat the solicitation, and challenge investigation. The honorable Jesse Franklin, Esq., before the question was put, inquired of me what I thought would be the answer of the council; I informed him I knew that, if the question was put to each individual of the council, there would be no dissenting voices but James Colbert and Tishomingo; but that if Tishomingo was to speak, he would speak his own prejudices, and say the nation did not like me, although he knew the fact to be otherwise. I should not conclude this letter without informing you that several negroes have been lately murdered in this nation in a most barbarous, cruel, and unprovoked manner; one belonging to Mr. Thomas Love was shot by an Indian while in his master’s yard riving boards. The only excuse for this murder is, that the Indian says he did not like Mr. Love, and that he would spoil his property. At the request of Mr. Love, I applied to the chiefs, who refused to do any thing in the matter, Tishomingo saying that the man who murdered the negro was Mr. Love’s relation; as if sufficient excuse for the outrage. An Indian called the\roung Factor a few weeks since murdered a negro by whipping and burning; another sufficient excuse is, that the negro belonged to him. Such are existing circumstances. I have at all times understood that I hold my appointment during the pleasure of the President of the United States; recent proceedings seem to show it may depend on the Chickasaws. But I have a confidence not to be diminished in his magnanimity, justice, and good disposition, which affords a firm reliance that I will be indulged with an opportunity of a full inquiry. Accept, sir, assurances of the high respect with which I have the honor to be your obedient servant, WILLIAM COCKE, Agent for the U. S. to the Chickasaws. Hun. WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of War. SIR:	NASHVILLE, October 18, 1816. Your letters of the 10th and 12th ultimo, with the extracts referred to, were not received until my arrival at this place on the 12th instant. The important contents of those communications could, of course, have no effect on a negotiation alreadyjnClu bided. As had been reported toy’	^at the Chickasaws remonstrated with the commissioners against running the line as defined in the la treaty W!-0I]jthe Cherokees. This remonstrance was founded on a claim to territory which the Chickasaws deerr’ un° J®c . ’’ble, as derived from a charter given and executed by President Washington, in the year 1794, d‘n.ing the!,e'”'	 "	. 1801, this charter was recân!se-’'vlt ’	’	"	' '	'territory from intruders 1 every ®scr,ïri>i jon. [['[æ territorial boundaries of the Chic charter, include nearly all the a. , ^’fded to the Cherokees by the late treaty, but remains. These facts,ao doubt, in jcs^(j t[je commissioners to listen to the remonstran suspend their operatbns until they na/j the United States on the subject. l’/JM would inevitably have excited the Chiq These guaranties and treaties are I The Cherokees, as I believe, will make a tender of their whole territory to the United States, for lands on the Arkansas, west of the Mississippi. A council is to be held shortly at Willstown, probably to select proper persons to explore that country and report its situation, &c. to the nation. As soon as that is done, a delegation will be sent to the President to effect the exchange, and General Meriwether will be invited from Georgia to accompany them. After the ratification of the treaty at Turkeytown, the Cherokees in council complained of the intruders on their lands north of the Tennessee river, to both the agent and myself. The agent consequently made the demand for their removal, and I have given notice to all intruders accordingly; and on the 1st of November the troops at Fort Hampton will be in motion on this service. With respect, &c. ANDREW JACKSON, Maj. Gen. commanding Dio. of the South. Hon. W. H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of War. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, October 26, 1816. Your communication of the 4th instant, dated at Turkeytown, has been received, and submitted to the President, who expressed his entire approbation of that communication, and of the manner in which the great objects of your mission had been accomplished. It would have been very gratifying to the President to have obtained a cession of that part of the Chickasaw lands which lies within the limits of the State of Kentucky, and also of that part of the lands of the Cherokees which lies within the State of Tennessee; but it was foreseen that the attainment of the great objects of the mission would materially increase the difficulty of obtaining those cessions for the present. Whenever the Cherokee nation shall be disposed to enter into a negotiation for an exchange of the lands they now occupy for lands on the west side of the Mississippi, and shall appoint delegates clothed with full authority to negotiate a treaty for such exchange, they will be received by the. President, and treated with on the most liberal terms. I have the honor to be, tfcc. .	GEORGE GRAHAM, Chief Clerk. General ANDREW JACKSON and General DAVID MERIWETHER, Nashville, Tennessee. [Duplicates sent to General Meriwether and Major Jesse Franklin, at their places of residence.] SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, October 31, 1816. Bills to the amount of $5,043, drawn by the commissioners and by Mr. Cocke, on account of the expenses attending the treaties lately held with the Indians, have been presented to this Department. As $5,000 had been remitted to you on account of expenses, &c., and as Mr. Anderson, who transmitted those bills, has requested that they may not be protested, if money had been forwarded to the commissioners, I have thought it best to return them; and to direct an additional remittance of $3,000 to be made to you, on account of the expenses attending the treaty. This course can he productive of no inconvenience, as Mr. Anderson has requested that the bills may be paid by a check on Nashville. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of War. General ANDREW JACKSON; Nashville, Tennessee. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, November 7, 1816. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the. 18th ultimo, and am pleased to find that you are about to take prompt measures for the removal of all intruders on the. lands of the Cherokees. In consequence of information which has been received from General Meriwether that some persons from Georgia were about to take possession of the reservations on the north side of the Tennessee, mentioned in the treaty with the Cherokees of January 7, 1806, and which are included in the late^ession made by the Chickasaws, I am instructed by the President to request that you will persevere in removing all intruders from that part of the lands lately ceded by the Chickasaws, and which lie on the north ofthe Tennessee river, and particularly from the above-mentioned reservations. With respect to the intruders on the south side of the Tennessee, and who are not protected by the act of Congress of the last session, instructions will be forwarded to you in a short time. The pay-roll of Captain Allen’s company was approved by the late Secretary of War, and the navmaster general directed to lake immediate measures for the payment of the men. I enclose to you	en s folA2e return, approved, and with directions to the quartermaster to pay it. It was lately returned tp , ® epartment by the paymaster to whom it had been sent with the muster-roll, as not belonging properly to I'4 ePar(ment. I have the honor to be, &c.	r GEORGE GRAHAM, Act'* becretarU of IIar. c	TA	*VAR, November 11 IRtfi SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF . 1 have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the	°f "i'ich instructions were immediately given to General Jackson to remove all intru3,z^ers inim.	e ands ceded by the Chickasaws on the north side of the Tennessee river, and particula,Vr'y to prev Z " .J10'1 roai taking of those particular tracts of land which had been reserved by the treaty of®1 January, ISl- >	, . erokees. The bills which the commissioners drew on account of presents have been [presented and le’oniDee1^.- tl,oasanc’ dollars have been remitted to General Jackson, at Nashville, on account <W the expense,- ”sa ,01]’ “'•j the commissioners. After defraying the expenses of the treaty, it is probabl;e die residue e W1 1101	sl,'“ ficient to pay the compensation of all the commissioners; I will therefore tl|Plailk you to n JOur accou,)t,zand forward it to this Department for payment.	V,	|	. I had the honor to address a joint letter to the commissioners a few davs since, exprei®. .’e. eat,re approbation of (he President relative to their conduct in the interesting and importd’111 negotiations IIC 1 -v la“ been engaged. I have the honor to be, &c. Gen. DAVID MERIWETHER, Athens, Georgia. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 4, 1816. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, by Lieutenant Gadsden, of the 12th ultimo, together with the. original treaties lately concluded with the Cherokee and Chickasaw nations. The treaties have been submitted to the President, who has expressed his entire approbation of both of them. Your accounts, forwarded by Lieutenant Gadsden, have been approved, and an allowance made for yoor service as a commissioner (which is a claim of right and not of favor) of eight dollars a day from the 20th of August until the 1st of November, the amount of which will be retained by you out of the money placed in your hands for the Indian department, and the balance then remaining may be applied to the quartermaster’s department. General Meriwether and Mr. Franklin will settle their accounts at this Department. You are authorized, if you deem it proper and expedient, to make an additional present to Tishomingo of five hundred dollars. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of War. Gen. ANDREW JACKSON, Nashville, Tennessee. DEAR SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, April 4, 1816. I have the honor to enclose you a copy of the treaty or convention which has been made with the Cherokees for the cession of that portion of their lands which lies within the chartered limits of the State of South Carolina. It is to be apprehended that this convention will not be ratified, as it was made with some degree of reluctance, which was finally overcome by the strong desire which ihey felt to settle their southern boundary upon just and equitable principles. This, I believe, has been done, and they are perfectly satisfied with it. I shall address a talk to the nation, in which I shall endeavor to impress them with the justice and fairness of the transaction, and the bad consequences which may possibly flow from its rejection. Colonel Meigs will be instructed to use his influence with the nation to secure its ratification. He will give you the earliest intelligence of the result of his efforts. Should you be disposed to send an agent to attend the national council upon this occasion, he will be directed to give you such notice of the time and place of holding the council as will enable you to effect that object. I have the honor to be, &c. WM. H. CRAWFORD. DAVID R. WILLIAMS, Governor of South Carolina. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAP., April 16, 1816. Enclosed you will receive the copy of a convention concluded at this place with the deputation of Cherokee Indians, which has been ratified by the President. It is the desire of the President that you proceed without delay to ran and mark the line defined in this convention. You will be attended by some of the Cherokee chiefs, who are acquainted with the point at which it is to terminate. The surveys which General Coffee has made will probably be of some use to you in the execution of this duty. Upon an examination of his report, which is now in this Department, he appears to have taken no notice of the point at which this line is to terminate, notwithstanding he appears to have had in view the convention made with the Cherokees in the year 1806, which proposes Caney creek, and a line drawn from its source to the “ Flat Rock,” as the boundary between the Cherokees and Chickasaws.	, Instructions will be immediately given to the Chickasaw and Choctaw agents to collect such evidence as shall be in the power of those nations to furnish concerning their eastern boundaries. They will also be instructed to ascertain whether those nations can be induced to dispose of their possessions east of the Tombigbee river, if it slfall appear that their titles to those lands are valid. When you shall have completed the lino in question, a general report of your proceedings, comprehending all the information you have acquired of the situation, extent, fertility, and salubrity of the ceded country, will be received with pleasure. I have the honor to be, &c. WM. BARNETT, Esq.	WM. H. CRAWFORD. Colonel BENJAMIN HAWKINS, Maj. Gen. EDMUND P. GAINES, Commissioners for running the line of the Creek cession. FRIENDS ANO BROTHERS:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 13, 1816. The deputation of your nation has been received by your great father the President as children of the great American family. He has taken them by the hand, and spoken to them the words of peace and truth. He has listened to all their complaints, and lias redressed, and will redress, all their wrongs. Friends and brothers: Your beloved men who have visited your great father the President have, by your instructions, agreed upon a convention, by which a small portion of land has been ceded to the State of South Carolina for the sum of $5,000. His excellency the Governor of that State has signified to the President his assent to this convention, and has authorized me to inform you that you may draw for the money whenever your nation shall ratify the cession. Brothers: The land ceded by this convention is of little value to you or to the State of South Carolina. It affords no game, and none of your people live upon it. It is desirable to South Carolina only as it will complete her settlements, and will bring within her jurisdiction some dishonest white men, who are equally injurious to you and to the citizens of that State. Your great father the President will be gratified by the ratification of this convention by your nation, as he will see in it a disposition to oblige him and your brothers of Soutli Carolina when it call be done without injury to either. Friends and brothers: The long peace which has subsisted between the Cherokees and the whites, and the good faith which the State of South Carolina has always observed towards their red brethren, will be more stronaly cemented by the ratification of this convention. The ratification of this convention is due to the liberality and love for the Cherokees which your good father the President has manifested in establishing the line between your lands and the Creek cession, and in paying for all the losses which they have sustained in the course of the last war. Your great father the President will not believe that his beloved children of the Cherokees will refuse their consent to what has been agreed upon by their worthy deputation, pursuant to the instructions which have been given to them. Friends and brothers: Your great father the President has given orders that all white men who have settled upon your lands shall be immediately removed. Colonel Meigs, who resides among you, has been directed to call upon the military officers of the United States to remove hy force all white men who have settled upon your lands against your consent. As often as they return to their settlements, they will be removed, and, besides, be punished by our courts for the violation of your rights. Brothers: Disorderly white men have settled among you, who have harassed and vexed the peaceable inhabitants of the State of Tennessee, and have made their complaints reach the ears of your great father the President. These men ought to be removed by your nation to a great distance from our settlements, where they can do no mischief to the peaceable inhabitants of Tennessee, or your agent ought to require them to be removed from your lands as intruders. Friends and brothers: The while men whom you permit to live among you must be considered as Cherokees, and the.nation must be answerable for their actions. Your great father the President expects that you will restrain their improper conduct, or have them removed as intruders upon your lands. Friends and brothers: The President will continue to watch over your peace and happiness: in return, you will conduct yourselves peaceably, pursuing your game, attending to your flocks, and cultivating your lands for the support of your women and children. The money which he sends you by your agent, Colonel Meigs, will furnish you with the means of buying cattle, sheep, and hogs sufficient to supply your wants. Cultivate the arts of peace with your red and white neighbors, and your happiness will never be disturbed. WM. H. CRAWFORD. To the principal HEADMEN and WARRIORS of the Cherokee Nation.	■ SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 27, 1816. The Senators and Representatives of Tennessee, before the adjournment of Congress, presented an address to the President urging the expediency of extinguishing the Cherokee title to the lands north of the Tennessee, within the limits of that State. As there is no game upon the land, and, I believe, no Indians settled upon it but Colonel Lowry, it would appear to be their interest to sell it for a fair consideration: by giving Lowry a present equal to the value of his possessions, it is probable that a purchase can be effected of all their lands to the north of the river. The President desires that you shall make every exertion to obtain this cession at their next national council: to enable you to effect this, you are authorized to give them, either by way of annuity, or to be paid at one or more payments after the ratification, the sum of $20,000, and to distribute presents among them to the. amount of $5,000, and to Lowry to the value of his possessions north of the Tennessee river. It will be proper to ascertain the relative value of the lands belonging to Tennessee compared with that in the Mississippi Territory, as the State of Tennessee ought and must pay her proportion of it. Major Walker, in private conversation, told me that he thought the Cherokee nation would sell the land which we attempted to purchase last winter: it is deemed expedient to make the effort. You are therefore authorized to offer them for their claim to the lands lying west of a line to be run due south from that point on the Tennessee river which is intersected by the eastern boundary of Madison county, to the line agreed upon by the late treaty, an annuity of $6,000 a year in perpetuity. Considering that the most of this land is claimed by the Chickasaws, and that there is little or no game upon it, there is some reason to believe that this offer will not be rejected by the nation in their grand council. The, President calculates upon the exercise of all your influence in effecting these objects. No commissioner will be appointed, as it is deemed inexpedient to make an impression upon them that we are extremely solicitous to obtain the cessions in question. I have the honor to be, &e. WM. H. CRAWFORD. RETURN J. MEIGS, Cherokee Agent. SIR:	NASHVILLE, Jane 10, 1816. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 20th ultimo, in answer to mine from New Orleans of the 11th April. I regret that my best exertions to ward the Government from imposition and prevent serious difficulties have proved abortive. Mine of April was in answer to yours of the 8th of March, announcing the disapprobation of the President to the lines run by the commissioners appointed under the Creek treaty. At that time I had no knowledge of the convention entered into with the Cherokees, and addressed you with a hope that I might prevent a hasty surrender of the country, which, for national security, was all-important to be preserved. On the principle of right and justice, the surrender ought never to have been made. The Government has certainly been imposed on. That convention should not have been ratified, unless we are getting like the nations of old, who, having become so hardened, would not listen to the voice of instruction until brought to repentance by the visitation of some serious calamities. The treaty of 1806 is referred to in this convention as a reason for what has been done. I can either not see, or not understand, if, in the clause relied on, there is any thing like a recognition of boundary or title. The United States undertake, and so declare, that they will use their best endeavors that a settlement of the western boundary of the Cherokees shall be agreed on by the Chickasaws; but, even if it had been an absolute acknowledgment of their boundary, (which is not the fact,) let it he recollected that it was altogether an ex parte inquiry, to which the Cherokees were, alone present, and could not or ought not to affect the interest and title of adverse claimants, who were not present and not heard. Why the Government should feel a wish to aggrandize the nation at the expense of other tribes, or against the interest of their own citizens, is unknown. In this matter the Indians—I mean the real Indians, the natives of the forest—are little concerned; it is a stratagem only acted on by the designing halfbreeds and renegade white men who have taken refuge in their country. If the course now adopted by the Government is to be pursued, it is difficult to say at what remote period we may calculate on our uniting settlements and giving security to our frontiers: this connexion and security, so important, it was believed, had been secured under the Cteek treaty; Georgia, with the Mobile country, and Tennessee were united; the Chickasaws and Choctaws were, under that arrangement, detached from the other tribes, and here security was obtained; the communication between the northern and southern Indians was cut off by the interposition of the white settlements, and thus an additional security was had; but, in one day, at the city of Washington, without any evidence in support of the right, except what was brought forward by a party deeply interested, and in the absence of all testimony in support of other claimants, is this inquiry taken up, and the surrender made. Can it be right? Either the Creeks had a title, or they had not; if they held under the treaty, it was ceded; if not, it should have been open to investigation, that the certainty of the fact might have been ascertained, and a full adduction of every information that could be had on the subject. Were I disposed to throw off the military garb and assume the character of a politician,! think it susceptible of argument if the President and Senate have not just as much right in hasty convention to cede away West Florida to Spain as to do what has been done. In the circumstances of the two cases there is a marked resemblance: France cedes the lower country; Spain claims it; the cession makes the title complete; and, if France had any, it estops the President and Senate to give it to any Power whatever. The Creek treaty makes the country ceded, beginning where the Cherokee southern line crosses the Coosa, and running, tec.: these lines are, by the treaty, to be ascertained by commissioners hereafter to be appointed. 1 understand it to be a maxim both of law and reason that what can be rendered certain is already sufficiently special. Though it was not defined where this line would cross the Coosa, yet when the commissioners, the agents of the Government, came to act, it was their duty to call in and rely on the best evidence they could procure declarative of this fact: this was done; from that moment the title to the ceded country vested in the United States became, a part of its territory, and was beyond the control of the treaty-making power. Agreeably to the present course adopted, I would ask, when will Indian claims be extinguished on our borders? The title is procured of one tribe, another claims it, and from him also is the extinguishment to be had; effect this, and again another claimant presents himself. On the principles pursued by the Government of so carefully avoiding injustice to these tribes as even tu be unjust to themselves, I say it is difficult to fix a time when we may expect a connexion of our territory by the possession of their claims: the assent of all will first be necessary to be had; and all will require to be extravagantly paid. With the commissioners there was no difficulty in ascertaining the Cherokee boundary; if their report had been agreed to, all would have been satisfied, except a few designing half-breeds and white men, who have manifested such deep concern on this occasion. I accord with you perfectly in sentiment that a nation should never acquire advantages, however important, by acts of injustice; and expect you will be equally ready to concede that, for the sake of being over just, that nation should not heap injustice on herself and her own people. Justice and right are concomitant. If a nation has no right to the thing demanded, there can be no justice in acceding to the demand; it may be charity to do so; and then I would deny they could practise this Christian virtue at the expense of their own citizens: 1 deny it to be good policy to buy the friendship of any nation; it costs too much; for it lasts no longer than the price is recollected and continued; and I very much question, too, if it is not of as much importance to preserve the confidence of our osn citizens as that of the Cherokee Indians. The universal clamor is, that injustice has been done, and that the Indians had no title to the lands ceded. Tennessee, I hope, will never disgrace herself by opposing the Government; but when it is recollected that, in open violation of the orders of the United States, in 1794, a campaign was set on foot that broke the hostile spirit of the Cherokees and secured peace, judging of human nature it may be believed that when these people are ordered from the old Creek villages burnt by General Coffee, and which they aided to conquer, they will feel disposed to wreak their vengeance on this tribe. Common report says that these people, who have settled in considerable numbers on this land, are much enraged; that they are perfectly disposed to meet the views of the Government, but cannot accede to the idea of its being taken away to be given to a people who have no title, and who have been assailing them from the earliest settlement of the country. Should these people be attempted to be removed, how is it to be done? The militia will not answer for this service; they are not to be relied on for such an undertaking, because their feelings are the same with the settlers. If a regular force be resorted to, that force will require to be kept up, or the situation of these people will be hazardous indeed. When I say the militia will not aid in obtaining a surrender of this land to the Cherokees, I speak in reference to the discontents, murmurs, and anxieties manifested by all upon tbis subject, from whence the conclusion is fairly to be inferred. Enclosed is a letter from the Governor of the Stale, which will show yon how important the country is considered, and bow unrighteous and unjust the cession is viewed. You are mistaken in supposing an army can so readily pass this section of country; it could not be passed in two or three days, as you suppose. There is no point on the Tennessee where a road to New Orleans and Natchez will cross that is less than eighty miles from the Creek village, on the Black Warrior, burnt by General Coffee, below which the line is to cross. A road leading through this country will make the distance not less than one hundred miles. The Flat Rock spoken of in the conversation nobody knows any thing about, unless it be the southeast and northeast corner of where the Choctaw aod Chickasaw tribes claim, which is south of the Cotton Gin Port, on Mobile. Should the Choctaw claim prevail, as the Cherokee has done, the country below will contain a very narrow strip of good land, not sufficient to afford supplies adequate to the support of an army necessary for the defence of the lower country. I have now done: political discussion is not the province of a military officer. As a man, I am entitled to my opinion, and have given it freelv.	•	I have the honor to be, &c. ANDREW JACKSON. Hon. WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of War. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 15, 1816. Your letter of the 26th ultimo reached the Department this day. In my letter of the 16th April, which enclosed a copy of the convention with the Cherokees, you were instructed to run the line agreeably to that treaty. As you do not state the date of the last letter which you have received from the Department, it is presumed that the letter before referred to had not then been received. A copy of it is enclosed. As the resignation of General Gaines created the contingency upon which General Coffee was to act, it was thought unnecessary to give any special authority in the case. Should he decline acting, upon the receipt of the letter this day sent to him, you are authorized and required to run the line agreeably to the treaty, in the absence of both the other commissioners, should Colonel Hawkins not have rejoined you before the receipt of this letter. The report to which you refer has reached this Department only through Colonel Hawkins, who says he was informed of it by you. It is not an object of any importance at this time, and it is more than probable that an attempt to ascertain its truth would be fruitless. I am obliged to you for the names of the persons who can establish the frauds practised upon the Government by the agents of the contractor. The matter must be examined, and the culprits exposed to the public indignation. I have the honor to be, &c. WILLIAM BARNETT, Huntsville, Madison county, Mississippi Territory. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 19, 1816. Your letter of the 4th instant has been received this day by the mail. The paper enclosed was produced by the Cherokee deputation which accompanied Colonel Meigs to this place last winter. The whole paper, taken together, certainly presents the idea that the boundaries designated in the first part of it had been agreed upon by the parties, and that you were acquainted with the facts. The note at the bottom of that article asserts that the execution of a convention was deferred upon ynur advice. I agree with yon that the particular instrument to which your name is subscribed, taken separately, warrants the construction which you have placed upon it. The whole paper, taken together, is certainly calculated to make an impression that is inconsistent with the rational construction of the instrument signed by you, when considered separately. I have no distinct recollection of any representations ofjColonel Meigs upon this subject; and, on that account, can only say that he made none which were calculated to remove the impressions which that paper produced, considered as one entire act. By the proceedings of our commissioners, the Cherokee boundary was considered to extend down the Coosa to the lower end of the Ten Islands. Testimony furnished by Colonel Hawkins establishes the same fact. By our conventions with that tribe, we have admitted that their claim south of the Tennessee extended west as far as Caney creek, and from thence to the Flat Rock, and engaged to endeavor to obtain the Chickasaws’ consent to that boundaiy. This latter tribe have the declaration of General Washington that their title extends over the greatest part of the lands claimed by the Cherokees west of the Chickasaw old fields. All these circumstances, if they do not clearly establish their respective rights, at least prove that there is but little certainty in Indian boundaries. We know that the Cherokee title extends as far south on the Georgia side as the high shoals on the Appalachee, from whence a due west line would strike the Coosa south of the Ten Islands. It is not wonderful that great uncertainty should exist in Indian boundaries, where records are unknown, and where the lands claimed are never wholly occupied. In this state of uncertainty, an enlightened and liberal nation should not set aside the claims of its ignorant and savage neighbors, where they have ever been recognised by any act of the Government. These recognitions have been made in favor of the Cherokees and Chickasaws to the land which you insist belonged to the Creeks. Where we are judges in our own cause, and where the weakness of the other party does not admit of an appeal from our decision, delicacy, as well as a proper sense of justice, should induce us to lean in favor of the claim adverse to ours. I am very far from believing that we have yielded any thing to the Cherokees which they had not a right to demand. In this opinion I may be mistaken, as the evidence is certainly not of the character which amounts to demonstration. We have done, in this case, what I wotdd have done where my individual interest was concerned, and where the decision was left to myself. This is the point of view in which the case ought to be considered. We are in nn danger from any act of liberality towards the Indian tribes within our limits. The lands south of the Cherokee line, when settled, will furnish a population equal to the repulsion of any enemy which may be brought to act against it. There is, therefore, no inducement to re-examine this subject, or to question its validity. In an enlightened nation, submission to the laws is the. fundamental principle upon which the social compact must rest. No apprehension is entertained of the consequences which you appear to forebode. The treaty with the Cherokees has been approved by the Senate and House of Representatives, and is the supreme, law of the land. Submission to it is a duty which will not be neglected. At the same time, it is admitted that the acquisition of this territory is desirable, and no proper occasion for acquiring it will be omitted. The same policy will be pursued with regard to the Chickasaws. The claims of the United States will be pressed as far as justice will admit, and liberal compensation will be offered where their rights are deemed 1o be valid. For this purpose, you will, in the instructions which will be forwarded, have the roost ample powers. The views of the Executive will be fully explained in those instructions, and, I have no doubt, will be approved by an enlightened public. 1 have the honor to be, &.C. WM. H. CRAWFORD. Major General ANDREW JACKSON, Nashville, Tennessee. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, June 24, 1816. In my letter of the 27th of May, you were instructed to renew to the Cherokee nation the offer which was made tot their deputation last winter for extinguishing their title to the lands lying west of a line drawn due south from that point of the Tennessee liver intersected by the eastern boundary of Madison county. In nty letter of the 15tII instant, you were directed to use your best exertions to induce the Cherokees to send a deputation to the negotiations which are to be opened with the Chickasaws on the 1st of September next, for the purpose of settling all disputes in relation to boundary between the several Indian tribes represented in that negotiation. Should you not have an opportunity to act upon the former of these instructions before this deputation shall set out for the Chickasaw nation, or should the proposition be declined, the President desires that you will make every exertion in your power to induce the nation to invest the deputation with full powers in relation to this object. As these lands are respectively claimed by the Cherokees and Chickasaws, and as it is intended that their respective rights shall be investigated by the American commissioners, the impossibility of agreeing among themselves may lead to a determination on both sides to dispose of their litigated claims to the United States, who are disposed to give them a liberal price for the lands in dispute between them. I have, the honor to be, &c. WM. H. CRAWFORD. Colonel RETURN J. MEIGS, Cherokee Agent, Rhea Court-house, Tennessee. Extract of a letter from W. H. Crawford, Secretary of War, to Major General Andrew Jackson, dated SIR:	JULY 1, 1816. The ferment produced in the public mind in the State of Tennessee, by misrepresentations in relation to the Cherokee convention, is the more to be regretted as it can only tend to the injury of those who are led astray. That convention, as well as every other which has been, or shall be, ratified by the President, with the advice of the Senate, will he strictly executed, unless the Cherokee and Chickasaw title to the lands in question shall be extinguished by the commissioners appointed to treat with the latter tribe. The idea attempted to be imposed upon the public by the intruders, that they are ready to remove from their settlements as public property,, but not as Indian lands, is too shallow a device to deceive the most inconsiderate. The most of these intruders have entered upon the land in question since the running of General Coffee’s line, and arc as liable to be removed as though the act of Congress had never passed. That act provides only for those who had intruded before the 1st day of February last, on the ground that the proclamation was not known before they had entered upon the public land. The intruders upon the lands in question acted with full knowledge upon the subject, (or, at least, they had the means of knowing that their intrusion was both in violation of the law and the proclamation,) and yet they have the effrontery to talk of submission to the laws. It is easy to make professions, and nearly as easy to devise pretexts for an unlawful act, especially if it is not thought necessary that they should even be plausible: this appears to be the case in the present instance. This delusion must be terminated. The idea of resisting the authority of the Government must not be admitted for a moment. As the execution of the law, should it be resisted, will immediately devolve upon you, as the commanding general of the southern division, it is expected that you will use your influence to arrest this momentary delusion, which, otherwise, may possibly be carried so far as to make the interference of the military indispensable. This unpleasant alternative is by no means apprehended; but the very idea of it ought not to be permitted to exist. I have the honor to be, &c. WM. H. CRAWFORD. Major General ANDREW JACKSON, Nashville, Tennessee. [In answer to the letter of the Secretary of War, elated May 13, 1816.] FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:	CHEROKEE AGENCY, July 31, 1816. We this day considered the substance of the Secretary of War’s letters respecting the cession of land made to the State of South Carolina, concluded at the city of Washington. We have unanimously agreed and confirmed the above cession of land, saving and reserving five tracts of land, each tract to contain six hundred and forty acres, to each of the following improvements, viz: one tract to Samuel Adair, an improvement on the village creek, waters of Fugaloo river; one tract to Sally Nicholson, an improvement on the waters of Keowee river; one tract to Nancy Starr, an improvement on the village creek, adjoining to Samuel Adair’s improvement; one tract to Waller Adair, on Chattuga river, at a place called Chattuga Old Town; one tract to Samuel Martin, on the waters of Keowee river. The above reserved tracts of land to descend to the above-named persons, their heirs, and assigns, forever. The nature of holding our lands is such, that we huld our lands in common right; the chiefs, therefore, have no right to disposess any Cherokee whatever of his improvement without his consent, which causes us to make the above reserves to the persons above named; and, hoping all the money will be paid in specie as soon as possible, > We remain your friends and brothers, in behalf of the national council, TOOCHALEE, his X mark. SOUR MUSH, his X mark. BOOTS, his X mark. WALLER ADAIR and THOMAS WILSON, Clerks. SIR:	CHEROKEE AGENCY, August 8, 1816. I feel anxiously concerned on account of the agitation of the public mind in relation to the late commotion of boundary with the Cherokees. I have not time to enumerate the arguments founded on documents or on traditional history that may be advanced in support of that convention; but, so far as I have been able to examine the subject, that convention, in my view, appears to have been correctly made. I have seen observations in the Clarion on that subject, that convince me that the writers were not well informed on the subject of Indian rights, or bearing on their claims. Arguments raised, and deductions and conclusions founded on premises merely assumed, not bottomed on facts, are of no value; and the connecting that subject with the character of the army under your command has an appearance of making a sectional division, which the enemies of our country may avail themselves of. I have reflected on these things with painful sensations. As to the army under your command, it stands unrivalled in fame. The misconduct of individuals, the depredations committed by some men in an army, do no more commit the military character of that army than the spots in the sun destroy the splendor of that luminary. It may only be compared to the transit of Venus over its disk; its light and heat are not diminished by such adventitious things, which have always happened, and will ever happen, in the course of events. After the conquest of Canada by General Wolfe, General Murray commanded Quebec with a garrison of four thousand men, veteran soldiers; those veterans mutinied, and succeeded; that great general was compelled to make stipulations with them: yet I never heard that the military character of the conquerors of Canada suffered any diminution on that account. Your character, and the character of Coffee, and Carroll, and others, cannot be even touched by the conduct of some unruly, insubordinate men. And to demand the expunging an article of a treaty solemnly made by the constitutional treaty-making power, appears to me to be fraught with an evil of very great magnitude, and cannot add any thing to the acknowledged character of your.army. All the mischief that has been done only proves the acknowieged fact, that men of great virtues may make sometimes aberrations from the right, and, like the tremulous needle, settle to the polar star. My motives forgiving you the trouble to read this as supplemental to my letter of the 7th are independent of all selfish considerations. I have, &c. Major General ANDREW JACKSON.	RETURN J. MEIGS. SIR:	CHEROKEE AGENCY, August 19,1816. The Cherokee chiefs and others having pay due for military service, and on account of spoliations on their property by disorderly men among the troops during the Creek war, assembled here on the 20th July ultimo, agreeably to notice, for receiving their respective dues. The principal business being done, the council broke upon the 3d instant. During their stay here, conferences were had on the subject of obtaining cessions of the lands pointed out by your instructions. Governor McMinn attended in person with Colonel Williams, the commissioner in behalf of the State of Tennessee, to negotiate with the Cherokees for the cession of the lands of that State lying on the north side of the river Tennessee, including the land in the Mississippi Territory adjoining Madison county. In the course of the several conferences, I made every exertion in my power, and was duly aided by Governor McMinn and Colonel Williams, to induce the Cherokees to relinquish their claim to the lands on the south side of 15 E the river Tennessee, lying within the following limits, that is to say: Beginning at a point where the eastern boundary of Madison county intersects the Tennessee river, and bounded east on a line to be run due south from that point until it shall intersect the line to be drawn from a point opposite the Ten Islands in Coosa river; such course and distance as will strike the “ Flat Rock or Stone, the old corner boundary,” on a branch of Bear creek; thence, a direct course, to the main source uf Caney creek; thence, down the said creek, to its confluence with the Tennessee river; thence with the Tennessee river, in its meanders, to the place of beginning. For this relinquishment and cession I offered them $6,000 in perpetuity, and that the first annuity arising out of this stipulation should be paid within thirty days after the ratification of the treaty. In this stage of the negotiation there appeared a good prospect of succeeding. It was urged on them that their duty to the Government, which had listened to them while at the city by their deputation, and by the constant care of them, required a compliance with the demands of that Government; that their interest, perhaps their security, required it, (having reference to the agitation of the citizens of West Tennessee;) and although in my opinion groundless, it nevertheless existed. But notwithstanding all that could be done, they the next day gave an answer in the negative, not without some apparent concern, and agreed to appoint a delegation invested with full powers to renew the negotiation with the United States commissioners at the Chickasaw national council-house on the 1st September next. The Cherokee chiefs are to meet on the 20th instant at Willstown; they will there appoint the delegation, who will proceed from that place to meet the United States commissioners at the place above mentioned on the 1st of September. They refused to comply with the proposals and offers for the lands in the State of Tennessee lying on the north side of Tennessee river. Colonel Lowry would have been entirely willing to comply with the oilers made to him, (he retaining the ferry place he now holds on the Tennessee river,) but there were others (not less than thirty or forty families) on that land; some of them have very valuable possessions, among whom are George Lowry, a brother of Colonel Lowry, Major James Brown, and John Brown. The chiefs objected to the price, ($20,000;) and the principal settlers on that land urged it as a hardship to be removed without remuneration. It was not in my power, and Governor McMinn and Colonel Williams would not take on themselves the responsibility of offering more. Governor McMinn will probably be at the council in the Chickasaw nation. With respect to confirming the treaty made conditionally at the city by the Cherokee deputation for South Carolina, they also objected to the consideration, ($5,000;) but they, as they expressed it, agreed to confirm that treaty, but annexed conditions that deprive it of half its value—by reserving five tracts for individuals, probably the most of the good land on that tract. This was deemed entirely inadmissible, as it could not be received clogged with new conditions. I enclose their answer. Notwithstanding we failed in our efforts here, I have no doubt of their complying with and agreeing to cede the lands southwest of Madison county. They have been informed of the state of the popular mind in West Tennessee; and, whether right or wrong, it equally affects their interests. But, independent of these circumstances, it is evidently their interest to cede that land to the United States, and I am confident they will do it. I received two letters from General Jackson, making use of strong language in reprobating the'convention with the Cherokees, both with respect to boundary and the grant to indemnify the Cherokees for spoliation on their property, asking me for an explanation of the last. I have sent him a copy of all the claims, with such explanations as I think ought to remove his objections. I sent him certificates from Brigadier General White and Brigadier General Doherty, and, if it were necessary, could have sent a hundred. The more I examine those claims, the more I am convinced that they are just and ought to be paid. There may be instances of fraud—I know of none such. I had a doubt about the great claim of Ratcliff, and inquired of numbers about it; they al), except one, replied to me that Ratcliff had very large stocks of cattle. When he came for pay, I questioned him and explained to him the nature of an oath, and required of him to make affirmation of the truth of bis account of loss; which he did, before I paid him, solemnly, in the presence of the Great Spirit. I wrote two letters to General Jackson, (one of the 6th, one of the 7th, and one supplemental to that of the 7th, dated the Sth instant,) a copy of which I send by this conveyance. An attempt to expunge an article of a treaty as apeace-offering to groundless demands! What a monstrous perversion of language to say that drawing aline between two Indian tribes is a cession to either of them. By the nature of the compact between the United States and Cherokees, they were considered as in a state of minority. The United States, by the first treaty held with them, have the exclusive right to regulate trade and to manage all their affairs as they think proper, as expressed in the ninth article of the treaty of Hopewell in 1785. This language undoubtedly includes the right of the allotment of land. When the Government, therefore, propose to them an alteration of their boundary line for a valuable consideration, they, in fact, have not the fight to refuse a compliance with such proposal. We have never told them this in plain language, because we wish them to see their true state and condition; they cannot carve out for themselves. If the compacts between them and the United States were dissolved, and they left as an independent community, their ruin, their annihilation as a distinct people, would very soon be a consequence of such fictitious independence. I am one of the last men that would infringe their rights. I would lead them to civilization without injuring an individual, until they gradually and almost imperceptibly become blended with ourselves. And to effect this, they must circumscribe their immense limits; for while they can roam through extensive forests, (where in this mild temperature they can partly subsist themselves on the spontaneous productions,) they will not make use of their physical or mental faculties to raise themselves up. “ Poor human nature, alone, revolts at the thought of the labor required and the sacrifices to be made to arrive at a state of civilization.” One of the scribblers in the Clarion, a paper edited at Nashville, has the audacity to say, “ Who ever heard of the spoliations on the Cherokees, except through the channel of the convention!” and proceeds to ask, “ What services have the Cherokees rendered in the war!” It may be answered that thousands witnessed both; that, in nearly all the battles with the Creeks, the Cherokees rendered the most efficient service, and at the expense of the lives of many fine men, whose wives and children and brothers and sisters are mourning their fall. A number of the widows and children have applied to me for something for support, and I have advanced them some aid—perhaps in the whole to the amount of $100. Some of these have made repeated applications for aid, but I was compelled to deny them, having no authority to do it. 1 shall as soon as possible recommend a person to be appointed an assistant or deputy in this agency.	I hav<f the honor, <fcc. RETURN J. MEIGS. P. S. If the convention of boundaries with the Cherokees shall be suffered to be mutilated, or altered in any way to deprive the Cherokees of their rights to the land as secured by that convention, or of the pay for spoliations, it will be unjust. Human ingenuity cannot make a convention better founded on justice and on the best evidence the nature of the case could possibly admit. The writers on this subject in the Nashville papers only show their inability and their utter incompetency for discussing the subject.	R. J. M. Hon. WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of TTiar. SIR:	EXECUTIVE OFFICE, October 25, 1816. Your confidential and esteemed favor of the 2d instant came safe to hand by the last mail. I have read its very interesting contents with my utmost attention, and very much esteem the plan for its marked circumspection, and at the same time for its liberality in point of the exercise of the power it is intended to convey. I must beg your excellency’s goodness in assuring the President of the United States that I shall equally guard against a construction of his orders whieh might lead to a profligate waste of blood or treasure, as I would against a parsimonious policy, which eventually might lead us into a state of difficulty and danger, without the means of being extricated; and further to express to the President that, if liis highly beneficial and honorable administration is not to close without again unsheathing the sword, the citizen soldiery of Tennessee, who were last in the field at the close of the late war, will ardently thirst to be in the front at the commencement of the next. With high consideration, &,c. JOS. McMINN. Hon. WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of War Department. SIR:	EXECUTIVE OFFICE, KNOXVILLE, October 25, 1816. I do myself the honor of addressing you on the subject of a treaty with the Cherokee Indians, authorized by your order of the 27th May last, for extinguishing their entire claim to lands on the north side of Tennessee river. According to existing statutes, Tennessee was called upon to participate in the expense, and, by the same authority, became vested with a qualified power to aid in the formation of treaties within a given space. Colonel John Williams was therefore appointed commissioner, who, with myself, attended at the Cherokee agency in the latter part of July, when your instructions were read and explained, and the sum total ordered to be given was distinctly proposed by Colonel Williams in the precise manner contained in your directions before referred to. The proposition, however, resulted contrary to our earnest wishes, and even to an expectation which was generally entertained in the latter stage of the negotiation, (the close of which took place on the 3d August,) or rather the adjournment, as the Indians proposed that we should have an interview prior to Colonel Williams setting out for Washington city, and for the result of which I beg leave to refer you to that gentleman. In the mean time, however, I determined to make another experiment with them at the Chickasaw agency, and for which purpose I obtained the favor of General Jackson under a special commission to renew your proposition of the 27th May last, to whieh General Jackson made the following report: “ The Cherokees would not cede their claim north of Tennessee, but are inclined, and as I believe will, shortly tender to the United States their whole territory where they now live for lands west of the Mississippi.” “ They say,” continued he, “ if we sell our lands north of the Tennessee river, we will not have sufficient area left to obtain by barter a sufficient country west of the Mississippi for our whole nation.” Thus, it seems, that part of the negotiation ended. Since the policy of the Cherokees appears to be in favor of exchanging territory, I would beg leave to be indulged in suggesting to your honor the propriety of renewing to the Cherokees a proposition made to them during the administration of Mr. Jefferson for an exchange of territory as heretofore stated, with such modifications as you may deem expedient. And I will here ask your permission to offer one or two for your consideration. 1st. That each able-bodied male Cherokee embracing the plan shall be furnished at some suitable point west of the Mississippi with a good new rifle gun, some powder, lead, &e.; and allot to those who choose to remain where they now reside, say six hundred and forty, or one thousand acres of land to each family, to them, their heirs, &c. during their continuance thereon; and each Cherokee Indian thus settled to be considered as entitled to all the rights of a free citizen of color of the United States, to be subject to the payment of taxes for their lands, polls, &c. 2d. And should any one or more of the Cherokees to whom lands have been allotted, their heirs or legal representatives, incline to dispose of their land claim with its improvements, they may be at liberty to sell, but to none other than an American citizen, and that on a lease for say five or ten years; at the expiration (if which lease the land shall revert to the United States, unless it should lie within the limits of some particular State, the Legislature of which shall dispose of said lands at discretion. Very respectfully, Ac. JOS. McMINN. Hon. WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of Department of War. SIR:	EXECUTIVE OFFICE, October 26, 1816. I take the liberty of forwarding one other extract from General Jackson’s letter to me of the 16th instant, in the following words: “ We have obtained from the Cherokees and Chickasaws all the disputed territory on the south side of the Tennessee, and all the Chickasaw claim north of that river.” This tract of country is the one which excited so much sensibility within the State of Tennessee through the course of last summer, and it was not until the views of the General Government were in some measure disclosed that its fury could be repelled; but, sir, at present the most zealous and turbulent are hushed into a pleasing silence, and the former high confidence reposed by the citizens in the Executive and heads of departments, so far as I see and hear, is entirely restored; and, for myself, I most ardently regret its absence for a moment. I presume I stand enrolled in your office as one of the discontented, and I became so from having a very ancient and tolerably accurate knowledge of the country, and the vast importance it would be to the nation at a period perhaps not very remote from the present; and this opinion will be demonstrated should a slate of war render it necessary to march an army to Mobile, or its neighboring points of fortification. To have the possession we now enjoy of this country will not only facilitate, but it will render secure, the transportation of military stores to a more satisfactory extent than if taken through the dominions of any nation, however well disposed. But there is a second reason of at least equal weight with the preceding one. This immense territory will enable us to consolidate our settlements from Lake Erie, on the north, to the St. Mary’s, Mobile, &c. on the south. These being the two extremes of the nation, and liable to attack by our late as well as by our anticipated enemy, renders the acquisition of this country valuable almost beyond description. My third and last reason why I felt so very solicitous that the Indian claim should be extinguished to the country in question was for the special benefit of my fellow-citizens of Tennessee. The possession of that country will enable not only the citizens of Tennessee, but also those of the western counties of Virginia, to find a market for their surplus produce and domestic manufactures infinitely nearer home than any other which has been or ever will be discovered. My object in first addressing this letter was, in the first place, to point out to your view some of the national and special advantages which I have supposed would result; and, if you conceive the positions laid to be founded in truth and national policy, I pray you to have the goodness to believe that they formed the only motive from which I acted. And the copy of my letter addressed to General Jackson, which I have already presumed is in your office, is the only paper in existence written on this subject to which my signature does appear, except what I had previously written to General Jackson;^ and, on the score of private interest in relation to this subject, I have not now, nor do I ever expect to possess to the amount of one cent. In the second place, I beg leave to tender to the President of the United States, and to you as the bead of the War Department, my grateful obligations, my entire approval of and high esteem for the able, frank, and friendly manner in which a period was placed to the first and only transaction through the whole of Mr. Madison’s administration which did not receive the warm and decided approbation of the citizens of Tennessee, whose cheerful acquiescence, in the present instance, I beg leave to enrol with that of, sir, Yours, &c. Hon. W. II. CRAWFORD, Secretary of War.	JOS. McMINN. SIR:	CHEROKEE AGENCY, November 8, 1816. I have had the honor to receive your letter of the ISth September last. Your observations relating to the present condition and future, prospects of the Cherokee nation, both in this country and on the Arkansas river, correspond perfectly with my ideas. You observe that “ the chiefs of that nation must be sensible that they cannot much longer exist in the exercise of their savage rights and customs; they must become civilized, or they will finally (as so many tribes have already) become extinct.” I have a long time been of this opinion, and have stated the same ideas to such of them as I thought capable of comprehending the subject. These ideas have lately apparently gained ground amongst them; a considerable number are in preparation tu move to the Arkansas, where they contemplate to continue agriculture and manufactures, and the means of school education. Some of their first characters have recently expressed their determination to remove to that country. They find that pressures on them for cessions of land will probably be soon made from Tennessee, South Carolina, and Georgia; and although they can, in the first instance of the application, say no, at the same time they feel that they cannot long resist reiterated applications; and they anticipate that in this way their limits will be circumscribed. And this is not all they have to fear: for many of them will migrate to the west, Zand or no land. And in this way they will crumble to pieces, and their identity as a nation will be lost; to prevent which it is clear to me that they must exchange their land here for land west of the Mississippi river; there they may preserve their national existence to some more remote period. They are aware, even if placed on the west of Arkansas, that they must probably make cessions of lands to the United States in that country, but they presume that they shall be less pressed on that subject there than here; and to guard against, or rather to provide for, such a contingency, it has been suggested to me by an intelligent Cherokee, that, in allotting a tract of land for them on Arkansas river, it would be well for them, and no damage to the United States, to have only three definite lines drawn to designate such allotment, leaving the boundary westward open as a wilderness; so that, as they make cessions on the east side, they may make proportionate advances on the west. He added that he did not require the United States to buy out the Indian rights, if such existed; that the Cherokees would manage that in their own way. This state of things I have some years expected would take place, and, in order to place the subject of exchange in a more specific point of view, I have drawn for my own satisfaction the form of a treaty or convention of an exchange of land with the Cherokees—it is only an essay, but we must begin somewhere—a transcript of which will accompany this letter. It will be found, by calculation, that the cost of the articles enumerated in the second article for the encouragement of agriculture, domestic manufactures, and for hunting, will amount to about $20,000. The articles for the chase and for agriculture are of the first necessity for them on their arrival in that country. They must the first year make crops of corn for bread; they will suffer the first year unless they have the means of acquiring a subsistence ready at hand. It is a great thing to remove such a number of families to that country, and will cause a great expense. They will require a considerable number of boats to move their families of old men and young children, and such articles for housekeeping as are necessary for them. The men will principally go with their live stock by land, by way of Chickasaw Bluffs. The whole expense of moving, which will amount ;o some thousands of dollars, I have omitted in the estimate. Whether this expense ought to be borne by themselves or by Government, is a question for consideration. It appears to me that the expense of making the exchange ought greatly to exceed what I have stated above. The sum, as contemplated above, is only a feather contrasted with the advantage to be derived to the United States by the exchange. The garrison ought not to be considered as an expense incurred on this account, because we ought to have strong posts on the western frontier; and the factory, it may be presumed, will maintain itself. If the Spanish patriots succeed prosperously, we shall have good neighbors; but if Ferdinand shall rule Spanish America, we shall have bad neighbors: it cannot be otherwise, because superstition and fanaticism will quarrel with liberality in religion and politics. I beg leave to hazard my opinion that if $100,000 should be expended, to be paid by proper instalments, to effect this exchange, it would be but just. The Cherokees think they have suffered great loss by the inaccuracies of land transactions with them formerly, (not from design, but from inevitable errors,) since the first treaty with them under the American Government in 1785. By the contemplated exchange we shall gain eleven or twelve millions of acres of land in the very place, above all others, where we could wish it to strengthen our country towards the seacoast. Georgia will be made immensely rich by the exchange, Tennessee will acquire a very great addition to her wealth, and the United States will have a valuable tract for sale lying within the limits of the Mississippi Territory. Some people are willing to consider the Indians as devoid of those sentiments which we feel. Many of them have strong local attachments to the country where the bones of their fathers are deposited; some of them are well settled as able farmers. It is easily conceived, therefore, that, to induce them to move, it must be done by holding out to them real, solid, and substantial advantages. The Indians are very slow in their negotiations; it will take time to effect such an important change in their circumstances; and, as far as I can discover, they would prefer having the business in question done at the seat of Government. If nut done there, it will be necessary to have two or three commissioners appointed, of very respectable characters; and if of high rank, the better; they have a strong predilection in favor of rank. My tour to Turkeytown, and in attending trial of the two Indians, having been particularly requested, has prevented me from earlier answering your letters. I have lost by thbse hindrances twenty-seven days. Governor McMinn and Colonel Williams are very desirous to have a deputation of Cherokee chiefs to go to the city during the session of Congress on the business of the exchange. It is very doubtful at present whether the Cherokees will be prepared by their consultations soon enough to go before very late in the winter or early in the spring. Would it not be well to have the subject of the exchange of lands laid before the Cherokees in a specific form, or as nearly so as the nature of the business will admit? Perhaps it might be best to have a number ot copies printed and cir culated amongst them, because the chiefs never conclude any very important business before they fiod the popular sentiments of their people. I had omitted to mention that the Cherokees are not half of them armed, and those arms they have are generally bad and wanting frequent repairs. If they remove, they must have one or two good armorers, besides the common blacksmiths; these last can be induced, without any expense to the Government, except by doing work expressly required by order of the agent. I have the honor, &c.	#	RETURN J. MEIGS. Hon. WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of War. SIR:	NASHVILLE, November 12, 1816. On the 4th ult. General Meriwether and myself advised you of the ratification of the treaty made with the Cherokee delegates by a full council of their nation, and that it would be forwarded by our secretary, Lieutenant Gadsden, as early as possible. Lieutenant Gadsden has been detained here longer than was anticipated by indisposition, and in preparing copies of proceedings and instructions required by the commissioners. 1 have detained him likewise that he might be the bearer of the Choctaw treaty; but I have as yet received no intelligence from the commissioners treating with that nation, and am apprehensive they have encountered difficulties not anticipated. I forward by Lieutenant Gadsden a statement of the application, in part, of the five thousand dollars remitted on account of the Indian department, as also my account of necessary expenditures, and a blank to be filled with the amount of compensation due me as commissioner. This being extra service of the most unpleasant nature, I presume lam entitled to some additional emolument, though I freely declare that I should not have urged a claim had it not been for the loss sustained by the death of my hurses, amounting to more than my allowance as commissioner. It is the first time I have claimed compensation, though I might have done so for the treaty held with the Creeks in 1814. Should it be allowed, the blank in the duplicate receipt may be filled up, and the amount of my whole demand may be either passed to my credit in the Accountant’s office, or a draft on the Nashville Bank transmitted me. It may be necessary to state (as appears on the face of my account) that Lieutenant Gadsden's expenses as private secretary are included with those of my own. Major Wm. O. Butler, who was employed to run the experimental line from this place to Lake Pontchartrain, so as to ascertain the nearest practicable route for a road, returned a few days since, being compelled by indisposition to abandon the prosecution. Nearly the whole party were seriously attacked with fever, and two of the soldiers, from their low state, had to be left in the nation. As Major Butler’s health will not permit him to resume this duty, I have, agreeably to your instructions, engaged a Mr. Hugh Young with the pay and emoluments of a captain of infantry, with a promise (as authorized in one of your communications) that he should be nominated to the Senate as an assistant topographical engineer. Mr. Young has been well recommended by Major Dent, judge advocate of the United States army, and says to me, in a writing, that he stands well recommended in the War Office for appointment. He is a native of Baltimore, of good connexions, as I am informed, and possesses talents improved by an excellent education. I have, therefore, to request that the promise made to him may be fulfilled. He will set out on the duties assigned him in a day or two, and will commence where Major Butler discontinued his operations. Major Butler had proceeded about eighty miles to the southwest of the Tennessee, and, when compelled to discontinue his operations, must have been about twenty miles southeast of the Cotton Gin Port, on the Tombigbee. I have received several communications of late from the Ordnance Department on the subject of suitable positions for military depots in the western country. 'I had the honor of addressing you on this subject last spring, recommending Baton Rouge as an eligible site for such purpose; and, in a subsequent communication to Colonel Bomford, I have pointed out those advantages. It was not contemplated, however, that any thing more than arsenals for the reception of arms sufficient to supply the military stationed in the eighth department, and the militia of Lower Louisiana, on any sudden emergency, should be erected at that point. From the extent of our country, it is necessary for its defence that many minor depots should be erected, all dependant for supplies on some large establishment in an interior and safe position. It is injudicious to depend on these large depots in eases of emergency; their remote situation from the exposed portions of our country and vulnerable points of attack preclude the possibility of that early and efficient aid which may be necessary; and the delays in the transportation, which are often unavoidable, may (as experience has proven) jeopardize the safety of a country. With these remarks, I observe that, in addition to Baton Rouge, and other situations which may hereafter be occupied as minor depots, it is absolutely necessary that some large establishment should be formed in this southwestern country for the supply of these lesser or minor ones, with workshops attached for the fabrication of arms, and reparation of such as may be injured in the southern service. The situation of Pittsburg is too remote for these objects; the navigation from thence is often obstructed, and arms, tec. subjected to an increased and heavy charge for transportation. The whole southern country from Kentucky and Tennessee to Mobile has been opened by the late treaties, and, from a knowledge of that country, I know of no situation combining so many advantages, and so well adapted for a large depot well stored with all the munitions of war as the lower end of the Muscle shoals, on the Tennessee river. From hence the navigation to the Ohio is unobstructed at all seasons of the year, and may be performed in two days. The falls of the shoals may be diverted into any channels, and adapted to any machinery. Shoal creek, which empties into the Tennessee half a mile above this position, is literally paved with iron ore. Extensive saltpetre caves are now in operation up the Tennessee river; and it is reported that a well-supplied cave has lately been discovered on the late Chickasaw cession. Flint abounds on the Tennessee, and I need not advert to the facility with which lead may be obtained from the Upper Mississippi. The distance from the Muscle shoals to the navigable waters of the Tombigbee is but sixty miles, and from the Coosa eighty. This short land portage will enable Government (should it ever become necessary) to transport arms, &c. down those waters for the supply of Mobile and its dependencies. But what constitutes the chief advantage of this position is, its being at the very point where the military road contemplated to be opened must cross the Tennessee, and, consequently, on the very route of troops moving from the upper to the support of the lower country. Hence the troops may rendezvous at the depot, receive all their arms, accoutrements, &c., and transport themselves to the scene of action. Their services performed, and on their return march, they can re-deposite their arms received, to be repaired and prepared for future use. With great respect, &c. •	ANDREW JACKSON, Major General Com'ding. P. S. I have just received a communication from General Coffee, stating that they [the commissioners] have concluded a treaty with the Choctaws, by which they have obtained a surrender of all their lands east of the Tombigbee. Hon. WM. H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of War. SIR;	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 20, 1816. Enclosed you will receive instructions for holding a treaty with the Choctaw nation, for the purpose of adjusting the limits of the Creek cession as far as it interferes with the Choctaw boundary. You are required to adopt the measures necessary to convene the chiefs of that nation with the least possible delay, and to give the earliest information of the time and place of the convention to your colleagues. The President expects that you will use your best exertions to prepare the Cho^aws to make the relinquishment which is desired. Considering the nature of Indian title in general, and the benefit which they derive from their lands, the sum which you are authorized to give is deemed liberal; but when the doubtful nature of the claim of that nation to the land in question is taken into view, the sum may appear rather extravagant. The President is desirous of erring (if necessary to err) on the side of liberality to the Indians, who have been our auxiliaries in the late war; aud, in the event of future wars, may be rendered more useful to the United States. Every effort must be used to convince them that we require nothing of them but what is compatible with their rights and consistent with their interests. The factor will be instructed to furnish you with the merchandise necessary for making presents to the principal chiefs. A liberal and judicious distribution of these presents among the most influential chiefs may have the most beneficial effects upon the negotiation. I have the honor to be, &c. WM. H. CRAWFORD. Col. JOHN MCKEE, Choctaw Agent. GENTLEMEN:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, May 20, 1816. The Choctaw and Chickasaw nations having set up claims to a part of the lands supposed to have been ceded to the United States by the treaty concluded with the Creek Indians at Fort Jackson, in the year 1814, the President has deemed it expedient to inquire into and decide upon their validity; or to obtain a relinquishment of them, for a valuable consideration, before they are surveyed and offered for sale. To attain this object with the least possible delay, it has been determined to appoint commissioners, who, in conjunction with the chiefs of the Choctaw nation, shall have authority to investigate the conflicting claims of the two parties, and to decide upon them definitively. Confiding in your judgment, discretion, and patriotism, the President has selected you for the discharge of this important trust. In all our transactions with the Indian tribes in amity with the United States, the appearance of force or menace should be sedulously avoided. Whilst the claims of the Government are distinctly presented, and asserted with firmness, theirs should be heard with patience and respect. Considering the uncertainty which is generally found in definitions of Indian boundaries, it is not surprising that the claims of the United States under the treaty with the Creek Indians should be contested by all the tribes whose hunting grounds are conterminous with the lands acquired by that treaty. The cause which produces these contestations necessarily renders the testimony upon which they are to be decided vague and unsatisfactory. Under these circumstances, it is deemed advisable not to scrutinize with too much rigidity the evidence which shall be produced in support of their claim, provided that the relinquishment of their title can be obtained for a fair consideration. In fixing the sum which shall be given to them, due regard will be had to the extent of country claimed, and to the nature of the title which they shall establish, which, in no case, shall exceed an annuity of $6,000 for twenty years, and $10,000 in presents to the principal chiefs. For this sum, a full relinquishment of title to the lands claimed by the Choctaws Jying east of the Tombigbee may reasonably be required of them. The possession of the left bank of this river is so important to the United States, that their right to it under the Creek cession cannot be relinquished by treaty. The importance of having a natural boundary, such as the Tombigbee river, from one end of their country to the other, cannot be overlooked by them. Its advantages should be explained and enforced upon every suitable occasion. If, after hearing the testimony which shall be produced, the claim of the United States to the lands on the east bank of that river should appear to be doubtful, and the Choctaw nation shall refuse to relinquish their title for the consideration which you are authorized to give them, you must terminate the negotiation without entering into any convention upon the subject. The claims of both parties will remain unimpaired, until, under more favorable auspices, the controversy shall be amicably adjusted. With a view to this adjustment, you are authorized to distribute such presents among their principal chiefs as, in your opinion, will tend to hasten the attainment of that object. Colonel McKee, one of your colleagues, will be charged with convening the chiefs of the Choctaw nation, and will give you timely notice of the time and place of the negotiation. As.a compensation for your services, you will receive eight dollars a day for the time you are actually employed in the negotiation, and in going to and returning from the treaty, besides your necessary expenses. Your secretary will be allowed five dollars a day and his necessary expenses. I have the honor to be, &c. WM. H. CRAWFORD. General JOHN COFFEE, JOHN RHEA, Esq., and Colonel JOHN MCKEE, Commissioners, Sfc. to treat with the Choctaw Indians. SIR:	CHOCTAW AGENCY, July 1, 1816. I am making ready, and in a few days will set out for the eastern part of the nation, to prepare for the contemplated negotiation with the Choctaws. There is nothing to prevent the assembling of the Indians immediately, but the uncertainty of procuring a sufficient supply of provisions at the new factory, which, in every other respect, is the most proper place. As soon as I am assured of provisions, I will notify my colleagues and the Indian chiefs. Among the difficulties in the way of a successful negotiation, (and if we had again occasion for the services of these people in the field, they would, I fear, be serious,) are the following claims against the United States, to which I beg leave again to call your attention. 1st. Claims presented in my letter of the 22d August, 1815, from Nashville. I told the claimants that I had made the reference to the Department of War, and entertained hopes that, if the accounts were not admitted in their present shape, some person would be ordered to audit and settle them. 2d. Many of the people living on the road had furnished provisions to the Tennessee and Kentucky militia on their passage through the nation, taking the orders of the commanding generals on the quartermaster’s department in Tennessee. Of these orders, 1 took on upwards of $2,000 for collection last summer. Mr. Lewis, the quartermaster, had resigned before I got to Nashville, and payments were suspended till a successor could be appointed. I left the drafts in the hands of Mr. Sommerville, who writes me, on the 19th May, “ they [the drafts] must be sent to the city of Washington for examination.” This arrangement will subject these illiterate people to loss and vexation; ignorant as they are, how, at this late hour, are they to obtain payment for provisions so long ago sold to a Government in which they had the most implicit confidence! 3d. Pay due to the warriors who have been in the service of the United States. In some cases, muster-rolls have been made out and transmitted to the Department; in other cases, they never were made out. The company officers could not do it. I had at the time so many other duties to attend to, that it was out of my power, and there were no other persons who considered it as their duty. About six hundred, who were with me destroying the enemy’s settlements on the Black Warrior, in January, 1814, are in this situation, as well as upwards of seven hundred who were at Alabama Heights in the spring following. Whilst on the subject of claims against the Government, permit me to solicit your attention to the charge of Turner Brashears, exhibited in my letter of 30th November, 1814, and referred to in those of 31st December, 1815, and 1st April, 1816. Having so often referred this particular case to the Department of War, 1 am unwilling to pay it on my own responsibility, though I have no doubt of its justice, (as far, at least, as the beef and corn,) and 1 hope to be honored as early as possible with your decision. I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, JOHN McKEE. Hon. WM. H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of War. SIR:	MOUNT LAWRENCE, CHOCTAW TRADING-HOUSE, July 13, 1816. I find it is impossible to have at this place either the provisions or goods necessary for the contemplated treaty with the Choctaws much sooner than the 15th day of October, and have appointed that day for the meeting, and notified my colleagues and the chiefs of the nation. This will afford time to receive the decision of the Government on the subjects embraced in my letter of the 1st instant, which will, in all probability, have a great influence on the issue of the negotiation. I will proceed in a few days to New Orleans, to superintend the selection of the goods for the occasion, with a view to the fancy of the Indians, especially in articles of clothing and ornaments for the chiefs. I have the honor, &c. JOHN McKEE. lion. WM. H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of War. SIR:	CHOCTAW TRADING-HOUSE, July 20, 1816. In reply to your inquiry relating to the murder of the two Choctaws by white men in the settlement of Basset’s creek, in the summer of 1813, I hand you the accompanying paper, and make no hesitation in adding my opinion that the Choctaw nation is entitled to some satisfaction for the murder. The persons who killed the Indians can have no other excuse for conduct so rash than the circumstance of some Choctaws having joined the Creeks in the war which was about that time breaking out with us. I am, &c. GEORGE S. GAINES. Col. JOHN MCKEE, Agent to the Choctaws. FRIEND AND BROTHER:	AUGUST 9, 1813. I am sorry to inform you that two of my relations have been barbarously, and without any just cause, killed by some of your people, and that at a time when we are in the sincerest bonds of friendship with your nation; I therefore wish you to inform me for what cause was this murder committed on my people, whether it was through mistake or accident, and what my people had done to provoke them to this act. My people who are living at Passechuker are near to me, and I do not wish the white people to injure them. As soon as the corn of my people is dry enough to eat, I will call them all into the nation, as it is not my wish that any of them should join the Creeks in the war with your people. I haveYour men and a woman missing; they were innocently pursuing their avocations near the place where this massacre on my people took place; should any of your people have taken them prisoners, thinking them to be Creeks, you will please to treat them kindly, and send them to their own land. With regard to this murder committed un my nephews, the man who was wounded gives the following account: they had been some time encamped hunting and collecting beeswax and honey to trade with your people; with that intention they went to a house, where, finding the people had gone, they started to return to their camp; on their way, they shot a hawk; in a little time they saw a number of white people armed, and on horseback; they called to them in a friendly manner; when they came near to them, they offered them their hands as usual, but the white people surrounded them, took them, disarmed them, and tied them; they then led them to a place about three miles from where they took them; then they intended to kill them. Under this impression, they endeavored to escape: the sequel you are too well acquainted with. The guns your people took are two rifles and a shot gun, also a keg of honey. Six of my men I have sent to you with this letter. You will endeavor to send me the guns your people took in this unfortunate affair, and pay for the keg of honey, which belonged to the wounded Indian who fortunately made his escape. It is my wish that the road between our people be always kept white; I want no blood spilt between us; I want you to answer my letter without delay, and hide nothing from me. The President of the United States I have seen; I have given him the hand of friendship; his people I love; to him I look for injuries committed on my nation. Your quarrel with the Creeks I have nothing to do with; 1 love peace, and wish to remain so. As soon as my people can return to their own land and secure their corn, your people may treat as enemies any they find among the enemies of white people. My friendship for you and your people, I again repeat, is sincere, and I hope will always remain so. Your friend and brother, POOSHEMATAHA, his x mark. SIR:	NASHVILLE, August 14, 1816. The importance of a good military road direct to New Orleans and Mobile has induced the Government to direct the undersigned to have it explored, run, marked, and opened, with the least possible delay. For this purpose they have instructed me to employ an assistant topographical engineer, who will be entitled to the pay and emoluments of a captain of infantry. Finding it impossible to procure a character competent to the task, at this season of the year, for the compensation authorized, and the safety of the lower country requiring that this duty should be executed with as little delay as possible, it has become indispensable to order you to perform it, for which you will receive the additional compensation, as an assistant topographical engineer, as specified above. You will therefore, with as little delay as possible, proceed to run a line from Nashville to the Tennessee river, south, 20° west, marking where it crosses all public roads, watercourses, &c., noting the same in a journal to be kept for that purpose, and describing the country through which the line passes. When you reach the Tennessee river, you will explore the banks on each side, and select a good place for crossing with a ferry boat, and report the same to me at Campbell’s, at the lower end of the shoals, at which place I shall be on the 24th instant. You will be governed in the selection of the crossing by the point at which you strike the shoals; as the crossing cannot be in them, it must be above or below. The course directed is supposed to be the direct course to Orleans, hence the propriety of making the crossing place of the Tennessee river as near a straight line as the river and country on the south side will permit. As soon as you fix upon the point on the Tennessee river, you will proceed to run, measure, and explore the country to Lake Pontchartrain, in a direct line, calculating the variation you have made ’ from south 20° west run to the river; marking in your journal all the remarkable places, watercourses, swamps, and general face of the country through which you pass. You will advise me of the point at which you cross the Tombigbee as early as possible. When you reach the lake, you will proceed to Chefuncty, taking the course and direction from the point you strike, make your calculations, and return in a direct line to the point at which you crossed the Tennessee, provided that proves the shortest practicable route for a road to Nashville; if not, you will take any other route that will accomplish the above object. You will mark the direction by which you return, so that it may be traced and followed by those ordered to superintend the opening of the road. You will explore the country on both sides through which the road passes, and carefully note its general appearance. To assist you in this duty, I have employed an excellent woodsman to accompany you, and who will be under your orders. When you enter the Choctaw nation, you will employ a confidential Indian as a pilot, who is well acquainted with the country to the lake. Colonel Butler, acting as quartermaster general, is instructed to procure and furnish you with the necessary supplies. The importance of a good military road to Orleans (the emporium of the West) and Mobile, running the nearest and best way, and the confidence reposed in your integrity, skill, and enterprise, have induced the commanding general to assign to you the-duty of exploring the country and selecting the route, being well assured it will be performed with skill and despatch. Respectfully, yours, &,c. ANDREW JACKSON, Commanding Division of the South. To Major WM. O. BUTLER, Isf Regiment United States infantry. SIR: I	'	NASHVILLE, August 18. I am directed by the honorable Secretary of War to hold a treaty with the Chickasaw Indians on tho 1st of next month, in conjunction with Jesse Franklin, Esq., of North Carolina, and General Meriwether, of Georgia, at the old council-house in said nation. I am advised by the agent of the Chickasaws (Col. Cocke) that he has no instructions to provide the necessary supplies for the Indians and commissioners during the treaty. I have received no instructions from the Secretary of War on this subject, nor can I learn that any measures have been adopted by the Department of War to insure a supply for the Indians expected to attend the treaty. Evil consequences may result from calling them together and having no supplies for them; to prevent which, I have to request that you will undertake, as agent for the commissioners, to lay in the necessary supplies for the Indians and commissioners. Your duty in this capacity will be to provide a wagon at this place, for the transportation of the necessary sop- plies for the commissioners and principal chiefs that may attend the treaty. Herewith I enclose you a memorandum of such articles as I think will be needed, leaving you to add such as you may think will be wanted. None of these articles can be procured in the nation. As soon as you have accomplished this, you will proceed to the nation and procure such a supply of beef, corn, He. as you may judge sufficient, from the information you may receive from the agent, interpreters, and principal chiefs, for the probable number that will attend, calculating on a delegation of twenty from each of the other tribes. You will make engagements for the delivery of the bee,f, corn, and flour, at or near the council-house. The agent informs me that he has engaged a small quantity of flour, which you will receive and pay for. In all things you will consult ecomomy, but you must procure a sufficient supply. The wagon must set out by the I9th instant. I enclose you a check for $500 to cover the first expenses, and you will have to draw on me for any additional funds that may be necessary. Yours, &c.	ANDREW JACKSON, One of the commissioners to treat with the Chickasaws. Memorandum of necessaries to be purchased by Mr. J. Hutchings. Two boxes of claret. One barrel of good whiskey. One hundred pounds of coflee. Two hundred pounds of sugar. Four dozen knives and forks. One dozen spoons. Sixty pounds of rice. Three loaves of white sugar. J. HUTCHINGS, Esq., &c. SIR:	NASHVILLE, August 18, 1816. I wrote you on the 20th ultimo, calling your attention to the subject of supplies to be furnished the Indians and commissioners during the treaty to be held in the Chickasaw nation. Having received no reply to that com- municalion, being further advised by Colonel Cocke that he had no authority for making the necessary provisions, and knowing the evil that may arise from assembling the Indians without being prepared to administer to their wants, I have been induced to appoint Captain John Hutchings as agent for this purpose. I have advanced to him five hundred dollars, with authority to draw on me for such additional sums as may be requisite in making the necessary purchases and arrangements. A copy of instructions delivered Captain Hutchings is herewith enclosed, with a hope that they will meet with your approbation. I leave this on the 20th for the Chickasaw nation. As yet, I have no intelligence of Major Franklin or General Meriwether, but trust 1 shall meet them at the place and time appointed. Finding it impossible to procure a capable person to run the line and mark the direction of the road to Mobile and New Orleans for the compensation authorized, and knowing the importance of ascertaining the point from whence the road would leave the Tennessee and cross the Tombigbee river previous to the approaching convention with the Chickasaws and other Indians, I have been induced to order Major William O. Butler to perform this arduous duty, promising him the extra compensation of an assistant topographical engineer. A copy of his instructions is herewith enclosed. With respect, your obedient servant, ANDREW JACKSON. The Hon. WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, September 13, 1816. Upon my return from the State of Georgia, your letters of the 1st and 20th of July last were laid before me. lam fearful that some of the difficulties in the way of a successful negotiation with the Choclaws cannot be removed in time. The claims presented in your letter of the 22d of August, 1815, are under the examination of the Accountant of the War Department, and will be allowed as far as the existing regulations will permit. The mass of business which had accumulated in the Accountant’s office during the war has been so great as to induce the National Legislature to appoint an additional Accountant; but even this assistance will not be sufficient to secure the immediate settlement of old accounts. No time, however, will be lost in adjusting those of the Indian department. The claims which you have left with Mr. Sommerville bad better be sent on without delay, as it is more than probable their irregularity will render the sanction of the Secretary indispensable. All the Indian claims of this nature which have, been presented have been found to require this sanction. Payment has been ordered upon the muster-rolls which have been forwarded to this Department, and the money will be sent to you for that purpose as soon as the pay-rolls are made out by the paymaster general. This would have been done long since, but the muster-rolls were sent to the superintendent of Indian trade, who sent them to this office with other papers, by which means they have been overlooked until the receipt of your letter of the 1st of July. The pay which is due to the other warriors will be discharged upon the production of the best evidence which can, at this time, be procured; which evidence you are now authorized to obtain with as little delay as possible. It is expected that you will accompany the evidence in support of their claims with such remarks as will enable the Department to decide with some degree of correctness upon them. Your opinion of the justice of the claims will necessarily have great weight. In the case of those employed on the Black Warrior, under your immediate command, it is supposed you will have no difficulty. In the case of those employed on the Alabama, the best evidence which can be obtained will be sufficient to secure them their pay. You are authorized to pay the account of Turner Brashears as far as you are satisfied of its justice, and shall be credited for whatever amount you shall pay. The letter of the 5th of April, in which you say the case of Wayna is mentioned, has never been received at this Department; it is therefore impossible that any decision can be made, as there is no trace of the claim except the incidental mention of it in your letter of the 20th of July last. The request for a gin to be built for the use of the nation will be submitted to the President, who will, no doubt, order it to be erected. Cotton cards will be supplied by the superintendent of Indian trade without delay, and others will be presented to them as soon as the will of the President can be known. Complaints of the Indians of the murder of their people hy the whites must be inquired into as early as possible, with a view to do them ample justice. This inquiry is confided to you by the President. The enclosed account is transmitted as possibly having some connexion with the complaint. The morders complained of may have been committed by parties of the hostile Creeks, or other tribes not in amity with the Choctaws. 1 have the honor to be, &c. WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD. Colonel JOHN MCKEE, Choctaw Agent. SIR:	CHOCTAW AGENCY, November 18, 1816. 1 had the honor to receive your several letters of the 2d, 13th, and 23d September last, whilst occupied in the negotiations for the late treaty with the Choctaws, which afforded me neither time nor opportunity to reply to them before my return to the agency. I have not yet, but expect in a few days, the information necessary to a satisfactory compliance with the resolution of Congress of 27th April last, and will not delay a moment in transmitting it to you. The letter of the 13th September arrived in good time, and had, in my opinion, a very happy effect, if not on the issue of the treaty, at least in soothing the wounded spirit of the Choctaws; for it would be misleading the Government to conceal that they were considerably mortified to find the Creek claims on Tombigbee waters more generally and zealously advocated than theirs. The papers Nos. 1 and 2 will present to the view of the President their wishes; and granting them to a reasonable extent would, I think, have a happy effect on the temper of these people. The mechanics, judging from the effect produced by those already employed, would accelerate their approximation to the habits of the whites; and schoolmasters, well selected, would aid very much in the great,work of civilization. No. 3 is a petition signed by some of the most respectable citizens in Wayne county, and the Choctaw chiefs of the district adjoining. No. 4 covers all I have been able to collect relating to the killing of two Choctaws on Bassett’s creek, east of Tombigbee, in the summer of 1813. The mingo Pooshemataha seldom fails to introduce this subject in council. He thinks, and so do most of the respectable inhabitants from the neighborhood where the act was committed, that these Indians were very improperly killed. 16 E No. 5 is a statement of the murder of Tehoachabby, on Washita, during last winter. I have little doubt but this statement is substantially correct. In similar cases, I believe the Indians have heretofore accepted money as an atonement for the blood of their relations. I find from a memorandum book of my predecessor, that, in some cases more doubtful than those now reported, two hundred dollars were paid as an atonement for the life of a man. I am not authorized to say that this sum would be satisfactory in these cases; for, although I infer from their manner of applying to me that money would satisfy them, having no instructions on the subject, I never inquired what sum would meet their expectations. No. 6 is the copy of my letter of the 5th April, stating Wayna’s complaint, referred to in my letter of 20th July, and which had not been received at the Department. I have fortunately been enabled to avail myself of the services of Thomas H. Williams, Esq., secretary to the late Choctaw commission, to go through the nation to collect and report a list of such Choctaws as have performed military service during the late war, and were not mustered, and such other claims as remain unliquidated and appear to be just; which I hope he will be able to complete before Christmas. The late acquisition of territory bordering immediately on the eastern settlements of the Choctaws will, in my opinion, require an assistant in this agency, to reside on the Tombigbee, or here, if the agency should be removed to that place, as the Indians have requested. I have no person in view for such an appointment, (if it should meet the approbation of the President,) unless Mr. Nicholas Byers, late United States factor to the Cherokees, could be induced to accept it; he is honest, firm, and well acquainted with the Indian character. Such an assistant might be of great service on that frontier, until the parties, from their necessary intercourse, could become acquainted with each other, and would aid in promoting civilization among the Indians, which their narrowed limits render more necessary now than ever.	• I have the honor to be, with very great respect and esteem, sir, your obedient servant, JOHN McKEE. The Hon. WM. H. CRAWFORD, Secretary of War. [NOTE.—The papers referred to in this letter from Nos. 1 to 6 are not now to be found.] Extract from the minutes of a conference held with the Choctaws, at the Choctaw factory, by the commissioners of the United States. THURSDAY, October 24, 1816. David Folsoon, as the organ of the Choctaw commissioners, stated that it was unanimously agreed to cede the land lying east of the Tombigbee river; that the Choctaws were always anxious to please their father the President of the United States, who had on so many occasions manifested his kindness towards his red children; was sorry to learn that the Creeks claimed the country in question as being within their original boundary; that the claim was unjust; that the land belonged to the Choctaws, who were now wishing to cede it to the United States, because there seemed to be some difficulty about the title, which they were anxious to remove, and, above all, were desirous, by thus complying with the President’s wishes, to afford a strong demonstration of their respect for and attachment to him. He was instructed, he said, to urge some points in favor of the nation, before the negotiations were brought to a close, which he proceeded to state as follows: 1st. That the purchase money for the land about to be ceded should be paid in hand; or, if that was inadmissible, that the annual payments should remain in the hands of the Government, and the nation draw interest thereon. The object of this plan was to create a fund for the rising race to defray the expense of schools and other plans for their improvement. 2d. That the present system of peddling in the nation be prohibited. 3d. That the Choctaw agency be removed to the eastern part of the nation, for the purpose of having the agent’s attention more particularly directed to the prevention of irregularities between the new settlers in the ceded territory and the Indians. That, on the other frontier borders, they were already acquainted with the whites, and lived in harmony. 4th. That the Indians have the option of receiving the annual payments in money or merchandise; and that, in either case, the expense and risk to be on the part of the United States. 5th. That the new as well as the old annuity be paid or distributed in future at the trading-house or factory. 6th. That," as many red people are now settled on the western bank of the Tombigbee, who cultivate lands on the east side, some indemnity should be given for their improvements in clearing and fencing their fields. 7th. That, as it has been usual in Indian treaties to make reserves in favor of individuals, the chiefs of the Choctaws in this instance wished to stipulate for reserves east of Tombigbee in favor of some half-breeds. 8th. That the Choctaw nation, in the proposed cession, do not mean to give up the reserve made at Fukitchee- poonta, by the treaty of 1805. He then concluded by inquiring whether the Choctaws would be deprived of the use of the navigation of the Tombigbee. General Coffee, in behalf of the United States commissioners, replied extemporaneously, and in substance as follows: With respect to the prompt payment, beyond the sum of ten thousand dollars stated in the proposition, and that the United States should retain in their hands the annual payments, and pay the Indians an interest, they were equally inadmissible. In relation to new regulations with respect to trade, to removal of the agency, the option of receiving the payments in goods or money, and the place where to be received or distributed, they were questions within the control of the President, who would, no doubt, on the representations of the agent, take such measures as were best calculated to promote the interest and gratify the reasonable wishes of the Choctaws. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 4, 1816. The treaty signed by the commissioners on the part of the United States with the Choctaw nation has been received, and will be approved. As all difficulties on account of conflicting Indian titles are now happily removed, every exertion will be made to complete the surveys, and bring the lands in the Mississippi Territory to market as soon as practicable; and as the opening of the contemplated road from the Tennessee river to the State of Louisiana will, no doubt, have a considerable effect on the price of the land contiguous to the road, it is desirable that the road should not only be marked off, but opened as far as practicable, previous to the sales of the public land. A knowledge of your own opinions on this subject inspires entire confidence, not only in relation to your own exertions, but as to the proper application of the means in your power to the speedy accomplishment of the object. It is understood from Major Woolley that the requisition made on him for tools, &c. &c. has been complied with. Mr. Young, agreeably to your request, will be nominated to the Senate as an assistant topographical engineer. It would be very desirable, in laying off this road, that the number of the sections of land through which it passes should be noted: this, I presume, can only be done by the combined exertions of the surveyor of the public land and of your assistant topographical engineer. Your idea relative to a military depot on the Tennessee, at or near the Muscle shoals, is approved; and as it may be expedient ultimately to connect an armory and foundry for cannon with this depot, I have to request that you explore, or cause to be explored by some judicious and capable person in whom you have entire confidence, the country adjacent to the Muscle shoals, for the purpose of selecting such sites as may embrace a command of water, fuel, and iron ore, that the Government may be prepared to make the necessary reservations previous to the sale of the lands. My opinion is that the reservations, altogether, should not be less than thirty thousand acres. The increased value of the lands in ten years will probably be equal to the expenses of erecting the necessary buildings for the establishment. I have the honor to be, &c. GEORGE GRAHAM, Acting Secretary of liar. General ANDREW JACKSON, Nashville, Tennessee. GENTLEMEN:	.	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, December 5, 1816. Your communication covering the treaty with the Choctaws has been received, and I am requested by the President to express to you his approbation of the treaty which has happily terminated all our difficulties with the southern Indians. You will draw on this Department for your compensation at the rate of eight dollars per day for the time you were engaged in this business, and for your necessary expenses. I have the honor to be, <fcc. GEORGE GRAHAM, Gen. JOHN COFFEE,	Acting Secretary of War. Hon. JOHN RHEA, Col. JOHN MCKEE, Commissioners, <ÿc. to treat with the Choctaw Nation. HEAD-QUARTERS, DIVISION OF THE SOUTH, SIR:	NASHVILLE, December 21, 1816. Your letter of the 4th instant, acknowledging the receipt of the late treaty with the Choctaws, came to hand by yesterday’s mail, and I am happy to learn that the whole of the treaties made with the southern tribes meet the approbation of the President. Nothing can promote the welfare of the United States, and particularly the southwestern frontier, so much as bringing into market, at an early day, the whole of this fertile country. The proceeds accruing thence to the treasury will be great, and it will also give a permanent population to that frontier competent to its defence; and the sooner the laws can be extended over that section of the country the better. The importance of the contemplated military road is duly appreciated, and no delay will be permitted after Mr. Young, acting assistant topographical engineer, finishes the line which he is now occupied in running. I am happy to find that Mr. Young will be nominated for the appointment of assistant topographical engineer; he possesses talents that may, with experience, be usefully employed by the United States; and, as soon as he returns, he will be instructed to note the sections through which the road passes, so soon as the sections are run and marked. I will, at as early a day as my health will permit, explore the country adjacent to the Muscle shoals for the purpose expressed in your letter, and report the result of my researches to you without delay. I fully agree with you that the reservation of thirty thousand acres is little enough for the grand object contemplated. I am, very respectfully, ANDREW JACKSON, GEORGE GRAHAM, Esq.	Major General Commanding. Acting Secretary of War. CONGRESS.] 
