No. 108. [1st Session. WYANDOTS AND OTHERS. COMMUNICATED to THE SENATE, DECEMBER 11, 1805. To the Semite of the United States: I now lay before the Senate, the several treaties and conventions following, which have been entered into, on tiie part of the United States, since their last session: A treaty between the United States and the Wyandot, Ottawa, Chippewa, Munsee and Delaware, [Shawanee. and Pattawatamy nations of Indians. A treaty between tbe United States and the agents of the Connecticut land companies on one part, and the Wyandot. Ottawa, Chippewa. Munsee and Delaware. Shawanee. and Pattawatamy nations of Indians. A treaty between the United States and the Delawares, Pattawatamies, Miamies. Eel rivers, and Weas. A treaty between the United States and the Chickasaw nation of Indians. A treaty between the United States of America and the Cherokee Indians. A convention between the United States and tbe Creek nation of Indians, with the several documents necessary for their explanation. The Senate having dissented to the ratification of the treaty with the Creeks, submitted to them at their last session, which gave a sum of two hundred thousand dollars for the country thereby conveyed, it i- proper now to observe, that, instead of that sum, which was equivalent to a perpetual annuity of twelve thousand dollars, the present purchase gives them an annuity of twelve thousand dollars for eight years only, and of eleven thousand dollars for ten years more, the payments ot which would be effected by a present sum of one hundred and thirty thousand dollars, placed at an annual interest of six percent. If. from this sum. we deduct the reasonable value of the road ceded through the whole length of their country from Oakimilgee, towards New Orleans, a road of indispensable necessity to us, the present convention will be found to’ give little more than the half of the .-inn which was formerly proposed to be given; this difference is thought sufficient to justify the presenting this -ubject a second time to the Senate. On these several treaties, I have to request that the Senate will advise whether I shall ratify them or not. TH. .1EFFERSON. December 1 1, 1805. A Treaty between the United States of America and the sachems. chiefs, and warriors, of the U'yandot. Ottawa, Chippewa, Munsee and Delaware Shawanee, and Pattawatamy nations, holden at fort Industry, on the Miami of the lake, on the Uh day of July, Anno Domini 1805. Article 1. The said Indian nations do again acknowledge themselves, and all their tribes, to be in friendship v.ith, and under the protection of, the United Slates. Art. 2. The boundary line between the United States and the nations aforesaid shall, in future, be a meridian line drawn north and south, through a boundary to be erected on the south shore of lake Erie, one hundred and twenty miles due west of the west boundary line of the State ot Pennsylvania, extending north until it intersects the boundary line of the United States, and extending south until it intersect- a line heretofore established by the treaty of Greenville. Art. ti. The Indian nations aforesaid, for the consideration of friendship to the United States, and the sums of money hereinafter mentioned, to be paid annually to the Wyandot, Shawanee, Munsee, and Delaware nations, have ceded, and do hereby cede and relinquish, to said United States, forever, all tbe lands belonging to said United States, lying east of the aforesaid line, bounded southerly and easterly by tbe line established by said treaty of Greenville, and northerly by the northermost part of the forty-first degree ot north latitude. Art. 4. The United Slates, to preserve harmony, manifest, their liberality, and in consideration of die cession made in the preceding article, will, every year, forever, hereafter, at Detroit, or some other convenient place, pay and deliver to the Wyandot, Munse.e, and Delaware nations, and those of the Shawanee and Seneca nations, who reside with the Wyandots, the sum of eight hundred and twenty-five dollars, current money of the United States, and the further sum of one hundred and seventy-five dollars: making, in the whole, an annuity of one thousand dollars; which last sum of one hundred and seventy-five dollars has been secured to the President, in trust for said nations, by the Connecticut land company, and by the company incorporated by the name of “the proprie- tors of the half million acres of land, lying south of lake Erie, called Sufferers’ land,” payable annually as aforesaid, and to be divided between said nations, from time to time, in such proportions as said nations, with the approbation of the President, shall agree. Art. 5. To prevent all misunderstanding hereafter, it is to be expressly remembered, that the Ottawa and Chippewa nations, and such of the Pattawatamy nation as reside on the river Huron of lake Erie, and in the neigbor-hood thereof, have received from the Connecticut land company, ami the company incorporated by the name of “ the proprietors of the half million acres of land, lying south of lake Erie, called Sufferers’ land,” the sum of four thousand dollars in hand, and have secured to the President of the United States, in trust for them, the further sum of twelve thousand dollars, payable in six annual instalments, of two thousand dollars each; which several sums is the full amount of their proportion of the purchases effected by this treaty, and also, by a treaty with said companies, bearing even date herewith, which proportions were agreed on and concluded by the whole of said nations, in their general council; which several sums, together with two thousand nine hundred and sixteen dollars and sixty-seven cents, secured to the President, to raise said sum of one hundred and seventy-live dollars annuity, as aforesaid, is the amount of the consideration paid by the agents of the Connecticut reserve, for the cession of their lands. Art. 6. The said Indian nations, parties to this treaty, shall be at liberty to fish and hunt within the territory and lands which they have now ceded to the United States, so long as they shall demean themselves peaceably. In witness whereof, Charles Jouett, Esquire, a commissioner on the part of the United States, and the sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the Indian nations aforesaid, have hereto set their hands and seals. CHARLES JOUETT, [l. s.] [Signed, also, by sundry sachems, chiefs, and warriors.] A Treaty between the United States of America and the sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the TVyundot, Ottawa, Chippewa, Munsce, and Delaware, Shawanee, and Pattawatamy nations, holden at fort Industry, on the Miami of the lake, on the 4th day rf July, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and jive. Whereas Thomas Jefferson, President of the United States, did appoint Charles Jouett, Esquire, a commissioner to hold a treaty with said Indian nations, for the purpose of enabling the agents of the Connecticut reserve to negotiate and conclude a cession of their lauds: And whereas the company incorporated by the name of “ the proprietors of (he half million acres of land, lying south of lake Erie, called Sufferers’ land,” are the owners and proprietors of one half million acres of land, part of said Connecticut reserve, lying on the west end thereof, and south of the shore of lake Erie: And whereas the Connecticut land company, so called, are the owners and proprietors of the remaining part of said reserve, lying west of the river Cayahoga: And whereas Henry Champion. Esquire, agent of the said Connecticut land company, and Isaac Mills, Esquire, agent of the directors of the company incorporated by the name of “the proprietors of the half million acres of land lying south of lake Erie, called Sufferers’ land,” were both duly authorized and empowered, by their respective companies, and the directors thereof, to treat for the cession and purchase of said Connecticut reserve: Notv, know all men by these presents, That we, the sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the nations aforesaid, for the consideration of eighteen thousand nine hundred and sixteen dollars and sixty-seven cents, received of the companies aforesaid, by the hands of their respective agents, to our full satisfaction, have ceded, remised, released, and quit claimed, and by these presents do cede, remise, release, and forever quitclaim, to the companies aforesaid, and the individuals composing the same, and their heirs and assignsj forever, all the interest, right, title, and claim of title, of said Indian nations, respectively, of, in, and to, all t he lands of said companies, lying west of the river Caj7ahoga, and the portage between that and the Tuscarawa branch of Muskingum, north of the northernmost part of the list, degree of north latitude, east of a line agreed and designated in a treaty between the United States and said Indian nations, bearing even date herewith, being a line north and south one hundred and twenty miles due west of the west line of the State of Pennsylvania, and south of the northernmost part of the forty-second degree and two minutes north latitude, for them, the said companies, respectively, to have, hold, occupy, peaceably possess, and enjoy, the granted and quit claimed premises, forever, free and clear of all let, hindrance, or molestation, whatsoever; so that said nations, and neither of them, the sachems, chiefs, and warriors thereof, and neither of them, or any of the posterity of said nations, respectively, shall ever hereafter make any claim to the quit claimed premises, or any part thereof: but therefrom, said nations, the sachems, chiefs, and warriors thereof, and the posterity of said nations, shall be forever barred. In witness whereof, the commissioner of the United States, the agents of the companies aforesaid, and the sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the respective Indian nations aforesaid, have hereunto, interchangeably, fixed their seals and set their names. 'CH. JOUETT. [i . s.] H. CHAMPION. Ll. s.] J. MILLS, [l. s.] [Scaled also by a number of Indian chiefs.] A Treaty between the United States of America and the tribes of Indians called the Delawares, P at taunt ami es, Mimnies, Eel Diver, and I feus. Articles of a treaty made and entered into, at Grouseland, near Vincennes, in the Indiana territory, by and between William Henry Harrison, Governor of said territory, Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and commissioner plenipotentiary of the I nited States, for treating with the Northwestern tribes of Indians, of the one part; and (he tribes of Indians called the Delawares, Pattawatamies, Miainies, Eel River, and Weas, jointly and severally, by their chiefs and head-men, of the other part. Article 1. Whereas, by the fourth article of a treaty made between the United States and the Delaware tribe, on the eighteenth day of August, one thousand eight hundred and four, the said United States engaged to consider the said Delawares as the proprietors of all that tract of country which is bounded by the White river on the north, the Ohio and Clark’s grant on the south, the general boundary line running from the mouth of Kentucky river, on the east, and the tract ceded by the treaty of fort Wayne, and the road leading to Clark’s grant, on the west and southwest: And whereas the Miami tribe, from whom the Delawares derived their claim, contend, that, in their cession of said tract to the Delawares, it was never their intention to convey to them the right of the soil, but to suffer them to occupy it as long as they thought proper; the said Delawares have, for the sake of peace and good neighborhood, determined to relinquish their claim to the said tract, and do. by these presents, release the United States from the guarantee made in the before mentioned article of the treaty of August, eighteen hundred and four. Art. 9. The said Miami, Eel River, and Wea tribes, cede and relinquish to the United Strifes, forever, all that ^ tract of country which lies to the south of a line to be drawn from the northeast corner of the tract ceded by the treat}' of fort Wayne, so as to strike the general boundary line, running from a point opposite to the month of the Kentucky river, to fort Recovery, at the distance of fifty miles from its commencement on the Ohio river. Art. 3. In consideration of the cession made in the preceding article, the United States will give an additional permanent annuity to said Miamies, Eel River, and Wea tribes, in the following proportions, viz. to the Miamies, six hundred dollars: to the Eel river tribe, two hundred and fifty dollars: to the Weas, two hundred and fifty dollars; and also to the Pattawatamies, an additional annuity of five hundred dollars, for ten years and no longer; which, together with the sum of four thousand dollars, which is now delivered, the receipt whereof they do hereby acknowledge, is to be considered ns a full compensation for the land now ceded. 1805.] THE WYANDOTS AND OTHERS. 697 Art. 4. As the tribes which are now called the Miamies. Eel River, and YYeas, were, formerly, and still consider themselves, as one nation, and as they have determined that neither of those tribes shall dispose of any part of the country, which they hold in common; in order to quiet their minds on that head, the United States do hereby engage to consider them as joint owners of all the country on the Wabash, and its waters, above the Vincennes tract, and which has not been ceded to the United States, by this or any former treaty; and they do further engage, that they will not purchase any part of the said country, without the consent of each of the said tribes: Provided always, that nothing in this section contained shall, in any manner, weaken or destroy any claim which the. Kickapoos, who are not represented at this treaty, may have to the country they now occupy, on tlie Vermillion river. Art. 5. The Pattawatamies, Miami. Eel River, and Wea tribes, explicitly acknowledge the right of the Delawares. to sell the tract of land conveyed to the United States by the treaty of the eighteenth day of August, eighteen hundred and four, which tract was given by the Piankeshaws to the Delawares, about thirty-seven years ago. Art. 6. The annuity herein stipulated to be paid by the United States, shall be delivered in the same manner, and under the same conditions, as those which the said tribes have heretofore received. Art. 7. This treaty shall be in force, and obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as the same shall have been ratified hy the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. In testimony whereof, the said commissioner plenipotentiary of the United States, and the sachems, chiefs, and head men, of the said tribes, have hereunto set their hands, and affixed their seals. Done at Grouseland. near Vincennes; on the twenty-first day of August, in the year eighteen hundred and five, and of the independence of the United States the thirtieth. additional article. W. H. HARRISON, [l. s.1 /hid a number of Indians. It is the intention of the contracting parties, that the boundary line herein directed to be run from the northeast corner of the Vincennes tract, to the boundary line running from the mouth of the Kentucky river, shall not cross the Embarrass or Drift-wood fork of White river; but, if it should strike the said fork, such an alteration in the direction of the said line is to be made, as will leave the whole of the said fork in the Indian territory. .'Irticles of Arrangement. made and concluded in the Chickasaw countryi, between James Robertson and Silas J)ins- moor, commissioners fif the United States, of the one part; and the Mingo, chiefs, and warriors, of the Chickasaw nation of Indians, of the other part. Art. 1. Whereas the Chickasaw nation of Indians have been for some time embarrassed by heavy debts due to their merchants and traders, and being destitute of funds to effect important improvements in their country; they have agreed, and do hereby agree, to cede to the United States, and forever quit claim to the tract of country included within the following bounds, to wit: Beginning on the left bank of Ohio, at the point where the present Indian boundary adjoins the same; thence, down the left bank of Ohio to the Tennessee river; thence, uDtlie main channel of the Tennessee liver to the mouth of Duck river: thence, up the left bank of Duck river to the Columbian highway, or road, leading from Nashville to Natchez: thence, along the said road to the ridge dividing the waters running into Duck river from those running into Buffalo river; thence, eastwanlly along the said ridge to the great ridge dividing the waters running into the main Tennessee river from those running into Buffalo river, near the main source ol'Buftalo river; thence, in a direct line to the great Tennessee river, near the Chickasaw old fields, or eastern point of the Chickasaw claim in that river; thence, northwardly to the great ridge dividing the waters running into the Tennessee from those running into Cumberland river, so as to include all the waters running into Elk river; thence, along the top of the said great ridge to the place of beginning; reserving a tract of one mile square, adjoining to. and below the mouth of Duck river, on the Tennessee, for the use of the chief O'Koy. or Tisshumas-tubbe. Art. The United States, on their part, and in consideration of the above cession, agree to make the following payments, to wit: Twenty thousand dollars lor the use of the nation at large, and for the payment of the debts due to their merchants and traders; and to George Colbert and ()‘Koy. two thousand dollars, that is, to each, one thousand dollars: this sum is granted to them at the request of the national council, for services rendered their nation, and is to be subject to their individual order, witnessed by the resident agent; also, to Chinnubbee Mingo, the king of the nation, an annuity of one hundred dollars, during Ins natural life, granted as a testimony of his personal worth and friendly disposition. All the above payments are to be made in specie. Art. 3. In order to preclude forever all disputes relative to the boundary mentioned in the first section, it is h'-reby stipulated that the same shall he ascertained and marked hy a commissioner or commissioners, on the part of the United States, accompanied by such person as the Chickasaws may choose, so soon as the Chickasaws -hall have thirty days notice of die time and place at which the operation is to commence; and the United States will pay the person appointed on the part of the Chickasaws two dollars per day. during his actual attendance on that service. Arc. 4. It is hereby agreed, on the part of the United States, that, from and after the ratification of these articles, no settlement shall he made by any citizen, or permitted by the Government of the United States, on that part of the present cession included between the present Indian boundary and the Tennessee, and between the Ohio and a line drawn due north from the mouth of Buffalo to the ridge dividing the waters of Cumberland from those of the Tennessee river, to the term of three years. Art. 5. The articles now stipulated will be considered as permanent additions to the treaties noiv in force between the contracting parties, as soon as they shall have been ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the said United States. In witness of all and every thing herein determined, the parties have hereunto interchangeably set their hands and seals, in the Chickasaw country, this twenty-third day of .July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and five, and of the independence of the United States of America the thirtieth. JAMES ROBERTSON, [l. ».] SILAS DINSMOOR, [l. s.J [Signed, also, by the Mingo, and two other chiefs.] .Articles of a Treaty agreed upon between the United Stales of America, by their commissioners Return J. Meigs unit Daniel Smith, appointed to hold conferences with the Cherokee Indians, for the.purpose of arranging cer-tain interesting matters with the. said Cherokees. of the one part; and the undersigned chiefs and head rnen of the. said nation, of the other part. Art. l. All former treaties, which provide for the maintenance of peace, and preventing of crimes, are. on this occasion, recognised and continued in force. Art. 2. The Cherokees quit claim, and cede to the United States, all the land which they have heretofore claimed, lying to the north of the following boundary line: Beginning at the mouth of Duck river, running thence up the main stream of the same to the junction of the fork, at the head of which fort Nash stood, with the main south fork; thence, a direct course to a point on the Tennessee river bank, opposite the mouth ol Hiwassee river. It the line from Hixvassee should leave out Field’s settlement, it is to be marked round his improvement, and then continued the straight course; thence, up the middle of the Tennessee river, (but leaving all the islands to the Cherokees) to the mouth of Clinch river; thence, up the Clinch river, to the former boundary line, agreed upon with the said Cherokees, reserving, at the same time, to the use of the Cherokees, a small tract, lying at and below the mouth of Clinch river; from the mouth extending thence, down the Tennesse river, from the mouth of Clinch to a notable rock on the north bank of the Tennessee, in view from Southwest Point; thence, a course at right angles with the river to the Cumberland road; thence, eastwardly along the same, to the bank of Clinch river, (so as to secure the ferry landing to the Cherokees up to the first hill) and down the same, to the mouth thereof; together with two other sections, of one square mile each, one of which is at the foot of Cumberland mountain, at and near the place where the turnpike gate now stands; the other on the north bank of the Tenneesee river, where the Cherokee Talotiske now lives. And whereas, from the present cession made by the Cherokees, and other circumstances, the site of the garrisons at Southwest Point and Tellico are become not the most convenient and suitable places for the accommodation of the said Indians, it may become expedient to remove the said garrisons and factory to some more suitable place, three other square miles are reserved for the particular disposal of the United States, on the north bank of the Tennessee, opposite to, and below, the mouth of Iliwasee. Art. 3. In consideration of the above cession and relinquishment, the United States agree to pay, immediately, 3,000 dollars in valuable merchandise, and 11,000 dollars within ninety days after the ratification of this treaty, and, also, an annuity of 3,000 dollars, the commencement of which is this day. But so much of the said 11,000 dollars as the. said Cherookees may agree to accept in useful articles of, and machines for, agriculture and manufactures, shall be paid in those articles, at their option. Art. 4. The citizens of the United States shall have the free and unmolested use and enjoyment of the two following described roads, in addition to those which are at present established through their country; one to proceed from some convenient place near the head of Stone’s river, and fall into the Georgia road at a suitable place towards the Southern frontier of the Cherokees. The other to proceed from the neighborhood of Franklin, on Big Harpeth, and crossing the Tennessee at or near the Muscle shoals, to pursue the nearest and best way to the settlements on the Tombigby. These roads shall he viewed and marked out by men appointed on each side for that purpose, in order that they may be directed the nearest and best ways, and of the time of doing the business the Cherokees shall be duly notified. Art. 5. This treaty shall take effect and be obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as it is ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the same. In testimony whereof,the said commissioners, and the undersigned chiefs and head-men of the Cherokees, have hereto set their hands and seals. Done at Tellico, the twenty-fifth day of October, 1805. RETURN J. MEIGS, DANIEL SMITH, And a number of Indian chief a. Articles of a Treaty between the United States of America, by their commissioners, Return J. Meigs and Daniel Smith, u'ho are appointed to hold conferences with the Cherokees, for the purpose of arranging certain interesting matters with the said Indians, of the one part; and the undersigned chiefs and head-men of the Cherokees, of the other part. Art. 1. Whereas it has been represented by the one party to the other, that the section of land on which the garrison of Southwest Point stands, and which extends to Kingston, is likely to be a desirable place for the assembly of the State of Tennessee to convene at, (a committee from that body, now in session, having viewed the situation) now the Cherokees, being possessed of a spirit of conciliation, and seeing that this tract is desired for public purposes, and not for individual advantages, reserving the ferries to themselves, quit claim and cede to the United States the said section of land, understanding, at the same time, that the buildings erected by the public are to belong to the public, as well as the occupation of the same, during the pleasure of the Government; we also cede the United States the first island in the Tennessee, above the mouth of Clinch. Art. 2. And whereas the mail of the United States is ordered to be carried from Knoxville to New Orleans, through the Cherokee, Creek, and Choctaw countries, the Cherokees agree that the citizens of the United States shall have, so far as it goes through their country, the free and unmolested use of a road leading from Tellico to Tombigby, to be laid out by viewers appointed on both sides, who shall direct it at the nearest and best way; and the time of doing the business the Cherokees shall be notified of. Art. 3. In consideration of the above cession and relinquishment, the United States agree to pay the said Cherokee Indians, sixteen hundred dollars in money, or useful merchandise, at their option, within ninety days after the ratification of this treaty. Art. 4. This treaty shall be obligatory between the contracting parties as soon as it is ratified by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. In testimony whereof, the said commissioners, and the undersigned chiefs and head-men of the Cherokees, have hereto set their hands and seals. Done at Tellico, this twenty-seventh day of October, A. D. eighteen hundred and five. RETURN J. MEIGS, DANIEL SMITH, And a number of Indians. Articles of a Convention utade between Henry Dearborn, Secretary of li ar, specially authorized therefor, by the President of the United States, and Oche Haujo, TUilliam APIntosh, 7’uskcnchau Chapco, Tuskcnehau, Enehau Thluceo, and Checopeheke Emantlau. chiefs and head-men of the Creek nation of Indians, duly authorized and empowered by said nation. Article l. The aforesaid chiefs and head-men do hereby agree, in consideration of certain sums of money and goods, to be paid to the said Creek nation by the Government of the United States, as hereafter stipulated, to cede, and forever quit claim, and do, in Tiehali of their nation, hereby cede, relinquish, and forever quit claim, unto the United States, all right, title, and interest, which the said nation have, or claim, in or unto a certain tract of land, situate between the rivers Oconee and Oakmulgee, (except as hereinafter excepted) and bounded as follows, *iz: Beginning at the high shoals of Apalachy, where the line of the treaty of fort Wilkinson touches the same; thence, running in a straight line, to the mouth of Ulcofauhatche, it being the first large branch or fork of the Oakmulgee. above the Seven islands: Provided, however, That, if the said line should strike the Ulcofauhatche at any place above its mouth, that it shall continue round with that stream, so as to leave the whole of it on the Indian side; then the boundary to continue from the mouth of the Ulcofauhatche, by the water’s edge of die Oakmulgee river, down to its junction with the Oconee; thence, up the Oconee, to the present boundary at Tauloohatchee creek; thence, up said creek, and following the present boundary line to the first mentioned bounds, at the High shoals of Apalachy, excepting and reserving to the Creek nation, the title and possession of a tract of land, five miles in length and three in breadth, and bounded as follows, viz: Beginning on the eastern shore of the Oakmulgee river, at a point three miles on a straight line above the mouth of a creek called Ookchoncoolgau, which empties into the Oakmulgee, near the lower part of what is called the old Oakmulgee fields; thence, running three miles eastwardly on a course at right angles with the general course of the river, for five miles below the point of beginning; thence, from the end of the three miles, to run five miles parallel with the said course of the river; thence, eastwardly at right angles with the last mentioned line to the river; thence, by the river, to the first mentioned bounds. Ami it is hereby agreed, that the President of the United States, for the time being, shall have a right to establish and continue a military post, and a factory, or trading-house, on said reserved tract: and to make such other use of the said tract, as may be found convenient for the United States, as long as the Government thereof shall think proper to continue the said military post, or trading-house. And it is also agreed, on the part of the Creek nation, that the navigation and fishery of the Oakinulgee, from its junction with the Oconee to the Ulcofauhatehe, shall be free to the white people; provided they use no traps for taking fish; but nets and seines may be used, which shall be drawn to the eastern shore only. Art. 2. It is hereby stipulated and agreed, on the part of the Creek nation, that the Government of the United States shall, forever, hereafter, have a right to a horse path, through the Creek country, from the Oakinulgee to the Mobile, in such direction as shall, by the President of the United States, be considered most convenient, and to clear out the same, and lay logs over the creeks: And the citizens of said States shall, at all times, have a right to pass peaceably on said path, under such regulations and restrictions as the Government of the United States shall l'rom time to time direct: and the Creek chiefs will have boats kept at the several riv ers for the conveyance of men and horses: and houses of entertainment established, at suitable places oil said path, for the accommodation of travellers; and the respective ferriages and prices ot entertainment, for men and horses, shall be regulated by the present agent. Colonel Hawkins, or by his successor in office, or as is usual among white people. Art. 3. It is hereby stipulated and agreed, on the part of the United States, as a full consideration of the land ceded by the Creek nation in the first article, as well as by permission granted for a horse path through their country, and the occupancy of the reserved tract, at the old Oakinulgee fields, that there shall be paid, annually, to the Creek nation, by the United States, for the term of eight years, twelve thousand dollars in money or goods, and implements of husbandry, at the option of the Creek nation, seasonably signified from time to time, through the agent of the United States, residing with said nation, to the Department of War; and eleven thousand dollars stiall he paid in like manner, annually, for the term of the ten succeeding years, making in the whole, eighteen payments in the course of eighteen years, without interest: The first payment is to be made as soon as practicable, after the ratification of this convention, by the Government of the United States; and each payment shall be made at the reserved tract, on the old Oakinulgee fields. Art. 4. And it is hereby further agreed, on the part of the United States, that, in lieu of all former stipulations relating to blacksmiths, they will furnish the Creek nation, for eight years, with two blacksmiths and two strikers. Art. 5. The President of the United States may cause the line to be run from the High shoals of Apalacliy, to the mouth of Ulcofauhatehe, at such time, and in such manner, as he may deem proper. And this convention shall be obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as the same shall have been ratified by the Government of the United States. Done at the place, and on the day and year, above written. II. DEARBORN, [l. s.j And sundry Indian chiefs. [Note. For instructions, see Nos. 109 and 110.] * 1 9th Congress.] 
