No. 56. [3d Session. THE CHEROKEES. . COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, DECEMBER 30, 1794. Gentlemen of the Senate: I lay before you, for your consideration, certain additional articles of the treaty with the Cherokee?, stipulated the 28th of June last, together with the conferences* which occasioned the formation of the said articles. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, December 30, 1704. Articles of a Treaty between the United States of America, and the Cherokee Indians. Whereas the treaty made and conducted on Ilolston river, on the second day of July, one thousand seven hundred and ninety one, between the United States of America and the Cherokee nation of Indians, has not been fully carried into execution, by reason of some misunderstandings which have arrisen: Art. 1. And whereas the undersigned, Henry Knox, Secretary for the Department of War, being authorized thereto by the President of the United States, in behalf of the said United States: and the undersigned chiefs and warriors, in their own names, and in behalf of the whole Cherokee nation : are desirous of re-establishing peace and friendship between the said parties, in a permanent manner, do hereby declare, that the said treaty of.Holston is. to all intents and purposes, in full force, and binding upon the said parties, as well in respect to the boundaries therein mentioned, as in all other respects whatever. Art. 2. It is hereby stipulated that the boundaries mentioned in the fourth article of the said treaty, shall be actually ascertained and marked, in the manner prescribed by the said article, whenever the Cherokee nation shall have ninety days* notice of the time and place at which the commissioners of the United States intend to commence their operation. Art. 3. The United States, to evince their justice, by amply compensating the said Cherokee nation of Indians for all relinquishments of land made, either by the treaty of Hopewell, upon the Keowee river, concluded on the twenty-eighth of November, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-live, or the aforesaid treaty made upon Ilolston river, on the second of July, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, do hereby stipulate, in lieu of all former sums to be paid annually, to furnish the Cherokee Indians with goods suitable for their use. to the amount of five thousand dollars yearly. Art. 4. And the said Cherokee nation, in order to evince the sincerity of their intentions in future, to prevent the practice of stealing horses, attended with the most pernicious consequences to the lives and peace of both parties, do hereby agree, that, for every horse which shall be stolen from the white inhabitants by any Cherokee Indians, and not returned within three months, that the sum of fifty dollars shall be deducted from the said annuity of live thousand dollars. Art. 5. The articles now stipulated will be considered as permanent additions to the treaty of Ilolston, as soon as they shall have been ratified by the President of the United States and the Senate of the United States. In witness of all and every thing herein determined between the United States of America and the whole Cherokee nation, the parties have hereunto set their hands and seals, in the city of Philadelphia, within the United States, this twenty-sixth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-four. II. KNOX, Secretary of TVar. [Signed by thirteen chiefs of the Cherokee Indians.] 3d Congress.] 
