No. 36. [2(1 Session NORTHWESTERN TRIBES AND THE CREEKS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE. DECEMBER 19. 1792. w ar Department, December 19th, 1792. Sir: The President of the United States has directed me to submit to the Senate, the extract of a letter from Brigadier General Wilkinson, dated at fort Hamilton, the Gth of November last, with an enclosure from Major Adair, the copy of a letter from John Belli, deputy quartermaster general, dated Lexington. November 17, 1792: and the copy of a letter Iron James Seagrove, Esq. relatively to the Creek Indians, dated Saint Mary’s. 22d of November. 1792. I have the honor to be, sir, with great respect, your most obedient servant, H. KNOX, Secretary of If’nr. The President of the Honorable the Senate of the United States. Extract of a letter from Brigadier General H'ilkinson to the Secretary of JUar, dated at Fort Hamilton, Gth Xovcmbcr, 1792, 7 o'clock, p. m. Just as I was about to despatch this, I received a letter from Major Adair, commandant of the Kentucky mounted infantry, of which the enclosed is a copy. The check which the enemy have experienced in this little affair, will produce good effects, and the event reflects honor upon the Major and the yeomanry of Kentucky; but the immediate consequence will be an entire stop to the transport of forage to the advanced post, as our pack-horses are either destroyed or disabled, and the riflemen dismounted; in this situation I am perplexed by difficulties, as, from my ignorance of the designs of Government, and for the want of explicit orders, I am at a loss whether to direct the purchase of more pack-horses, or to encourage the riflemen to remount themselves; on these points I shall duly deliberate, and will make such decision as my judgment may direct, relying confidently on the liberality of Government for an excuse, should I err; and, in the meantime, I shall urge forward the transport of forage from fort Washington to tfii-s post, by every means left in my power. As this affair happened near to. and in sight of. fort St. Clair, it may be inquired why the commanding officer did not support Major Adair? The answer is short, and will, I hope, be satisfactory. The garrison under bis command is posted for defence, and not offence; and although it appears, that, in this instance, to have hazarded would have been judicious, yet, as I have considered it safest tor the national interests, to confine my subordinate officers, by rigid instructions, to defensive measures solely, they are bound to hazard, in no case whatever, which does not immediately and essentially interest the safety of the trust which may be confided to them; and it may be added, that, in the instance before us. the attack was a most daring one, and that neither the number, or ultimate object of the enemy, would be developed before it was discovered that Major Adair was a full match for him. 1 have this moment despatched twenty of my mounted infantry', who will reach St. Clair before day-light, to aid in bringing in the wounded and the weary; and I have the honor to be, with respect, &.c. Sir, your most obedient humble servant, JAMES WILKINSON, Brigadier General. Fort St. Ctair, Xocanbcr Gib. 1792. Sir: This morning, about the first appearance of day, the enemy attacked my ramp within sight of this post; the attack was sudden, and the enemy came on with a degree of courage that bespoke them warriors, indeed. Some of my men were hand in hand with them before we retreated, which, however, we did, about eighty yards, to a kind of stockade intended for stables; we then made a stand. I then ordered Lieutenant Madison to lake a party and gain their right flank if possihle. I called for Lieutenant Hail to send to the left, hut found he had been slain. I then led forward the men who stood near me, which, together with the Ensigns Buchanan and Florin, amounted to about twenty-five, and pressed the left of their centre, thinking it absolutely necessary to assist Madison. We made a manly push, and the enemy retreated, taking all our horses except five or six. We drove them about six hundred yards through our camp, where they again made a stand, and we fought them some time; two of my men were here shot dead. At that moment I received information that the enemy were about to flank us on (he right, and on turning that way, 1 saw about sixty of them running to that point. I had yet heard nothing of Madison. I then ordered my men to retreat, whicli they did with deliberation, heartily cursing the Indians, who pursued us close to our camp, where we again fought them until they gave way; and when they retreated, our ammunition was nearly expended, although we had been supplied from the garrison in the course of the action. 1 did not think proper to follow them again, but ordered my men into the garrison to draw ammunition. I returned, however, in a few minutes, to a hill to which we had first driven them, where I found two of iny men scalped, who were brought in. Since I began to write this, a lew of the enemy appeared in sight, and I pursued them with a party about a quarter of a mile, but could not overtake them, and did not think proper to go farther. Madison, who I sent to the right, was, on his first attack, wounded, and obliged to retreat into the garrison, leaving a man or two dead; to this misfortune I think the enemy are indebted for the horses they have got. Had he gained their right flank, and I once had possession of flieir left, I think we should have routed them at that stage of the action, as we had them on the retreat. I have six killed and five wounded, four men are missing; I think they went off early in the action, on horseback, and are, I suppose, by this, at fort Hamilton. My officers and a number of my men distinguished themselves greatly. Poor Had died calling to his men to advance. Madison's bravery and conduct need no comment; they are well known. Flinn and Buchanan acted with a coolness and courage which does them much honor. Buchanan, after firing his gun, knocked an Indian down with the barrel. They have killed and taken a great number of the pack-horses. 1 intend following than this evening some distance, to ascertain their route and strength, if possible. I can with propriety say, that about fifty of my men fought with a bravery equal to any men in the world, and had not the garrison been so nigh, as a place of safety for the bashful, I think many more would have fought well. The enemy have no doubt as many men kilted as myself. They left two dead on the ground, and I saw two carried off. The only advantage they have gained is our horses, which is a capital one, as it disables me from bringing the interview to a more certain and satisfactory decision. I am sorry I cannot send you better news, And am, sir. yours. &c. JOHN ADAIR. Brigadier General Wilkinson. Sir: Lexington, November 17th, 1792. Enclosed you will find a letter directed to Colonel James O'Hara, quartermaster general, which, after reading, you will be pleased to forward to him. You will see in that letter the cause of my taking the liberty this day (by General James Wilkinson’s advice) to draw on you, twenty-five days after sight, viz: $ 1,200 order Robert Barr. nYinn Willing Af.^.. 2,000 1,200    2001 200 I 200 I 100 .. 100 r 300 350 350. 700 “ 500 “ 600 “ 90 66§ $ 8,090 66§ William Morton and Charles Wilkins. Al. Scott &. Co. James Morrison. Al. McGregor. Al. & James Parker. William Leary. N. Lewis. Which sum of eight thousand and ninety dollars and sixty-six and two-third cents, after payment, you will be pleased to charge to the quartermaster department. However disagreeable this proceeding is to me, (having had no orders from you to draw) was necessitated so to do, or, to see the General’s arrangements entirely defeated. I hope the quartermaster general will in future supply me with sums equal to the demands in this quarter: for, sir, I have already spent a great many uneasy hours for want of funds: indeed, I shall now be obliged to curtail General Wilkinson's order for pack-horses, for want of money, which this country at present does not afford. If I can find another chance, will draw a few thousand dollars more. Though it may appear, by the bills, that I purchased the pack-horses of those in whose favor I drew, I can inform you to the contrary; and that those horses are to be bought from individuals only, and throughout the whole State. 1 am, with respect, sir, your very humble servant, JOHN BELLI. D. Q. 31. G. United Staten’ Army. The Honorable Henry Knox. Secretary of War. Philadelphia. Copy of a letter from James Sea grove, Esq. to the Secretary of I Car, dated St. Mary’s, 22d November, 1792. Sir: Being just arrived here from the conference ground at Colerain, in company with forty-five of the principal chiefs of the Creeks, on a visit to my residence, and finding a Boat departing for Savannah, I drop you a line in haste, to inform you that every thing hath gone favorable, beyond my most sanguine expectation. I had present at our meeting the chiefs of eighteen of the principal towns in the Creek nation. Peace and friendship with the United States they confirm, and declare pointedly against joining the Northern tribes, or any others, red or white, against us. The whole particulars you shall have without delay. In the mean time, I am happy in being able to say, that every thing is in a most pleasing state between the Creeks and our country. I hope you will excuse this, as I am now surrounded by a very noisy, but friendly crew of red kings and chiefs. I am. with all possible respect, yours. &c. 2nd Congress.] 
