No. 123. [2d Session. THE ALABAMAS AND CHOCTAWS. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS, DEC. 30, 1808. To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Slates. 1 lay before the Legislature a letter fronrGovernor Claiborne, on the subject of a small tribe of Alabama Indians, on the western side of the Mississippi, consisting ot about a dozen families. Like other erratic tribes in that country, it is understood that they have hitherto moved from place to place, according to their convenience, without appropriating to themselves, exclusively, any particular territory: but having now become habituated to some of the occupations of civilized life, they wish for a fixed residence. 1 suppose it will be the interest of the United States to encourage the wandering tribes of that country to reduce themselves to fixed habitations, whenever they are so disposed. The establishment of towns, and growing attachments to them, will furnish, in some degree, pledges of their peaceable and friendly conduct. The case of this particular tribe is now submitted to the consideration of Congress. December 30, 1808. TH: JEFFERSON. New Orleans, November 5th, 1808. Sir: You have, heretofore, been informed of the messages, which, (in consequence of the late conviction of four Alabama Indians of the crime of murder,) 1 had sent to the Choctaws of the Bavou Chico village, and to the tribe of Alabainas, and you will recollect, that, in my message to the Choctaws, I had proposed to present to the wife and children of the Indian murdered by a white man, of the name of Thomas, merchandise to the value of sixty dollars. By a letter from Judge King, the bearer of my messages, 1 learn that the Choctaws " will not permit the widow to receive the presents,” alleging that, notwithstanding my assurance to the contrary, *‘it would have very much the appearance of a compromise for Thomas, and would be so considered by other Indians.” As relates to the Alabainas, Judge King reports as follows: "They, the Alabainas, appear perfectly satisfied and grateful for your clemency; they, however, complain of great distress, inasmuch as they share no claim to any land in the country; but have resided, many years, on ground claimed by white individuals, who have lately suggested to them the necessity of removing; they say that they have lived here, among the white people, forty years; that their men are in the habit of hunting, driving cattle, and acting as boatmen, and their women and children of gathering cotton, by which means they support their families; that they are unwilling to leave the neighborhood, and are desirous of knowing whether they will be permitted to establish a small village, sufficient for about a dozen families, on the lands of the United States, which they may expect will be permanent.” The Alabainas formerly resided on the waters of the Mobile, and emigrated to Louisiana about forty-two years ago; a few families set themselves down in Opelousas; but the greater number settled on the Sabine. Feeling sensibly for these poor wanderers, or rather exiles from the country of their ancestors, and desirous to contribute to their happiness, I have, in a letter to Judge King, dated on the first instant, thus expressed inyselt: ktl feel no hesitation in taking upon myself to give permission to the Alabainas to settle upon lands of the United States, and to accompany it with an assurance that I will intercede in their favor with the Government, and endeavor to obtain for them a grant for two or three thousand acres of land, which, I presume, will be as much as they would desire; will you have the goodness, therefore, to advise with the Alabainas as to the spot where they would wish to reside, and if you should find it belonging to the United States, and so situated that no inconvenience is likely to result to the citizens of Opelousas, from its being settled by Indians, you will, (in my name) authorize the Alabainas to remove thereto.” I am persuaded that, on this occasion, my feelings are in unison with the Government, and that, so long as the few Alabama families, now in Opelousas, shall conduct themselves with propriety, they will find a friendly asylum. The late outrage was the first offence with which the Alabamas had been charged: and even on that occasion, the conduct of this little tribe was exemplary; they, with promptitude, delivered ,up the murderers, and among the most active in effecting their arrest, was the father of one of the offenders. I have the honor to be, sir, with great respect, your humble servant, WILLIAM C. C. CLAIBORNE. 10th Congress.] 
