NO. 190.	[2d SESSION. EXTINGUISHMENT OF THE INDIAN TITLE TO LAND IN GEORGIA. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY 6, 1823. Mr. MCLANE, from the Committee of Ways and Means, who were instructed, by a resolution of the 30th December last, to “ inquire into the expediency of making an appropriation adequate to the purchase of the reservations made in favor of the Creek and Cherokee Indians, within the territory ceded to Georgia,” reported: That, by articles of agreement and cession between the United States and the State of Georgia, the United States became bound “to extinguish, at their own expense, for the use of Georgia, as early as the same can be peaceably obtained on reasonable terms, the Indian title to certain lands, particularly described in the said articles, for which purpose a treaty had been directed to be held with the Creeks;” and, in the same article, it was further stipulated “that the United States shall, in the same manner, also extinguish the Indian title to all the other lands within the State of Georgia.” That, subsequent to the date of this article, the United States, by twu several treaties with the Creek Indians, dated the 9th of August, 1814, and 8th of January, 1821; and several treaties with the Cherokees, dated, respect ively, the 8th of July, 1817, and 27th of February, 1819, reserved, for the use of such Indian families as should choose to settle within the State of Georgia, six hundred and forty acres of land, and to their heirs, in fee-simple. It is the title to these reservations which the State of Georgia now desires to have extinguished. They do not lie contiguous to each other, but are dispersed over and in different parts of the State. Over these reserves the Indians have formally abandoned their national jurisdiction; the United Stales, it is presumed, never had any, and none can be exercised by the State of Georgia, without a recognition of the fee-simple title claimed by the Indians, which she supposes inconsistent with her rights under the, article of cession. Under these circumstances, for a more full development whereof they refer to the report of a select committee made on the 7th January, 1822, [See No. 177,] the Committee of Ways and Means suppose the United States are under an obligation to interpose and extinguish the Indian title to these reserves, whenever it can be done on reasonable terms, pursuant to the articles of cession heretofore referred to. The committee are also led to believe, from the peculiar difficulties in which the possessions of these lands are now involved, with respect to their title, that the present would be a favorable period for the interference of the United States for their extinguishment. From the best information which the committee have been able to obtain, it is probable that about twenty-one Indian families have availed themselves of the articles of the treaty of 1817, each of whom being entitled to 640 acres of land, would make the number of 13,440 acres to be extinguished under that treaty; that, under the treaty of 1819, there are six families, making 3,840 acres; and under the treaty of 1821, the reservations amount to 5,480 acres; making, in the whole, 22,760 acres to be extinguished by the United States. It has been supposed, by a public agent appointed by the Governor of Georgia to inquire into this subject, and from whose official report the foregoing estimate is derived, that much of this land may be purchased for less than two dollars per acre, though for another portion a larger sum will be required. It is presumed, however, that the whole quantity may be extinguished for a sum not exceeding fifty thousand dollars; and the committee, therefore, report a bill accordingly. CONGRESS.] 
