No. 31. [2d Session. WABASH AND ILLINOIS TRIBES. COMMUNICATED To THE SENATE, NOVEMBER 8, 1792. War Department, 8th November, 1792. Sir; The Prefiident of the United States has directed me to inform the honorable the Senate, that, yesterday afternoon, an express arrived, with information from Major Hamtramek, dated at Post Vincennes, on the -4th ol October, that Brigadier General Putnam, who then was sick, had, on the 27th day of September, concluded a treaty ol peace with the Wabash and Illinois Indians, consisting of the following tribes, to wit: Eel river Indians, Ouiatanons, Pattawatainies of the Illinois river, Mosquitoes, the Kickapoos of the Wabash, Piatikeshaws, Kaskaskias, and Peorians; and that Brigadier General Putnam was to forward to the hostile Indians, by certain chiefs of the Wabash, the messages, of which copies are herewith submitted. Lieutenant Prior also writes, on the sixteenth ultimo, from Louisville, on the Ohio, that he has arrived there with sixteen chiefs of the Wabash Indians, who are proceeding to Philadelphia, by the way of Pittsburg. I have the honor to be. sir, with great respect, your most ob't humble servant, II. KNOX, Seer xj of War. The Honorable the President of the Senate of the United States. The Speech of Rufus Putnam, Agent to General Washington. for the purpose of treating irith the Indians Northwest of the Ohio, and concluding a peace with the same. Brothers of the Delawares, Shawanese, Miamies, Wyandotts, and all other tribes inhabiting the country oil the Miami and Sandusky rivers, and on the lake: The Great Chief of the United States, General Washington, has sent, since early in the spring, messages of peace to you: and I. who have come from this Great Chief and his council, more than four months ago, have also sent a speech to you lor that purpose. Brothers: After waiting a long time for your answer, and not receiving any; I was encouraged to speak to the nations on the Wabash and Illinois rivers, and finding their ears open, I held a treaty with them at Tshubhicking, (Post Vincennes) where we have buried the hatchet; wiped oil’all the stains of blood; and concluded a firm and everlasting peace. Brothers: I believe, were you but once agreed to hear what I have (o say to you. and should meet, see, and hear me, you would find that it would be for your good. As long as we don’t see and hear one another, but listen to the singing birds, which 11 y to and fro, we are carried away with every story, and not only remain strangers to one another, but enemies also. Brothers: Open your ears to the truth. I speak from my heart, not with my lips only. I wish to see you happy. I wish a peace established between you and the United States. 1 wish to see your women and children go to rest without fear, and your young men become industrious hunters, so that you all, young and old, may live comfortably. Brothers: All this can be the case if you choose it. The United States don’t mean to wrong you out of your lands. They don’t want to take away your lands by force. They want to do you justice. Now, Brothers, I send you this my speech by some of those who have been here at this treaty. They have seen and heard me, and arc witnesses to all that has passed between us, and they will tell you the truth. Brothers: When you have heard my speech, and all that my messengers have to say to you, I desire your wise men to consider it well.  The great and good spirit will then convince them of the good intentions of the United States, and that the road is yet open to them to become a happy people. Brothers: 1 desire you to send some of your wise men with my messengers to meet me at the mouth of Muskingum, that we may see one another, and speak together, before I return again to our Great Chief, General Washington. I shall direct every tiling so that you will have nothing to fear. Arise then, come and see me, and let us shake hands with one another. [A belt.] Post Vincennes, Oct. 5th, 1792. In addition to the above speech, of Brigadier General Putnam, the following was addressed to the Delawares, in particular, viz: the Delaware chiefs and captains, Walendanwechen, Pachgantschihillas, Muchingwe, Pushees, Captain Pipe, &c.   , Brothers: 1 am come from Bethlehem to assist in establishing a peace between yon and the United States. You know I have lived with you many years, and love you. 1 sincerely wish your nation well and happy. Brothers: The Great Chief who has spoke to you is a good man: he loves you, and will always speak the truth to you; I wish you to listen to his words, and do as he desires you. If you do so, you will find it will be good for your women and children. Brothers: It is true many things have happened which were bad; but these things were the consequences of the war. Brothers: I desire you not to look to what has passed, but to come forth and speak to this Great Chief, who will, with your assistance, remove all that is bad, and make every thing clear and light again. Rise, therefore, and don’t lose this fine opportunity. Consider your nation; you are their wise men; they look to you to do what is good. Brothers: If you come to' the mouth of Muskingum, I shall see you and assist you in your business. JOHN HECKE WELDER. Post Vincennes, Octobers, 1792. General Putnam's speech to the Indians, inviting a deputation to Philadelphia. Brothers: 1 thank the Great Spirit, who has inclined our hearts to do good, and to establish a good peace between you and the United States. Brothers: Let us endeavor to restore peace and happiness to all. as far as lies in our power, and for this purpose I request that you will send a speech to your neighbors, Miamies, Delawares, Shawanese, and other- tribes, who have hitherto stopped their ears, and refused to speak with the United States about peace; although many speeches have been sent to them for that purpose. Brothers: I propose to send one speech more, resquesting them to open a road to some place or other, where we may meet and speak to one another; and I trust, with your assistance, that the Great Spirit will cause the good work to succeed. .... B rothers: Our Great Chief, General Washington, is very desirous to see a number of your chiefs; to take them by the hand, and smoke the pipe of peace with them, at his council fire—there to brighten the chain of friendship, and personally convince them of the goodness of his heart, and show- how strong he and all the great chiefs of the United States hold you. Brothers: If you agree that one or two chiefs from each tribe should visit the Great Chief, General Washington, as I propose, I shall provide for every expense of the journey, and a safe convoy and accommodation, both going and returning. The route will be from here to the falls of Ohio, by land, thence by water to Pittsburg, and from thence by land to Philadelphia. Brothers: If you listen to me in this, 1 have no doubt but you will find the interest and happiness of your tribes greatly increased, by the good things which the Great Chief w ill do further for you. Brothers: I wish you to take my words into consideration, and return me an answer as soon as you have determined. 2nd Congress.] 
