No. 39. [2d Session. WABASH AND ILLINOIS TRIBES. communicated to THE SENATE, FEBRUARY 13, 1793. Gentlemen of the Senate: I lay before you, for your consideration and advice, a treaty of peace and friendship, made and concluded on the 27th day of September, 1792, by Brigadier General Rufus Putnam, in behalf of the United States, with the Wabash and Illinois tribes of Indians. And, also, the proceedings attending the said treaty, the explanation of the fourth article thereof, and a map, explanatory of the reservation to tiie French inhabitants, and the general claim of the said Indians. In connexion with this subject, 1 also lay before the Senate the copy of a paper which has been delivered by a tnan by the name of John Baptiste Mayee, who has accompanied the Wabash Indians, at present in this city. It will appear, by the certificate of Brigadier General Putnam, that the Wabash Indians disclaimed the validity of the said paper, excepting a certain tract upon the Wabash, as mentioned in the proceedings. The instructions to Brigadier General Putnam, of the 22d of May, together with a letter to him, of the 7th of August, 1792, were laid before the Senate on the 7th of November, 1792. After the Senate shall have considered this treaty, I request that they would give me their advice, whether the same shall be ratified and concluded? and, if to be ratified and confirmed, whether it would not be proper, in order to prevent any misconception hereafter, of the fourth article, to guard, in the ratification, the exclusive pre-emption of the United States to the lands of the said Indians? . GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, 13//i February, 1793. A Treaty of peace and friendship, made and concluded between the President of the United States of America, on the part of the said States, and the undersigned, Icings, chiefs, and warriors, of the Wabash and Illinois Indian tribes, on the part and behalf of the said tribes. The parties being desirous of establishing a permanent peace and friendship, between the United States and the said Indian tribes, and the citizens and members thereof, and to remove the causes of war, the President of the United States, by Rufus Putnam, one of the Judges of the territory of the United States, northwest of the river Ohio, and Brigadier General in the army, whom he hath vested with full powers for these purposes; and the said Wabash and Illinois Indian tribes, by the undersigned kings, chiefs, and warriors, representing the said tribes, have agreed to the following articles, viz: Article 1. There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America, and all the individuals, villages, and tribes, of the said Wabash and Illinois Indians. Art. 2. The undersigned kings, chiefs, and warriors, for themselves, and all parts of their villages and tribes, do acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States of America, and stipulate to live in amity and friendship with them. Art. 3. The said tribes shall deliver, as soon as practicable, to the commanding officer at fort Knox, all citizens of the United States, white inhabitants or negroes, who are now prisoners among any of the said tribes. Art. 4. The United States solemnly guaranty to the Wabash, and the Illinois nations, or tribes of Indians, all the lands to which they have a just claim; and no part shall eyer be taken from them, but by a fair purchase, and to their satisfaction. That the lands originally belonged to the Indians; it is theirs, and theirs only. That they have a right to sell, and a right to refuse to sell. And that the United States will protect them in their said just rights. Art. 5. The said kings, chiefs, and warriors, solemnly promise, on their part, that no future hostilities or depredations shall be committed by them, or any belonging to the tribes they represent, against the persons or property of any of the citizens of the United States. That the practice of stealing negroes and horses from the people of Kentucky, and other inhabitants of the United States, shall forever hereafter cease. That they will, at all times, give notice to the citizens of the United States of any designs which they may know, or suspect to be formed, in any neighboring tribe, or by any person whatever, against the peace and interest of the United States. Art. G. In cases of violence on the persons or property of the individuals of either party, neither retaliation or reprisal shall be committed by the other until satisfaction shall have been demanded of the party, of which the aggressor is, and shall have been refused. Art. 7.. All animosities for past grievances shall henceforth cease, and the contracting parties will carry the foregoing treaty into full execution, with all good faith and sincerity. In witness of all and every thing herein determined, between the United States of America and the villages and tribes of the undersigned kings, chiefs, and warriors, the parties have hereunto set their bauds ami seals, at Post Vincennes, on the Wabash river, this twenty-seventh day of September, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two. RUFUS PUTNAM, Brigadier General, and Agent for making peace ivith the Indians. [Signed by thirty-one Indians, of the Wabash and Illinois tribes.] [translation.] To cdl to whom these presents shall come: Know ye, that we. Tobacco, the Great Couette, Ouaoimra, Young Tobacco, the Black Fly, and Maringouin, or Musquito, the Small Cartars, Kieskipichia, Old and Young Grelot.all chiefs of the different tribes of the savage nations of the Pianguichias, do acknowledge and confess unanimous, altogether, and separately, for us, and all our posterity, and all the people of the tribes of the aforesaid nations of the Pianguichias, that Louis Viviatte, merchant in the land of Illinois, one of the acquirers, as well for himself as for the afternamed persons, which, after having had different conferences, as well public as others, with us, the above chiefs of the towns and villages at Post Vincennes and Vermillion, has proposed to us, by the treaties and talks we have had together, to buy of us some quantities and extends of lands, all belonging to us, as well as to all the other different tribes of our nation, which we unanimously represent; and declare, further, that we, the abovenamed chiefs, have wisely and ripely considered, for ourselves and descendants, and have also consulted with the other natives of our different tribes, concerning the propositions which have been made to us by the said Louis Viviatte, as well in his name as in those of the other acquirers hereafter named; and we, the aforenamed chiefs, as well as the natives of the different tribes of our nation, are perfectly well satisfied and content, for the afternamed considerations: we do assure and confirm to tire said Louis Viviatte, and to all the others who might join him, that the different quantities and extends of lands, hereafter to be specified, to be divided by these presents, that we, the abovenamed chiefs of the savage nation of the Pianguichias, all present in the public council, assembled in the town and villages of Post Vincennes, and in consideration of the sum of five shillings, counted to us by the said Louis Viviatte, as also for the merchandise and effects offered and presented to us. the said chiefs, Young Tobacco, Montour, the Great Couette, and Ouaounahn, Old Tobacco, Black Fly, the Maringouin, the Small Cartars, Kieskipi-chia. Old and Young Grelot, for the usage of the different tribes of the nation Pianguichias, well and duly delivered, in full council, as mentioned, to wit: four hundred white blankets, twenty-two pieces of cloth, two hundred and fifty shirts, twelve groce of garters, one hundred and twenty pieces of ribbon, twenty-four pounds of vermillion, eighteen pieces of velvet galloon, for hosing, a piece swansdown, fifteen guns, thirty-five dozen of knives, with horn handles, forty dozen knives, with close handles, five hundred pounds of copper, in kettles, ten thousand Hints, six hundred pounds of gun powder, two thousand pounds of shot, four hundred pounds of tobacco, forty bushels of salt, three thousand weight of flour, and three horses, without the least prejudice to the following silver work, to wit: eleven pairs of arm bracelets, forty hand bracelets, six full moons, six half moons, nine pairs of ear bobs, forty great, crosses, twenty-nine hair knots, sixty pairs of ear rings, twenty dozen of small crosses, twenty dozen crosses for the nose, and one hundred and ten dozen of little pins, which we declare and acknowledge to have received, article by article: for which, we acknowledge and declare and confess, unanimously, by these presents, to have, together and separately, for us. and all our posterity and people of our tribes, sold, ceded, and transferred, delivered, and given up, now, ami for ever, with promises of guarantee; and, moreover, ratify and confirm, by these presents, that we agree to have sold, to be delivered, to be ceded, and to be given up for ever, and make valid to Louis Viviatte, the honorable Augustus, Earl of Dunmore, Governor of the colony of Virginia, the honorable John Murray, son to the above Earl, Moses Franks, anti Jacob Franks, of the city of London, kingdom of Great Britain, Esquires, Thomas Johnston, jr., Esq.. Barister at Law, and John Davidson, merchant, both of the city of Annapolis, of the province of Maryland, William Russet. Esq.. Matthew Ridley. Robert Christie, senior, Robert Christie, junior, of the town of Baltimore, merchants, in the province of Maryland. Peter Campbell, merchant, of Piscata-way, Maryland, William Gecldis, Esq., collector of his Majesty's customs, for the new town of Chester, in Maryland, David Franks, merchant, and Mores, attorney at law, both of the city of Philadelphia, in the province of Pennsylvania, William Murray, and Daniel Murray, merchants, in the Illinois country. Nicholas St. Martin anti Joseph Bage, gentlemen, of the same country. Francis Berthuis, of the city of Quebec, gentleman, at present at Post Vincennes, for them and their heirs; and, if the case requires it. having caused, by the will of George the Third, King of Great Britain, France, and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, to be for the usage, and benefit, and advantage of the said acquirers, here aforenamed, the heirs, Ac., and for that every one should, according to law. possess the same quantities and extends of land, hereafter named, viz: one extend, or quantity of land, situated on both sides of the river Oubache, to begin at the mouth of a creek, named Cat river, which empties into the said river Oubache, about fifty-two leagues distant above Post Vincennes, and descending the river Oubache, following the windings and turnings, to the place called the Pointe Coupe, about twelve leagues above Post Vincennes, which forms about forty leagues in length, upon the said river Oubache, and of the line or the place from whence it begins, it must continue forty leagues in depth, from the east, also thirty leagues in depth from the west of the said river Oubache. to be continued all along, to be taken from the mouth of the said Cat river, which joins the said river Oubache, to come at the said Pointe Coupe; and also an extend or quantity of land, situated at botli sides of said river Oubache, which commences from the mouth of the White river, which empties itself into the said river Oubache, about ten leagues from the said Post Vincennes, and from thence, going down the said river Oubache, following the turnings as they are, which joins the Belle Iliviere, to be taken from the aforesaid White river, fifty-three leagues, or about, more or less, upon forty leagues in breadth, of the east side, and thirty leagues in depth, from the west side of the said Oubache, to he continued all along, at both sides of the said river Oubache, and what is between, which is about twenty-four leagues, between the said Pointe Coupe and the said White river, is reserved for the inhabitants, and for their usage at the saiil Post Vincennes, with the same depth at both sides the said Oubache, as well as the abovementioned extends of lands and the two aforesaid quantities or extends ol lands, heretofore designated, granted, and sold, according to the division specified as above, must contain and form, from the first place here abovementioned, unto the Belle Riviere, in altogether ninety-three leagues in the said Oubache. and, at both sides, must form and have in depth seventy leagues altogether, equally all along the said river Oubache, as aforesaid, without comprehending the twenty-four leagues of length, and the seventy of depth, which are reserved for the inhabitants of Post Vincennes, to be reserved and to be promised by the said chiefs abovenained. We, themselves, and for the different natives of their nations, which they fully and effectively represent, as well for their posterity, with promises and guaranties by the aforesaid chiefs, and all the people of their tribes, and their heirs, for that the acquirers should enjoy their lands in peace, and that they may dispose of it at their will and pleasure: as also, to enjoy full liberty and tranquillity on the said lands, as well in their navigation in the said river Oubache, from the entrance to the source of this river, as well in all oilier rivers which pass across the lands now sold, without any restriction, or opposition and interruption, or quarrel, contrary to their rights, which should, or could not, take place contrary to the privileges ceded, granted, and given up to the said acquirers, of all the minerals, mines, trees, woods, waters, and running waters, profits, commodities, advantages, rights, and liberties, inheritance, appurtenances, dependencies, and any other things, on the two extends or quantities of lands, which belong to them: as, also, all the reservations and residue, success and profits, and of all rights, usages, and possession of property. claim, and demand, against the said chiefs. Tobacco, Maringouin. Montour, the Great Couette. Young Tobacco. Ouaunaha, Black Fly, Small Cartar. Kieskispichia, the two Grelots, old and young, and all others, or other person whatever, from said savage nation of Pianguichia, on the said lands; and. finally, to enjoy and possess of the two extends, or quantity of lands, and other singular pieces comprehended in the sale by the said acquirers, their heirs, and successors, to their advantage and profit; and the said chiefs, which promises all. and every one in particular, for themselves, and the people of their tribes, and for all other nations who depend from them, and which are submitted to the said posterity and savage nation of the said Pianguichias, as well as to guaranty of all troubles for the aforesaid quantities and extends of lands, as above specified, and who generally depends on it, and oblige and engage ourselves to guaranty and defend for all, and against all. and for always, tor our part, and every one of us, and in particular, and for all other natives of the different tribes of the savage nation of the Pianguichias; and have signed with our hands our ordinary marks, in presence of the underwritten persons, as witness and present in council ; the council held at said Post Vincennes, the -------- day of  , in the year one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five. And delivered in the present nature, and in consideration of the said act, also specified, mentioned, and interpreted, to the aforesaid identical chiefs present. The liberty of game, or hunting, shall always remain free in all the rivers, also the navigation in said rivers. Tobacco, chief. Montour, chief. Great Couette, chief. Ouaunaha, chief. Young Tobacco, chief. Black Fly, chief. Afterwards signed by the following as witnesses: Jean Marie he Gras, he Marie Francois Bosseron, J. Bte. Nuberdeau, St. Martin, Pertius, Barois, J. Bte. Bosseron, Bolon, Milhet, Le Leroute—all witnesses. Small Cartar, chief. Quickipichias, chief. Old Grelot, chief. Young Grelot, chief. Cotomer, chief. Burnt Arm, war chief. Post Vincennes, the------------, in the year one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five, appeared before me. St. Marie, commandant at said Post Vincennes, personally, Prene Coder, alias Panas, and Jean Baptiste Vaudry, inhabitants of the same place; which, after having been duly sworn, have deposed, that they served as interpreters to the savage nations, during all the time they have been in conference, held in the town and village of Post Vincennes and Vermillion, by Louis Viviatte, for himself, as also in the names of different other persons, with the chiefs ot the different tribes of the savage nation of Pianguichias, relatively to the purchase of lands, as above mentioned, specified,, and written in the aforesaid act, which the said witnesses, or interpreters, have faithfully interpreted between the said Louis Viviatte and the chiels denominated in the aforesaid act; and that the said witnesses, in their quality as interpreters, have done for the best in their souls and consciences, according to the best of their understanding and knowledge, and have, faithfully and plainly, explained to the said chiefs denominated in the aforesaid act, to which they have set their ordinary marks, with their own hands, whereof the signification has been mentioned, and, for their consideration, has been explained: as, also, the names of the acquirers; and that the said interpreters should be present at the delivery ol the said considerations specified in the act aforementioned; as, also, that they should he present at the passing of the aforementioned act, in presence of the said chiefs, which have put their marks at the foot of the said act. Signed and sealed, the---day of the month------. in the year of our Lord--. RENE CODER, alias PANAS, J In,ernrelers J. BTE. + VAUDRY-S mark. ynterpreten. . ST. MARIE. PHILLIBERT. I, Lewis Bonier, Notary Public, residing in the country of the Illinois do certify, to have translated, from the English into the French language, to_ the best of my knowledge, judgment, and ability, the act before mentioned, containing three pages, originally written in English, on parchment; at the foot of which I have signed my name, and affixed my ordinary seal, as, also, to the present certificate, to serve all those whom it may concern. Given at Kaskaskias, this eighteenth day of September, one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five. Published for a true copy: by LOUIS BOMER, Notary. PIIILLIBERT, Iioyal Notary. I certify the above to be a true copy from the original, which is now among the records of this county, and in my possession. For JOHN MILLS, Recorder. II. VANDERBURGH. Philadelphia, 6th February, 1793. At the treaty held with the Wabash and Illinois Indians, by me, in the month of September, 1792, the said Indians disclaimed the validity of the within deed, excepting the tract on the Wabash, to their fathers, the French, as mentioned in the proceedings of the said treaty. RUFUS PUTNAM. Note.—For the instructions to General Putnam, and his correspondence, see Nos. 29 and 31. Other papers referred to iiTthe message, are not on file. * I 3d Congress.] 
