NO. 251.	-	[2d SESSION. INTRUSIONS ON THE LANDS OF THE CREEKS, BY THE STATE OF GEORGIA. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, FEBRUARY 8, 1827. WASHINGTON, February 8, 1827. To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States: I communicate to Congress copies of a letter from the Governor of the State of Georgia received since hiy message of the 5th instant, and of enclosures received'with it, further confirmative of the facts stated in that message. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. SIR:	EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GEORGIA, MILLEDGEVILLE, January 27, 1827. As the officers of Georgia, engaged in the. execution of their duties near to its western boundary, by order of the Legislative and Executive authorities of the State, have suffered frequent interruption from the Indians of the Creek natioo, accompanied by indignities and insults sufficiently aggravated, and are still threatened with others of a more violent and outrageous character; and as there is reason to believe that your agent of Indian affairs is the prime mover and instigator of the same, I have deemed it proper to lay before you the enclosed papers in support of that belief, and to ask the favor of you to inform me if that officer is so acting by your authority, or with your sanction and countenance. It may be thought painful enough that the United .States, whose undoubted right it is, shall enter into controversy with Georgia on the validity of treaties and the lawfulness of boundaries, trespasses committed on the one side, or rights of sovereignty violated on the other, with the remedial or redressive measures demanded by either. It is not to be presumed that the President would transfer these sovereign attributes to a subaltern agent, much less that he would delegate them for the annoyance of the people of Georgia, for insult to their public functionaries, for invasion of their territorial rights, and finally for bloodshed. If these powers have been insolently assumed by such subaltern for such purposes, it is not for the Governor of Georgia to dictate to the President the measures which ought to follow, as well in vindication of the honor of the United States, as in reparation of the wrongs done to Georgia. .The President is competent to judge them, and the Governor doubts not his willingness to judge them rightly. With great consideration and respect, The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.	G. M. TROUP. Copy of a letter from Wiley Williams to Governor Troup. SIR:	ELEVENTH DISTRICT, CARROLL COUNTY, January 22, 1827. I did flatter myself that I should have been able to complete my survey without troubling you, or being troubled by the Indians; but in this I have been deceived. Eight or ten lusty fellows rode up to my camp last night, with a letter written by Crowell, and signed by several chiefs, and ordered me to desist from surveying the land on lhe west side of the new treaty line. Mr. Rogers, who surveys the ninth district, and who will bo the bearer of this, was broken up by them yesterday. You will know best what measures to pursue in regard to lhe aflair; but, if the survey proceeds, a protection must be afforded us, and that must be sufficient to protect the whole frontier line, from lhe intersection of the Cherokee line with the State line, to Miller’s Bend. There is about one-fourth of my district that lies west of Bright’s line, and I yesterday completed my meridian lines through it. I shall to-day com- 109 E mence my transverse lines; but, after mature reflection, I cannot feel myself safe in crossing Bright’s line at present but shall proceed to survey that part which lies east of the line; and, when I am done, I shall make the attempt to survey the balance. I hope by that time, however, a sufficient protection will be afforded. Mr. Rogers can better inform you than I can by writing. Yours, respectfullv, ' WILEY WILLIAMS. GENTLEMEN:	CREEK NATION, January 21, 1827. We, the undersigned, chiefs and headmen of the Creek nation, having learned with great regret that you are engaged in surveying the land west of the line of the late treaty, and which was not ceded by that treaty, we have again to request and demand of you, in the most friendly terms, that you will desist from stretching a chain over any of our lands not ceded by the said treaty. We flattered ourselves, and we had a right to believe, the stipulations of that treaty would have been friendly observed by all parties concerned, and that our former differences with our neighbors the Georgians would have been finally settled, and that we would, in future, live in the strictest friendship in all our intercourse. We are determined, on our part, not to do an act that can be calculated to give offence; but we have rights, and we hope they will be respected. We are your friends, LITTLE PRINCE, his + mark. OAKFUSKY YOAOLO, his + mark. SPARNER TUSTNUGG HARGO, his + mark. EASTICHARCO CHOPEO, his + mark. '	W1CAS HORGE, his + mark. COCHE HODGO, his + mark. CARCHUS M1CUE, his + mark. To the Surveyors running the land west of the line of the late treaty. Copy of a letter from James A. Rogers, a District Surveyor, to Governor Troup. SIR:	JANUARY 23, 1827. Enclosed you will find a copy of an instrument of writing, which was handed to me by a parcel of Indians on the 21st instant; and after I read the letter, they demanded of me my compass, which I bad to surrender to them; but after a few minutes they agreed to give me back my compass, and would come with me over the new treaty line, which they did, and threatened me very severely if I should be caught over Bright’s line again surveying. I have come on to McIntosh’s old place, and have stopped my hands until I hear from you. If you intend to give me assistance, I hope you will take the earliest measure to get it to me, as provision is scarce and my hands uneasy to go home. As to the number of men it will take to guard me, I am unable to say. My situation is this: there are three settlements of Indians in my district, that have in them about ten men; and in two miles on the Alabama sid^, there is a large town that I am told has from forty to fifty warriors in it, who are to be placed on the new treaty line as spies, and to prevent the land from being surveyed; and as for further information, I will refer you to Major Panamore, the bearer of this express, and who was with me when the Indians stopped me. Yours, &c. JAMES A. ROGERS, D. S. GEORGE M. TROUP, Governor of Georgia. 19th CONGRESS.]	
