NO. 192.	[2d SESSION. EXECUTION OF THE TREATY WITH THE CHOCTAWS, OF THE 18TH OCTOBER, 1820. COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEBRUARY 6, 1823. To the House af Representatives:	FEBRUARY 6, 1823. In compliance with a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 28th of January last, requesting information “ whether the treaty concluded with the Choctaw nation of Indians on the 18th of October, 1820, has been executed, so far as respects the cession of certain lands to said nation west of the Mississippi river, and if possession has been given of the lands ceded to them; if not, that he assign the reasons which prevented the immediate execution of the stipulations of said treaty; and whether the difficulties have diminished or increased by the delay in its execution,” I communicate a report from the Secretary of War, with the documents referred to in it. JAMES MONROE. DEPARTMENT OF WAR, February 4, 1823. The Secretary of War, to whom was referred the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 28th ultimo, requesting the President of the United States “to inform this House if the treaty concluded with the Choctaw nation of Indians on the 18th day of October, 1820, has been executed, so far as respects the cession of certain lands to said nation west of the Mississippi river, and if possession has been given of the lands ceded to them; if not, that he assign the reasons which prevented the immediate execution of the stipulations of said treaty; and whether the difficulties have diminished or increased by the delay in its execution,” has the honor to state that, soon after the ratification of the treaty referred to, the necessary measures were adopted by this Department for the execution of the stipulations mentioned in the foregoing resolution of the House of Representatives, and in pursuance of which the boundary line of the land ceded to the Choctaws west of the Mississippi was ascertained and marked by the commissioner appointed for that purpose; a copy of which report is herewith] enclosed. And considerable efforts were made, through a special agent appointed for the purpose, in virtue of a stipulation in said treaty, upon the recommendations of Generals Jackson and Hinds, the commissioners who negotiated it, to induce the Choctaws to remove and settle there, (a copy of the instructions to this agent are enclosed,) but without success, as will be seen by the accompanying extracts of letters from the special agent (here referred to,) and the agent to the Choctaw nation to this Department on the subject. These extracts will also explain the causes of the failure, the principal one of which, it is believed, is to be found in the number of white settlements in the country ceded to the Choctaws. The Department has no information that will enable it to say whether the difficulties have diminished or increased by the delay in the execution of the treaty. JOHN C. CALHOUN. The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 27, 1821. The sum of $65,000 was appropriated by Congress to carry into effect the treaty concluded with the Choctaw nation on the 18th of October last, a copy of which is herewith enclosed. You are charged with the superintendence of the execution of that part of the treaty which provides for the emigration of the Choctaws to the country which has been ceded to them beyond the Mississippi, which it is desirable should be done upon the most economical terms, and with as little delay as possible. The superintendent of Indian trade will be instructed to forward to Natchez, as soon as practicable, subject to your order, 500 blankets, 500 kettles, 500 rifle guns, with bullet moulds and wipers for each, 1,000 pounds rifle •	50 E powder, and a proportionate quantity of lead. Should a greater number of these articles, in your opinion, be required, you will immediately inform this Department, and state the probable number that will be required: it will be forwarded without delay. The quantity of corn which may be necessary to supply the number of Indians that may be disposed to emigrate on their journey, you will purchase on the best terms you can; à further supply, if it should be required, will be furnished after their arrival in their new country, agreeably to the treaty, by Captain George Gray, the Indian agent on Red river, who is instructed to perform the duties of agent to them. In order that Captain Gray may be prepared to meet the Indians, and make the necessary provision for them, you will correspond with him, and advise him of the probable time of their arrival, and of their number. Mr. Folsom, who was recommended by Generals Jackson and Hinds as a suitable person for the purpose, has been appointed agent, (the appointment is herewith enclosed, to be forwarded to him,) under your direction, to collect all the Choctaws who are desirous of removing beyond the Mississippi, and to conduct them thither. Mr. Folsom will correspond with you relative to his duty, and report to you, from time to time, the number of the Indians who declare their intention to emigrate, distinguishing the number of men, women, and children; from which you will regularly register them in a book to be kept for that purpose at the agency, until the 22d day of December next, being one year from the ratification of the treaty. All who intend to emigrate, and wish to avail themselves of the provisions of the treaty, must do so before the period just mentioned, as after that time the provision for emigrants made by the treaty will cease, and no corn or other articles will be issued by the United States. When any number of Indians are collected, and ready to start on their journey, the agent will inform you of the fact, and make a return to you of the precise number, particularly distinguishing the number of warriors; upon which returns, duly certified by him, you will issue a sufficient quantity of corn to each family or individual, for their support on tbe way. The articles to be given to the warriors will not be delivered to them until they are about to cross the Mississippi; and you will select some point on the river, convenient to the place where the emigrants shall cross, to which the articles can be transported for delivery. You will take the receipt of the agent on all such returns, specifying the quantity of corn and number of articles delivered to the Indians by you, and transmit the same to this Department, with your accounts as vouchers. These returns will be also registered in the book to be kept at the agency. All those who have separate settlements, which fall within the limits of the land ceded by the Choctaw nation to the United States, and who desire to remain where they now reside, in order to avail themselves of the privilege secured to them by the ninth article of the treaty, must make known their intention to remain within one year from the ratification of the treaty, and enrol their names upon the register which you are required to keep open at the agency until that time for the purpose; otherwise, they will lose the benefit of the privilege. This register will be closed at the period mentioned, certified by you, and transmitted to this Department, with the register of the emigrants, certified in like manner. You will be particular in ascertaining, yourself, or by the agent, the number and names of those who prefer removing from the land ceded to the United States to taking reservations, and actually do so within the time limited; as all such are to be paid by the United States for their improvements, agreeably to a valuation to be made by commissioners to be appointed by the President of the United States. The lines of the land ceded by the Choctaw nation to the United States will be run out immediately by the public surveyor, under the direction of the Commissioner of the General Land Office; those of the land, ceded to the Choctaw nation will be run out by a commissioner; and Henry D. Downs, of Mississippi, has been appointed. His commission and instructions are herewith enclosed to you, to be forwarded to him. Elder Brashears, Esq., of Mississippi, was also recommended for this duty by Generals Jackson and Hinds; but, as one would be sufficient, Mr. Downs, being the first named, was selected. Lest, however, he should be unwilling to serve, I have also enclosed a commission and instructions for Mr. Brashears, which you will forward only in case of Mr. Downs declining the appointment. The remaining stipulations of the treaty will claim the attention of the Government in due time. You will transmit an estimate of the probable amount of funds which'will be required for the purchase of corn and for other expenses which may necessarily arise on account of emigration from the Choctaw nation, and it will be remitted to you from the Treasury. The disbursement of these funds will be accounted for separately from those disbursed for your agency, as they are furnished from a distinct appropriation.	. I have, &c. WILLIAM WARD, Esq., Choctaw Agent.	JOHN C. CALHOUN. SIR:	DEPARTMENT OF WAR, March 27, 1821. I enclose you a regular appointment as agent to collect all the Choctaws who may be disposed to emigrate, agreeably to the late treaty, to the country ceded to them beyond the Mississippi, and to conduct them thither. Mr. Ward, the Choctaw agent, has been instructed to take immediate measures for the emigration of the Choctaws; and you will correspond with him and take his instructions upon all points connected with your duty. You will, in conjunction with Mr. Ward, fix upon the best and speediest mode of ascertaining the number of those that may be disposed to emigrate, and of making your reports to him, from which he is required to keep a register of the whole number of emigrants, distinguishing men, women, and children, at the agency. When all that intend to emigrate are collected together and about to commence their journey, provisions will be issued to them by Mr. Ward, on your return of the number, in which you will be particular in distinguishing the number of warriors. The articles for the warriors will be delivered to them when they are about to cross the Mississippi. Since the conclusion of the treaty, the Department has learned that the boundary line of the land ceded to the Choctaw nation, from Red river to the Arkansas, as fixed by the treaty, will probably materially affect the white population in the Arkansas Territory; and it is the intention of the President, if that should be the case, as soon as. the line is run out by the commissioner who has been appointed for the purpose, and his report is received, (in which he is instructed to state the number of white inhabitants, and the position of the settlements that yvill be materially affected by it, and at what point a line could be drawn, deviating as little as possible from that called for by the treaty, which would the least interfere with them,) to propose to the Indians to alter the line accordingly, making to them a suitable compensation for the portion of territory they will give up by the alteration. With a view to this arrangement, it is the wish of the President that the Choctaws should not settle in the neighborhood of the whites, but that they should settle sufficiently far west to prevent collisions between them. You will apprize the Indians of the difficulty that exists'with respect to the line as it is fixed by the treaty, and of the intention of the President to propose an alteration of it; and endeavor to prepare them for a favorable result, and, in the mean time, to locate them so far west as will not interfere with the intention of the Government. You will be allowed $1,000 in full for the service which is required of you by the appointment that has been conferred upon you, which will be paid upon the joint certificate of Mr. Ward and Captain Gray that it has been faithfully performed. I have, &c. JOHN C. CALHOUN. Mr. EEMUND FOLSOM, Agent, Mississippi. SIR:	CHOCTAW AGENCY, November 24, 1821. I have the honor to inform you that I received your appointment on the 7th of last April as agent to conduct the Choctaw emigrants beyond the Mississippi, if any should choose to go; at which time I commenced on that business of travelling to and fro through the nation, collecting and talking to the Indians, and making all efforts in hiy power to start them; but, in consequence of the great opposition of the headmen of the Indians, and the white people that live amongst them, my efforts have all proved in vain; but still I have hopes that there will go a great many of them next year, such as half-breeds and their connexions. I have gained the ill-will of the Choctaw Indians, and made my friends my foes. They have threatened to drive me out of the nation, and some of their leaders have called me a liar and a carrier of lying talks; and some of them have gone so far as to threaten my life, in consequence of my exertions to take them beyond the Mississippi. Since I commenced my operations, I have not been furnished any money to bear my expenses, except twenty dollars the agent lent me. I want you to furnish me money quarterly to carry this business into effect, as I cannot do any thing without money; but, if you furnish me with funds, I will make use of all exertions in my power. I have been engaged in this business almost eight months, but I have not given up the business as yet. I think, after the Indians move off the ceded lands, and get satisfied with the treaty, many will go off with me; but, as yet, I am opposed in every part of the country by the Indians and every white man in it, except the agent and Mr. Mackey, the interpreter, both of whom have got much ill-will for encouraging this matter. I have the honor to be, sir, yours, most respectfully, Hon. J. C. CALHOUN.	EDMUND FOLSOM. DEAR SIR:	ARKANSAS, June 25, 1821. 1 take the liberty to suggest to you the propriety of remitting me money to pay the incidental charges of running the line of the land ceded by the United States to the Choctaw nation west of the Mississippi. Provisions and other necessary supplies cannot be purchased at a reasonable price on a credit. Should you think proper to send me money by mail, you will please write to the Little Rock, Arkansas Territory. I have the honor to be, with high respect, your obedient, humble servant, HENRY D. DOWNS, Commissioner and Agent. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. SIR:	WARRENTON, MISSISSIPPI, December 24, 1821. In obedience to your instructions to me, I have run, according to the treaty, the eastern line of the land ceded by the United States to the Choctaw nation west of the Mississippi; beginning at the mouth of the Little river; running thence down Red river, to a point three miles below the mouth of Little river; running thence north, twenty-nine degrees and fifteen minutes east, one hundred and fifteen miles ten chains and fifty links, to a post on the south bank of the Arkansas river, where the lower boundary line of the Cherokees strikes the same; running thence, with the course of the Arkansas river, to the mouth of the Canadian fork: a plat of which survey is herewith enclosed, and a map subjoined thereto of the country west of the eastern boundary, which is settled by the whites, designating the position of the settlements; which map, and the field notes accompanying the same, you will please consider as a part of this report, to which I refer you for a more particular description of the line, and for some other information not herein detailed. The connexions of surveys marked in the map were surveys made prior to the Choctaw treaty. The settlements in the Arkansas are immediately on the river, extending from the eastern boundary nearly as far west as thé mouth of the Canadian fork. The settlements in Red river also extend from the eastern boundary, westerly, as far as the Kiamicia, and are more widely spread than the}' are in the Arkansas. A direct line from the mouth of the Poteau to the mouth of Kiamicia would not relieve the white settlers, as was expected; therefore, the line that I have considered it best to suggest to you for that purpose will be a direct line from the junction of the Canadian with the Arkansas to the mouth of Jack’s fork of the Kiamicia; thence down Kiamicia river to Red river. This contemplated line would include about three hundred and seventy-five families, averaging about seven persons to a family, and about six million five hundred thousand acres of land, which would be, from the best information which I have been able to obtain, only a very small part of the Choctaw cession. I have the honor to be, with regard, your obedient, humble servant, HENRY D. DOWNS, Commissioner, fyc. Hon. J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of War. Sunday, August 19, 1821.—From the mouth of Little river, run down Red river, nnrth, 71 degrees east, 15 chains; north, 84	degrees	east, 10 chains;	south, 80	degrees east, 10	chains; south, 70 degrees	east, 40 chains; north, 70 degrees	east, 25	chains; north, 25 degrees	east, 20 chains;	north, 70 degrees east, 10	chains; east, 20 chains; south, 70	degrees	east, 10 chains;	south, 62	degrees east, 40	chains; south, 46 degrees	east, 20 chains; south, 20 degrees	east, 10	chains; south, 4	degrees east, 10 chains, to	a dogwood on the banks of the Red river, three miles below Little river, marked U. S. on the southeast side, C. N. on the northwest side; a sweet gum tree, north, 27 degrees west, distance 123 links, for a pointer; also, a hickory, south, 81 degrees east, distance 1 chain 13 links; distance across Red river 181J yards. Tuesday, 21st—Beginning at a dogwood three miles below Little river; thence, north, 20 degrees 15 minutes east, on the line between the United States and the Choctaw nation, run six miles; land a great proportion fit for cultivation. Wednesday, 22d—At 7 miles, crossed a creek called Bodeark, waters of Red river; camped that night 14 miles from Red river; hills and flats; some part fit for cultivatioo. Thursday, 23d—Run 5 miles; camped at 19 miles from Red river; passed some farms; land rich, full of oyster and clam shells; waters of Ozan. Friday, 24th—At 20 miles 40 chains, crossed Ozan, a large creek, waters of Liftle Missouri; camped a week, in order to make arrangements for crossing the mountains between us and the Arkansas. Sunday, 2d September—Continued the line, and camped 26 miles from Red river; timber, pine and white oak; Hats and small hills; soil of inferior quality. Monday, 3d—Crossed Little Missouri at 27 miles and 43 chains; some cane on both sides, but too wet for cultivation; camped at 30 miles from Red river; last three miles, poor pine hills. Tuesday, 4th—Waited to get corn ground. Wednesday, 5th—At 33 miles, crossed Wolf creek; at 36 miles and 54 chains, crossed a small creek; at 37 miles, camped; rocks and mountain land, unfit for cultivation. Thursday, 6th—At 39 miles and 72 chains, crossed Aulevine, a large creek, waters of Washita; at 41 miles and 7 chains, crossed again; at 41 miles and 22 chains, crossed again; at 43 miles, camped; rocky hills and mountains, unfit for cultivation. Friday, 7th—Ron 6 miles; camped at 49 miles from Red river; land level, chiefly unfit for cultivation. Saturday, 8th—Crossed Fourche au Caddo at 50 miles and 30 chains; camped at 56 miles; land poor and hilly. Sunday, 9th—At 60 miles and 30 chains, crossed a large creek; land unfit for cultivation; camped. Monday, 10th—At 65 miles and 75 chains, crossed Bassett’s creek; at 66 miles, crossed another creek; timber, pine; hills and flats, unfit for cultivation. Tuesday, 11th—At 70 miles and 3 chains, the northeast bank of the Washita; at 71 miles and 40 chains, crossed a large creek running northwest; camped here. Wednesday, 12th—At 72 miles, crossed said creek; at 73 miles, crossed again to west side; bottoms caney. Saturday evening, 15th—Run 3 miles on the line over a high rocky mountain; camped here. Sunday, 16th—Run 7 miles; camped at 84 miles from Red river; crossed the Dardinclle trace at 83 miles and 75 chains; hills and flat land; inferior quality of soil. Monday, 17th—Run 5 miles; crossed a high rocky mountain 3 miles over, and camped on the north side, at S9 miles from Red river. Tuesday, 18th—Run 5 miles, and camped at 94 miles from Red river; rocky mountains; land unfit for cultivation. Wednesday, 19th—Run 3 miles over rocky mountains, and camped at 97 miles from Red river; unfit for cultivation.	« Thursday, 20th-—Run 4 miles, and camped on the south side of Fourche la Five, 101 miles from Red river. Friday, 21st—Crossed Fourche la Five, run 4 miles, and camped on the south side of Cypress mountain, at 105 miles from Red river; land flat and wet, chiefly unfit for cultivation. Saturday, 22d—At 109 miles, the north side of Cypress creek mountain; at 109 miles and 70 chains, crossed Cypress creek; at 110 miles, flat oak land; at 111 miles, camped. Sunday, 23d—At 115 miles 10 chains and 50 links, the south bank of the Arkansas river. The corner, a post marked on the south side 115 miles 10 chains 50 links; on the west side C. N.; on the east side U. S.; distance from the Cherokee corner, on the north bank of the river, 1 mile and 30 chains; Arkansas river 630 yards wide. October 4th—Started from a post on the south side of the Arkansas, opposite the lower boundary of the Cherokees, to meander the Arkansas; the river, downwards, bearing north, 40 degrees east; Petit John mountain bearing south, 80 degrees west. S. 22 degrees W. 2 miles 0 chains. S. 75 degrees W. 0 miles 60 chains. S. 66	“ W. 3 “ 0 “ N. 30	“ W. 5 “ 60 “ Covenole mountain S. 52	“ W. 2 “ 40 “ S. 35° E. W. 3 “ 40 “ To Muzzard bayou, N. 80	“ W. 2 “ 40 “ left side. S. 71	“ W. 1 » 40 “ N. 48	“ W. 2 “ 40 “ S. 38	“ W. 2 “	0 “ N. 14	“ W. 2 “ 0 “ S. 80	“ IV. 0 “ 60 “ To Samboy bayou, N. 38	“ W. 1 “ 20 » bear. S. 75° W. N. 65	“ W. 1 “ 0 “ To Lie’s crcck, N. 35	“ W. 2 “ 40 “ right side. N. 77	“ W. 1 “	0 “ To Salisaw bavou, S. 82	» W. 1 “ 40 “ bear. N. 70° W., S. 32	“ W. 3 “ 0 “ To Potaw., bear. S. 20 vds. wide. 250 E., 60 vds. w. S. 61	“ W. 3 “ 60 “ S. 62	“ W. 2 “ 0 “ N. 72	“ W. 1 “	0 “ S. 34	“ W. 3 “ 20- “ N. 10	“ W. 1 “ 40 “ S. 55	“ E. 3 “ 0 “ Covenole mountain N. 54	“ W. 1 » 40 “ bear. S. 25° E. S. 74	“ W. 2 “	0 “ S. 56	“ W. 1 “ 0 “ N. 68	“ W. 4 » 40 “ N. 71	“ W. 3 “ 40 “ N. 51	“ W. 1 “ 20 “ To the mouth of S. 40	“ W. 1 “ 20 “ the Canadian, bearing S. 60° W., 9| chains wide; S. 30	“ W. 1 “ 60 “ the Arkansas bearing N. 36° W.,4 mile wide. S. 3	“ E. 1 “ 20 “ The foregoing are the field notes of the survey made by me of the line of the land ceded by the United States to the Choctaw nation west of the Mississippi. HENRY D. DOWNS, Commissioner, Sfc. 17th-CONGRESS.]	
