No. 127. [2d Session. THE KICKAPOOS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 10, 1810. To the Senate of the United States: I lay before the Senate, for their consideration whether they will advise and consent to the ratification thereof, a treaty concluded on the 9th day of December last, with the Kickapoo tribe of Indians, accompanied by explanations, in an extract of a letter from the Governor of the Indiana Territory. JAMES MADISON. January 9, 1810. . Extract of a letter from Governor Harrison to the Secretary of TFar, dated Vincennes, 10//i December, 1809. The Kickapoo chiefs having arrived at this place a few days ago, and the late treaty at fort Wayne having been carefully explained to them, their consent has been obtained to the cession northwest of the Wabash; and, also, a further extinguishment of title, as.high up as the Vermillion river. I was extremely anxious that the cession should have been extended to this river, by the treaty of .fort Wayne, but it was objected to, because it would include a Kickapoo village. This small tract (of about twenty miles square) is one of the most beautiful that can be conceived, and is, moreover, believed to contain a very rich copper mine. I have, myself, frequently sjeen specimens of the copper: one of which, I sent to Mr. Jefferson, in 1802. The Indians were so extremely jealous of any search being made for this mine, that the traders were always cautioned not to approach the hills, which are supposed to contain the mine. I observe that copper mines are not reserved, by .the law of Congress regulating the sales of the lands of the United States: but it ought to be done at this session, if it is supposed to be an object worth attending to, as I know that there are individuals who have turned their attention towards this mine, and will, probably, prevail upon the Indians to show them the mine, and, for a large reward, conceal it from the knowledge of tne Government, or those whom they might employ to search for it. The treaty is herewith enclosed, and I hope it will prove satisfactory. 1 shall immediately despatch a speech to the Miamies, to communicate the new cession to them. A Treaty between the United States of America and the Kickapoo tribe of Indians. William Henry Harrison, Governor rof the Indiana territory, and commissioner plenipotentiary of the United States for treating ivith the Indian tribes northwest of the Ohio, and the sachems and war chiefs of the Kickapoo tribe, on the part of the said tribe, have agreed to the following articles, which, when ratified by the President, by and with tne advice of the Senate, shall be binding on said parties. Article 1. The ninth article of the treaty concluded at fort Wayne, on the thirtieth of September last, and the cession it contains, is, hereby, agreed to by the Kickapoos, and a permanent additional annuity of four hundred dollars, and goods to the amount of eight hundred dollars, now delivered, is to be considered as a full compensation for the said cession. Art. 2. The said tribe further agrees to cede to the United States, all that tract of land which lies between the tract above ceded, the Wabash, the Vermillion river, and a line to be drawn from the north corner of the said ceded tract, so as to strike the Vermillion river at the distance of twenty miles, in a direct line from its mouth. For this cession, a further annuity of one hundred dollars, and the sum of seven hundred dollars, in goods, now delivered. is considered as a full compensation. But, if the Miamies should not be willing to sanction the latter cession, and the Lnited States should not think proper to take possession of the land without their consent, they shall be released from the obligation to pay the additional annuity of one hundred dollars. Art. 3. The stipulations contained in the treaty of Greenville, relatively to the manner of paying (lie annuity, and ol the right of the Indians to hunt upon the land, shall apply to the annuity granted and the land ceded by the present treaty. In testimony whereof, the said William Henry Harrison and the sachems anil head-war chiefs of the said tribe, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals, this ninth day of December, one thousand eight hundred and nine. WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON, [l. s.] [Signed also by a number of Indians.] 11th Congress.] 
