No. 95. [1st Session. CHEROKEES, CHICKASAWS, CHOCTAWS,. AND CREEKS., COMMUNICATED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEBRUARY 9, 1802. '* . ' 1 1 Gentlemen of the House of Representatives: . In compliance with your resolution of' the 2d instant, I have to inform you that,.early in the preceding summer, I.took measures for carrying into effect the act passed oh the 19th. of February, 1799, and that of the 13th of May, l.SilO, mentioned in your resolution. The objects of these acts 'were understood to be, to purchase from the Indians, south of the Ohio, some- portions of land .peculiarly interesting to the Union, or to particular States, and the establishment of certain roads, to facilitate communication with our distant settlements: commissioners were accordingly appointed to treat with the Cherokees, Chickasaws, Choctaws,and Creeks. As these nations are known to be very jealous on the subject of their lands, the commissioners were instructed, as will be seen by the enclosed extract, to enlarge, restrain, or even to suppress propositions, as appearances should indicate to be expedient. ’ Their first meeting.was with the Cherokees. The extract from the speech of our commissioners, and the answers of the Cherokee chiefs, will show the caution of the former, and the temper of the latter: and that, though our overtures to them were moderate, and respectful of their rights, their determination was, to yield no accommodation.'The commissioners proceeded then to the Chickasaws, who discovered, at first, considerable alarm and anxiety, lest land should be asked of them: a just regard for this very friendly nation, whose attachment to us has been invariable, forbade the pressure of any thing disagreeable on them; and they yielded with alacrity, the roa'd through their country, which-was asked, and was essential to our communication with the Mississippi territory. _ The conferences with the Choctaws arc probably ended; but, as yet, we are not informed of their result; tho-e with the Creeks are not expected to be held till the ensuing spring. TH. JEFFERSON. February 8, 1802. ’ .   . - Extract from instructions given to William R. Davie, James Wilkinson, and Benjamip Hawkins, commissioners on the part of the United States, for holding conferences and signing a treaty or treaties with several Indian nations inhabiting the 'country east of ■ the river Mississippi, and south of the river Ohio, within the territory of the United States.   . In all your negotiations, under these instructions, you will pay the strictest attention to'the disposition manifested by the Indians- on the several points to which, you are to draw their assent. The ill humor which propositions for further cessions sometimes awaken in them, may be', in. a greater or lesser-degree, excited by'those which you are herein charged with making. - - . . *. “ It will,'therefore, be incumbent on you to introduce the desires of the Government in such a manner as will permit you to drop them,as you may find them illy received, without giving the Indians an opportunity to reply with a decided negative, or raising in them unfriendly and inimical dispositions.   ' . “ You will state none of them in the tone of demands, but, in the first instance, merely mention them as propositions, which'you are authorised to liiake, and their assent to which, the Government would consider as new testimonials of their friendship. From the manner in which they shall receive your first overtures, you will be enabled to judge with what prospect of success you may press the respective points committed to you.r’     'Extract from the speech of the commissioners of the_ United States'to the chiefs of the Cherokees, assembled a’ Southwest. Point, September ith, 1801. '. Brothers: .. .   ' "   . Your white brethren, who live at the Natchez, at Nashville, and.iri South Carolina, are very' far removed from each other, and have complained to your father, the President, that the roads by which they travel are -narrow, and obstructed by fallen timber, with livers and creeks, which prevent them'from pursuing their law ful business, with his red children and with each other.   ■ . Brothers: To remove these difficulties, and to accommodate his red children, your father is desirotis to openwide these roads: but, as they pass oyer the lands of his red children, he first asks their consent to the measure, and is willing to pay them an equivalent for the indulgence to his White children. ■ 'Brothers: Your white brethren have also complained to your father, that, on these long roads, they have no' place for rest or accommodation, which exposes them and their horses to much inconvenience and suflering. To remove this complaint, your father is desirous that his red children would consent to establish houses of entertainment and ferries, on these roads, to be kept by persons appointed by himself, who shall give security for'their good behavior, and pay such annual rent to his red children, as may be agreed upon. . Brothers: This is a small request, made by your father; it is intended not to extinguish your rights, but to .give value to your land, and make it immediately productive to you, in the manlier of your terry over Clinch river. Brothers: You have been alarmed by songs of lying birds, and the talks of forked tongues. You have heard that your father would press you for further concessions of land, and, it has been said by some, even as far as the Big river. You will know, hereafter,- how to listen to such thieves, liars, and mischief-makers, and' will treat therr as- they deserve. Brothers: Listen to us, and hear the truth. We stand up in this place between you and our white brethren, and we are ready to speak from the one to the other. Your white brethren want land, and are willing to pay for it. If you have any to sell, they wi.ll buy it from you, and if you can agree on the terms.' Rut if you are not.disposed to sell any land, not one. word more shall be said on the subject. Ihub/ehead'.s reply: The chiefs now have heard the talk of a father;, and the sun is now' lowering, and at the same hour to-morrow, we will deliver .an'answer; and the answer we shall give w ill be short, and w e hope there will be no more of it: and we hope the commissioners will not insist on making a-reply. Commissioners.—When we have heard what you have to say, we shall know whether to reply or not. The council adjourned, to meet again the next day, at one o'clock, P. M. 5th.—The commissioners met the chiefs, agreeably to adjournment, at one o’clock, P. M when Double head rose, and spoke as follows: We shall commence to-day, notwithstanding the indisposition of one of the commissioners of the United States, and some of our own. ‘ I am now going to speak1. It is but yesterday that we heard the talk of our father, the President, and,'to-day, you will hear ours. You are appointed by the United States to tell us the means devised for our interest; this was planned eight years past, for the w elfare of our nation, big aiid small, done by our father, the President, w ho is now no more. It seems, it is by this plan, that means have been provided, to take care of the red people; and the present President, it seems, cherishes the same good wish towards us', which is pleasing to us, and we hold to it. I think that the new President ought.to listen to our talks, and not throw them aside. We hope his good disposition towards us will continue, that our children may live in peace; and you, who are authorized by the President, have said, we ought not to listen to the crooked talks of those that are about us. In behalf of my nation, I am authorized to Speak to you. There are a number of land speculators among you, who say we wantto-sell lands: we hope you will not pay regard to them, as they give them out for the sake of getting property. We hope you w ill not listen to these talks. The chiefs, the head-men of these frontiers, are, themselves, interested in these speculations, and they will give you fine talks, which are meant to deceive, as they are for their own interest. We think it a shame, that the land sellers should impose on the Government, and say, that, we want to dispose of our lands, when we do not. When you first made these settlements, there were paths which answered for them; the roads you propose, we do not wish to have made through our country. ' Our objections to these roads, are these: a great many people, of all descriptions, would pass them, and that would happen which has recently happened, and you would labor-under the same difficulties you do now. We mean to hold fast the peace which is subsisting between you 'and us; to preserve this, we hope you will not make roads through our country, but use those which you have made yourselves: I mean within your own limits. There is a road we have consented to be made from Clinch to Cumberland, and another, the Kentucky trace. I expect you will think we have a right to say yes or no, as answers, and we hope you will say no more on this subject; if you do, it would seem as if we had no right to refuse. You, who are picked out by the Government, from among the first and best men of the United States, we hope you will take our talks, and assist us. Likewise, you, who are placed on our borders,'to see our lights maintained, that we may not be plagued by those people who want land. We consider General Wilkinson the general of the army of the United States, and we hope he will not,insist on any thing here, as we look to him as children do to their father; we remember the former talks: we were told the general was to,preserve our lands, and not to let us be imposed upon. I am now done speaking for this day, and hope you will not say any thing more about lands or about the roads. . The Commissioners’ reply.—What ha? passed between us shall be faithfully reported to the President, w;ho knows best how to estimate it. The commissioners, having business with other, nations, will leave this as soon as the boats are prepared to take them down the river. ' Cliulcoah, addressing himself to Colonel Hawkins, spoke thus: I will now address, myself to the man (meaning Colonel Hawkins,) who was appointed by. our former father, the President, who was to use .every exertion for our benefit. -I*have been to the seat of Government, where you come from, and I hope you will have those people removed, tit where they formerly lived, (meaning those on the Curfahce mountain.) Those people who live on our lands deceive the Government, therefore, to ascertain our claims, we wish to remove those people, (meaning Wofford,) and that those'lines were run by order of Government. You, yourself, run these lines, and we hope this inconvenience] will be removed, as. the General of the army is present. There are now upwards of fifty families settled over the lines, which you did run. These things w e have mentioned, and we know fie has deceived the Government; he attended at the councils, at Will’s town, and there received orders to remove in three months; he afterwards attended the council at Oosetenauleh, and received a like order. This is all I have to say to the commissioners, and I hope things will be done as we have requested. Chuilatague (Double Head:) I am goingto speak again, and hope these gentlemen of Tennessee wi II listen well; there is no doubt you remember the talks of Tellico,' which we remember; we shall not forget the talks of the United States; but I suppose they , are forgotten by the State of Tennessee, as I have mentioned, w e recollect the talks of Government, that the parties have distressed each other, and kept their prisoners. The State of Tennessee has some, and have not kept to the talks of the Government; they have some of our prisoners who are not returned, w hereas, on our part, we have delivered all within our bounds. As I have mentioned already this object, which we have given proof of, as to any thing our people have done, the debt has not remained long, and in these, we give our proofs of friendship. As l have said, we don’t forget these debts; there are two which the whites owe us, killed ir Cumberland; and these debts seem to increase; as blood has been spiltjately near to where v;e.have met the com missioners; we wish the State of Tennessee would exert herself, night and day, and pay that blood w hich they ow e us. . We shall therefore wait for these payments, which we will never forget, and shall think of these debts night and day. There are a great number ot warriors, (meaning of the whites) who can soon have one person taken and executed. As we know the dispositions of those chiefs, (meaning of the State of Tennessee) we do not suppose they mean to be out-done by one individual. Exert yourselves, and follow our advice, when our people do wrong, that peace may be preserved. That is all I have to say to my friends and brothers. 7th Congress.] 
