No. 112. [1st Session. THE PIANKESHAWS. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, FEBRUARY 7, 1806. To the Senate of the United States: I transmit, for the consideration of the Senate, a treaty entered into, on behalf of the United States, with the Piankeshaw Indians, whereby our possessions on the north bank of the Ohio are entirely consolidated; and I ask the advice and consent of the Senate as to its ratification. TH. JEFFERSON. February 7, 1S06. Articles of a Treaty made at Vincennes, in the Indiana territory, between William Henry Harrison, Governor of said territory. Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and Commissioner Plenipotentiary of the United States for concluding any treaty or treaties, which may be found necessary, with any of the Indian tribes northwest of the Ohio, of the one part; and the chiefs and head men of the Piankeshaw tribe, of the other part. Article 1. The Piankeshaw tribe cedes and relinquishes to the United States, forever, all that tract of country, (with the exception of the reservation hereinafter made) which lies between the Wabash and the tract ceded by the Kaskaskia tribe, in the year 1803, and south of a line to be drawn from the northwest course of the Vincennes tract, north 78° west until it intersects the boundary line which lias heretofore separated the lands of the Piankeshaws from the said tract, ceded by the Kaskaskia tribe. Art. 2. The United States take the Piankeshaw tribe under their immediate care and patronage, and will extend to them a protection as effectual as that which is enjoyed by the Kaskaskia tribe. And the said Piankeshaw tribe will never commit any depredations, or make war upon any of the other tribes, without the consent of the United States. Art. 3. The said United States will cause to be delivered to the Piankeshaws, yearly, and every year, an additional annuity of three hundred dollars, which is to be paid in the same manner, and under the same conditions as that to which they are entitled by the treaty of Greenville: Provided always, That the United States may, at any time they shall think proper, divide the said annuity amongst the individuals of the said tribe. Art. 1. The stipulations made in the preceding articles, together with the sum of one thousand one hundred dollars, which is now delivered, the receipt whereof the said chiefs do hereby acknowledge, is considered a full compensation for the cession and relinquishment above mentioned. Art. 5. As long as the lands, now ceded, remain the property of the United States, the said tribe shall have the privilege'of living and hunting upon them, in the same manner that they have heretofore done? and they reserve to themselves the right of locating a tract of two square miles, or twelve hundred and eighty acres, the fee of which is to remain with them forever. Art. 6. This treaty shall be in force as soon as it shall be ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. In testimony whereof, the said William II. Harrison, and the chiefs and head-men representing the said Piankeshaw tribe, have hereunto set their hands, and affixed their seals. Done at Vincennes, on the thirtieth day of December? in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and five, and of the independence of the United States the thirtieth. WM. II. HARRISON, GROS BLED, And others. War Department, October 11, 1805. Sir: . Your letter, accompanying the treaty with the Miamies, &c. has been duly received. Its contents are highly satisfactory and pleasing. The amicable adjustment of all differences and uneasiness in relation to the cession made by the Delawares and Piankeshaws is a desirable event, especially when connected with the subsequent cession, which gives us the whole margin of the Ohio above the Wabash, and connects the State of Ohio with the Indiana territory, for fifty miles in extent, free from Indian claims. I am directed by the President of the United States to request you to close a bargain, ns soon as it can be effected, with the Piankeshaws, for their claim to the lands between the Wabash and the Eastern boundary of the Kaskaskia cession, as proposed in your letter of August 26th, on such reasonable terms as have been usual in that quarter. For any sums which may be necessary for prompt payment, you will please to draw on this Department. I hope we shall soon hear of a favorable result Iroin the conference at St. Louis. Your explanation with Wells, resulting in a confident hope of future good conduct on his part, and mutual harmony hereafter, is not uninteresting. That he had been playing a foolish, and, what he thought, a cunning game, I have no doubt. With sentiments of the highest esteem, I am, your Excellency’s, &c. H. DEARBORN. Wm. II. Harrison. Sir: Vincennes, Is# January, 1806. I have the honor to forward the treaty concluded with the Piankeshaws, on the 30th ultimo. It will, 1 hope, be found such as I promised it should be, i. e. highly advantageous to the United States; nor is it by any means a bad bargain for the Indians themselves. The annuity which is now promised, together’with that which they formerly received, will be a certain resource to them, when they shall be no longer able to procure subsistence from the chase. In the course of the negotiation, I had promised that the United States would, lor five years, bear the expense of repairing their guns, but I forgot to insert it in the treaty. It would, perhaps, be found more economical to send an armorer to this place, to work altogether for the Indians, than to employ the artizans on the spot, whose prices are most enormously extravagant, as you will observe by examining their accounts, heretofore forwarded. The neighboring tribes will be highly pleased with such an indulgence, for which they have made frequent applications. It is, in my opinion, essentially necessary that the law regulating the trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, should be so altered at the present, session of Congress, as to prohibit any person from trading with the Indians, any where upon the lands of the United States, without a licence. The title to so large a portion of the Indian country has been extinguished, from which a great number of them still draw their support, that it is much to be feared they will fall a sacrifice to the merciless rapacity of the traders, unless they are restrained by the same penalties to which those are subjected who reside at the Indian towns. Notwithstanding the recent murder of two white men on the Missouri, by three Indians (as it is supposed) from this territory, viz: a Miami, Pattawatamy, and a Kickapoo, I can with confidence repeat to you the assurances lately given, of the pacific disposition of the tribes under my superintendence. The three murderers certainly belong to the banditti of the Illinois river, of which the noted Turkey-foot was the chief. Governor Wilkinson, hearing that two of (hem were at no great distance from him, has very properly demanded them of the Kickapoo chief, who had them in his custody. I shall endeavor to secure the other as soon as possible. I have the honor to be, with the most perfect respect, sir, your humble servant. WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON. P. S. The tract now ceded is about eighty or ninety miles wide, from the northwest corner of the Vincennes tract to the Kaskaskia cession, and about the same distance from that line to the Ohio. W. II. II. 'Fhe lion. Henry Dearborn, Esq. Secretary of War. 9th Congress.] 
