No. 86. [3d Session THE CHEROKEES. COMMUNICATED TO THE SENATE, JANUARY 17, 1799. War Department, January 16, 1799. Sir: Conformably to orders from the President of the United States, I have the honor to lay before the Senate the following papers, viz. 1st. Copy of the instructions to Alfred Moore, George Walton, and John Steele, Esquires, commissioners for negotiating and concluding a treaty with the Cherokee nation, dated the 30th March, 1798. 2nd. A copy of additional instructions to George Walton, Esquire, and Liutenant Colonel Thomas Butler, commissioners for the aforesaid purpose, dated the 27th August, 1798. 3rd. A talk of the President of the United States to the chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee nation, dated the 27th August, 1798. 4th. The original journal* of the proceedings of the commissioners appointed to hold a treaty with the Cherokee Indians, under the authority of the United States. It is requested that the journal, being a document necessary to the War Department, may be returned. I have the honor to be, &c. JAMES McHENRY The Vice President of the United States. ’ The journal was returned to the War Department. To Wilfred Moore, George JValton, and John Steel. With the following instructions from the President, you will receive a commisson, under the seal of the United States, constituting you commissioners to hold and conclude a treaty with the Cherokee nation of Indians. You are. therefore, with all due speed, to repair to Knoxville, in the State of Tennessee, and from thence, to the place that may be'determiued on for holding the same. You wilt understand your commission to vest you, jointly and severally, with full powers to negotiate ami conclude a treaty with the Cherokee nation, conformably to these instructions. To prevent any unnecessary delay, the temporary agent to the Cherokee Indians, Mr. Silas Dinsmoor, lias been instructed to request the Indians to be in readiness to convene at the shortest notice, at such place as he may think the most convenient for them to assemble; and which, at the same time, will most facilitate the obtaining the necessary supplies of provisions. The commandant ol the troops of the United Stales, in Tennessee, has, likewise, been directed to hold in readiness a detachment to cover and protect the parties. The presents for the Indians, and stores for the commissioners, have also been forwarded from this place on the 12th of March, 1708. It is expected, from these previous arrangements, that you will be in a situation, immediately after your arrival at Knoxville, to have announced by Mr. Dinsmoor, to the Indians, the day on which you will be ready to meet them. A primary consideration will be. to dispose the minds of the Cherokees to make a sale of such part of their land as will give a more convenient form to the .State of Tennessee, and conduce to the protection of its citizens. In particular. it is the desire of the President, that you Should use your earliest endeavors to obtain from them, as a first stipulation, their consent to the immediate return of such settlers as had intruded on their lands, and have been removed, on the ground of such consent, being a decisive proof of their willingness to treat lor the sale thereof, or any other parcel of their land; assuring them, at the same time, that no advantage whatever will be taken of the circumstance in settling the compensation. This provisional stipulation obtained, the citizens who have been removed may be forthwith informed, in such manner as you may judge proper, that they may return to the farms which they had before occupied; warning and forbidding, at the same time, anvyuher than former actual settlers, who have been removed, from crossing, for the purpose of settlement, the boundary lines established by the treaty of Holtson, as run and marked by the commissioners lawfully appointed for that purpose. The Governor of the teritorry of the United States, south of the river Ohio, who concluded with the Cherokee Indians the treaty of Holston. was instructed to endeavor to obtain, that the southern boundary should begin at the mouth of Duck river, and run up the middle of the same to its main source, and thence, by a line drawn to the mouth of the Clinch river. It appears that the Indians could not be prevailed on to consent to this line, but. inasmuch as it forms a good natural boundary, it will be proper to renew the same subject in the mode most likely to succed in obtaining it. You will propose, therefore, the following boundaries for the new treaty: 1st. Red dotted line.—A line from a point on the ridge dividing the waters of Cumberland from Tennessee river, in a southwest direction, until it strikes the mouth of Duck river; thence, down the middle ot Duck river from its mouth to its main source; thence, by a line over the highest ridges ot the Cumberland mountains to the mouth of Clinch, thence, down the middle of the Tennessee river, till it strikes the divisional line lately marked by the com missioners of the United States: thence, along the said line, to where it crosses Cunchce creek, running into Puck-asege, the eastern branch of the Tennessee; thence, to the Great Iron mountain; thence, a southeasterly course, to where the most southerly branch of Little river crosses the divisional line leading to Tugelo river. If this cannot be obtained, then 2nd. A double red line.—A line beginning at the point forty miles above Nashville, as ascertained bv the commissioners, and laid down in the annexed map, thence due east, till it .strikes the dotted line on Cumberland mountains; thence, along the said dotted line or mountains, to the junction of Clinch river with the Tennessee: and thence, down the middle of the Tennessee river, to the extent of the boundary, as described in the first proposition. If this cannot be obtained, then 3rd. A blur dotted line.—A line beginning at a point fifty six miles from the point forty miles above Nashville, on the northeast divisional line, being one and a half miles south of the road called M ahon’s, or Cany fork road; thence, on a course at the same distance from the said road to where it crosses Clinch river, thence, resuming the remaining boundary, as described in the first proposition. If this cannot be obtained, then ■1th.—A double blue line, Meginning at a point one mile south of the junction of the Clinch with the Tennessee river; thence, westerly, along the course of the road, one and a half mile south thereof, till it enters into Cumberland mountains: thence, a northeasterly course, along the ridges of the said mountains, on the 'vest of PowcPs valley and PowePs river, to the source of the river next above Clear fork, and thence, down the middle of the same, to the northeast divisional line. The Tennessee river, and the further line thence, as described in the first proposition, to he the remaining boundary. Should the Indians agree to cede the land within the first described lines, or any greater quantity, you may stipulate a solemn guarantee to the Indians for the remainder of their country, and that the United States will cause to he paid four thousand dollars annually to the nation, in goods, implements of husbandry, machines for manufacturing, and the pay of fit persons to assist in instructing them in their use, and making and repairing the same; or otherwise, that the United States will deliver them, on signing the treaty, goods to the amount of five thousand dollars, and the further sum of twenty thousand dollars, at tour equal annual instalments. For the. land within the second described lines, or any greater quantity, the same guarantee, and three thousand dollars annually, to be applied as aforesaid: or otherwise, five thousand dollars in goods, and fifteen thousand dollars in three equal annual instalments. For the land within the third described lines, or any greater quantity, the same guarantee, and two thousand dollars annually, to be applied as aforesaid, or, otherwise, that the United States will deliver them, on signing the treaty, goods to the amount of five thousand dollars, and ten thousand dollars, in goods in two equal annual instalments. For the land within the fourth described lines, or any greater quantity, the same guarantee, and one thousand dollars annually, to be applied, as aforesaid, or, otherwise, five thousand dollars in goods, on signing the treaty, and live thousand dollars, in goods, in the year 1799. Should the annuity be preferred, and the five thousand dollars, in goods on hand, also indited on. as a further consideration, you will not lose the purchase of either of the parcels by refusing it to them. The arts and practices to obtain tndian land, in defiance of treaties and the laws, and at the risk of invohing the w hole country in war, have become so daring, and received such countenance, from persons of prominent influence, as to render it necessary that the means to countervail them should be augmented. To this end. as well as more effectually to secure to the United States the advantages of the land which may be obtained by this treaty, you will negotiate and conclude stipulations, to the following import: 1st. That the new lines shall be run. and marked by two commissioners: one of whom to be appointed by you. and the other by the Indians, who shall proceed immediately, and without delay, after the treaty shall be signed, to run and mark the same, where it is not defined by rivers. Three maps of the lines, thus run and marked, to lie made out, one whereof, the commissioners on the part of the United States shall transmit to the Secretary for the Department of War; another to the Executive of the State of Tennessee; and the third to the Indian nation, by their commissioner. 2nd. That the nation shall, at all times, permit the President of the United States to employ military force within their boundaries, for the purpose of arresting and conveying to some one of the three next adjoining States or districts, to be proceeded against in due course of law, any person whatever, found within the same, who shall deliver to. or hold bilks with them, calculated to engage the nation, or any part thereof, to act hostilely against (heUnited States, or any foreig nation, without the consent of the United States, or again-t Indians residing within the territory of any foreign nation or against any Indian nation or tribe within the limits, and under the protection of the United States. 3d. That the President of the United States may cause to be arrested, and conveyed, as aforesaid, any person not employed and acting under the authority of the United States, who shall treat with the Cherokees, or any of them, for any sale, lease, or grant, of any part or parcel of their land, or for permission to settle on any part of the same. . . 4th. That the President may cause to be expelled from their nation any person, a citizen of the United States, or foreigner, not authorized by treaty, who shall attempt to reside or sojourn in their nation, without a permission in writing for so doing, specifying the object of such residence or sojourn, signed by the President, or such person as lie may authorize to grant the same. 5th. That this treaty shall not be construed, either to affect the right «*r title of any person who has been removed from the Indian land, which he had thereto, at the time of his removal, nor, in any manner, to enlarge the right or claim thereto that he then possessed; and that all Indian land, purchased by this treaty, and which has not been actually occupied as aforesaid, shall remain and be subject to the operation of all the provisions of this and any former treaty, and the laws of the United States, relative to Indian country, in the same manner as if this treaty had not been made, until such time as the same land shall be sold by, and under the authority of, the United States. This provision is meant to prevent any further intrusions on any part or parcel of the land, ceded by the State of North Carolina to the United States; as also upon the land relinquished to the Cherokee Indians by the State ol North Carolina, by an act of the said.State, passed the 17th May, 1783, and described in the said act as follows, viz: “Beginning on the Tennessee, where the southern boundary of this State intersects the same, nearest to the Chickamauga towns; thence, up the middle of the Tennessee ami Holston, to the middle of French Broad; thence,up the middle of French Broad river, (which lines are not to include any island or islands in the said river) to the mouth of Big Pigeon river: thence, up the_ same, to the head thereof; thence, along the dividing ridge, between the waters of Pigeon river and Puckasege river, to the southern boundary of this State: Provided, that any person or persons, who, under the laws of North Carolina, and in conformity to the regulations and provisions thereof, have entered, surveyed, located, or obtained grants of any land, (other than the land relinquished to the Cherokees as aforesaid) ceded by the said State to the United States, previous to the acceptance thereof by the United States, which said grants would have vested a good title in them, under the laws of the said State of North Carolina, if such cession had not been made to the United States, may enter upon, occupy, and possess the same, if lying within the limits of this purchase. 6th. That such military' sites may be chosen, from time to time, and garrisons established, of the regular troops of the United States, within the Indian boundary, as may be thought necessary to protect their land, and carry into effect the stipulations of treaties and laws of the United States. Should it be found impracticable to obtain Duck river for a southern boundary, or a line which will include in it the road leading from Southwest point through the Cumberland mountains, to Nashville, it will be proper to stipulate for certain parcels of land, lying on the said road, and at due distances from each other, wherein houses of entertainment may be erected for tlie convenience of travellers. It will also be proper, in case the line obtained should not include in it the land on both sides of the ferry, over Clinch river, to stipulate for such an arrangement as will secure a free passage to the citizens of the United States, and prevent any higher toll being requiiable by the occupant, than will afford him a reasonable compensation for keeping the same. You wall keep a journal of your proceedings, to be transmitted with the treaty. Given at the War Office of the United States, in Philadelphia, this thirtieth day of March, A. D. 1798, and in the twenty-second year of the independence of said States. JAMES McIIENRY, Secretary of (Far. To George Walton, Esquire, and Lieutenant Colonel 'Thomas Butler. The negotiation with the Cherokee nation of Indians, in order to a treaty to effect certain purchases of land, under instructions from the President of the United States, dated the 30th March last, being suspended until the 3d September next, and John Steele, one of the commissioners, having declined, and Alfred Moore, another of the commissioners, having returned home, so that neither of the former commissioners, except George Walton, Esquire, can be expected to be present at the renewal of the negotiations, the President has thought proper to add, in a new commission, which will be herewith received. Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Butler, to the said George Walton, Esquire, and to authorize the said commissioners jointly and severally, to renew' the negotiations, and conclude a treaty with the said Cherokee nation, if practicable. The instructions heretofore furnished to the original commissioners, and which will now be submitted to the perusal and consideration of Colonel Butler, by his associate commissioner, are understood and intended to form the basis of the principles, upon which the renew ed negotiations are to be conducted. But, if it shall be found impracticable to induce the Indians to accede to either of the first three propositions, an abandonment of them must take place, and resort had to the fourth proposition. It will, however, be very desirable, that sufficient proof should be placed in the hands of the Executive, that these propositions were only yielded to necessity; and to shew further that the fourth proposition was, if it too is to fail, urged with all possible ardor and good faith. It is not, how ever, believed that the latter proposition will fail. If it succeeds (with the proofs mentioned) it will establish the sincerity of the intentions of Government, and perhaps annihilate the suspicions excited by bad men, in the breasts of the Indians, as w'ell as the frontier inhabitants. The stipulations intended to be introduced into the treaty, to secure to the United States the full advantages of the land wliich may be obtained by the treaty, detailed in the former instructions, to which you will always refer, from first to sixth inclusive, are deemed important, and should be obtained, if possible. A discretion is, however, given, respecting the ferry and houses of entertainment, on the Cumberland road; the remonstrance against the latter, as becoming probably the lurking places of the most disorderly and bad intentioned whites, appears plausible. It is not now intended to restrict you to the letter of the fourth proposition. Should the Indians not incline to sell the whole quantity of land therein specified, you will endeavor to obtain as much of it as you possibly can. Given at the War Office of the United States, in Philadelphia, this twenty-seventh day of August. A. I). 1798, and in the twenty-third year of the independence of the said States. JAMES McHENRY, Secretary of War. Talk of the President of the United States to his beloved chiefs, warriors, and children, of the Cherokee nation. Beloved Cherokees: I some time since appointed and commissioned three of my beloved men, viz. Alfred Moore, George Walton, and John Steele, to negotiate with you, for the attainment of certain objects by treat}', which I considered indispensable to the preservation of the happiness and welfare of my white and red children, and which, without injury to either, promised to perpetuate between them a lasting harmony. Y ou cannot be ignorant how earnestly I have desired to secure peace to your frontier, nor, of my unwearied endeavors and the great expense incurred by the United States, to prevent a certain Zachariah Cox, and others, from carrying an armed force into your country, to take possession of a part of it. You also know, that a store has been erected at Tellico, to supply you with the articles yon stand most in need of, at a cheap rate, and that this establishment is entirely for your accommodation, the United States disclaiming all profit upon the business. You must, moreover, be convinced, that the United States can have your good only in view, in keeping my beloved Mr. Dinsmoor in your nation, at a considerable expense, who is charged to instruct you in the raising ol stock, the cultivation of land, and the arts which procure for the whites so many comforts and conveniences. 1 hope you place a just value upon wha; has been done, as calculated to defend your country from invasion, and make you a happier people; and that yon are therefore convinced of the sincere friendship of tlie United States to the Cherokee nation. I think it now proper to observe, that, as I have looked upon it as a part of my duty to attend to your interests, I am also under the strongest obligations to hear the complaints, and relieve, as far as i» in my power, the distresses of my white children, citizens of the United States. It was expected that the line established by the treaty of Holston, would have I elt a great proportion of (he frontier white settlers within the tract of country purchased, and this was much desired, as many of these settlers were deserving people, and had made valuable improvements. It proved otherwise when the line was run; and the United States, ever disposed to observe treaties, and keep faith with the Indians, were, under the engagements of that treaty, obliged to remove a number of worthy and well-intentioned settlers from those farms you had long permitted them to occupy, because falling within the Indian line. This occasioned distress to the settlers removed, and the representation of their sufferings induced the Senate of the United States to advise a new purchase of land, to include ihe deserving settlers, and the Congress to grant a stun of money to pay the expenses of the treaty. Such are the circumstances that have led to the negotiation, which lias been suspended, ami which I have directed to be renewed, not doubting but that my Cherokee children, when they come to consider the whole subject, will agree with me in opinion, that a sale of sucli lands as they can spare, without injury, and for which I have ordered a full equivalent to be paid, either at once, or annually, will be a proper and wise measure upon their part. I recommend it therefore to them to consent to the sale, and (latter myself they will not turn a deal ear to my recommendation. Mr. John Steele hat ing gone to the Natchez, and it not being convenient for my beloved man. Mr. Alfred Moore, to attend the negotiation. 1 have entrusted the whole business of the purchase and treaty to my beloved George Walton, and my highly esteemed warrior. Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Butler. You will listen to these beloved men. and rely upon my confirming every engagement they may enter into, whether it respects land, or the maintenance of tranquillity and peace to the Cherokee nation. Beloved chiefs, warriors, and children, of the Cherokee nation: I send you my best wishes, and pray the Great Spirit to preserve you long in peace, and to inspire your hearts with true wisdom. Given at the city of Philadelphia, the twenty-seventh day of August, in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-eight, and in the twenty-third year of the independence of the United States ol America. JOHN ADAMS. By command of the President of the United States; JAMES MclIENR\. Secretary of !Far. 5th Congress.] 
