No. 22. [1st Session. ST. CLAIR’S DEFEAT BY THE INDIANS. COMMUNICATED TO CONGRESS,^ DECEMBER 12,1791. Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House of Representatives: It is with great concern that I communicate to you the information received from Major General St. Clair, of the misfortune which has befallen the troops under his command. Although the national loss is considerable according to the scale'of the event, yet it may be repaired without great difficulty, excepting as to the brave men who have fallen on the occasion, and who are a subject of public as well as private regret. A further communication will shortly be made of all such matters as shall be necessary to enable the Legislature to judge of the future measures which it may be proper to pursue. GEO. WASHINGTON. United States, December 12tli, 1791. Copy of a letter from General St. Clair to the Secretary of War. Fort Washington, October 6th, 1791. Sir; . I have now the satisfaction to inform you, that the army moved from fort Hamilton, the name I have given to the fort on the Miami, on the 4th, at eight in the morning, under the command of General Butler. The order ot march and encampment I had regulated before, and on the 3d returned to this place to get up the militia; they marched yesterday, and consist of but about three hundred men, as you will see by the enclosed abstract of the muster. I have reason to believe, however, that at least an equal number will be up here by the 10th, and I have left orders for their following us. The monthly return should have accompanied this .letter, but it was not ready when I left camp, and has not been forwarded since. I have hitherto found it impossible to reduce the officers commanding corps to punctuality with respect.to their returns, but they are mending; our numbers, after deducting the garrisons of this place and fort Hamilton, are about two thousand, exclusive of the militia. I trust I shall find them sufficient, and should the rest of the militia come on, it will make the matter pretty certain; but the season is now so far advanced, that I fear the intermediate posts, which would indeed have been highly necessary, it will be impossible to establish. In that, however, I must be governed by circumstances, of which I will take care that you shall be apprised in due time. Should the enemy come to meet us, which seems to be expected, and be discomfited, there will be no difficulties; but if they expect us at the Miami villages, the business will wear another face, and the intermediate posts become more'essential. Since the quartermaster has been here, and got into his gears, whjch it took him a little time to do, I am very well satisfied with him, and do believe that he will answer the description you were pleased to give me of him. Ilis business seems now to be well arranged. In order to communicate with some degree of certainty with your office, I have directed Captain Buell, when he arrives, to send a sergeant and twelve men to a house that has been newly erected half way between this place and Lexington, to each of which two men are to be sent off on every Monday morning to carry despatches; those for the War Office, or any other public letters, to be put into the hands of Mr. Charles Wilkins, merchant of Lexington, who has engaged to forward all I have occasion to send, regularly once a fortnight; and should you, sir, think proper to use the same route for any of yours, if they are sent to Ins care he will forward them to me. I have been led to prefer this channel of communication to that of the river, because it appears to be rather the more certain of the two, though it may be a little more tedious, and because desertion continues to prevail among the troops, and the sending small parties to such a distance gives great opportunity to effect it. General Butler informs me that no less than twenty-one went off the night before the army moved from fort Hamilton. I am this moment setting out for the army, which I hope to overtake to-morrow evening, and will write to you again as soon after as may be. With great regard and respect, I have the honor to be, sir, your very humble servant, . ARTHUR ST. CLAIR. The Hon. Major General Kxox, Secretary of War. P. S, The officers have it in their power to receive a part of their rations, or the whole, and where they take a part only, to be paid for what is retained, at the contract price. The contractor’s agents say they have no money to pay for retained rations, and where they have given certificates, or what they call due bills, refuse to discharge them, unless what they think proper to give, and at what price they think proper, is taken in place of them. Some means to prevent this abuse should be fallen upon. The whole rations are made up in the abstracts; were those to be accompanied with a list of the certificates given in the'period of the abstract, which they should be obliged to give, the money might be stopped at the treasury, and the officers would be sure of it. At present, it is very hard upon them. This instant I hear of tw o hundred men. militia, about fifteen miles off Copy of a letter from General St. Clair to the Secretary of Jf'ar. Camp, eiglity-one miles advanced of Fort IFusldngton, \ November 1st, 1791. 3 Sir; ' - Since I had the honor to write to you on the. 21st instant, nothing very material has happened; and, indeed, I am at present so unwell (and have been so for some time past) that. 1 could ill detail it, if it had happened. Not that that space of time has been entirely barren of incidents, but, as few of them have been of the agreeable kind, I beg you to accept a sort of journal account of them, which will be the easiest lor me. On the 22d, the indisposition that had hung about me for some time, sometimes appearing as a bilious cholic, and sometimes as a rheumatic asthma, to my great satisfaction changed to a gout in the left arm and hand, leaving the breast and stomach perfectly relieved, and. the cough, which had been excessive, entirely gone. This day, Mr. Ellis, with sixty militia from Kentucky, joined the army, and brought up a quantity of flour and beef. 23d.—Two men taken in the act of deserting to the enemy, and one for shooting another soldier and threatening to kill an officer, were hanged upon the grand parade, the whole army being drawn out. Since the army has halted, the country around this and ahead for fifteen miles, has been well examined; it is a country which, had we arrived a month sooner in it, and with three times the number of animals, they would have been all fat now. 24th.—Named the fort Jefferson, (it lies in lat. 40° 4' 22" north,) and marched, the same Indian path serving to conduct us about six miles, and encamped on good ground and an excellent position—a rivulet in front, and a very large prairie, which would, at the proper season, afford forage for a thousand horses on the left. So ill this day, that Iliad much difficulty in keeping with the army. 25th.—Very hard rains last night; obliged to halt to-day, omaccount ol provision; for though the soldiers may be kept pretty easy in camp, under the expectation of provision arriving, they cannot bear to march in advance, and take none along with them. I received a letter from Mr. Hodgdon by express; thirteen thousand pounds of Hour will arrive on the 27th. 26th.—A party of militia, sent to reconnoitre, fell in with five Indians,and suffered them to slip through their fingers; in their camp, articles to the value of twenty-five dollars were found and divided. The Virginia battalion is melting down very fast, notwithstanding the promises of the men to the officers; thirteen have been discharged by Colonel Dark to-day. 27th.—Gave orders for enlisting the levies, with the condition of serving out their time in their present corps. Piomingo arrived in camp with his warriors; I was so unwell, I could only see him and bid him welcome, but entered on no business; considerable dissatisfaction among the levies about their enlistments. 28th.—Some clothing sent for to fort Washington, for the recruits, arrived; was begun tu be distributed, and will have a gootl effect; but the enlisting the levies does not meet with the encouragement that might have been expected. It is no! openly complained of by the officers, but it is certainly, privately, by some of high rank, and the measure of tempting them with warm clothing condemned. Mr. Hodgdon writes me that lie is sending forward-a quantity of woollen overalls and socks, by General Butler's orders. I have ordered them to be deposited at fort Jeflerson. Some few Indians about us. probably those the militia fell in with a day or two ago. Two of the levies were fired upon about three miles off: [one killed, two of the militia likewise, one of them got in, the other missing, supposed to be taken. 29th.—Piomingo and his people, accompanied by Captain Sparks and four good riflemen, gone on a scout; they do not propose to return under ten days, unless they sooner succeed in taking prisoners and scalps. 30th.—The army moved about nine o'clock, and. with much difficulty, made seven miles, having left a considerable part of the tents by the way; the provision made by the quartermaster for that purpose was not adequate; three days' flour issued to the men, to add the horses that carried it to his arrangements; the Indian road still with us. the course this day north 25° west. _ ^ _ s 31st.—This morning about sixty of the militia deserted? it was at first reported that one half of them had gone off, and that their design was to plunder the convoys which were upon the roads; detached the first regiment in pursuit of them, with orders to Major llamtrainck to send a sufficient guard back with Benham, whenever he met with him, and follow them about twenty-five miles below fort Jefferson, or until be met the second convoy, and then return and join the army. Benham arrived last night, and to-day, November 1st. the army is halted to give the road-cutters an opportunity of getting some distance ahead, and that I might write to you. I am this day considerably recovered, and hope that it will turn out what I at first expected it would be, a friendly fit of the gout, come to relieve me front every other complaint. Yesterday I was favored with yours of the 28th and 29th September. I have enclosed my communications with the old and new contractors, and their answers. My orders for the posts to them are not yet definite, but they will be very soon; in the mean time, 1 expect they are both at work. With great respect. 1 have the honor to be. See. Alt. ST. CLAIIt. The Hon. Major General Knox. Secretary of War. Your letters for General Wilkinson and General Scott. Mr. limes and Mr. Brown, are sent back, and the public thanks, in the name of the President, presented to General Wilkinson, agreeably to your directions. Copy of a letter from Major General St. Clair to the Secretary for the Department of li ar. Fort Washington-, November 9th, 1791. Sir; Yesterday afternoon, the remains of the army under my command got back to this place, and I have now the painful task to give you an account of as warm and as unfortunate an action as almost any that lias been fought, in which every corps was engaged and worsted, except the first regiment. That had been detached upon a service I had the honor to inform you of in my last despatch, and had not joined me. On the 3d instant, the army had reached a creek about twelve yards wide, running to the southward of west, which I believe to have been, the river St. Mary, that empties itself into the Miami of the lake at Miami village, about four o’clock in the afternoon, having marched near lime miles, and were immediately encamped upon a very commanding piece of ground, in two lines, having the above mentioned creek in front. The right wing, composed of Butler’s, Clarke'Sj and Paterson's battalions, commanded by Major General Butler, formed the first line, and the left wing, consisting of Bedinger’s and Gaither's battalions, and the second,regiment, commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Dark, formed the second line, with an interval between them of about seventy yards, which was all the ground would allow. The right Hank was pretty well secured by the creek; a steep bank, and Faulkner’s corps, some of the cavalry, and their piequetsj covered the left tlank. The militia were thrown over the creek, anil advanced about one quarter of a mile, and encamped in the same order. There were a few’ Indians who appeared on the opposite side of the creek, but fled with the utmost precipitation, on the advance of the militia. At this place, which I judged to be about fifteen miles from the Miami village, 1 had determined to throw a slight work, the plan of which was concerted that evening with Major Ferguson, wherein to have deposited the men’s knapsacks, and every thing else that, was not of absolute necessity, and to have moved on to attack the enemy as soon as the first regiment was come up. But they did not permit me to execute either: for, on the fourth, about half an hour before sun-rise, and when the men had been just dismissed from the parade, (lor it was a constant practice to have them all under arms a considerable time before (lav-light) an attack was made upon the militia. Those gave way in a very little time, and rushed into camp through Major Butler’s battalion, which, together with part of Clark’s, they threw into considerable disorder, and which, notwithstanding the exertions of both those officers, was never altogether remedied, the Indians following close at their heels. The tire, however, of the front line, checked them, but almost instantly a very heavy attack began upon that line, and in a few minutes it was extended to the second likewise. The great weight of it was directed against the centre of each, where the artillery was placed, and from which the men were repeatedly driven with great slaughter. Finding no great effect from our fire, and confusion beginning to spread from the great number of men who were falling in all quarters, it became necessary to try what could he done by the bayonet. Lieutenant Colonel Dark was accordingly ordered to make a charge with part of the second line, and to turn the left flank of the enemy. This was executed with great spirit. The Indians instantly gave way, ainl were driven back three or four hundred yards; but for want of a sufficient number of riflemen to pursue this advantage, they soon returned, and the troops were obliged to give back in their turn. At this moment they had entered our cam]) by the left tlank, having pushed hack the troops that were posted there. Another charge was made here by the second regiment, Butler’s and Clarke’s battalions, with equal effect, and it was repeated several times, and always with success; but in all of them, many men were lost, and particularly the officers, which, with so raw troops, was a loss altogether irremediable. In that I just spoke of, made by the second regiment and Butler’s battalion. Major Butler was dangerously wounded, and every officer of the second regiment fell except three, one of which, Mr. Greaton, was shot through the body. Our artillery being now silenced, and all the officers killed except Captain Ford, who was very badly wounded, and more than half of the army fallen, being cut off from the road, it became necessary to attempt the regaining it. and to make a retreat, if possible. To this purpose, the remains of the army was formed as well as circumstances would admit, towards the right of the encampment, from which, by the way of the second line, another charge was made upon the enemy, as if with the design to turn their right tlank, but in tact, to gain the road. Tjiis was effected, and as soon as it was open, the militia took along it, followed by the troops; Major Clarke, with his battalion, covering the rear. The retreat, in those circumstances, was, you may be sure, a very precipitate one. It was, in fact, a flight. The camp and the artillery were abandoned; but that was unavoidable: for not a horse was left alive to have drawn it off, had it otherwise been practicable. But the most disgraceful part of the business is, that the greatest part of the men threw away their arms and accoutrements, even after the pursuit, which continued about four miles, had ceased. 1 found the road strewed with them for many miles, but was not able to remedy it: for, having had all my horses killed, and being mounted upon one that could not be pricked out of a walk, I could not get forward mysell; and the orders I sent forward, either to halt the front, or to prevent the men from parting with their arms, were unattended to. The rout continued quite to fort Jefferson, twenty-nine miles, which was reached a little after sun-setting. The action began about half an hour before sunrise, .and the retreat was attempted at a half an hour after nine o'clock. I have not yet been able to get returns of the killed and wounded; but Major General Butler, Lieutenant Colonel Oldham, of the militia, Major Ferguson. Major Heart, and Major Clarke, are among the former) Colonel Sargent, my Adjutant General, Lieutenant Colonel Dark, Lieutenant Colonel Gibson. Major Butler, and the Viscount Malartie, who served me as an aid-de-camp, are among the latter, and a great number of captains and subalterns in both. _ I have now, sir, finished my melancholy tale—a tale that will be felt sensibly by every onethathas sympathy for private distress, or for public misfortune. I have nothing, sir, to lay to the charge of the troops, but their want of discipline* which, from the short time they had been in service, it was impossible they should have acquired, and which rendered it very difficult, when they were thrown into confusion, to reduce them again to order, and is one reason why the loss has fallen so heavy upon the officers, who did every thing in their power to effect it. Neither were my own exertions wanting; but, worn down with illness, and suffering under a painful disease, unable either to mount or dismount a horse without assistance, they were not so great as they otherwise would, and perhaps ought to have been. We were overpowered by numbers; but it is no more than justice to observe, that, though composed of so many different species of troops, the utmost harmony prevailed through the whole army during the campaign. At fort Jefferson, I found the first regiment, which had returned from the service theyhad been sent upon, without either overtaking the deserters, or meeting the convoy of provisions. I am not certain^ sir, whether I ought to consider the absence of this regiment from the field of action, as fortunate or otherwise. I incline to think it was fortunate: for, I very much doubt whether, had it been in the action, the fortune of the day had been turned; and if it had not, the triumph of the enemy would have been more complete, and the country would have been destitute of every means of defence.   ' - Taking a view of the situation of our broken troops at fort Jefferson, and that there was no provision in the fort, I called upon the field officers, viz. Lieutenant Colonel Dark, Major Hamtrainck, Major Zeigler, and-.Major Gaither, together with the adjutant general, for their advice what would be proper.further to.be done; and it was their unanimous opinion, that the addition of the first regiment, unbroken as it was, did not put the army on so respectable a foot as it was in the morning, because a great part of it was now unarmed; that it had been then found unequal to the enemy, and should they come on, which was probable, would be found so again. That the troops could not be thrown into the fort, botli because it was too small, and that there were no provisionsin it. That provisions were known to be upon the road, at the distance of one, or at most-two marches; that, therefore, it would be proper to move, without loss of time, to meet the provisions, when the men might have the sooner an opportunity of some refreshment, and that a proper detachment might be sent back with it, to have it. safely deposited in the fort. This advice was accepted, and the army was put in motion again at ten o’clock, and inarched all night, and the succeeding day met with a quantity of flour. Part of it was distributed immediately, part taken back to supply the army on the march to fort Hamilton, and the remainder, about fifty horse loads, sent forward to fort Jeffer-son. The next day, a drove of cattle was met with for the same place, anu I have information that both got in. The wounded who had been left at that place, were ordered to be brought here by the return horses. I have said, sir, in a former part of this letter, that we were overpowered by numbers. Of that, however, I have no other evidence but the weight of the fire, which was always a most deadly one, and generally delivered from the ground— few of the enemy shewing themselves afoot, except when they were charged; and that, in a few minutes, our whole camp, which extended above three hundred and fifty yards in length, was entirely surrounded, and attacked on all quarters. . i The loss, sir, the public has sustained by the fall of so many officers, particularly General Butler and Major Ferguson, cannot be too much regretted; but it is a circumstance that will alleviate the misfortune in some measure, that all of them fell most gallantly doing their duty. I have had very particular obligations to many of them, as well as to the survivors, but to none more than to Colonel Sargent. He‘has discharged the various duties of his office with zeal, with exactness, and with intelligence, and on all occasions, afforded me every assistance in his power, which I have also experienced from my aid-de-camp, Lieutenant Denny, and the Viscount Malartie, who served with me in the station as a volunteer. With every sentiment of respect and regard, I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, AR. ST. CLAIR. The Honorable Major General Kvox, Secretary of War. P. S. Some orders that had been given to Colonel Oldham over night, and which were of much consequence, were not executed; and some very material intelligence was communicated by Captain Hough to General Butler, in the course of the night,' before the action, which was never imparted to me, nor did I hear of it until after my arrival here. List of the killed find wounded Officers in the battle of the 4th of November, 1791. KILLED. Major General Richard Butler. _ Captains . . . Piatt, _ Lieut. Colonel Oldham. K’v militia. Guthrie. Majors .... Ferguson. Clarke, and Hart. Captain# . . . Bradford, Plielon, Kirkwood. Price, Van Swearingen* Tipton, Smith. Purdy, Cribbs, and Newman. Lieutenants . . Spear, . Warren, Boyd, McMath, Burgess, Kelso, Read, Little, Hopper, and Lieutenant . . Lickins. Ensigns.. . . . Cobb, Balch, Chace, Turner, Wilson, Brooks, Beatty, Purdy. Quartermasters Reynolds, ■ Ward. Adjutant . . . Anderson. Doctor .... Grasson. WOUNDED. Lieut. Colonels Gibson, Captain .... Hough. Darke, Lieutenants . . Greaton, Sargent, Adjt. Gen. Davidson, Major........Butler. De Butts, Captains . . . Doyle, Price, Trueman, Morgan, Ford, M ‘Crea, Buchannen, . . Lysle, Dark, Thomson. Adjutants . . . Whistler, Crawford. Ensign .... Bines. The Viscount Malartie, volunteer Aid-de-camp to Maj. Gen. St. Clair. 2nd Congress.]
